-- How Art History Majors Power the U.S. Economy: Virginia Postrel
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-01-06T00:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/postrel-how-art-history-majors-power-the-u-s-.html
There’s nothing like a bunch of
unemployed recent college graduates to bring out the central
planner in parent-aged pundits.  In a recent column for  Real Clear Markets , Bill Frezza of
the Competitive Enterprise Institute lauded the Chinese
government’s policy of cutting financing for any educational
program for which 60 percent of graduates can’t find work within
two years. His assumption is that, because of government
education subsidies, the U.S. is full of liberal-arts programs
that couldn’t meet that test.  “Too many aspiring young museum curators can’t find
jobs?” he writes. “The pragmatic Chinese solution is to cut
public subsidies used to train museum curators. The free market
solution is that only the rich would be indulgent enough to buy
their kids an education that left them economically dependent on
Mommy and Daddy after graduation.” But, alas, the U.S. has no
such correction mechanism, so “unemployable college graduates
pile up as fast as unsold electric cars.”  Bill Gross , the founder of the world’s largest bond fund,
Pacific Investment Management Co., has put forth a less free-
market (and less coherently argued) version of the  same
viewpoint . “Philosophy, sociology and liberal arts agendas will
no longer suffice,” he declared. “Skill-based education is a
must, as is science and math.”  There are many problems with this simplistic prescription,
but the most basic is that it ignores what American college
students actually study.  Punching-Bag Disciplines  Take Frezza’s punching bag, the effete would-be museum
curator. It would be only a slight exaggeration to say that no
such student exists.  According to the  National Center for Education Statistics ,
humanities majors account for about 12 percent of recent
graduates, and art history majors are so rare they’re lost in
the noise. They account for less than 0.2 percent of working
adults with college degrees, a number that is probably about
right for recent graduates, too. Yet somehow art history has
become the go-to example for people bemoaning the state of
higher education.  A longtime acquaintance perfectly captured the dominant
Internet memes in an e-mail he sent me after my last column,
which was on  rising tuitions . “Many people that go to college
lack the smarts and/or the tenacity to benefit in any real
sense,” he wrote. “Many of these people would be much better
off becoming plumbers -- including financially. (No shame in
that, who’re you gonna call when your pipes freeze in the middle
of the night? An M.A. in Italian art?)”  While government subsidies may indeed distort the choice to
go to college in the first place, it’s simply not the case that
students are blissfully ignoring the job market in choosing
majors. Contrary to what critics imagine, most Americans in fact
go to college for what they believe to be “skill-based
education.”  A quarter of them study business, by far the most popular
field, and 16 percent major in one of the so-called Stem
(science, technology, engineering and math) fields. Throw in
economics, and you have nearly half of all graduates studying
the only subjects such contemptuous pundits recognize as
respectable.  The rest, however, aren’t sitting around discussing
Aristotle and Foucault.  Most are studying things that sound like job preparation,
including all sorts of subjects related to health and education.
Even the degree with the highest rate of unemployment --
 architecture , whose 13.9 percent jobless rate reflects the
current construction bust -- is a pre-professional major.  Diversity of Jobs  The students who come out of school without jobs aren’t,
for the most part, starry-eyed liberal arts majors but rather
people who thought a degree in business, graphic design or
 nursing  was a practical, job-oriented credential. Even the
latest target of Internet  mockery , a young woman the New York
Times recently  described  as studying for a master’s in
communication with hopes of doing public relations for a
nonprofit, is in what she perceives as a job-training program.  The higher-education system does have real problems,
including rising tuition prices that may not pay off in higher
earnings. But those problems won’t be solved by assuming that if
American students would just stop studying stupid subjects like
philosophy and art history and buckle down and major in
petroleum engineering (the highest-paid major), the economy
would flourish and everyone would have lucrative careers.  That message not only ignores what students actually study.
It also disregards the diversity and dynamism of the economy, in
good times as well as bad.  Those who tout  Stem  fields as a cure-all confuse
correlation with causality. It’s true that people who major in
those subjects generally make more than, say, psychology majors.
But they’re also people who have the aptitudes, attitudes,
values and interests that draw them to those fields (which
themselves vary greatly in content and current job prospects).
The psychology and social work majors currently enjoying
relatively low rates of unemployment -- 7.7 percent and 6.6
percent respectively -- probably wouldn’t be very good at
computer science, which offers higher salaries but, at least at
the moment, slightly lower chances of a job.  (These and many of the other figures in this article come
from two studies by the Georgetown University Center on
Education and the Workplace analyzing data from the Census
Bureau’s 2009 American Community Survey: “ Hard Times: College
Majors, Unemployment and Earnings ,” released this week, and
“ What’s It Worth: The Economic Value of College Majors,” 
released last May.)  Too Many Plumbers  Whether they’re pushing plumbing or programming, the would-
be vocational planners rarely consider whether any additional
warm body with the right credentials would really enhance
national productivity. Nor do they think much about what would
happen to wages in a given field if the supply of workers
increased dramatically. If everyone suddenly flooded into
“practical” fields, we’d be overwhelmed with mediocre
accountants and incompetent engineers, making lower and lower
salaries as they swamped the demand for these services.
Something like that seems to have already  happened  with lawyers.  Not everyone is the same. One virtue of a developed economy
is that it provides niches for people with many different
personalities and talents, making it more likely that any given
individual can find a job that offers satisfaction.  As any good economist will remind you, income is just a
means to utility, not a goal in itself. Some jobs pay well not
only because few people have the right qualifications but also
because few people want to do them in the first place. In a
culture where many people hate  oil companies , petroleum
engineers probably enjoy such a premium. Plumbers -- the
touchstone example for critics who think too many people go to
college -- certainly do.  The critics miss the enormous diversity of both sides of
the labor market. They tend to be grim materialists, who equate
economic value with functional practicality. In reality,
however, a tremendous amount of economic value arises from
 pleasure and meaning  -- the stuff of art, literature, psychology
and  anthropology . These qualities, built into goods and
services, increasingly provide the work for all those computer
programmers. And there are many categories of jobs, from public
relations to interaction design to retailing, where insights and
skills from these supposedly frivolous fields can be quite
valuable. The critics seem to have never heard of marketing or
video games, Starbucks or Nike, or that company in Cupertino,
 California , the rest of us are always going on about. Technical
skills are valuable in part because of the “soft” professions
that complement them.  Chemists Struggle Too  The commentators excoriating today’s students for studying
the wrong subjects are pursuing certainty where none exists.
Like the health fanatics convinced that every case of cancer
must be caused by smoking or a bad diet, they want to believe
that good people, people like them, will always have good jobs
and that today’s unemployed college grads are suffering because
they were self-indulgent or stupid. But plenty of  organic
chemists  can testify that the mere fact that you pursued a
technical career that was practical two or three decades ago
doesn’t mean you have  job security  today.  I was lucky to graduate from high school in the late 1970s,
when the best research said that going to college was an
economically losing proposition. You would be better off just
getting a job out of high school -- or so it appeared at the
time. Such studies are always backward-looking.  I thus entered college to pursue learning for its own sake.
As an English major determined not to be a lawyer, I also made
sure I graduated with not one but two practical trades --neither
learned in the college classroom. At the depths of the previous
worst recession since the Great Depression, I had no problem
getting a job as a rookie journalist and, as an emergency
backup, I knew I could always fall back on my excellent typing
skills. Three decades later, nobody needs typists, and
journalists are almost as obsolete.  The skills that still matter are the habits of mind I honed
in the classroom: how to analyze texts carefully, how to craft
and evaluate arguments, and how to apply microeconomic
reasoning, along with basic literacy in accounting and
statistics. My biggest regret isn’t that I didn’t learn Fortran,
but that I didn’t study Dante.  The most valuable skill anyone can learn in college is how
to learn efficiently -- how to figure out what you don’t know
and build on what you do know to adapt to new situations and new
problems. Liberal-arts advocates like this argument, but it
applies to any field. In the three decades since we graduated,
my college friend  David Bernstein  has gone from computing the
speed at which signals travel through silicon chips to being an
entrepreneur whose work includes specifying, designing and
developing a consumer-oriented smart-phone app.  Learning to Learn  When he was an undergraduate, he wrote in an e-mail, his
professors “stressed that they weren’t there to teach us a
soon-to-be obsolete skill or two about a specific language or
operating system ... but rather the foundations of the field,
for example: characteristics of languages and operating systems,
how one deals with complex projects and works with others, what
is actually computable, the analysis of algorithms, and the
mathematical and theoretical foundations of the field, to pick
just a few among many. That education has held me in good stead
and I’ve often pitied the folks who try to compete during a
lifetime of constant technological change without it.” Whether
you learn how to learn is more a question of how fundamental and
rigorous your education is than of what specific subject you
study.  The argument that public policy should herd students into
Stem fields is as wrong-headed as the notion that industrial
policy should drive investment into manufacturing or “green”
industries. It’s just the old technocratic central planning
impulse in a new guise. It misses the complexity and diversity
of occupations in a modern economy, forgets the dispersed
knowledge of aptitudes, preferences and job requirements that
makes labor markets work, and ignores the profound uncertainty
about what skills will be valuable not just next year but
decades in the future.  Pundits are entitled to their hypotheses, of course, and if
they’re footing the bill they can experiment on their children.
But they shouldn’t try to use the rest of the population as lab
mice.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. This is the second of
a two-part series on the economics of higher education; read the
first part online  here . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 