-- Potash to Extend Production Cuts With Allan Mine Shutdown
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-06T21:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/potash-to-extend-production-cuts-with-allan-mine-shutdown-1-.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. (POT) ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer by market value, will
extend cuts in potash output as buyers of the crop nutrient
delay purchases.  Potash Corp., which announced temporary shutdowns at two
other mines in  Canada  last month, plans a four-week shutdown at
its Allan operation in Saskatchewan starting Feb. 4,  Bill Johnson , a spokesman for Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash
Corp., said today in an interview.  “We’ve long had a history of matching supply to demand,”
he said today by telephone. “We take the view that this is a
normal course of business for us.”  Mosaic Co. (MOS) ,  North America ’s second-largest potash producer,
said yesterday that fertilizer buyers are taking a “wait-and-
see” attitude toward replenishing inventories by postponing
purchases because of concern about the global outlook for
economic growth.  Potash helps plants to grow strong roots, resist disease
and withstand drought conditions.  “It appears that seasonally slow buying patterns this year
have been exacerbated by economic uncertainty,” Jim Prokopanko,
Mosaic’s chief executive officer, said yesterday on a conference
call. Mosaic’s sales of potash were little changed in fiscal
quarter ended in November compared with the previous quarter and
down from a year earlier, he said.  Offshore Purchases  India , the largest offshore importer of potash, will delay
signing new contracts to buy the nutrient until July and will
instead rely on inventories, P.S. Gahlaut, managing director of
Indian Potash Ltd., said in an interview in  New Delhi  today.  India’s current deal with potash suppliers expires at the
end of March.  “The import market is a little slow, the domestic market
is a little slow, but it’s somewhat seasonal,” Johnson said
today. “This is traditionally a bit of a slower time for us.”  Potash Corp.’s latest cut will reduce output by between
150,000 and 160,000 metric tons, Johnson said. Production at the
Allan mine will resume in early March.  The shutdown ‘is not good news, but does tend to support
our view that industry pricing will remain strong,’’  Mark Connelly , a New York-based analyst at Credit Agricole Securities
USA Inc., said today in a note to clients.  Potash Corp.’s Allan, Rocanville and Lanigan mines will
probably resume production and may increase rates to make up for
lost output, Connelly said.  Potash Corp. fell 2.3 percent to C$42.94 in Toronto. Mosaic
dropped 1.2 percent to $52.67 in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  