-- Putnam Investments Cuts 4.4% of Staff After 2011 Assets Fall
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-01-06T15:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/putnam-investments-cuts-4-4-of-staff-after-2011-assets-fall.html
Putnam Investments LLC, the Boston-
based investment manager run by Robert Reynolds, eliminated 78
jobs, or 4.4 percent of its workforce, yesterday after clients
pulled money from the company’s funds and assets shrank in 2011.  The firm, owned by Winnipeg, Manitoba-based  Great-West
Lifeco Inc. (GWO) , concentrated the cuts in areas such as  information
systems  and support staff, Jon Goldstein, a spokesman, said
today in an interview. The cuts didn’t affect investing or sales
roles, he said.  “We are essentially trimming select areas and continuing
to invest heavily in elements of our business, including
 investment management , distribution and our retirement
offerings,” Goldstein said.  Putnam’s assets under management declined about 2.5 percent
to $117 billion last year, Goldstein said, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was flat. Clients withdrew $3.32 billion from
Putnam’s mutual funds in the first 11 months of the year,
according to data compiled by research firm Morningstar Inc.  Including its institutional business, Putnam had net
deposits of $2 billion in 2011 through the third quarter,
Goldstein said. Fourth-quarter figures weren’t available, he
said.  The job cuts were reported earlier by the Boston Globe.  Reynolds, a former vice chairman at  Fidelity Investments ,
has made a number of strategic and personnel changes aimed at
rebuilding Putnam since joining the firm in 2008 as chief
executive officer. Those moves include introducing funds aimed
at reducing the volatility of returns for investors, placing a
new emphasis on retirement-oriented investing and hiring former
Fidelity colleagues Walter Donovan as chief investment officer
and Richard “Shep” Perkins as director of global research and
co-manager of the Putnam Research Fund and Putnam Global Sector
Fund.  Putnam’s assets peaked at $420 billion in 2000 before poor
performance and a trading scandal caused investors to flee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  