-- PwC Fined $2.17 Million by U.K. Regulator Over JPMorgan Client-Money Audit
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-01-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/pwc-fined-2-17-million-in-u-k-over-jpmorgan-client-money-audit.html
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was fined
a record 1.4 million pounds ($2.17 million) for failures
concerning reports on client-money accounts at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s London securities unit.  PwC’s “acts of misconduct merit a severe reprimand,” the
 Accountancy & Actuarial Discipline Board  said in a  judgment 
released today. PwC failed to notice that J.P. Morgan Securities
Ltd. hadn’t properly segregated an average of $8.6 billion of
client funds from the firm’s accounts in reports to the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority for the seven years through 2008.  JPMorgan discovered the error in 2009 and reported it to
PwC and the FSA, which fined the bank a record 33.3 million
pounds in 2010. The U.K. financial regulator has focused on
client-money segregation after the winding up of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s former European unit was slowed by years of
litigation among creditors fighting over the issue.  “We regret that one aspect of our work on the private
client money report to the FSA fell beneath our usual high
standards,” PwC said in an e-mailed statement. “When the issue
was identified, and before any complaint had arisen, we took
action to ensure that staff received additional training in the
client monies area.”  The  AADB , the U.K.’s audit regulator, sought a record fine
against PwC to top the 1.2 million-pound sanction against
Coopers & Lybrand LLP in 1999. The tribunal also ordered that
PwC pay costs to the AADB totaling 83,902 pounds.  Due Skill, Care  “PwC accepted that it did not carry out its professional
work in relation to these reports with due skill, care and
diligence,” the AADB said in an e-mailed statement. The firm
earned a reduction in the fine, which would have been 2 million,
for cooperating.  The AADB is probing PwC in a similar investigation into
whether the firm’s reports on client assets at Barclays Capital
Securities Ltd. broke financial rules.  The FSA fined the U.K. bank 1.12 million pounds in January
2011 for failing to put as much as 752 million pounds a day of
client money into protected accounts that were separate from its
own money-market deposits.  PwC compiled reports to the regulator between 2001 and 2009
outlining Barclays Capital’s compliance with client-asset
separation rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 