-- Raskin Says Labor Market Still Weak After Unemployment Drop
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2012-01-06T19:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/raskin-says-labor-market-still-weak-after-drop-in-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the central bank is taking the right steps to lower
borrowing costs and address “stubbornly high” unemployment.  “Although the pace of employment growth has picked up in
recent months and the  unemployment rate  has fallen some, the
labor market remains quite weak,” Raskin said in a speech today
to bankers in Baltimore.  While Raskin didn’t say whether she favors more monetary
policy easing, she spoke hours after the government said the
jobless rate fell in December to 8.5 percent, the lowest since
February 2009. She has backed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
decisions including September’s move to sell $400 billion of
short-term Treasuries and buy an equal amount of long-term
securities, an action dubbed Operation Twist.  “Our deployment of unconventional policy tools has been
completely appropriate to help promote the  Federal Reserve ’s
statutory mandate of maximum employment and price stability,”
said Raskin, who was Maryland’s chief banking regulator before
her appointment to the Fed in 2010.  The Fed said this week it will begin publishing officials’
projections for the benchmark interest rate with the next
meeting Jan. 24-25, and signaled it may alter language saying
rates will probably stay near zero until at least mid-2013.  The interest-rate projections will make the Fed’s broader
set of economic forecasts “more meaningful,” Raskin said,
responding to an audience question after the speech.  Almost to Zero  The central bank cut its main interest rate almost to zero
in December 2008. Bernanke has said the Fed is considering
additional actions, including a third round of large-scale asset
purchases.  Today’s Labor Department report also showed that payrolls
rose by 200,000 last month, more than economists forecast,
following a revised 100,000 gain in November that was smaller
than first estimated. Hours worked and earnings climbed.  Raskin’s remarks follow comments today by three Fed policy
makers backing additional action to aid the housing market. New
York Fed President William C. Dudley, in a New Jersey speech,
called on the U.S. government to try new programs to revive the
housing while saying the central bank may still consider ways to
cut  interest rates .  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , speaking in
 Connecticut , said buying more mortgage-backed securities “would
in my view help provide a more rapid recovery in housing.”  ‘Speed and Strength’  Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said in Richmond,  Virginia ,
that “forceful and effective housing policies have the
potential to significantly influence the speed and strength of
our economic recovery.” She also said the Fed’s current stance
of monetary policy is “appropriate.”  Raskin highlighted statistics showing 13 million Americans
unemployed at the end of 2011, another 8 million classified as
working “part-time for economic reasons” and another 2.5
million “marginally attached” to the  labor force .  “The unemployed, the underemployed, the marginally
attached, and the discouraged can speak powerfully to the slow
pace of the recovery,” Raskin, 50, said in the speech to an
economic forum hosted by the Maryland Bankers Association.  Raskin devoted about half of her speech to discussing the
Fed’s approach to supervising community banks, saying they
require procedures different from those used for large banks.
After several quarters of shrinking, “lending by smaller
domestic banks generally resumed expanding around the middle of
last year,” Raskin said, citing Fed figures.  ‘Lingering Weak’ Fundamentals  “Although measures of community banks’ profitability have
risen from their recession lows, pressures on the banks’
profitability and credit quality remain as a result of the
lingering weak macroeconomic fundamentals, especially the
stubbornly high amount of unemployment,” she said.  Community banks across the U.S. face an “oppressive exam
environment,” the  Independent Community Bankers of America , a
Washington-based trade group representing about 5,000 financial
institutions, said in a statement last month. “The pendulum has
swung too far in the direction of overregulation, which is
stifling economic growth,” the organization said.  Raskin, without discussing that criticism, said today that
“lending by community banks plays an important role in the
ongoing economic recovery, especially by providing credit to
small businesses.”  “It is absolutely critical that examination and
supervision do not produce outcomes that are barriers to small
business expansion,” she said in the speech.  Total U.S.  loans (ALCBLOAN)  and leases from banks have declined to
$6.91 trillion as of Dec. 21 from $6.93 trillion on Nov. 30
after rising from $6.7 trillion in March, Fed data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Baltimore at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  