-- Treasuries Head for Weekly Decline on Speculation U.S. Economy Added Jobs
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-06T11:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/treasuries-set-for-weekly-loss-before-report-that-may-show-u-s-added-jobs.html
Treasuries headed for a weekly drop
before a report analysts said will show U.S. hiring accelerated
last month, signaling the economy may be gathering momentum and
sapping demand for the safest assets.  A rally that drove Treasuries last year to their best
returns since 2008 may be at risk of petering out as signs of
improvement in the world’s biggest economy curb the flight to
safety spurred by Europe’s debt crisis. Payrolls rose by 155,000
in December after climbing 120,000 a month earlier, the median
forecast of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News showed.  “For a while now the U.S. recovery has exceeded
expectations and that has continued into the new year,” said
 Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “If you get a banner non-farm payrolls
report today, then certainly that should send yields
significantly higher.”  Ten-year  yields (USGG10YR)  were little changed at 2.01 percent at 6:54
a.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 2 percent security due in November 2021 traded at 99 31/32.
The yield climbed 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, in
a shortened week following the New Year’s holiday.  Two-year yields were also little changed today, at 0.26
percent, and the  difference (USYC5Y30)  between five- and 30-year yields
widened to as much as 2.19 percentage points, the most in more
than three weeks.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 0.5 percent. Futures on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent.  Job Growth  Federal Reserve  holdings (FARBTRSE)  of Treasuries on behalf of foreign
central banks fell to $2.67 trillion in the week ended Jan. 4,
the least since April, Fed data show.  The U.S. unemployment rate probably increased to 8.7
percent from 8.6 percent, a separate survey showed.  The job gains won’t be enough to get Hiromasa Nakamura, a
senior investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , to
start betting against Treasuries. Nakamura, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $42.6 billion at the unit of  Japan ’s second-
largest bank, correctly predicted 2011’s advance.  “The rally will continue,” he said. “The employment
situation is the same as last year. Personal income is
weakening.  Home prices  continue to slow. These are all negative
for  consumer spending .”  Ten-year yields will drop to a record 1.50 percent by Dec.
31, he said. The yield declined to an all-time low of 1.67
percent on Sept. 23.  European Crisis  Stronger employment figures probably won’t be enough to
reverse the negative economic influence of the European debt
crisis, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  “Even a handful of very strong employment numbers would
not do much to fill the sheer magnitude of the excess capacity
in the U.S. labor market and its concomitant disinflationary
pressure,” New York-based John Shin, a currency strategist, and
 Michelle Meyer , an economist, wrote in a report yesterday.  Treasuries gained after the previous employment report Dec.
2, pushing the 10-year yield down five basis points, even after
the jobless rate slid to the lowest level since 2009, because
investors focused on Europe instead of the U.S.  As the world’s largest economy shows signs of
strengthening, the outlook for Europe has deteriorated. U.S.
gross domestic product will grow 2.1 percent in 2012, compared
with 1.8 percent in 2011 and 1.25 percent for all Group of 10
nations, Bloomberg surveys of economists show. The euro-area
economy will contract 0.2 percent, another survey shows.  ‘Countervailing Forces’  Yields on the 10-year bonds of  Italy , which has more than
$2 trillion of debt, are above the 7 percent level that preceded
bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Data today added to concern, showing European confidence in
the economic outlook slumped to the lowest in more than two
years and unemployment remained at a 13-year high.  “What we’re subject to is countervailing forces,” said
Rabobank’s McGuire. “You’ve got the stronger recovery in the
U.S., plus ongoing concerns at the euro zone periphery which
have yet to be addressed. The question is, on a longer term
horizon, which is likely to hold sway.’  Forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show economists predict
that Treasury yields will rise this year. Ten-year rates will
advance to 2.69 percent by Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg
survey, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  Treasuries fell yesterday after ADP Employer Services
reported that companies added 325,000 workers last month, the
most in records going back to 2001, and as the government said
initial jobless claims decreased last week.  U.S. government securities have handed investors a 0.5
percent loss in January as of yesterday, after returning 9.8
percent last year, Bank of America data show.  The  spread (USGGBE02)  between yields on two-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 1.73
percentage points, the most in five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  