-- Romney Looks Beyond New Hampshire Race to Next Set of Primaries
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-06T19:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/romney-looks-beyond-new-hampshire-race-to-next-set-of-primaries.html
With  New Hampshire (NFSEIA)  hosting the first
Republican presidential primary in four days,  Mitt Romney 
started his day about 1,000 miles away in South Carolina.  Romney, the front-runner in the race, campaigned in the
Myrtle Beach area this morning as rivals stayed put in New
Hampshire to take aim at him. Though Romney is back in New
Hampshire for an evening rally, his South Carolina trip and ads
he is running there and in Florida highlight the resources and
advantages allowing his campaign to fight on multiple fronts.  Leaving New Hampshire, where Romney has a solid lead in
polls, for  South Carolina (BEESSC)  is a sign of a confident campaigner
who is looking to parlay his strengths in fundraising and
political organization into a quick nomination victory, say
analysts.  “I guess there’s a little risk to it,” Dante Scala, a
political scientist at the University of New Hampshire in
Durham, said in an interview. Still, with “no indication that
there’s any slippage” to Romney’s lead in New Hampshire, “you
can see why from the perspective of the national campaign it
makes sense,” Scala said.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, spent more than
$208,000 on television ads in  South Carolina  through Jan. 5,
according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks advertising.  Independent Committee  As in New Hampshire and Iowa -- where Romney eked out an
eight-vote win in the Jan. 3 caucuses -- a pro-Romney political
committee independent of his campaign is running ads attacking
other Republican White House contenders in South Carolina, which
holds its primary Jan. 21.  One ad financed by the committee, Restore Our Future, says
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  are “too liberal on immigration” and have “too much
baggage on ethics.” Restore our Future spent about $86,000 on
TV ads in South Carolina through Jan. 5, CMAG data show.  “If Romney wins South Carolina, he is the proverbial
nominee,”  Jim Dyke , a Republican strategist based in the state
who isn’t aligned with a campaign, said in an interview.  Though U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas and a
political committee backing Perry also have advertised in South
Carolina, Romney is the only candidate running television spots
in Florida, which holds its primary Jan. 31 and has more than
twice as many residents as Iowa, New Hampshire and South
Carolina combined. His 5 percentage point loss to Arizona
Senator  John McCain  in Florida’s 2008 primary helped doom
Romney’s presidential bid that year.  ‘Could Be Over’  A “big win” by Romney in New Hampshire “will translate
itself into South Carolina and Florida, and I think this thing
could be over a lot sooner than a lot of people think,” McCain
said Jan. 4 on  Fox News  after endorsing his former rival.  Romney was joined at an outdoor rally yesterday in
Charleston, South Carolina, by McCain and the state’s Republican
governor, Nikki Haley.  Romney’s strategy for wooing support in South Carolina
includes assailing President  Barack Obama ’s labor policies. He
began airing an ad in the state yesterday that attacks an Obama
administration decision to sue Boeing Co. for opening a plant in
South Carolina. The ad shows Romney describing as “un-
American” the decision by a  National Labor Relations Board  he
said was “stacked with union stooges.” The Boeing case was
settled in December.  ‘Job Killer’  “He’s a job killer; he doesn’t mean to be, he just is,”
Romney said of Obama at the Charleston event. Earlier in the day
in  New Hampshire , Romney criticized three appointments Obama
made to the NLRB without Senate consent, saying the president
did so to repay labor unions for their political support.  It’s a theme Romney probably will elaborate on in union-
unfriendly South Carolina. Just 4.6 percent of wage and salary
workers in South Carolina belonged to a union in 2010, compared
to 11.9 percent nationwide, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Focusing on Obama’s labor policy and the Boeing issue
“will play very, very well” among the state’s Republican
primary voters, Karen Kedrowski, a political scientist at
Winthrop University in Rock Hill, South Carolina, said in an
interview.  ‘Conservative Credentials’  “If he was able to push those kinds of buttons, it’s going
to play well and bring up his conservative credentials” in a
state where many Republicans are skeptical of Romney, Kedrowski
said.  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who has focused his
hopes in the Republican presidential race on New Hampshire, took
a shot at Romney last night for his South Carolina trip.
Huntsman told his listeners at a rally in Newport, New Hampshire
that the state’s voters “want people to earn their vote, as
opposed to sitting down in South Carolina, so certain of
victory,” according to NBC News.  Rick Santorum , who finished second in the  Iowa  caucuses,
hasn’t yet aired television ads in South Carolina, according to
CMAG data.  The independent committee backing Perry has spent about
$1.2 million on television ads in South Carolina, far more than
any other candidate or political group, CMAG data show. After a
fifth-place finish in Iowa, Perry is focusing on South Carolina
to keep his campaign afloat.  South Carolina “is definitely his last stand,” Dyke said.  Paul, who finished third in Iowa, touts his military service
and opposition to abortion in his South Carolina ads. He’s spent
about $54,000 on television in the state, CMAG data show.  Poll Results  Romney is backed by 37 percent of those likely to vote in
the South Carolina primary, according to a CNN/Time/ORC
International poll taken Jan. 4-5. Santorum was second with 19
percent for Santorum, followed by 18 percent for Gingrich, 12
percent for Paul and 5 percent for Perry. The survey’s margin of
error was plus or minus 4.5 percentage points. One month ago,
Gingrich led Romney in a similar poll, 43 percent to 20 percent.  The Romney ad that began running in  Florida  yesterday is a
positive, biographical one. His campaign aired the same ad in
Iowa and it is on the air in New Hampshire. He spent about
$213,000 on the ad in its first two days, according to CMAG.  Restore Our Future, the pro-Romney committee operating
separately from his campaign, has spent more than $540,000 in
Florida since Dec. 16 on an ad that attacks Gingrich for having
“a ton of baggage.”  No other candidate or political committee promoting one has
aired television ads in Florida.  Susan MacManus , a political
scientist at the  University of South Florida  in Tampa, said that
Romney’s rivals would need to save campaign cash to run ads in a
state that includes 10 major media markets and where a vigorous
television campaign can cost upward of $1 million per week.  “You’ve got to pay to play in Florida, because you can’t
do retail politics as easily,” MacManus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  