-- Ron Paul Attacks Santorum as Spendthrift
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/ron-paul-targets-santorum-s-conservative-credentials-in-new-hampshire-push.html
Ron Paul  called former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum  a spendthrift with federal money as the
Texas congressman began a five-day New Hampshire campaign push
he said will highlight his Republican presidential rivals’
backing for “big government.”  Arriving in the state yesterday to try to harness momentum
from his close third-place finish in the Iowa caucuses for a
strong showing in New Hampshire’s Jan. 10 primary, Paul
criticized Santorum for supporting increased spending on
education, a federal prescription drug benefit and legislation
to boost the debt limit.  “He talks about being for the Balanced Budget Amendment --
he never did anything about it,” Paul, 76, told reporters in
Nashua. “Four or five times he voted to raise the national
debt, so that tells you how conservative he is.”  Paul is seeking to hold off a challenge from Santorum, 53,
at a time when statewide polls indicate the former senator is
rising in popularity just days before votes are cast.  Looking to the next contest in  South Carolina , a primary on
Jan. 21, Paul’s campaign announced it would run television ads
there branding Santorum a “serial hypocrite who can’t be
trusted” and charging he has a “record of betrayal” of
conservative principles. Paul is airing similar spots in  New
Hampshire  calling front-runner  Mitt Romney  a “flip-flopper”
and reprising his criticism of former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  for “serial hypocrisy.”  Trailing Front-Runner  Paul is trailing Romney by a more than 2-1 margin in a poll
released yesterday of likely voters in the New Hampshire
primary. Romney, 64, a former governor of neighboring
 Massachusetts , had 44 percent support compared with 20 percent
for Paul in the survey sponsored by WMUR-TV and conducted by the
University of New Hampshire Survey Center. Gingrich and Santorum
each had 8 percent, and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr.
had 7 percent in the Jan. 2-5 poll.  “We’re going to emphasize what the opponents believe in,
and if they do vote for somebody who has voted for big
government, that means they didn’t get enough information,”
Paul said. “My job over the next five days is to explain what
they have supported in the past.”  Huge crowds cheering raucously for Paul greeted him at a
rally where he said his was a campaign on the move.  “Momentum is picking up,” Paul told 700 to 800 people
packed into an airplane hangar. “We’re going to do very well on
Tuesday.”  ‘Dangerous’ Foe  He said critics and opponents call him “dangerous,”
drawing boos from the crowd, “and in a way we are.”  “They’re in danger of getting routed from the system,” he
said to more applause.  Later, speaking to reporters, Paul dismissed yesterday’s
U.S. jobs report showing a drop in unemployment. While “it’s
good that it’s going in the right direction,” he said, the real
numbers, including those who have ceased trying to find a job,
are discouraging.  “A little blip -- glad to see it, but boy, I don’t think
anybody should be lulled,” Paul said.  He also distanced himself from a television advertisement
his backers are running attacking Hunstman, which calls the
former ambassador to China someone with “Chinese values.”  “I understand it’s an ugly ad and I’ve disavowed it,”
Paul said. “Obviously, it was way out of order.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Nashua, New Hampshire at  
1890 or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  