-- Rosengren Urges Fed Purchases to Boost Housing Recovery, Small Businesses
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-06T16:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/rosengren-urges-fed-purchases-to-aid-housing-small-businesses.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank could strengthen
the  U.S. economy  by targeting stimulus policies at the housing
market and loans to small businesses.  “Further purchases of mortgage-backed securities would in
my view help provide a more rapid recovery in housing, by
reducing the costs of refinancing or purchasing new homes,”
Rosengren said, according to the prepared text of a speech today
in Hartford,  Connecticut . “Of course, these Fed actions would
be even more effective if accompanied by fiscal policies
designed to speed the recovery in housing.”  Rosengren also said that “credit availability for creating
or expanding small businesses can be quite a challenge” and
that “again, monetary policies that push down longer-term rates
can be helpful, and that would be particularly true if there
could be a targeted approach to improve small-business
financing.”  The Boston Fed chief has consistently supported additional
action from the  Federal Open Market Committee  to lower  interest
rates  and help boost an economy that grew at a less than 2
percent annual pace in each of the first three quarters of 2011.
The U.S. unemployment rate fell to an almost three-year low of
8.5 percent in December, the Labor Department said today.  Rosengren, 54, said the economy also faces “significant
downside risks that are likely to make households and businesses
cautious.”  Europe  Slowing  “Problems with a slowing European economy, and sovereign
and banking issues in Europe, remain downside risks,” he said.
“Excessive fiscal austerity here or abroad also has the
potential for near-term downside risk” and “recent uncertainty
in the Middle East highlights the ever-present risk of potential
oil shocks.”  These risks cannot directly be countered by monetary
policy, he said, “but they highlight the importance of finding
ways to hasten the pace of economic growth and  job creation  at
this point in time.”  In separate remarks today, New York Fed President  William Dudley  called on the U.S. government to try new programs to
revive the housing market while saying the central bank may
still consider ways to cut interest rates.  “Implementing such policies would improve the economic
outlook and make monetary accommodation more effective,” Dudley
said today in a speech to bankers in Iselin,  New Jersey . At the
same time, it’s “appropriate” for the Fed to consider steps to
ease monetary policy, he said.  2012 Inflation  The rate of inflation is likely to fall in 2012, Rosengren
said, as energy costs and other closely related prices such as
airline fares recede. Wages also remain subdued, he said.  “I see no evidence of significant acceleration in labor
costs -- as a result of weakness in labor markets -- and also
see reversals in a number of important commodity price
increases,” he said. “As a result, I personally expect that
inflation is likely to be below 2 percent not only in 2012 but
also over the next several years.”  Citing his subdued outlook for inflation and continued high
unemployment, Rosengren said “it is important for the  Federal
Reserve  to continue considering ways to promote stronger growth
and hasten what is a painfully long, slow recovery and
adjustment time in the economy.”  Rosengren said that most officials expect unemployment to
reach 5 percent to 6 percent in the longer run.  “We’re currently at 8.5 percent so we’re a long way away
from that,” he said in an audience question-and-answer session
after the speech. “Ideally we would get back into the 5 to
6 percent range and my own expectation is in the longer run it
would be at the lower end of that distribution.”  “We actually need to do a lot more to try to get the
 unemployment rate  down if we’re going to get anywhere close to
that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Hartford, Connecticut at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  