-- Samsung Fails to Win Sales Ban in Patent Fight on Apple IPhone 4S in Italy
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-01-06T06:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/samsung-fails-to-win-sales-ban-in-patent-fight-on-apple-iphone-4s-in-italy.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the maker of
the Galaxy mobile devices, failed to win a sales ban on  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPhone in  Italy , as a global patent dispute
between the two companies continues.  A Milan court yesterday rejected the Suwon, South Korea-
based company’s bid to block the iPhone 4S in Italy, said Nam Ki
Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, confirming an earlier
report by Ansa news agency.  Samsung, which today reported a 73 percent jump in fourth-
quarter operating profit after selling a record number of
handsets last year, also failed to win a sales ban on the iPhone
4S in France last month. Samsung and Apple have been suing each
other in multiple countries over patents related to mobile
technologies and designs since the iPhone maker accused the
South Korean rival of copying its products last year.  “We will review the ruling and consider all available
measures to further protect our intellectual property rights and
stop this free riding on our technology,” Samsung said in a
statement, referring to yesterday’s court decision.  Steve Park , an Apple spokesman in Seoul, reiterated the
company’s earlier statement on the dispute that Apple needs to
protect its intellectual property against “blatant copying.”  Samsung fell 1.4 percent to 1,040,000 won at the close
of trading in Seoul, the lowest level since Dec. 20. The stock
was the  biggest contributor (KOSPI)  to the benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI) ’s 1.1
percent decline.  The South Korean electronics maker overtook Apple as the
world’s largest maker of smartphones in the third quarter,
helped by the popularity of the Galaxy line of products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  