-- Sanofi, H&P Industries, BandCamp: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-06T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/sanofi-h-p-industries-bandcamp-intellectual-property.html
Sanofi (SAN)  said a U.S. District Court in
Massachusetts granted an injunction against a rival knee-pain
injection made by Tokyo-based  Seikagaku Corp. (4548)   The ruling restricts the introduction of the product ahead
of a scheduled trial in April, Sanofi said in a statement.  In dispute is patent 7,931,030, which was issued in April
to Genzyme Corp. Paris-based Sanofi acquired Genzyme in 2011.  China  Experiences 34 Percent Increase in Patent Applications  The number of patent applications filed in China in 2011
increased 34 percent from the previous year’s total, according
to Xinhua’s English-language website.  China’s intellectual property office said and Xinhua
reported that 1.83 million applications were filed last year.  The number of patents granted rose 18 percent to 961,000 in
2011, according to Xinhua. The quality of Chinese patents is
improving, the office’s Tian Lipu said at an IP rights
conference reported by Xinhua.  Apple Seeks Patent on Password Secret Recovery System  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, applied for a
patent on a technology that would permit users to store the
passwords for their portable electronic devices in the devices’
power adapters.  According to application 20120005747, published yesterday
in the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, while
devices are frequently lost or stolen when they are “out and
about,” the power adapter is much less likely to disappear and
is often carried separately from the device or left at home.  Instead of a power adapter, the application suggests that
other peripheral devices could be used to store the password
recovery secret, such as a portable hard drive, a network
router, a flash drive, a remote control or an external monitor.  It is “inevitable” that users will forget their usernames
or passwords necessary to access the device, according to the
application. The result, Cupertino, California-based Apple said,
is that many users choose not to employ a password, or select
one that is so short or easily guessable that it provides
minimum protection.  Apple applied for the patent in July.  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  H&P’s Product ‘Recondition’ Program Won’t Be Revealed, FDA Says  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  won’t make public the
details of H&P Industries Inc.’s plan to recondition more than
$6 million worth of seized medical supplies so they’re safe for
use,  MSNBC   reported .  The regulatory agency told MSNBC that H&P’s plan contains
confidential information and trade secrets.  H&P, based in Hartland,  Wisconsin , had its medical-wipe
business shut down in June following reports that patients
became ill or even died after using contaminated H&P products,
according to MSNBC.  Under terms of the court order, H&P must destroy recalled
products that can’t be reconditioned using a method approved by
the FDA, MSNBC reported.  Copyright  BandCamp Says Torrent Seekers Are Becoming Paying Customers  BandCamp , a San Francisco-based online music store, said
many of its customers are buying music after looking for it for
free on unauthorized sharing sites.  In a Jan. 3  blog posting , BandCamp said it’s learned it can
“effectively compete with filesharing and other free
distribution platforms.” Customers are deciding to buy the
music legitimately because they don’t want to “have to sift
through a bunch of torrent sites,” BandCamp said.  The company checks the search terms that have led customers
to its site and often they will include the word “torrent.”
That term refers to the BitTorrent protocol often used to share
music or videos without authorization.  The company said that in December, artists whose work it
sells through the website “raked in more than one million
dollars in music and merchandise sales.” At least 40 percent of
the time, customers are paying more than the asking price for
name-your-price albums, and 53 percent of all purchases are made
by customers from outside the U.S., BandCamp said.  In November, BandCamp co-founder Ethan Diamond told
Bloomberg that 25,000 artists were signing up to sell their
music through BandCamp each month. Artists can plug Bandcamp’s
player into their websites to stream albums and sell or give
away downloads. Some offer a free song in exchange for signing
up for a mailing list.  U.K. IP Office Seeks Input on Digital Copyright Exchange  The U.K.’s  Intellectual Property  Office is seeking comment
on the feasibility of a digital copyright exchange, according to
a  statement  released by the office yesterday.  Comments are sought in conjunction with an independent
study on the feasibility of developing such an exchange in the
U.K.  Richard Hooper , who was appointed in November to head the
study, said the establishment of a digital copyright exchange
“is a controversial issue with strongly held opinions across
the spectrum.” He is asking for hard data and evidence for or
against the hypothesis that the U.K.’s present copyright system
doesn’t work well in the digital age.  Deadline for submission to the office is Feb. 10. Although
the study is independent, Hooper will submit his findings to the
government before Parliament has its summer recess.  Hooper said in the statement he’s looking for input “to
inform my thinking as a move to develop a concept for workable
licensing solutions to problems identified.”  He previously headed independent review groups that looked
at the U.K.’s Postal Services and helped choose the winning bid
for an independently funded news group for  Scotland ,  Wales  and
northern  England .  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  British Soccer Star Says Image Used Without His Permission  An image that appears to  John Terry , captain of the  Chelsea 
soccer club, is being used without his authorization on
cigarette packages as part of an Indian anti-smoking campaign,
the BBC  reported .  Terry’s management group told the BBC that no permission
had been given, and that the use of the image is now being
investigated by its legal team.  One official at the Indian agency responsible for the ad
said the image isn’t Terry and is “purely a piece of artistic
imagination,” according to the BBC.  The image appears on cigarette packages above the text
“Smoking Kills,” the  BBC  reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Kaye Scholer Expands Asian IP Practice, Hires Grace L.  Pan   Kaye Scholer LLP (1192L)  hired Grace L. Pan for its IP practice,
the  New York  based firm said in a  statement .  Pan , a litigator, is registered as a  Gaikokuho Jimu
Bengoshi , which gives her limited practice rights in  Japan . She
joins Kaye Scholer from  Frommer Lawrence & Haug LLP (933574L) , also of New
York.  She has represented clients from the U.S., Japan and  Taiwan 
whose technologies have included polymer chemistry, medical
devices and semiconductors. In addition to litigation, she also
does patent, trademark, copyright and domain-name acquisition
work.  Pan has an undergraduate degree in biology and chemistry
from Lewis & Clark College, a second undergraduate degree in
biochemistry from Scripps College and a law degree from
 Northwestern University .  RatnerPrestia Hires Patent Specialist Derek Richmond From Nath  RatnerPrestia  hired patent specialist Derek Richmond, the
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm said in a  statement .  Richmond  joins from the  Nath Law Group  of Alexandria,
 Virginia , where he did IP litigation and patent acquisition
work, and also assisted clients with licensing negotiations.  Before he was a lawyer, Richmond worked as an engineer in
the automotive industry. He has also done engineering work in
connection with the design of industrial furnaces for heat-
treating materials.  Richmond has an undergraduate degree in mechanical
engineering from Lawrence Technological University and a law
degree from George Washington University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 