-- Santorumnomics, a Guide to Republican Hopeful’s Policies: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-06T23:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/santorumnomics-a-guide-to-republican-hopeful-s-policies-view.html
If you were thinking, until last
week’s Iowa caucuses, “At least I don’t have to know much about
 Rick Santorum ,” think again. Santorum’s virtual tie with  Mitt Romney  makes him just about all that stands between Romney and
the Republican nomination. So we all have homework to do.  That’s the bad news. The good news is that our assignment
isn’t too hard: On economic issues at least, most of Santorum’s
positions are familiar Republican boilerplate. He favors a
balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution -- limiting
 government spending  to 18 percent of gross domestic product --
but the cuts in spending  he proposes  don’t begin to add up to a
balanced budget, even if you generously interpret items such as
“Eliminate outdated, ineffective and wasteful programs” or
“Implement Strong America Now reform through Lean Six Sigma
management process as a key engine for …,” and so on.  On taxes, like his Republican counterparts, Santorum takes
a courageous stand: He’s against them. Ten of the 12 planks in
the “ Santorum Solution ” for the American taxpayer are about the
need to cut various taxes; the remaining two are about
preserving tax deductions and credits.  No one doubts  the need to
make the  tax code   more sensible and fair . Simply giving special
deals to preferred groups won’t get us there.  In a departure from conservative conventional wisdom,
Santorum favors a kind of industrial policy for manufacturers,
giving them government help through subsidies and tax breaks of
various sorts. This essentially amounts to picking winners, or
helping losers (hard to say which). He believes it is essential
for our long-term economic health for there to be a strong
manufacturing base. As a child of Western Pennsylvania, he may
well come by his position honestly. But it’s still wrong. A
century ago, as manufacturing replaced farming as the dominant
force in the  U.S. economy , people were saying the same things
about agriculture. And as the Obama administration has learned
with Solyndra LLC, the government needs to tread carefully when
favoring some industries or firms over others.  He is a strong believer in federalism and states’ rights,
except when there’s an issue he really cares about. Most of the
time, this means federal action to stop or change some practice
or attitude he finds objectionable -- and sometimes it is even
something most of the rest of us would object to, too.  We think he is profoundly wrong on most of these issues.
But he is no hypocrite. He favors a “Personhood Amendment” to
the Constitution (he’s big on amending the Constitution), which
-- by declaring personhood to start at conception -- would
override state and federal law to make abortion the exact legal
equivalent of a mother murdering her child. This could mean a
death-penalty sentence, in states that have one. He opposes
stem-cell research, of course, as well as gay equality in
marriage rights and in military service.  Santorum is no hypocrite, either, about his desire for a
boisterous foreign policy. He frankly itches to join  Israel  in
bombing an Iranian nuclear facility -- a possibility we should
perhaps be prepared for, but not to salivate after. Oddly, he
wants to end the post of ambassador to  Syria  -- not merely cut
off relations or close down the embassy but actually eliminate
the position, as if Syria didn’t exist. To his credit in the
current atmosphere, he wants to increase foreign aid, especially
to  Africa . On the other hand, he also proposes to fire half of
the employees of USAID, the federal agency that dispenses
foreign aid, to save money.  The modern  Republican Party , it is often said, is an
uncomfortable alliance between social and economic
conservatives. Santorum personifies these tensions. He’s for
states’ rights -- except when he isn’t. He favors market forces
over government intervention -- except when he doesn’t. It may
be too much to ask that a politician’s positions be perfectly
consistent. At least in Santorum’s case, they seem perfectly
representative.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 