-- Santorum Draws Boos From College Crowd for Opposing Gay Marriage
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-06T14:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/santorum-draws-boos-opposing-gay-marriage-before-college-crowd.html
Rick Santorum , whose surprising
second-place finish in the Iowa caucuses has propelled him to
the upper tier of Republican presidential candidates, was booed
during an appearance before college students in New Hampshire
yesterday when he spoke of his opposition to same-sex marriage.  Santorum, a former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania, is
counting on credentials tailored to appeal to socially
conservative voters in the state that holds the first primary
election on Jan. 10.  That pitch didn’t work with the students. For the most
part, they booed him, particularly when he compared same-sex
marriage with polygamy.  “I’m surprised I got a gay marriage question at a college
crowd,” Santorum joked. “Really, that’s a shock to me.”  His remarks sparked a contentious back-and-forth during an
almost hour-long question-and-answer session at a conference
center in Concord, the state capital.  “Well, what about three men?” Santorum responded to a
female student who asked him about his position on same-sex
marriage. “If reason says that if you think it’s OK for two,
then you have to differentiate with me as to why it’s not OK for
three.”  Defending Traditional Marriage  Santorum initially welcomed the exchanges with several
students. Then he tried to move on to other subjects as the
audience interrupted and cheered the questioners. He said he
welcomed the state’s legalization of same-sex marriage because
it was decided by the legislature.  Still, he defended his position to keep marriage a union
between a man and a woman: “Because I believe we are made the
way God made man and woman, and man and woman come together to
have a union to produce children, which keeps civilization
going, and provide the best environment for children to be
raised,” Santorum said. “I think that is something society
should value and should give privileged status over a group of
people who want to have a relationship together.”  The reception was an anomaly of sorts for Santorum, who
arrived in  New Hampshire  to large and receptive crowds.  He sought to play up his surge in popularity in a
fundraising e-mail today, telling supporters: “Guess what? The
GOP establishment does not get to decide who our nominee is. The
liberal media does not get to decide who our nominee is. You
do.”  Audience Connection  At other events yesterday, Santorum connected with his
audiences, focusing on his economic prescriptions and his
personal narrative of coming from a Roman Catholic, working-
class family with immigrant grandparents.  About 40 minutes into the questions in Concord, the
audience clapped when another student asked Santorum whether, as
president, he would allow state laws on same-sex marriage and
medical marijuana to operate without federal government
interference.  “I don’t believe that we can have 50 definitions of
marriage,” Santorum said. “Just to say that we should have 50
definitions of what life is. I don’t think that works, either. I
think there are certain things that are essential elements of
society, upon which society rests, that we have to have a
consensus.”  Medical Marijuana  Pressed on his stance on medical marijuana, Santorum
mistakenly identified the drug as a narcotic before being
corrected by the audience.  “I don’t know my medical marijuana laws very well,” he
joked. Still, he called the drug a hazard to society. When
someone shouted at him to explain how he formed that opinion,
Santorum said: “I form that opinion from my own life
experiences and having experiences. I went to college, too.”  The reference to what he may or may not have done during
his days at  Pennsylvania  State University didn’t quell the boos.
The jeering was more pronounced than any applause Santorum
received at the end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Concord, New Hampshire, at   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  