-- Santorum Channeling Pat Buchanan Faces a Changed New Hampshire
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-06T05:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/santorum-channeling-pat-buchanan-s-populism-faces-a-changed-new-hampshire.html
Rick Santorum, working to channel the
populist success of Patrick Buchanan in  New Hampshire , may be
unable to recreate the coalition he needs to finish strong in
the state’s Jan. 10 Republican presidential primary.  Buchanan scored an upset win in  New Hampshire (GSPSNH) ’s 1996
primary by consolidating a group of working-class voters
stressed over threats to manufacturing jobs and a smaller bloc
of anti-abortion Catholics. That’s the alliance Santorum is
seeking to put together after his razor-close second-place
finish in the Jan. 3  Iowa  caucuses to cut into former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s lead in New Hampshire.  The environment is unlikely to be as hospitable to Santorum
as it was to Buchanan in a state where the ranks of blue-collar
workers have  shrunk (NFMENH)  as manufacturing has contracted.  “He’s going after those same blue-collar workers I did:
Catholic conservatives, right-to-life, and workers who were
losing their manufacturing jobs,” Buchanan said in an
interview. The challenge for Santorum, he said, is, “there
aren’t as many of them as there were back when I was running.”  New Hampshire has about 66,000 workers employed in
manufacturing, down from 98,000 when Buchanan won there,
according to  data compiled (NFMENH)  by Bloomberg.  While Buchanan, who also ran a strong second against then-
President  George H.W. Bush  in New Hampshire’s 1992 Republican
primary, said he doubts Santorum can overtake Romney, he
predicted the former Pennsylvania senator could draw as much as
20 percent of the vote.  ‘Crowded Field’  A major challenge for Santorum is that he’s competing with
Texas Representative  Ron Paul  and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  to inherit parts of Buchanan’s base of support, said
Republican strategist  Greg Mueller .  “The question is how much of that vote in a crowded field
in New Hampshire can Santorum claim,” said Mueller, a former
Buchanan aide who is neutral in this year’s race. “It’s a
little different environment up there than it was when Pat
ran.”  Santorum is tempering expectations. He told reporters
yesterday that while he had “no expectation” of defeating
Romney in New Hampshire, “I do have an expectation of moving
up.” His campaign’s goal is to finish strongly enough in the
state to carry him to  South Carolina , where social conservatives
hold more sway. He planned to leave New Hampshire on Jan. 8 to
campaign in that state, which holds its primary Jan. 21.  2008 Primary  Santorum, a Catholic who has made his opposition to
abortion rights a central campaign issue, is also working to
consolidate support among New Hampshire’s Catholic voters. Exit
polls showed that 38 percent of voters who participated in the
state’s 2008 Republican primary were Catholic. Winning that vote
was Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the party’s eventual
nominee; those he defeated included Romney.  The grassroots advocacy group CatholicVote.org endorsed
Santorum yesterday and e-mailed its 600,000 members saying it
was “prepared to mobilize our rapidly growing grassroots
network to help secure him the GOP nomination, and ultimately
win the White House.”  “ Rick Santorum  is a workingman’s Republican with a record
and a plan which are especially appealing to Catholic voters,”
the group’s president,  Brian Burch , said in the statement.  At campaign events in New Hampshire yesterday, large crowds
greeted Santorum, as voters sought to learn more about a
candidate who rode a late surge in Iowa to finish eight votes
behind Romney in the caucuses.  ‘Immigrant Experience’  Clad in khakis, a button-down shirt and cowboy boots, and
riding passenger-side in a black Dodge Ram pickup truck,
Santorum at each stop emphasized his working-class roots. He
spoke about the “immigrant experience” of his Italian
grandparents, and told a hardscrabble personal story, even
making light of his “tough-love” Catholic upbringing that left
“some scars from rulers” wielded by nuns on his knuckles.  “He knows how hard it is to work as a working man,” said
Bob Grover, 61, who came out to see Santorum in his hometown of
Northfield. “I’m an  unemployed (USUSNH)  carpenter right now, so it means
a lot that someone can come up and relate to people.”  ‘Yacht Club’  Buchanan, who defeated eventual Republican nominee  Bob Dole 
in the 1996 New Hampshire primary, delighted restive party
members and some conservative Democrats by deriding his
opponents that year as candidate who were out of touch with the
needs of working people. He said businessman  Steve Forbes ’ flat-
tax plan “sounded like something the boys cooked up at the
yacht club.”  While Santorum hasn’t offered the same critiques of his
rivals in this year race, he’s quick to highlight his working-
class outlook and appeal.  He told voters at a Rotary Club breakfast in Manchester
that his economic plan would “dramatically improve the
condition of small-town America, which is where manufacturing is
based, and blue-collar America, who are the folks who have been
left behind in this country.”  Referring to himself, Santorum said, “You’ve got a guy who
grew up in a steel town who can go out and deliver that message
and contrast very clearly with” President  Barack Obama .  Santorum is “more down to earth, he’s more working
class,” said Claira Monier, a veteran New Hampshire activist
who is co-chairing his statewide effort after having backed
Romney in 2008. “Romney’s a little too...” Monier paused,
grasping for the right word, “a little too rich.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Manchester, New Hampshire at  
  or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ; Julianna Goldman in Windham, New
Hampshire at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  