-- Sarkozy, Merkel Bring Monti Into EU Debt-Summit Planning With Rome Talks
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-06T17:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/sarkozy-merkel-bring-monti-into-summit-planning.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel will travel to Rome Jan. 20 to
meet Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  for talks to precede a
European Union crisis summit 10 days later.  Including the head of the euro area’s third-largest economy
contrasts with the Franco-German pattern as the financial crisis
deepened of forging a common position in bilateral talks. It may
mark a vote of confidence in the unelected Monti, who has pushed
through budget cuts demanded by the EU after the resignation of
 Silvio Berlusconi .  “Monti’s courage inspires confidence,” Sarkozy said today
in Paris after the two met. “France and Italy share identical
views on Europe’s future and how to resolve crisis of
confidence.”  With the sovereign debt turmoil in its third year and
 Greece  in its seventh month of talks on a second bailout,
leaders of the 17 euro nations are racing to draft the fiscal
rulebook promised at a Dec. 9 summit. Greece is negotiating an
agreement to cut its debt load by half, while credit-rating
companies are contemplating region-wide downgrades.  “Every country must carry out its promised structural
reforms which are fundamental to raising the level of confidence
to bring  interest rates  down to levels that are more in line
with the real economy,” Monti said today.  Comments by Sarkozy and Italian Economic Development
Minister Corrado Passera suggested a joint push for a greater
European Central Bank role, a move Merkel has resisted.  Europe  must have a “real central bank with the tools to do
the job on stability and liquidity in the markets,” Passera
said at a conference in Paris today. Sarkozy said “all EU
members and institutions must meet their responsibilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  