-- Schumer: Tie Commuter Tax Benefit to Payroll Package
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-06T20:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/schumer-wants-to-tie-commuter-tax-benefits-to-payroll-package.html
Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, will seek to attach commuter tax benefits to
legislation that would extend the U.S.  payroll tax (FFSTEMPL)  cut.  Last year, workers were able to set aside $230 each month
before taxes to cover the cost of their commutes. Since that
measure expired Dec. 31, the benefit has been capped at $125 a
month. Schumer would permanently set the benefit at $230 and
apply it retroactively to Jan. 1.  The commuter benefit was part of a broader package of tax
breaks that expired at the end of 2011. Congress has a history
of renewing the breaks retroactively, and the payroll package
may be one of the few pieces of legislation this year to which
such a measure could be attached.  “The last thing we should be doing in this economy is
making it more expensive to get to work,” Schumer said in a
statement. “This mass transit tax benefit fits the theme of a
middle-class tax break and should be extended as part of the
payroll tax cut. It’s simply not fair to squeeze the middle
class with a more expensive commute.”  Companies benefit from the transit break because they don’t
have to pay their share of payroll taxes on the amounts set
aside. It may be difficult for Congress to single out the
commuter benefit after dozens of other tax breaks also expired
at year’s end, including credits for renewable energy,
manufacturers and companies that hire welfare recipients.  Public transportation agencies have fought the decrease in
benefits. The  Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority  put
signs last month in its subway stations near the U.S. Capitol
reminding commuters that the benefit was expiring. The signs
were still in place today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  