-- Greek Shipowner Bombed in 1980s Says Gulf Oil Flow Will Withstand Crisis
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2012-01-06T14:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/shipowner-bombed-in-1980s-war-says-gulf-oil-flow-will-withstand-crisis.html
A Greek shipowner whose family’s  oil
tankers  were hit by missiles during the 1980s Iran-Iraq war said
he expects Persian Gulf crude exports to continue after  Iran ’s
threats to block shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz .  Stable prices of oil, gold and the dollar are a sign to
investors the Islamic republic won’t halt shipments in response
to a proposed European Union ban on its crude exports, Polys Haji-Iannou, 52, said. Iran’s Vice President Mohammad Reza
Ramimi threatened on Dec. 27 to block the transit point for a
fifth of oil traded worldwide if sanctions are imposed in
response to the country’s nuclear program.  “Things will calm down within the next one or two weeks,”
Haji-Iannou, whose brother is EasyJet Plc founder Stelios, said
by phone from  Athens  today. “Even if there are EU sanctions,
they will calm down.”  Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps is planning to
hold naval exercises in the Persian Gulf near the strait,
Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi was cited as saying by the Fars
news agency today. The drills would be held in Iran’s southern
waters in the “near future,” he said.  European foreign ministers aim to announce harsher
penalties on the Persian Gulf nation’s energy and banking
industries at a meeting Jan. 30, according to EU spokesman
 Michael Mann . The region moved closer to banning oil imports
from the country yesterday after  Greece  lifted objections to an
embargo.  The U.S. also supports further measures on Iran over its
nuclear program, which the U.S. and several allies say poses a
nuclear weapons threat. The Islamic republic says its nuclear
efforts are for civilian purposes and to generate electricity.  New York Crude  Since Rahimi’s threat, New York-traded crude has gained 0.9
percent to $102.24 a barrel, gold for immediate delivery has
advanced 1.9 percent to $1,623.07 per ounce, and a euro buys 78
cents compared with 77 cents.  Haji-Iannou, whose father Loucas had 52 oil-carriers as
part of the Troodos Shipping and Trading Ltd. fleet during the
so-called Tankers War, said 20 of them were shipping crude from
the  Persian Gulf  during the conflict, which ended in 1988. In
total the ships were hit by missiles 28 times, he said. Polys
started learning the family business as a child in the 1970s.  While several ships were hit twice, none sank because the
missiles targeted their engine rooms and not their hulls, he
said. Seven sailors on the family’s tankers died during the
conflict. The vessels that were struck were taken to Dubai and
were repaired or scrapped.  The shipowner has a fleet of 25 tankers, after selling 30
in 2009, Haji-Iannou said, adding prices have declined by about
40 percent since then.  Tanker Industry  “The Haji-Iannou family has a history of shrewd investment
in the tanker industry,” said Halvor Ellefsen, a shipbroker at
Galbraith’s Ltd. in  London  who has worked with shipowner.
“Polys has made great decisions, ahead of the
market consensus, just like his father did in the 1980s, when
many other owners were suffering.”  An escalation in the Persian Gulf would be financially
beneficial to tanker owners even if insurance costs rose as  oil
companies (XOM)  would have to pay a premium to hire vessels at risk of
damage, he said, adding that Iran wouldn’t be able to enforce a
blockade.  “I don’t think they can achieve that,” Haji-Iannou said.
“I think it will be a passage going through there with navy
escorts of frigates, going and loading the oil from the oil
terminals and taking it out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  