-- Shut-Down Chinatown Bus Company Still Selling Tickets, U.S. Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-01-06T18:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/shut-down-chinatown-bus-company-still-selling-tickets-u-s-says.html
A Chinatown bus company that was
ordered to shut down for public-safety reasons last month
continued to sell tickets on the Internet and has been using
other companies to stay in business, a U.S. regulator said.  Double Happyness Travel Inc., which provided service
between  New York  City and  Albany , New York, Baltimore and
Wilmington,  Delaware , was ordered to immediately halt all ticket
sales in  court papers  filed by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration today.  The company, based in Huntington Valley,  Pennsylvania , was
originally ordered to close after federal investigators declared
it an “imminent hazard to public safety,” according to a Dec.
23 court order.  Curbside bus carriers, which pick up and drop off bus
customers on the street instead of terminals, have been under
extra scrutiny by federal safety officials. The  National
Transportation Safety Board  said in an Oct. 31 report that
curbside companies were seven times more likely to be involved
in a fatal crash than more conventional companies.  Double Happyness had failed to comply with driving-time
limits, was employing drivers who couldn’t understand English,
and wasn’t keeping proper records of driver qualifications or
drug testing, according to the court order.  The company, which also had sold tickets on the Gotobus.com
website as AA Bus, had a record worse than 92.8 percent of the
industry on unsafe driving violations and 95 percent for driver
fitness, according to the court order.  Scheduled departures for the bus industry, curbside and
station-based, increased 7.1 percent to 2,693 in 2011 from the
previous year, according to DePaul University. That compares
with a gain of 1.5 percent for airline seat miles and 1.2
percent for rail seat miles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  