-- Sinochem to Buy Stakes in Brazil Deep Water Blocks From Perenco
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-06T16:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/sinochem-to-buy-stakes-in-brazil-deep-water-blocks-from-perenco.html
Sinochem Group,  China ’s biggest
supplier of chemical products, agreed to buy 10 percent stakes
in five deep water natural-gas and oil exploration blocks off
the coast of Brazil from Perenco SA.  The purchase of the project stake in the Espirito Santo
basin “lays the foundation for the company’s further
development in  South America ,” the company said in a  statement 
on its website yesterday, without giving financial details. The
purchase by a Sinochem unit in Brazil is subject to government
approvals, according to the Sinochem statement.  Chinese energy companies including Sinochem Group have bid
for at least $21 billion of assets in Latin America since the
start of 2010 to help supply the world’s second-biggest economy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinochem Group  won’t comment about the purchase beyond the
statement, a press officer who declined to identify himself in
the company’s Beijing office said. Nicolas de Blanpre, a Paris-
based spokesman for Perenco, confirmed the deal with Sinochem
and declined to give further information on the deal.  The blocks cover water of 100 meters (328 feet) to 2,000
meters deep, according to information on Perenco’s website.
Perenco and  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , controlled by
billionaire Eike Batista, each hold 50 percent of the projects
and Perenco operates the concessions, according to data on the
website of Brazil’s oil regulator.  State-owned Sinochem paid  Statoil ASA (STL)  $3.07 billion last
year for 40 percent of the Peregrino oilfield off the Brazilian
coast. The companies agreed to jointly seek additional
opportunities in Brazil and elsewhere.  Sinochem, based in Beijing, last year signed an accord with
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer
to cooperate on exploration and production.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  