-- Singapore to Review Penalty Framework After Worst Subway Train Breakdown
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-01-09T09:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/smrt-ceo-saw-resigns-as-subway-failures-trigger-public-singapore-protests.html
Singapore will review its regulatory
and penalty framework following the city-state’s worst subway
breakdowns last month, Transport Minister Lui Tuck Yew said in
Parliament today.  SMRT Corp. (MRT)  Chief Executive Officer Saw Phaik Hwa stepped
down on Jan. 6 as head of the city’s biggest train operator
after glitches on Dec. 15 and 17 delayed more than 200,000
people, including shoppers in the Orchard Road retail district
in the last weekend before the Christmas holiday.  “One of the questions that needs to be answered is whether
the regulatory regime is sufficiently robust,” Lui said.
“Together with the committee of inquiry’s more holistic
findings, the government would currently review the regulatory
and penalty framework and its oversight over the operators’
maintenance regimes to strengthen it where necessary.”  Lawmakers in Singapore,  ranked  as the Asian city with the
best quality of life by Mercer and the world’s easiest place to
do business by the  World Bank , are raising concerns about the
efficiency of the country’s infrastructure system after train
breakdowns and flash floods last month affected downtown areas
including the Orchard Road shopping belt.  The maximum fine per disruption is S$1 million ($770,500),
Lui said, adding that it’s too early to speculate on the fine
imposed on SMRT.  Interim CEO  Saw, 57, resigned to “pursue personal interests,” the
company said in an exchange  filing (MRT)  on Jan. 6 after the close of
Singapore trading. Tan Ek Kia, former chairman for Northeast
Asia at Royal Dutch Shell Plc, who has been on the SMRT board
since 2009, will be interim CEO, the company said.  While key appointments are initiated by the company and
chairman, and directors are decided by the shareholders, the
operators must seek the government’s Land Transport Authority’s
approval for any changes to its  board members (MRT) , Lui said,
responding to a question by a lawmaker. The veto power is
intended to be used as a “last resort” and the government
agency hasn’t had to exercise that right, he said.  Saw earned a total of S$1.85 million in the year ended
March 2010, according to last year’s  annual report . She was
previously regional president of luxury retailer DFS Venture
 Singapore  Pte, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. SMRT
named Tan as the interim head for his “diverse experience in
engineering and construction, safety, operations and business
management,” it said in the statement.  Refocus on Rail  “SMRT is signaling its intention to refocus on its core
rail operations and assure the public that all efforts are made
to ensure the smooth operation of its rail transport system,”
Toh Yongrui, an analyst from UOB Kay Hian Pte, said in an e-
mailed note. “In contrast to Ms. Saw’s background in the retail
industry, Mr. Tan has experience in engineering, construction
and operations through his previous appointments.”  Singapore’s flash floods on Dec. 23 affected parts of the
downtown area, with water entering buildings including a
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  coffee shop along Orchard Road, the Straits
Times reported. The shopping belt was hit by the worst flooding
in 26 years in June 2010.  SMRT fell 0.8 percent to S$1.77 as of the close of trading
in Singapore. The stock has dropped 1.7 percent since Dec. 14,
when another disruption affected the peripheral Circle Line,
while the benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  climbed 0.7 percent.  A suspected  power failure  led to a delay in the line
running through stations on the western part of the island
yesterday, resulting in longer waiting times, SMRT said in an e-
mailed response to queries.  Rally  About 222,400 people were affected by the two disruptions
in December for the  subway system  that started in 1987, based on
data compiled by SMRT and the  Straits Times . About 80 people
held a rally on Dec. 17 to call for Saw’s resignation and
protest against higher fares by cab operators including SMRT,
the Straits Times reported Dec. 18.  Saw will remain with the company to help with the
investigations and the leadership transition, according to an e-
mailed statement from SMRT.  The Land Transport Authority  said  after the incident it
found several dislodged “claws” that supported the rail
structure. These were installed to contain vibrations from
passing trains to surrounding buildings, it said on its website.
The government agency also directed SMRT to a speed limit for
trains running through the affected areas, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  