-- Solar Millennium Sale, Blacks Leisure, Manroland: Bankruptcy
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-06T11:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/solar-millennium-sale-blacks-leisure-manroland-bankruptcy.html
Solar Millennium AG (S2M) ’s insolvency
administrator is seeking to sell parts or all of the German
developer of sun-powered plants.  Volker Boehm of Schulze & Braun said in a  statement  that
it’s seeking buyers for the company’s 60 or so project units and
stakes, including Oakland, California-based Solar Trust of
America LLC, which is planning the world’s biggest solar plant.  Potential buyers have already approached Solar Millennium
and initial talks have started, Boehm said in a phone interview.
Boehm said he’s “very optimistic” that projects can be
divested. “The further developed a project is, the more
attractive it is for potential buyers,” he said.  Solar Millennium filed for insolvency on Dec. 21, citing
slow progress in selling its 2.25-gigawatt U.S. project pipeline
and failure to reach an agreement to bring in investors for its
Ibersol project in  Spain . Solar Trust is developing the 1-
gigawatt facility in Blythe,  California .  Talks with  Solarhybrid AG (SHL) , a Brilon, Germany-based
renewable energy developer interested in acquiring Solar
Millennium’s U.S. projects, are continuing, Boehm said. He
didn’t want to name other potential buyers.  Blacks Leisure Aims to Announce Sale of Business in Coming Days  Blacks Leisure Group Plc (BSLA)  said it expects to announce a sale
of most of its business in “the next few days” after potential
buyers submitted final offers that won’t attribute any value to
the company’s shares.  The sale will be conducted through an administration
process and three KPMG LLP partners will be appointed as
administrators, the U.K. owner of the Millets outdoor clothing
chain said in a statement. Trading in Blacks shares has been
suspended with immediate effect.  Manroland Said to Draw Close to 10 Bids for Press Maker  Manroland AG (MRDCF) , the German printing-press maker that filed
for insolvency in November, has attracted interest from close to
10 bidders, two people familiar with the matter said.  Domestic and foreign strategic buyers and financial
investors have handed in offers for the Offenbach, Germany-based
company, said the people, who declined to comment because talks
are private. Thomas Hauser, a spokesman for Manroland, declined
to comment.  Werner Schneider, Manroland’s administrator, is aiming to
find a buyer for “key company segments” by the end of the
current insolvency proceedings on Jan. 31, he said on Jan. 4 in
a statement. While nothing has been signed yet, there is
“promising” interest in the company, he said.  “The prospects of a successful investors’ agreement for
the insolvent Manroland have improved further,” Schneider said
in the statement. “We now have parties seriously interested in
all three production sites, in Augsburg, Offenbach and Plauen.”  Japan  Air Plans IPO as Budget Carriers Threaten Resurgence  Japan Airlines Co. (9205)  is preparing for an initial public
offering that may make it the world’s most valuable carrier even
as new low-fare airlines threaten to lure travelers in its home
market.  Shareholders of JAL, which exited  bankruptcy protection  in
March, are considering selling as much as 1 trillion yen ($13
billion) of stock as early as September, according to two people
familiar with the matter. That would be enough for the Tokyo-
based airline to surpass Air China Ltd. as the world’s biggest
by market value.  The sale may struggle to reach the possible highest amount
because concerns about competition may outweigh the benefits of
a turnaround that has enabled JAL to return to profit, said
Senri Sasahara, chief executive officer of Innovative Advisor
Corp. The airline faces new challenges this year from two budget
ventures backed by  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and JAL itself is also
forming a low-cost carrier with Qantas Airways Ltd.  “The new budget carriers could be a threat to the IPO,”
said Sasahara, who advises companies on strategic investments.
“The amount sought may be a bit too ambitious.”  JAL’s shareholders may seek as little as 500 billion yen in
the sale, said the two people, who declined to be identified as
the matter is private. The carrier plans to submit its IPO
filing to the Tokyo Stock Exchange in July, they said.  State-backed  Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of
Japan  owns 97 percent of JAL after injecting cash to support the
restructuring. The fund must sell its stake by January 2013,
which will be three years after its takeover.  Taro Namba, a spokesman for JAL, declined to comment on the
size of the planned IPO. He did say that Nomura Holdings Inc.
and Daiwa Securities Group Inc. will lead the sale.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  Algerian Unit Defaults on Loan, Working With Sider  ArcelorMittal Annaba, an Algerian unit of the world’s
largest steelmaker, defaulted on a loan that expired Jan. 3,
Mohamed Guedha, the unit’s communications director, said Jan. 5
by telephone.  ArcelorMittal and its partner,  Algeria ’s state-run Sider,
are cooperating to resolve the “problem,” he said.  The Algerian unit is insolvent, Smail Kouadria, head of the
local steel union, said by phone.  BTA Creditors Seek Coupon Payment Before Restructuring Talks  Senior bondholders said Kazakh state-controlled  BTA Bank (BTAS) 
must pay a coupon due Jan. 1 and ensure that its board contains
creditor directors before they’ll discuss the lender’s proposal
for a second restructuring in as many years.  A group of unidentified creditors made the demands in a
Dec. 30 letter to BTA, the Kazakh central bank and the  National
Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna (SKKZ) , which owns 81.5 percent of the
Almaty-based lender. The letter was sent by New York-based  law
firm  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, which represents the bondholders.  “The credibility of  Kazakhstan  in the international
financial markets will be affected by the failure of the bank
and Samruk-Kazyna to honor their obligations in respect of the
bank’s senior notes, as well as the bank’s other debt
obligations,” Dewey & LeBoeuf said on behalf of the creditors.
The law firm provided a copy of the letter to Bloomberg News.  BTA’s press office declined by e-mail to comment on the
letter. Yuriy Cherkasov, an Astana-based spokesman for Samruk-
Kazyna, declined to comment immediately, as did Gulnar
Ertlesova, an Almaty-based spokeswoman for the  central bank .  BTA Chairman Anvar Saidenov proposed a second restructuring
in a Dec. 23  letter  to shareholders to stave off bankruptcy. The
bank may not have enough cash to make the next interest payment
due “on certain of its indebtedness,” he said. In September,
the bank said it faced a $150 million coupon payment in January.
BTA will begin talks with investors on the proposal in
 Singapore ,  London  and  New York  on Jan. 10.  Montenegro’s Steel Mill Zeljezara Niksic on Sale for Fourth Time  Zeljezara AD Niksic (ZEHK) , a Montenegrin steel mill, was offered
for sale on Jan. 5 by its receivership administrator with an
asking price of 30 million euros ($38 million).  The court-appointed administrator invited offers in an
advertisement in the  Pobjeda  newspaper, asking potential buyers
to submit bids by Feb. 5, and make a mandatory deposit of 10
percent of the starting price first. The steelworks was put into
bankruptcy on April 15 by a workers union that demanded overdue
monthly wages.  This is the fourth time that Zeljezara is being offered to
buyers since Montenegro began asset sales almost two decades
ago. In August, Zeljezara’s main creditors, including
Netherlands-based MNSS BV, secured a U.K. court judgment backing
their efforts to recover claims of estimated 60 million euros.  Total CEO Says SunPower Would Be Bankrupt Without Backing  Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie
said SunPower Corp. would be bankrupt without the French oil
company’s backing. Speaking at an investment conference in
Paris, de Margerie said Total will “turn around” SunPower.  Total agreed last month to raise its stake in SunPower, the
second-largest U.S. solar-panel maker, to 66 percent.  Iceland Corporate Bankruptcies Rise 63 Percent Through November  A record number of Icelandic corporations were declared
bankrupted in the first 11 months of 2011, according to
Statistics Iceland.  A total of 1,432 companies were declared bankrupt by
Icelandic courts from January through November last year, a 63
percent increase from the previous year, the Reykjavik-based
office said in a statement on its  website .  Registrations of new limited-liability corporations rose in
the period by 5.7 percent to reach 1,568, compared with 1,483
registrations in the 11 months through November 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 