-- Solar Subsidy Cuts Sought by German Minister as Demand Wanes
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-06T13:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/solar-subsidy-cuts-sought-by-german-minister-as-demand-wanes.html
Clean-energy subsidies should be cut
in  Germany , the second-biggest solar market in 2011, even as the
industry struggles to cope with falling demand and prices,
Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said.  Subsidies for wind, solar and biomass installations need to
be brought in line with market realities, Roesler, of the Free
Democratic Party, said today in Stuttgart.  “It’s right that we now adjust” above-market rates paid
to operators of photovoltaic  power plants , Roesler told
colleagues of the pro-business party. “Survivability means
commercial viability.”  The comments underline tensions inside German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government over the future of clean-energy
subsidies as the nation’s solar companies struggle with slowing
demand and rising foreign competition including from  China .
Berlin-based module maker  Solon SE (SOO1)  and  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , with
headquarters in Erlangen, filed for insolvency last month.  Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen, of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union party, last month rejected Roesler’s
proposal to curb future solar panel installations in Germany,
Europe’s biggest economy, to 1,000 megawatts a year, down from a
record 7,400 megawatts in 2010. Spreading insecurity across the
clean-energy sector “is poison for the energy transformation,”
he said.  Italy is projected to have surpassed Germany as the top
solar market in 2011, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  German Energy Revamp  Roesler said the German energy overhaul will require
investments in new gas- and coal-fired power plants as well as
about 4,500 kilometers (2,800 miles) of  power lines . If done
correctly, the plan offers “lots of new chances for growth,”
he said.  Merkel shut more than a quarter of atomic capacity in March
after the Fukushima crisis in Japan and plans to complete an
exit from the industry by 2022. The country seeks to get at
least 35 percent of its power from renewables by 2020 compared
with about 20 percent now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  