-- Sony Denies Succession Report Naming Hirai
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-01-07T05:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/sony-says-board-hasn-t-decided-to-elevate-hirai-to-president.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  denied a report it will
name Kaz Hirai as president in April in place of  Howard Stringer .  Hirai, the company’s executive deputy president, will be
promoted to president by April, the Nikkei newspaper reported
today. Stringer will remain in the posts of chairman and chief
executive officer, it said. No decision has been made by Sony’s
board, Shiro Kambe, a company spokesman in Tokyo, said in an e-
mail, declining to comment further.  Stringer, 69, told Bloomberg Businessweek in November that
he doesn’t plan to step down soon. His latest three-year
turnaround plan ends in March 2013, at which point Hirai
probably will take over, according to several people interviewed
for that story.  Hirai, 51, is propelling Sony to streamline its main
television business, which led the company to predict a fourth
year of annual  losses (6758) . Sony had net losses of 399 billion yen
($5.2 billion) in the past three years and forecasts a 90
billion yen loss for the current fiscal year amid competition
with Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Inc.  Fitch Ratings  last month downgraded Sony’s long-term
ratings to “BBB-,” one level above junk, from “BBB,” citing
difficulties in reviving the money-losing TV business and deals
that won’t improve profit.  Financial Services  Financial services were the biggest contributor to Sony’s
operating income in the past two years, ahead of music
production and motion pictures, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s cushioning losses from selling Bravia
televisions as the Tokyo-based company heads for a fourth
consecutive annual loss, exacerbated by an earthquake in March,
a hacker attack in April, floods in  Thailand  that shut plants
and the yen’s appreciation.  Sales of Sony’s latest handheld game machine, PlayStation
Vita, declined to 72,479 units during the week ended Dec. 25,
down from 324,859 sold during the two days after the product’s
Dec. 17 debut, Tokyo-based researcher Media Create Co. said on
its website.  Sony  slipped (6758)  2 percent to 1,345 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday. The stock fell 53 percent last year, compared with
gains of 11 percent for Samsung and 26 percent by Apple.  Samsung,  Asia ’s largest consumer-electronics company, had a
record quarterly profit on surging sales of Galaxy phones and a
one-time gain from selling its hard-disk drive business, the
company reported yesterday.  As part of a reorganization, Sony said last month that it
dissolved a venture with Samsung to make liquid-crystal displays.
A subsequent agreement will enable Sony to secure a flexible and
steady supply of LCD panels from Samsung, based on market prices,
and without the responsibility and costs of operating a
manufacturing facility, Sony said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  