-- S. Korean Regulator Probes N. Korea Rumors
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-01-06T08:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/south-korean-regulator-probes-spread-of-n-korea-rumors.html
South Korea ’s financial regulator
said it is investigating the spreading of rumors today
concerning  North Korea , and the nation’s stock exchange said it
will probe whether there were any “unusual” trades made to
profit from sudden market moves.  No evidence has come to support the rumors, which centered
on speculation of an explosion in North Korea, Kim Soo Mi, a
spokeswoman for the Financial Supervisory Service, said in Seoul.
Officials at the defense ministry and President Lee Myung Bak’s
office also said there was no evidence to validate the
speculation.  The South Korean won declined as much as 0.9 percent today
to 1163.15 per dollar, its weakest level since Dec. 20, while
the benchmark  stock index  dropped as much as 2.1 percent. Stocks
trimmed losses towards the close of trading, with Kospi index
ending 1.1 percent lower at 1,843.14. The won finished at
1,162.75.  “As overall markets are still volatile, there seems to be
people who are trying to make money by spreading such rumors and
increasing volatility,” Kim Jae Dong, the Seoul-based head of
equity at SEI Asset Korea Co., which manages about $5.7 billion
in assets, said by telephone today.  Increased Monitoring  The financial regulator said on Dec. 28 it would boosting
monitoring of market speculation related to North Korea after
the Kospi index tumbled a day earlier on what exchange officials
attributed to unconfirmed rumors about the health of the new
leader of North Korea and plans by  China  to send troops to the
communist nation.  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  slid 3.4 percent on Dec. 19 when the death of
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  was announced, dragging the
gauge’s valuation to 1.1 times net assets, the cheapest level
since Nov. 27. The index rallied 4 percent the next two trading
days as the government pledged to take action to soothe markets
and maintain growth in  Asia ’s fourth-largest  economy (KOGDPYOY) .  North Korean state media have begun addressing Kim Jong Un
by the “Supreme Commander” title held by his late father. Kim
is thought to be under 30 and trying to secure power among
senior North Korean political and military leaders more than
twice his age.  “European debt concerns are continuing to have negative
impacts on the market and rumors on North Korea prompted some
investors to demand the dollar, whether the rumor is true or
not.” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based senior currency dealer at
Hana Bank in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ; 