-- South Korean Won Leads Decline in Asia Currencies on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-06T21:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/south-korean-won-leads-decline-in-asia-currencies-on-europe-debt.html
South Korea’s won and the Philippines
peso led declines in Asian currencies this week on speculation
investors will favor safer assets than those in  emerging markets 
as  Europe  struggles to contain its debt crisis.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index of shares lost 1.9 percent
after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said Jan. 4 the
economy could collapse as early as March if the country doesn’t
accept income cuts needed to secure foreign aid.  France ’s
borrowing costs rose at a debt auction on Jan. 5. Asian currency
losses were limited after data showed hiring by private
employers in the U.S. beat economists’ estimates.  “Asian currencies have been under downward pressure on
Europe’s lingering debt crisis,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader
at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “We have seen
solid U.S. data, which lends some support.”  South Korea’s won weakened 0.9 percent to 1,162.75,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Philippine peso
dropped 0.7 percent to 44.138 and  Thailand ’s baht slid 0.4
percent to 31.69. The rupiah fell 0.3 percent this week to 9,095
per dollar in Jakarta.  France sold 10-year bonds at an average yield of 3.29
percent at the auction on Jan. 5, up from 3.18 percent on Dec. 1.
In the U.S., private employers added 325,000 workers to payrolls
in December, according to figures released on Jan. 5. That was
the biggest increase in records going back to 2001 and exceeded
the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 38 economists.  Indonesia Rates  The rupiah dropped for a third week on speculation the
central bank will cut  interest rates  after official data showed
the  inflation (IDCPI)  rate fell to a 21-month low of 3.79 percent in
December. Bank  Indonesia , which cut its benchmark  reference (IDBIRATE)  rate
by a total 75 basis points last quarter to 6 percent, is due to
next review it on Jan. 12. The monetary authority sees room to
reduce borrowing costs if needed, Deputy Governor Hartadi
Sarwono said in Singapore on Jan. 5.  “Another rate cut of 25 basis points to 50 basis points is
expected in the first quarter,” said Wiwig Santoso, head of
treasury and markets at PT Bank DBS Indonesia in Jakarta.  The won’s losses were partly driven by “investors
demanding the dollar after rumors yesterday on  North Korea ,”
according to Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based senior currency dealer
with Hana Bank.  South Korea ’s Financial Supervisory Service said yesterday
it was investigating talk spreading through markets that an
explosion had occurred in North Korea.  Peso, Yuan  The peso dropped for a second week as government figures
showed inflation eased to an 11-month low last month, boosting
scope for an interest-rate cut.  Annual inflation in the Philippines was 4.2 percent last
month, compared with 4.8 percent in November, official data
showed on Jan. 5. The report added to confidence that price
pressures will be manageable, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said on Jan. 5 in a mobile-phone message. The monetary
authority has room to reduce borrowing costs and may review the
benchmark rate and banks’ reserve-requirement ratios at a
meeting on Jan. 19, Tetangco told reporters.  The yuan completed its first weekly drop since the five
days through Dec. 9 on signs policy makers are limiting gains to
protect export growth. The People’s Bank of  China  set the fixing
0.08 percent weaker at 6.3166 per dollar yesterday after
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said the government will unveil
measures to boost consumption this year. The yuan fell 0.3
percent this week to 6.3095 per dollar.  ‘Buying Time’  “They are buying time to slow yuan appreciation but not to
engineer depreciation,” said  Nizam Idris , a currency strategist
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “We could see a slower
pace of appreciation in the months ahead until a soft landing in
the Chinese economy is achieved.”  India’s rupee completed its first weekly gain in a month on
speculation foreign funds will step up purchases of local assets.
The nation’s government said on Jan. 1 it will allow overseas
individual investors to directly buy local equities. Foreign
funds boosted local stock holdings by $102 million this week
through Jan. 4, exchange data show. The rupee gained 0.7 percent
this week to 52.7225.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.2 percent to NT$30.245,
Singapore’s currency advanced 0.3 percent to S$1.2936 and the
ringgit strengthened 0.9 percent to 3.1438.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 