-- Spreadtrum Leads Decline as Focus Media Falls in U.S.: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-06T18:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/spreadtrum-leads-decline-as-focus-media-falls-in-u-s-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities (CH55BN)  traded in the U.S.
fell, dragging the benchmark index down from a four-week high,
on concern the Asian nation’s economy may slow further before
rebounding as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs its export growth.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  sank 1.3 percent to 98.63
at 12:41 p.m. in  New York , trimming gains this week to 2.9
percent. Mobile chip designer  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) 
sank to a four-month low after RF Micro Devices Inc. said demand
from China-based customers weakened in the last quarter.
 PetroChina Co. (PTR)  slid for the first day in four, narrowing a
premium over its Hong Kong-traded stock to 0.7 percent.  China will roll out measures to boost consumption this year
as it strives to meet challenges posed by a global slowdown,
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said Jan. 5. The nation’s growth
is unlikely to see a “quick” rebound due to a correction in
property prices, Credit Suisse Group AG economist Dong Tao said
yesterday.  “China has entered a medium-term economic slowdown,” Tao,
a Hong Kong-based economist with Credit Suisse, said in
Singapore. “ China ’s property developers are running out of
money and some may go under this year.”  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 93.3 in December, the lowest in more
than two years, the European Commission in Brussels said
yesterday. Factory orders in  Germany , the region’s largest
economy, dropped 4.8 percent in November, the most in almost
three years, according to the Economy Ministry in Berlin.  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based designer for wireless
communications chips, fell 17 percent to $15.97 in New York. RF
Micro, a U.S. maker of radio frequency components and
semiconductor technologies, said Jan. 5 sales fell short of
estimates for the quarter ended in December, as demand from
Chinese customers for second-generation components for entry-
level handsets was below expectations.  ‘Unwarranted’ Selloff  The selloff sparked by concern about the weakness in the
Chinese market “was unwarranted as people are not reading this
right,” said  Jay Srivatsa , managing director of equity research
at Chardan Capital Markets in New York. “The company is in mid-
to higher-end feature type of products and the 3G business is
where the company is really focused on. I expect them to
continue doing well going forward.”  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a digital advertising company
based in Shanghai, slumped 6.7 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since Dec. 14, after short-selling firm  Muddy Waters  LLC
questioned an acquisition of Focus Media in a report yesterday.  The acquisition by Focus Media of a ginseng plantation at
the Russian and North Korean border was “bizarre,” Muddy
Waters said in a report on its website. One of the selling
shareholders included at least one employee of Focus, the report
said.  Muddy Waters  Muddy Waters said in November that Focus was overstating
the size of its advertising network. Focus Media disclosed Dec.
22 a second survey result by market research company Synovate,
which showed that the number of LCD screens and poster frames
Focus claimed to have by Nov. 28 was more than 99.95 percent
accurate.  Oil producers retreated after jumping more than 5 percent a
day earlier. Crude oil for February delivery fell as much as 0.9
percent to $100.88 a barrel.  The American depositary receipts of PetroChina, the biggest
oil producer in the country, declined 1.2 percent to $137.90.
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (SNP) , the second-largest, slid 1.3
percent to $114.01.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the biggest offshore explorer,
slumped 1.1 percent to $194.22. Each ADR represents 100 common
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  