-- Standard Life’s Cumming Is Bullish on U.K. Equities After ‘Brutal’ 2011
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-01-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/standard-life-bullish-on-u-k-equities-after-brutal-2011.html
David Cumming,  Standard Life Plc (SL/) ’s
head of U.K. equities, is bullish on British stocks and a global
economic recovery this year even after a “pretty brutal” 2011
during which some of his top picks declined by 60 percent.  Cumming, 50, who is based in Edinburgh, said the  FTSE 100
Index (UKX)  of U.K. companies is priced for “increasingly negative”
developments in the global economy at a time when the U.S. and
Asia are growing. He’s picking stocks correlated to growth such
as  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  GKN Plc (GKN) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and  Lupus Capital
Plc (LUP)  to outperform the market this year.  “Given that valuations are very low, equities look cheap
against any defensive asset class such as bonds or gold,”
Cumming said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The U.K.
equity market has quite a lot of exposure to  Asia  and the U.S.
and a high emerging market and resource bias. In a low growth
environment, I can see earnings growing in 2012.”  Standard Life, which manages 150 billion pounds ($232
billion) of assets and is the U.K.’s fourth-largest pension fund
manager, last year predicted the FTSE 100 to reach 6,900 points
based on a strong global economic rebound. The measure closed at
5,572 points on Dec. 30, having fallen 5.6 percent over the 12-
month period as the European debt crisis prompted investors to
sell off riskier assets such as equities. The U.K.’s benchmark
index will finish above 6,000 points this year, Cumming said.  “We underestimated the fact that politicians can muck
things up,” he said. “It was very binary. Defensives went up
and cyclicals went down, it was as simple as that. The market
didn’t differentiate very much. It was pretty brutal.”  Stock Picks Lag  Cumming, who joined Standard Life in 1998, correctly
estimated the FTSE 100’s 13 percent rise in the second half of
2010 and last year picked homebuilder  Galliford Try Plc (GFRD)  as one
of his favored stocks before it rose 59 percent in the following
12 months. His other picks didn’t fare so well in 2011 as
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  dropped 60 percent
while Barclays fell 33 percent.  Aside from overseeing Standard Life’s U.K. equities
division, Cumming also runs the firm’s  U.K. Equity Recovery
Fund (SLIUKII) , which has about 30 million pounds of assets. The fund lost
27.7 percent last year, putting it in the bottom 4 percent of
its peer group according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund, which started investing in March 2009, was up 19.7 percent
in 2010, beating 77 percent of its peers.  The FTSE 100 Index’s price to earnings ratio fell in the
second half of last year to the lowest level since 2008 and is
currently at 10.1, lower than the  S&P 500 Index’s (SPX)  13.5 and the
STOXX  Europe 600 Index’s (SXXP)  11.5. That means investors are betting
the U.K. will be hurt by a global recession, Cumming said.  Still Likes Barclays  “The market has built in a more negative outcome in terms
of valuations,” he said. “If you take the view the  U.S.
economy  will continue to grow and Asian growth remains robust,
if Europe’s flat and the U.K. is growing marginally you’re not
going to get a global recession.”  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by assets, is
still one of Cumming’s favored stocks this year. The lender is
priced at about half the value of its assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “As continental European banks retreat, they’re taking
market share,” Cumming said. “It could easily go up 50 percent
if things stabilize.”  BP is also a long-term holding for the manager’s U.K.
Equity Recovery Fund as the oil producer’s valuation is still
being weighed down by the Deepwater Horizon explosion and the
subsequent oil leak in the  Gulf of Mexico  last year. The firm
may increase its dividend and buy back stock, Cumming said.  GKN, Lupus Capital  GKN, a maker of aircraft and automotive components, and
Lupus Capital, which makes products for the home construction
industry, will benefit from economic growth in the U.S., Cumming
said. Applications for U.S. jobless benefits decreased by 15,000
to 372,000 in the last week of 2011, beating economists’
forecasts.  With Italian 10-year government bonds yielding above the 7
percent yield that locked Ireland and Portugal out of the debt
markets, the European debt crisis is still the top concern for
many investors, Cumming said. He said the monetary union will
survive as the region’s debt to gross domestic product, taken as
a whole, is manageable at about 90 percent.  “We think the euro will survive,” he said. “The banks
are funded now and there’s enough liquidity going in from the
ECB to support yields at current levels. We’re not wildly more
bullish about  Europe  but we don’t think it’s going to fall
apart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  