-- Steelers Running Backs Coach Kirby Wilson ‘Severely Burned’ in House Fire
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-06T17:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/steelers-asst-coach-severely-burned-in-fire.html
Pittsburgh Steelers running backs
coach Kirby Wilson was “severely burned” in a fire at his
townhouse, according to authorities in the suburb where he
lives.  The fire began at about 2:40 a.m. local time, according to
a Cranberry Township,  Pennsylvania , statement. Wilson, 50, was
taken to University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Cranberry and
then flown to UPMC’s Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh. The cause of
the fire is being investigated, according to the statement.  The Steelers, who went 12-4 during the regular season, play
at the  Denver Broncos  in the first round of the National
Football League playoffs on Jan. 8.  “First and foremost our thoughts and prayers are with
Kirby and his entire family,” Steelers President Art Rooney II
said in a statement on the team’s website. “We are saddened to
hear about this unfortunate situation but we know that he has
the best medical care in the country treating him.”  A neighbor, David Sebesta, told WPXI television that he was
awakened by police knocking on doors to tell people to evacuate
the townhouse development in Seven Fields borough.  “I could smell burning,” Sebesta said in video posted at
WPXI.com. “Fire trucks came and pulled a man out, looked like
he was pretty badly burned.”  Wilson, a 24-year coaching veteran at the college and pro
ranks, is in his  fifth season  as the Steelers’ running backs
coach. He has also held the job with the  Arizona Cardinals  and
 Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  A Los Angeles native, Wilson was a running back and wide
receiver at Pasadena Community College (1979-80) and the
 University of Illinois  (1980-81) before playing two seasons in
the Canadian Football League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 