-- U.S. Stocks Funds Have Second-Worst Year as Clients Pull Out
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-01-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/stocks-funds-see-worst-redemptions-since-2008-as-investors-shun-volatility.html
U.S. stock mutual funds that invest
in domestic equities had their second-biggest redemptions last
year as record market swings sent investors to the perceived
safety of bond funds.  Investors pulled an estimated $132 billion from mutual
funds that invest in U.S. stocks, the fifth straight year of
withdrawals for domestic funds, according to preliminary data
from the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade
group whose numbers go back to 1984. Withdrawals reached $147
billion in 2008 when the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index fell 37
percent, including dividends.  Withdrawals accelerated in May and June amid concern that
weaker European economies would not be able to repay their
debts. They peaked in July as Congress debated whether to lift
the nation’s debt ceiling. Those events, as well as lingering
memories of the 2008 selloff and a subpar U.S. economic
recovery, may all have contributed to investor discontent, said
 Russel Kinnel , director of mutual fund research at Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc. interview.  “A lot of people remember they got burned so they are more
sensitive to bad news than they were before,” Kinnel said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Bear the Pain’  Volatility increased in the third quarter as the U.S. lost
its AAA credit rating at Standard & Poor’s and concern about the
European debt crisis intensified. The  S&P 500 moved 2.4 percent (SPX) 
on average between its intraday lows and highs, the most for any
quarter since 2009. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  alternated
between gains and losses exceeding 400 points on four straight
days in August, the longest such streak ever.  “Investors just can’t bear the pain, which sets the stages
for an unwillingness to take risk,” said Christopher Blum,
chief investment officer for behavioral finance at JPMorgan
Asset Management in  New York .  The redemptions from domestic stock funds have come from
managers who pick equities in an attempt to beat market
benchmarks. Actively-managed funds saw withdrawals from 2007
through 2010 while index funds attracted money in each of those
years, Morningstar data show. The same pattern held through the
first 11 months of 2011.  “People are convinced that active management has failed to
deliver,”  Geoff Bobroff , a mutual fund consultant based in  East
Greenwich , Rhode Island, said in a telephone interview.  Leaving Active Funds  Funds that invest in international stocks attracted about
$6 billion last year, ICI data show, down from $58 billion in
2010. Taxable bond funds saw an estimated $141 billion in
deposits, below the $230 billion they attracted the previous
year. Municipal bond funds suffered withdrawals of about $12
billion. In 2010 they had $11 billion in deposits.  The ICI has released monthly flow data through November and
weekly numbers through Dec. 28, which may be revised.  Final
numbers for December will be published at the end of January,
according to the ICI.  Domestic equity funds captivated the American public in the
1990s, thanks to a stock market that rose at an annual pace of
18 percent a year and the well-publicized success of stock
pickers such as  Peter Lynch  of  Fidelity Investments . Lynch
guided Fidelity’s Magellan Fund to gains of 29 percent a year
from 1977 to 1990 compared with 15 percent annual returns for
the  S&P 500  index.  In the past 10 years the S&P 500 returned 2.9 percent
annually, including reinvested dividends. Investors suffered
double-digit losses in 2001, 2002 and 2008.  Better news on the  U.S. economy  and a resolution of
 Europe ’s debt problems might inspire investors to begin a return
to U.S. stock funds, said Blum. In the meantime those investors
could be missing good opportunities.  “There is a risk to not owning equities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  