-- Swiss Consumer Prices Post Biggest Annual Drop for Two Years in December
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-06T08:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/swiss-consumer-prices-have-biggest-annual-drop-in-two-years-on-franc-gain.html
Swiss  consumer prices (SZCPIYOY)  had their
biggest annual drop in more than two years in December as the
economy cooled and the franc’s ascent lowered import costs.  Consumer prices slipped 0.7 percent from a year ago, the
 Federal Statistics Office  in Neuchatel said in an e-mailed
statement today. That’s the third straight decline and the
biggest decrease since October 2009. Economists forecast a drop
of 0.6 percent, the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. In the month, prices fell 0.2 percent.  The Swiss franc strengthened to record levels against the
euro and the dollar last year, increasing the threat of
deflation. The central bank said last month it’s ready to take
further measures if needed to counter deflation risks, when
leaving borrowing costs at zero and maintaining its franc
ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro introduced in September.  “The franc’s appreciation is taking its toll on Swiss
companies which have to lower prices while witnessing shrinking
margins,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “However, we don’t expect a period of outright
deflation as we don’t see the economy slipping into recession.”  The franc was at 1.2185 versus the euro, the currency of
 Switzerland ’s main trading partner, at 9:53 a.m. today. It had
reached a record 1.0075 on Aug. 9, prompting the central bank to
impose its cap the following month. Against the dollar, the
franc was at 95.10 centimes.  Under a European Union harmonized method, Swiss consumer
prices rose 0.3 percent in the month and declined 0.4 percent
 from a year earlier (SZHMYOY) , today’s report showed. The cost of imported
goods dropped 3.3 percent from a year ago, while domestic prices
rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  