-- Hague Offers to Lift Myanmar Sanctions in Return for ‘Bold’ Reform Steps
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-06T15:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/u-k-s-hague-would-lift-myanmar-sanctions-in-return-for-bold-reform-step.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
offered to lift sanctions on Myanmar in return for “bold
steps” toward increased freedom and democracy.  The release of more than 250 political prisoners, greater
media freedom and changes in the law to allow opposition leader
Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy to take part in
elections mark a good start and need to be built upon, Hague
told journalists in Yangon today, according to a transcript e-
mailed by his office.  “If the country continues on this promising path, as we
hope it will, we are ready to offer a new relationship based on
friendship and prosperity,” Hague said. “We are ready to move
towards a strong, positive and open relationship as reforms take
place, and to respond bilaterally and through the EU. We will
judge progress by actions and events and will respond in good
faith to measures as they are taken.”  EU and U.S. sanctions in place for more than two decades
have left Myanmar dependent on neighbors  China ,  India  and
 Thailand , which have poured more than $25 billion into ports,
power plants, and oil and gas pipelines. The resource-rich
southeast Asian country has been run since 1962 by a military
regime that still exerts control through a new civilian
government and Hague is the highest ranking U.K. official in
half a century to visit.  Hague, who met with President Thein Sein, Foreign Minister
Wanna Maung Lwin and Lower House Speaker Shwe Mann yesterday,
held talks with Suu Kyi and other opposition leaders last night
and this morning. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  also
visited Myanmar in November.  “The British Government and the British people have a
strong commitment to the people of this country, as we have
shown by our staunch support for democracy here over many
years,” Hague said. “As we enter 2012 it is my hope that this
year will come to be seen as a new dawn in the history of this
nation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  