-- U.K. Stocks Gain as U.S. Data Boosts Confidence; Vodafone Jumps
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-06T17:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/u-k-stocks-climb-before-u-s-jobs-report-vodafone-itv-rally-in-london.html
  U.K. stocks (UKX)  climbed, snapping a two-
day selloff, as a U.S. report showed unemployment fell to a near
three-year low, boosting confidence in the recovery of the
world’s largest economy.  Vodafone Group Plc, the world’s biggest mobile-phone
company,  ITV (ITV)  Plc and  Carnival (CCL)  Plc all advanced at least 1
percent as analysts recommended the shares. Burberry Plc rose
for the first time in three days as a Chinese official said the
country will introduce measures to boost consumption.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index gained 25.42, or 0.5 percent,
to 5,649.68 at the close in  London , extending this week’s
increase to 1.4 percent. The broader FTSE All-Share Index
rallied 0.5 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index was unchanged.  “The all important non-farm payrolls figures beat
expectations by a wide margin,”said Chris Beauchamp, market
analyst at IG Index. “The gain is fairly substantial and adds
to the weight of opinion that the U.S. is finally moving down
the slipway to prosperity.”  Stocks briefly extended gains today after U.S. payrolls
climbed 200,000 last month, exceeding economists’ forecasts. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 8.5 percent, its lowest
level since February 2009.  Vodafone (VOD)  added 1.2 percent to 179.5 pence after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the shares to
“buy” from “neutral,” saying that earnings and dividend
growth at Verizon Wireless will probably boost the company’s
free cash flow.  ITV increased 2.7 percent to 71.35 pence after Morgan
Stanley upgraded the U.K.’s largest terrestrial commercial
broadcaster to “overweight” from “equal weight,” saying the
media industry is in “structurally better shape with the long
digital de-rating of the early 2000s now largely over.”  Carnival Climbs  Carnival advanced 1 percent to 2,166 pence, climbing for
the first time in three days, after Morgan Stanley reiterated
its “overweight” recommendation for the world’s largest
cruise-ship operator. The analysts reduced their price estimate
for the shares to 2,700 pence from 2,800 pence. That’s still 26
percent above yesterday’s closing price.  Burberry, which generates more than 30 percent of its
revenue in the Asia-Pacific region, climbed 3.9 percent to 1,250
pence. China’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said the government
is studying measures to boost consumption including the
promotion of online shopping and tourism. Chen spoke at the
ministry’s annual works conference, according to a statement.  Burberry,  the U.K.’s largest luxury goods maker (BRBY) , is
scheduled to report third-quarter sales on Jan. 17.  Mitchells & Butlers Jumps  Mitchells & Butlers Plc (MAB)  increased 8.7 percent to 249.8
pence as Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation for the pub
owner to “overweight” from “equal weight.”  Man Group Plc (EMG)  dropped the most on the FTSE 100, slumping
8.4 percent to 112.7 pence, after analysts cut their earnings
estimates for the hedge-fund manager, citing concern that assets
and fees will decline.  RBC Capital Markets downgraded the hedge-fund manager to
“sector perform” from “outperform.”  ICAP Plc (IAP)  slid 3 percent to 319.3 pence after UBS AG
reiterated its sell recommendation on the interdealer broker,
citing a downturn in volumes in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  