-- U.K. House Prices Drop to 2 1/2-Year Low Before ‘Uncertain’ 2012
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-06T10:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/u-k-house-prices-dropped-1-9-in-december-halifax-says.html
Britain’s property market faces an
“uncertain” year after a weakening economic recovery dragged
house prices to their lowest level in 2 1/2 years, Halifax said.  Values dropped 0.9 percent to an average 160,063 pounds
($248,000) last month, the  cheapest  (UKHBASTP) since July 2009, the unit of
London-based  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s No.1 mortgage
provider, said today. Values fell 2.2 percent from a year ago.  U.K. economic growth probably stagnated in the fourth
quarter, according to the  Bank of England , while rising
unemployment and the euro-area debt crisis are undermining
 consumer confidence  and property demand. At the same time, banks
expect to toughen lending terms because of strains in funding
markets, making it harder for people to get mortgages.  “Low wage growth, a markedly weakening labor market and
major concerns over the economic outlook will limit potential
buyers,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight
in London. “These factors are seen outweighing the support to
house prices coming from extended very low  interest rates .”  The Bank of England will probably keep its  benchmark
interest rate (UKBRBASE)  at a record-low 0.5 percent this month, helping to
keep mortgage costs low, according to all 44 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. It’s been at that level since March 2009.
The central bank will also hold its  asset-purchase (UKAPTARG)  target at 275
billion pounds, all but one of 31 economists in another survey
said.  House-Price Outlook  Halifax forecast last month that property values will rise
or fall no more than 2 percent this year as the balance between
weak demand and a shortage of supply leaves the market without
direction.  Nationwide Building Society  and property researcher
Hometrack Ltd. have both forecast a decline in prices.  “If the U.K. can avoid recession, we expect broad
stability in  house prices  in 2012,” Halifax economist  Martin Ellis  said in the statement. “There is, however, considerable
uncertainty regarding the prospects for the U.K. economy which
will, to a large extent, depend on how events in the  euro zone 
unfold.”  In the fourth quarter, home values fell 0.1 percent from
the previous three months and were down 1.3 percent from a year
earlier, Halifax said. Noting the annual decline, Ellis said
prices “held up well in the face of the difficult and
deteriorating economic climate and substantial pressure on
households’ finances.”  In 2011, prices fell for six months, rose in five and were
unchanged in one month. Data from the Bank of  England  this week
showed  mortgage approvals (UKMSVTVX)  were little changed in November,
underlining the fragility of the housing market.  In a survey published yesterday, the central bank said
lenders expect the proportion of mortgage applications being
approved to fall in the current quarter as they tighten the
credit-scoring criteria on home loans.  “Although lenders expected a small increase in overall
credit availability in the coming three months, factors such as
the economic outlook and tighter wholesale funding conditions
were expected to impact negatively,” it said. “Developments in
the euro area and their impact on banks’ funding conditions
would be a key determinant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  