-- Iran Fishermen Freed From Suspected Pirates
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-06T22:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/u-s-navy-rescues-iranian-boat-held-by-pirates.html
The U.S. Navy said it rescued 13
Iranian fishermen held hostage by pirates in the Northern
 Arabian Sea  days after an Iranian military leader warned against
sending a U.S. aircraft carrier into the  Persian Gulf .  A boarding team from the guided-missile destroyer USS Kidd
-- part of the John C. Stennis Carrier Strike Group -- detained
15 suspected pirates aboard a fishing dhow, the Al Molai,
according to a statement yesterday from the U.S. Naval Forces
Central Command Public Affairs Office. The dhow had been
abducted and used as a “mother ship” for pirate operations
throughout the Persian Gulf, according to the Navy.  The Navy responds to piracy and it didn’t matter that the
fishing vessel was Iranian, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said in an interview for the “CBS Evening News with  Scott
Pelley .”  While there was no immediate response from the Iranian
government, Panetta said, “It makes it very clear to them that,
despite how much they often try to provoke us, the  United States 
in this kind of situation is going to respond as we should in a
very humanitarian and responsible way.”  The pirates didn’t resist the U.S. Navy and surrendered
quickly in the rescue, according to the Navy statement.  At about 12:30 p.m. local time Jan. 5, an SH-60S Seahawk
helicopter from the Kidd detected a suspected pirate skiff
alongside the Iranian-flagged Al Molai, according to the Navy
account. Simultaneously, a distress call was received from the
master of the Al Molai saying he was being held captive by
pirates.  Held Hostage  “The Al Molai had been taken over by pirates for roughly
the last 40-45 days,” Josh Schminky, a Navy Criminal
Investigative Service agent aboard the Kidd, said in the
statement. The Iranians “were held hostage, with limited
rations, and we believe were forced against their will to assist
the pirates with other piracy operations.”  “After securing the ship and ensuring the safety of all
persons on board, we began distributing food and water to both
the crew and the suspected criminals as is our standard practice
in counter-piracy operations,” Schminky said.  The pirates were detained on the Al Molai by the Kidd
boarding party until the next morning when they were transferred
to the  aircraft carrier  USS John C. Stennis, where the matter
will be reviewed for prosecution, according to the statement.  U.S. Commander  The pirates are suspected of being Somalis, the U.S. Strike
Group commander, Rear Admiral Craig Faller, told reporters
yesterday during a telephone conference call from the region.  U.S. vessels have periodically rescued Iranian fisherman in
distress, he said. In this case “we saw a need -- there was
some distress -- and helped. That’s what we do out here.”  The movements of the Stennis, which sailed out of the
Persian Gulf though the  Strait of Hormuz  Dec. 27, have been the
subject of tensions between the U.S. and Iran this week. The
head of  Iran ’s army warned the U.S. on Jan. 3 against sending an
aircraft carrier back into the Persian Gulf.  “We usually don’t repeat our warning, and we warn only
once,” Ataollah Salehi was cited as saying by the state-run
Fars news agency. “We recommend and emphasize to the American
carrier not to return to the Persian Gulf.”  The Stennis on Dec. 27 passed eastward through the Strait
of Hormuz on a routine voyage and was operating in the northern
Arabian Sea, according to the U.S. 5th Fleet, which has a base
in  Bahrain . The U.S. said it will continue operations in and
around the Persian Gulf to promote freedom of navigation.  Iranian ‘Interactions’  Faller said the carrier group “had interactions” with
Iranian Navy and aircraft “and those have all been
professional.”  Faller said his battle group, if called on, “would do what
was necessary to ensure” the Strait was not closed to shipping.
Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said Dec. 27 that
Iran would block the strait if sanctions are imposed to prevent
Iranian oil exports.  Asked if the Stennis planned to return to the Persian Gulf,
Faller said “as our mission dictates, Stennis will operate in
this area. If that means moving back through the Strait, that’s
what we’ll do. Our mission changes. For now, it’s business as
usual as we focus on” providing aircraft for combat missions
over  Afghanistan , he said.  The Stennis has the full range of combat capabilities
“that we exercise and train every day,” Faller said. “We are
ready to use those capabilities if the need arises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  