-- Office Vacancies in U.S. Decline Last Quarter as Economy Recovers Slowly
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-06T20:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/u-s-office-vacancies-fell-in-fourth-quarter-as-economy-recovered-slowly.html
U.S.  office (BBREOFPY)  vacancies fell in the
three months through December, extending a yearlong recovery, as
a dearth of new supply helped counter sluggish economic growth,
 Reis Inc.  said in a report today.  The vacancy rate dropped to 17.3 percent from 17.6 percent
a year earlier and 17.4 percent in the third quarter, the New
York-based property research firm said. The fourth-quarter rate
was the lowest since the end of 2009, according to Reis.  “After four quarters of squeezing out gains in occupancy,
the office sector has assuredly turned the corner and begun the
process of recovery,” Victor Calanog, head of research and
economics at Reis, said in the report. “Still, given the
severity of the last downturn and the lackluster pace of
economic growth, it will be years before the office sector
climbs out of the hole.”  Hiring by technology companies and the  energy industry 
helped offset cutbacks in government and financial services,
shrinking office vacancies during the past year. The sluggish
pace of  job creation  will continue to temper demand for office
space, according to Reis.  “Five-year leases that are coming up for renewal in 2012
have a high likelihood of being signed at lower rates, implying
a dilution in  landlord (SLG)  incomes,” Calanog said in the report.  Office landlords had a net gain in occupancy of 5.25
million square feet (487,700 square meters) in the fourth
quarter, leading to a net increase of 20.7 million square feet
for the year. That compares with a net loss of 16.7 million
square feet in 2010, Reis said.  Lack of Supply  About 2.43 million square feet of new  office space  was
completed in the fourth quarter, bringing the 2011 total to 12.3
million square feet, the smallest annual space increase in 15
years, according to the report.  The lack of new supply has helped buoy leasing fees,
Calanog said. The average effective rent, or what tenants paid
after landlord concessions, rose to $22.53 a square foot in the
fourth quarter from $22.10 a year earlier and $22.41 in the
previous three months, Reis said.  Washington and  New York  had the lowest office vacancy rates
in the fourth quarter, at 9.4 percent and 10.5 percent, while
 San Francisco  and New York had the biggest increases in
effective rents from a year earlier.  Cushman Report  Office leasing was particularly strong in U.S. central
business districts, according to a separate report from  Cushman
& Wakefield  Inc. New leases in the 30 districts tracked by the
brokerage firm totaled 76.5 million square feet in 2011, up 17
percent from 2010 and the most since 2007.  Chicago ,  Southern
California ’s Orange County and downtown  Manhattan  had the
biggest increases in leasing volume, according to Cushman.  “There is still some apprehension, but tenants are saying
we’re really at the bottom,” Maria Sicola, Cushman’s executive
managing director for Americas research, said in a telephone
interview from San Francisco. On average, tenants leased less
space last year than they did in 2010, she said.  The U.S. office market is rebounding from a loss in
occupied space of 137 million square feet -- more than the
inventory of office buildings in  Boston (BXP)  -- from 2008 to 2010,
Calanog said in the Reis report.  Even as the market bottomed, tenants hesitated to take
advantage of lower rents by signing long-term leases because of
pessimism about the economy, said Dan Ivanoff, managing
investment partner of  Schnitzer West LLC , a Seattle-based
developer of commercial real estate.  ‘Concerned About Survival’  “Tenants were not taking long positions on space when rent
was really cheap,” Ivanoff said. “Their upper leadership was
more concerned about survival, so that’s been very interesting
to watch. We are now seeing incremental expansion of demand but
it still looks to be cautious so far.”  Leasing in central business districts will probably rise
further this year, led by strong demand from industries such as
technology, according to Sicola of Cushman & Wakefield.
“There’s no sign of a slowdown in tech,” she said.  Washington , where leasing weakened in the second half, is
likely to be slow through 2013 because of cutbacks in federal
spending, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net  