-- U.S. Economy Uptick Doesn’t Eliminate Challenges Ahead: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-06T00:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/u-s-economic-uptick-doesn-t-erase-all-the-challenges-facing-america-view.html
The year is under way and the
screens, news pages and airwaves have been filled with
assessments, some contradictory, of America’s economic health.  Let’s spell out where we stand. The  U.S. economy  is
healthier than could have been expected only a few months ago.
Employers added 200,000 workers in December, pushing down the
jobless rate to 8.5 percent, almost a three-year low.
 Manufacturing (NAPMPMI)  expanded in December at its fastest rate in six
months; auto  sales (SAARTOTL)  are up; the housing market is showing  signs (NHSPATOT) 
of stabilizing; and  consumer spending  probably grew faster in
the last three months of 2011 than it had since the last quarter
of 2010.  Still, any sense of security is misbegotten. On average,
forecasters expect the economy to expand at a rate of slightly
more than 2 percent in 2012, well below its long-term potential
and not fast enough to withstand the kind of shock that could
come from  Europe ’s festering debt crisis or a hard landing in
 China . Consumers are boosting spending partly by  saving less (PIDSDPS)  --
a trend that isn’t sustainable unless an increase in hiring
creates new income. At the rate of  job creation  in the three
months through November, employment won’t return to its pre-
recession level until 2015.  More Stimulus  Here’s the troubling part: It’s unrealistic to expect
officials in  Washington  to do much to shore up this fragility
anytime soon. The best we can hope for is to have President
 Barack Obama  and Congress negotiate a bit more stimulus, such as
extending payroll-tax breaks and  unemployment insurance  through
the end of 2012.  Even with those measures, economists at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. estimate that waning government spending will shave about
three-quarters of a percentage point from gross-domestic-product
growth this year. While slowing inflation may give the Federal
Reserve more leeway to act, political gridlock will probably
prevent further fiscal steps. It’s a shame: With  interest rates 
at historic lows and an army of construction workers unemployed,
there has rarely been a better time to invest in American public
works.  In the longer term, economic clarity will be hard to come
by until the U.S. demonstrates it can get its finances under
control. This is a crucial prerequisite for robust growth, and
for avoiding the kind of market-imposed austerity that is now
driving Europe into a recession. It’s also a much bigger task
than Obama or anyone in Congress seems willing to recognize.  Even if the $2.4 trillion of cuts in last year’s debt-
ceiling deal are put in place, the U.S. government faces a
structural  budget deficit  -- the chronic shortfalls that would
continue even if the economy returned to peak performance, but
which must be closed to achieve long-term sustainability.
 According  to  Alan Auerbach  of the  University of California ,
Berkeley, and William Gale of the  Brookings Institution , that
gap is about 5.5 percent of GDP annually, or almost $11 trillion
over the next 10 years.  Making the wealthy pay something closer to their  historical
tax rates  -- as Obama has suggested -- is a good start, but
redistribution alone won’t solve the problem. Ultimately,
everyone will have to contribute -- in the form of increased
taxes, curtailed services or both. The longer we wait, the worse
the problem will get: Auerbach estimates that another five years
of current policy would bring the structural budget deficit to
5.8 percent of GDP a year.  Optimism is always nice at the beginning of a fresh year.
But in the case of the U.S. economy it’s vaguely discordant
given the scant chance that legislators can agree on needed
reforms: a simplified tax code, increased revenue, a tax burden
weighted toward consumption, a plan to rein in the costs of
Medicare and Social Security. Unless we elect leaders, in the
White House and Congress, willing to make these changes happen,
Americans will still be living with a murky outlook when the
next new year comes.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 