-- Top-Ranked UBS Foresees Caution on Taiwan in First Quarter
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-01-06T04:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/ubs-foresees-investor-caution-on-taiwan-in-q1.html
Investors will be cautious on
Taiwanese equities in the first quarter because of  Europe ’s debt
crisis and uncertainty over election results, said  William Dong ,
UBS AG’s head of  Taiwan  equities.  Taiwan’s  stocks (TWSE)  are linked to Europe through the island’s
export industry, Dong, whose bank was ranked first for Taiwan
research in 2011 by Institutional Investor magazine, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today. Investors will be
watching the results of a Jan. 14 election to gauge the outlook
for China-Taiwan relations, he said.  “It’s difficult to have a lot of surprise on the upside
for the whole year,” Dong said. “The market will remain
somewhat resilient, but the upside could be not as much as what
some people expect.”  The benchmark  Taiex Index (TWSE)  slumped 21 percent last year, the
most since 2008, as the worsening European debt crisis and the
prospect of slowing global economic growth raised concern of a
decline in Taiwanese exports. Orders for the island’s  exports (TWEOTTLY) 
increased in November at the slowest pace in more than two
years, government data on Dec. 20 showed.  Data today are expected to show European  consumer
confidence  slumped to the lowest in more than two years in
December, while retail sales in the region fell in November,
according to the median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys of
economists.  China  Relations  Exit poll results for Taiwan’s elections will be published
after voting stations close at 4 p.m. on Jan. 14.  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-jeou, who returned the ruling
Kuomintang party to power in 2008 after the opposition
 Democratic Progressive Party  had held the presidency for eight
years, has campaigned on a platform endorsing closer economic
relations with China. His rival, Tsai Ing-wen, says Ma’s
government is too reliant on China and that the DPP wants to
develop other international markets.  “The election uncertainty makes things quite challenging
in the medium-short term,” UBS’ Dong said. “Everyone is really
watching how will the policy shift, if any, post election. So
the cross-strait policy, it’s really where everyone is focusing
on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  