-- Hungary Wants Swift IMF Agreement, Will Support MNB, Orban Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-06T12:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/hungary-wants-swift-imf-agreement-will-support-mnb-orban-says.html
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban
comments to reporters after a meeting with Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President Andras Simor today in Budapest on the country’s
request for aid from the  International Monetary Fund  and the
government’s relationship with the central bank.  On IMF talks:  “There was accord between the central bank and the
government that it’s in  Hungary ’s interest to reach an agreement
as soon as possible. We have already issued a mandate for
Minister Tamas Fellegi in which we determined the points
necessary for talks to start and also determined the points
where an agreement can be signed without further consultations.  “The government has taken all steps necessary for talks to
start and end as soon as possible. A swift IMF agreement is
important for Hungary because as soon as the country has a
safety net, it can focus on economic growth.  “We’re waiting for the IMF to issue a mandate for its
negotiating delegation. Official talks can’t start before that.
Minister Fellegi has also set up meetings with the  European
Central Bank , it’s only the European Union where an appointment
hasn’t been set up, we’re still waiting for that.  “I see a good chance that we will proceed with swift
talks.”  On the central bank and Simor:  “It’s our joint position that the government and the
central bank must cooperate in the closest possible way for the
sake of confidence in the forint. By this I mean daily
consultations between the central bank and the  Economy Ministry .  “I have told Mr. President that we will support the
central bank in everything. It’s the responsibility of the
central bank to ensure the stability of the Hungarian currency
and the government will continue to support the measures the
central bank will take to secure the forint’s stability.  “The president can count on the government’s support,
including our backing for him personally.  “The central bank can do the most for the stability of the
financial system and I’ve told Mr. President that we will
consider all proposals and we’ll support him in everything so
that he can make the decisions necessary to ensure financial
stability.  “We didn’t touch upon the issue of foreign-currency
reserves because the independence of the central bank is a basic
principle for the government. The new central bank law
specifically declares, and strengthens in many points, the
independence of the central bank. The central bank has the
exclusive right to control foreign-currency reserves, therefore
the government doesn’t even deal with this issue.”  On Simor leaving the meeting earlier:  “Our meeting ended and had he stayed longer, it would have
seemed strange. I’m at his disposal should he need an office,
but I don’t believe such a need would arise. Talks ended fine.
Mr. President has made it clear he will make a statement when he
so wishes. I don’t interpret the words of the central bank
president.  On bank deposits:  “The government has nothing to do with people’s money.
Bank deposits belong to the depositors, we don’t deal with this
issue and I find it unbelievable that this issue should come up
as a topic for us. This is a question of private contracts
between banks and people who deposit their money in the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  