-- Hungary’s Third Downgrade to Junk in Two Months Pares Forint Bond Rebound
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-06T16:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/hungary-s-third-downgrade-to-junk-in-two-months-pares-forint-bond-rebound.html
Hungarian bonds pared gains after
 Fitch Ratings  became the third company in two months to cut the
country’s credit ranking to junk as the government worked to
restart talks on an international bailout.  Ten-year government bonds (GHGB10YR)  yields fell 33 basis points to
10.072 percent, after dropping as low as 9.9 percent earlier
today, according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield has risen 17 basis points in the past five days, the fifth
week of advances.  Fitch cut  Hungary ’s long-term foreign- and local-currency
ratings by one level after similar moves by  Standard & Poor’s 
and Moody’s Investors Service, saying there remained doubts
whether the government will submit to conditions for aid from
the  International Monetary Fund  and European Union.  “Clearly the main risk is if the government fails to agree
with the IMF/EU on the legal changes,” Simon Quijano-Evans, a
London-based economist at ING Groep NV, wrote in e-mailed
comments.  Hungary’s bonds and the forint rallied earlier today as
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  pledged to cooperate with central
bank President Andras Simor after a dispute about the bank’s
independence threatened the country’s bailout.  Hungary’s currency advanced 0.9 percent to 316.2 against
the euro at 5 p.m. in Budapest, paring its weekly loss to 0.4
percent.  Fitch lowered Hungary’s foreign-currency debt to BB+, a
step below investment grade, and reduced its forint debt to BBB-
from BBB, the company said in a statement from  London  today. The
outlook on the rating is negative, signaling the possibility of
another cut.  Forced Selling  The third downgrade to junk may lead to “some forced
selling” by funds with rating requirements “but that will only
be of small size,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
economist at Nomura International Plc, said by email.  “Further downgrades can come we think if the negotiations
for a backstop drag on for too long and cash levels are run
down,” Montalto wrote. “Given how stressed the  bond market  is
with people waiting for someone else to move first, it is a
tinder box that could be lit by even a small amount of forced
selling now.”  It’s in Hungary’s interest to get an IMF agreement “as
soon as possible” and there’s a “good chance” for swift
talks, Orban told reporters in Budapest after meeting with Simor
today. The government will hold daily consultations with the
central bank and do “everything” to help the institution
maintain economic stability, Orban said.  Default Risk  The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt through credit-default
swaps reached an all-time high this week and the forint touched
a record low against the euro after aid negotiations with the
IMF and the EU broke off because of new laws that threaten to
undermine the central bank’s independence.  The default-swap contracts fell to 698 basis points today
from 735 basis points yesterday, the highest close on record,
according to data provider CMA.  The benchmark BUX stock index fell 0.7 percent, extending
its weekly retreat to 5.1 percent, as OTP Bank Nyrt., the
country’s biggest lender, declined 0.5 percent and Mol Nyrt.,
the biggest refiner, dropped 1.2 percent.  The government yesterday sold 35 billion forint ($140
million) of one-year bills, 10 billion forint less than
targeted, data from the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg
show. The average yield rose to 9.96 percent, the highest since
April 2009, from 7.91 percent at the last sale of the same-
maturity debt on Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  