-- Hungary’s Orban Wants `Swift’ IMF Deal, Ready to Support MNB
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-06T12:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/hungary-s-orban-wants-swift-imf-deal-ready-to-support-mnb-1-.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
wants to obtain an International Monetary Fund loan “as soon as
possible” and pledged the “closest possible” cooperation with
central bank President Andras Simor.  The Cabinet agrees with the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  that it’s
in Hungary’s interest to reach a quick agreement with the IMF
and it sees a “good chance for swift talks,”, Orban told
reporters in Budapest today after a meeting with Simor.  Talks for Hungary’s second bailout in four years broke down
last month as Orban, who shunned the IMF since taking office in
2010, refused to abandon a central bank law that the EU said
threatens the monetary authority’s independence. The Cabinet
must prove that’s not the case before talks can restart, the
European Commission said yesterday.  “It’s our joint position that the government and the
central bank must cooperate in the closest possible way for the
sake of confidence in the forint,” Orban said after the
meeting. The government will support the central bank “in
everything” it does to ensure the forint’s stability, Orban
said. Simor didn’t attend the press conference.  The forint strengthened 0.5 percent against the euro to
317.38 at 12:41 p.m. in Budapest after falling to a record low
324.24 yesterday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year government
bond fell the most since Nov. 28, declining 48 basis points to
9.917 percent after rising to as high as 11.34 percent
yesterday, according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Basic Principle’  The central bank’s independence is a “basic principle”
for the government and the bank has an “exclusive right” to
control the country’s foreign reserves, therefore the government
“doesn’t even deal with” this issue, Orban said. Simor “can
count on the support of the government, including his personal
support,” Orban said.  News website  Index  on Jan. 3 reported that  Hungary  may use
part of the central bank’s foreign-currency reserves to repay
187 billion forint ($775 million) of municipal debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  