-- Huntsman Brands Romney ‘Status Quo’ on Wall Street (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-01-06T19:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/huntsman-brands-romney-status-quo-on-wall-street-transcript-.html
Republican presidential contender Jon
Huntsman Jr. said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
rival Mitt Romney would be a “status quo president” with
respect to Wall Street and Washington influence peddling. Former
Utah Governor Huntsman also said Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor who also was a private equity manager, should release
his tax returns.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with Governor Jon Huntsman,
presidential candidate. Governor, we’re here in the home of the
Eastern League champion  New Hampshire  Fisher Cats. This could
bring good luck to you.  Let me ask you, when I interviewed you a couple months ago,
you said you were going to win the New Hampshire primary. You
seem to have lowered your sights.  JON HUNTSMAN : It’s hard to know what we’re going to find
when we wake up on Wednesday. I do know this for sure: We’re
going to exceed market expectations. We’re going to have a great
performance on -on Tuesday.  That’s because this is a state that doesn’t like to be told
for whom to vote. They like candidates to do it the old-
fashioned way. That’s time on the ground. That’s heart and soul.
That’s handshake by handshake. And that’s a message that
resonates.  HUNT: Well, you have done that, certainly. You got the
endorsement of the Boston Globe the other day and a number of
New Hampshire newspapers. You’ve talked about, you know,
finishing in the top three. Governor Romney, you, who’s the
third?  HUNTSMAN: Hard to know. I don’t even want to speculate,
because people tend to coalesce around candidates the last 24,
48 hours, and it changes the world.  HUNT: Let’s talk about Governor Romney. You have called him
a chameleon. You say he changes his positions on political
expediency grounds.  Newt Gingrich  said he sometimes lies. Do you
think he lies?  HUNTSMAN: I don’t - I don’t want to go that far. But I will
tell you that this is going to be an election based on trust.
And if you’ve gone from a liberal running for the Senate to a
moderate running for governor to a conservative running for
president, that leaves an impression in the minds of the voters
that doesn’t build an image of trust, where this country is
running on empty as it relates to trust towards our institutions
of power and trust toward our elected officials.  HUNT: Governor, two issues that you know a lot about - China 
and immigration -  Mitt Romney  has taken a very hard-line
position in this campaign. Do you think he really believes those
views?  HUNTSMAN: It’s hard to know. He’s a smart man. You’ve got
to be - I believe in being realistic and honest with the
American people on these issues. I don’t pander. It’s easy to
get out there and say, “We’re going to slap tariffs on China on
day one.” But the reality is that it’s nonsense.  And whether it was the butchers of Beijing by  Bill Clinton 
in 1992 or  Ronald Reagan ’s discussion in 1980 about pulling our
diplomatic relations from Beijing and re-recognizing Taipei, you
get in office, you find the world is a different place. And I
think most of the candidates today are smart enough to realize
the sensitive nature - moreover, the importance of this
relationship longer term, and not to pander.  HUNT: You sound like you think that Governor Romney really
doesn’t believe what he’s saying about China.  HUNTSMAN: Well, I don’t believe in pandering and contorting
myself into a pretzel. And I don’t think those who do, who find
themselves on three sides of different issues, are going to
generate the kind of trust that is so needed among the
electorate, again, the candidates going into the final stretch.  HUNT: An important calling card that he brings is his
experience at  Bain Capital . Private equity, he says, creates
jobs and a lot of capital. You were a businessman, too. What -
what would his Bain Capital background bring to the presidency
and running the economy?  HUNTSMAN: I’m not sure people are going to look too much at
that. I think they’re going to look at his governance over a
state and what he had to show for that, as they have mine.  We took our state to number one in  job creation . We were
the most propitious, business-friendly state in America,
according to Forbes and Fortune and a whole host of magazines.
We reformed education, health care, a whole lot of things. He
was number 47, in terms of job creation.  HUNT: That’s more important than his Bain background, you
think?  HUNTSMAN: I think people are going to say, you ran a state.
What do you have to show for your time as governing that state?
And if you’ve got dead last, practically, in terms of job
creation, that’s going to stand out a lot more prominently in
people’s minds, I believe, than anything you did in the private
sector.  HUNT: The governor has refused to release his tax returns.
Why do you think? And should he?  HUNTSMAN: Well, I think we ought to be transparent. Again,
it gets back to trust. If the citizens and the voters of New
Hampshire and beyond are going to trust us and our message and
how we’re going to lead this country, transparency needs to be
part of that. And I do believe that trust is going to be central
to the whole discussion around 2012. And disclosures like taxes,
I think, are an important part of that.  HUNT: So in order to have trust, you have to be
transparent. In order to be transparent, you have to release
your tax returns?  HUNTSMAN: Well, I think that’s part of it, yeah.  HUNT: Another one of your competitors,  Rick Santorum , on
Thursday, he addressed a college group, and he was asked about
gay marriage. And he said, well, if you think it’s all right
with two men, why not three men? What do you think of an answer
like that?  HUNTSMAN: I think we ought to base it a little bit on
fairness and dignity. I’m not sure that’s a discussion that is -
is a good one for where we are in America right now.  I believe in civil unions. I think there’s such thing as
equality under the law. I think there’s such thing as fairness,
as we relate one with another in America. I think discussions
like that tend to divide. We don’t need more division in this
country. We need to begin coming together as people and finding
solutions.  HUNT: Do you think the  Republican Party  is in danger of
being seen as the gay-bashing party?  HUNTSMAN: If we are, then that’s a problem longer term. If
you run from mainstream science, if you believe in dividing
people along certain lines, I think that’s problematic longer
term.  HUNT: You are the only candidate - that’s not quite true,
 Ron Paul  to some extent - who has addressed the big  Wall Street 
issues, too big to fail. You know, talk about that for a minute,
but also tell me, why haven’t the others? I mean, is - do you
think Mitt Romney doesn’t do that because he’s a captive of Wall
Street? Or why?  HUNTSMAN: I think it becomes very difficult when you’ve
taken tens of millions of dollars from the banking community,
from Wall Street, and for many, many years, to have a discussion
that fundamentally alters their course, their direction in life.
And it can only be done, I would argue, by someone who isn’t a
captive, a subsidiary of Wall Street, because we’re setting
ourselves up, Al, for another bailout if we don’t right-size the
banks.  We’ve got six institutions that, combined, have assets
worth two-thirds of our nation’s GDP, $9.5 trillion. If they get
infected by the flu that’s making the rounds in  Europe , they
have to be bailed out, because if they fail, we all go down. And
that’s not right for the taxpayers to have this implied
guarantee, this implied bailout. If they screw up, they’re going
to be - they’re going to be propped up.  We’ve been there. We’ve done that, Al, and we’re not going
to do it again. And we need a president who’s going to say no to
two-thirds equivalent of our GDP. Let’s go back to the ‘90s,
where you were 20 percent equivalent.  HUNT: You sound like you don’t believe that Governor Romney
would be an agent of change when it comes to Wall Street.  HUNTSMAN: I think he would be a status quo president, not
only with respect to Wall Street, but with respect to
Washington. And that is draining the swamp on lobbying. That is
calling and leading the charge for  term limits  for Congress,
closing the revolving door for members of Congress filing out
and becoming lobbyists. These are huge problems.  HUNT: Term limits - term limits hasn’t worked in  California 
very well. You didn’t have - did you have term limits in  Utah ?  HUNTSMAN: I term-limited myself. Here’s the alternative,
Al. The alternative is we have this institution called
incumbency that reaches up, grabs people, and grows very deep
roots, and pretty soon nobody wants to leave. And you look at
the generation coming up, the younger voters. Why aren’t they
turning out to vote and participate anymore? Because they think
the system is rigged. They think their vote doesn’t count
anymore. They can vote, but the incumbents always end up
winning.  And I say, crony capitalism on  Capitol Hill , diminished
trust, 8 percent approval, in the minds of the people, this is
ridiculous. I mean, we’ve got to have an agent of change not
only for Wall Street, but one for  Washington , as well.  HUNT: Governor Huntsman, the best of luck next Tuesday.  HUNTSMAN: Thank you, Al.  HUNT: Thank you for being with us.  HUNTSMAN: It’s a pleasure to be with you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<882456.1204164.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 