-- Huntsman Says Romney Presidency Would Be Status Quo on Wall Street Issues
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-07T05:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/huntsman-says-romney-would-be-status-quo-chief-urges-tax-return-release.html
Republican presidential contender Jon Huntsman Jr. charged that  Mitt Romney  would be a “status quo
president” on issues dealing with  Wall Street  and Washington
influence peddling.  Romney, who’s leading in opinion polls of his party’s
nomination race, should release his tax returns because
“transparency” and “trust” are central issues in the
campaign, Huntsman also said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and
multimillionaire former private equity manager, has so far
refused to release his returns.  Huntsman hasn’t released his own tax returns. Campaign
spokesman  Tim Miller  said the candidate would disclose his
returns if he wins the party’s nomination.  Huntsman, a former  Utah  governor and multimillionaire
businessman, has proposed limiting the size of the country’s
largest banks to avoid any future taxpayer liabilities.  If the U.S. banks “get infected with the flu that’s making
the rounds in  Europe , they have to be bailed out, because if
they fail, we all go down,” Huntsman said, adding that’s
“right for the taxpayers.”  He suggested that some of his Republican rivals --
particularly Romney, who has received the most campaign
contributions from the financial community -- would be captives
of Wall Street if elected.  Wall Street ‘Captive’  “It becomes very difficult when you’ve taken tens of
millions of dollars from the banking community, from Wall
Street, and for many, many years, to have a discussion that
fundamentally alters their course,” said Huntsman, 51. “It can
only be done, I would argue, by someone who isn’t a captive, a
subsidiary of Wall Street.”  Huntsman, whose family owns a petro-chemical conglomerate,
rejected Romney’s claim that his experience as chief executive
officer of the private equity firm Bain Capital LLC was an
important credential to be president and would help him create
jobs. Romney, 64, has made his business experience a central
argument for his candidacy.  Instead, Huntsman said voters should look at Romney’s four-
year record as governor of  Massachusetts .  “If you’ve got dead last, practically, in terms of  job
creation , that’s going to stand out a lot more prominently in
people’s minds, I believe, than anything you did in the private
sector,” he said.  Unemployment Numbers  During Romney’s 2003-2007 term, unemployment in
Massachusetts averaged 5.1 percent, compared with a national
average of 5.3 percent, and 45,800 jobs were added. Utah’s
 jobless rate (USURTOT)  during Huntsman’s 2005-2009 governorship averaged
3.8 percent, compared with a national average of 5.5 percent for
that period, and 91,800 jobs were created.  Huntsman, who served as U.S. ambassador to China under
President  Barack Obama  until last year, also said that Romney’s
frequent reversals on issues such as immigration policy and how
to deal with  China  make him ill-suited “to generate the kind of
trust that is so needed among the electorate.”  Huntsman came back to the trust question, a major theme of
his campaign, in criticizing Romney for not releasing his tax
returns.  “If the citizens and the voters of New Hampshire and
beyond are going to trust us and our message and how we’re going
to lead this country, transparency needs to be part of that,”
Huntsman said.  Financial Disclosure  On federal financial disclosure forms, Huntsman reported
owning assets valued between $16 million and $71 million,
including between $5 million and $25 million in his family’s
holding company, which owns stock in Huntsman Corp., a Salt Lake
City-based chemical maker. Romney reported between $190 million
and $250 million in assets, which his campaign said were in a
blind trust. He did report owning between $50,000 and $100,000
apiece in Boeing Co., Visa Inc., and Bank of America Corp.  One of the other Republican candidates, former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum , in a campaign appearance in  New Hampshire 
on Jan. 5 compared gay marriage to polygamy, asking voters who
supported same-sex wedlock: “Well, what about three men?”  Santorum continued: “If reason says that if you think it’s
OK for two, then you have to differentiate with me as to why
it’s not OK three.”  Huntsman described that kind of rhetoric as divisive,
saying the conversation ought to be based on “fairness and
dignity.”  Huntsman, who’s based his entire campaign on a strong
showing in New Hampshire’s Jan. 10 primary, continues to run
well behind Romney.  Romney had the support of 40 percent of likely Republican
primary voters in New Hampshire, according to a Suffolk
University/7 News tracking poll taken Jan. 4-5. U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  was backed by 17 percent, compared with
11 percent for Santorum, 9 percent for former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and 8 percent for Huntsman.  Huntsman suggested that he would do better. “We’re going
to exceed market expectations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington,
at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  