-- Turkey’s Former Military Chief Ilker Basbug Arrested in Coup Investigation
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-01-06T13:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/turkey-s-former-military-chief-ilker-basbug-arrested-in-coup-investigation.html
Turkey  jailed former Chief of Staff
Ilker Basbug in connection with alleged plots to topple the
government, making him the highest-ranking officer implicated in
a four-year probe.  Basbug was taken to Silivri jail, west of Istanbul, after a
court in the city ruled that he should be held pending trial,
the state-run Anatolia news agency said. Basbug denied the
charges, calling them “tragi-comic,” and his lawyer Ilkay
Sezer said he will appeal the court’s decision.  Basbug’s arrest is the latest expansion of an investigation
into plots to overthrow Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ,
whose roots in Islamist movements put him at odds with the
secularism of the military. More than 250 officers have been
jailed, and legislation to enforce civilian control over the
army has weakened an institution that has forced four elected
governments from office since 1960.  Basbug testified for seven hours in Istanbul yesterday,
answering questions about his knowledge of websites allegedly
created to spread propaganda against Erdogan. After his
deposition, special prosecutor Cihan Kansiz asked the court to
arrest him on charges of commanding a “terrorist organization”
and seeking to overthrow the government using force and
violence, Anatolia said.  Life Imprisonment   Erdogan’s supporters say the probes are making Turkey more
democratic by exposing secret plots against elected governments.
The army staged full-scale coups in 1960 and 1980 and ousted two
other governments in 1971 and 1997, the latter headed by
Erdogan’s political mentor, Necmettin Erbakan.  Earlier this week, prosecutors in Ankara requested life
imprisonment for another former military chief, 94-year-old
Kenan Evren, who became president after leading the 1980 army
takeover. Erdogan’s party amended the constitution last year to
lift immunity from prosecution for those involved in the coup.  Critics including the main opposition  Republican People’s
Party  say they are a way of targeting opponents of the
government. Scores of journalists, politicians and academics
have also been jailed on the grounds they were involved in the
plots.  “We are witness to a judicial process under the rule of
law,” President  Abdullah Gul  was quoted by Zaman newspaper as
saying today. “In a state ruled by laws, everyone is
accountable.”  ‘Other Ways’  Army officers have given conflicting evidence about Basbug,
Hurriyet newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information. Some implicated him, saying he was aware of plans
to set up websites against Erdogan, while another officer
testified that approval for the plans to fight Islamist threats
came from a subordinate general, according to Hurriyet.  Basbug told the court he was being accused of trying to
bring down the government “with a couple of press statements
and one or two Internet stories,” according to Hurriyet. “If I
had such bad intentions, as the commander of a 700,000-strong
force, there would have been other ways,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  