-- Vail Struggles as Snowless Ski Season Hits West
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-06T21:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/vail-resorts-struggles-as-snowless-ski-season-hits-western-parts-of-u-s-.html
Vail Resorts Inc. (MTN)  shares have fallen
15 percent since Dec. 23 as major ski trails were closed at the
company’s mountain properties in the western U.S. because of a
lack of snow.  Visitors to the company’s resorts were down 15.3 percent
compared to this time last year, Rob Katz, chief executive of
the Broomfield, Colorado-based company, said in a statement.  Lift ticket revenue was up 0.6 percent and revenue from ski
school was up 0.9 percent, even though “very unusual” weather
had reduced skier visits and the use of season passes, he said.  “For the first time in 30 years, a lack of snow has not
allowed us to open the back bowls in Vail as of January 6, 2012,
and, for the first time since the late 1800s it did not snow at
all in Tahoe in December,” Katz said in the statement.  Shares of the Broomfield, Colorado-based company traded at
$38.30 at 4:02 p.m. today in  New York  after closing at $45.11 on
Dec. 23.  Nationally, about 16 percent of the U.S. is covered by
snow, compared to about 45 percent at this time last year,
 according to  the  National Weather Service . Ski resorts in  Europe 
have also suffered from lack of snow, leading to the
cancellation of World Cup skiing events such as one scheduled
for Munich on New Year’s Day.  Snowless Landscape  Martin Pyykkonen, a senior analyst with Wedge Partners of
 Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , said people who live in Denver have
been amazed by the lack of snow this season.  “People who have lived here all their life say they’ve
never seen anything like it,” he said today in a telephone
interview.  From his window looking out over Denver and the  Rocky
Mountains , Pyykkonen said, all he sees is brown.  “It looks like springtime except it is all gray and brown,
because there is no snow anywhere,” he said. “It’s a terrible
year, bottom line.”  Pyykkonen says Vail Resorts makes more money from out-of-
town visitors than from locals. Even if there is a good snowfall
in the next few months, he said, it may be too late for families
now planning spring vacations.  “Those people are listening to the weather reports and
saying, ‘Let’s not go there, it won’t be a ski vacation,’” he
said.  Vail Resorts operates ski resorts including Vail, Beaver
Creek, Breckenridge and Keystone in Colorado; Heavenly and North
Star in the Lake Tahoe area of California and  Nevada ; and the
Grand Teton Lodge Co. in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  Katz said the company wasn’t revising earnings numbers
issued in September 2011, though it “would acknowledge that
those targets will be more difficult to achieve given the
results over the holidays.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 