-- Valeant Says No Agreement Reached on $327 Million Hostile Offer for Ista
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-06T21:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/valeant-provides-2012-revenue-forecast-that-tops-analyst-estimates.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International
Inc. (VRX) , Canada’s biggest drugmaker, said no agreement has been
reached on its hostile $327 million offer for  Ista (ISTA) 
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  There have been a number of talks with Ista over the $6.50-
a-share bid, Mississauga, Ontario-based Valeant said in a
regulatory filing today. No agreement has been reached on a
price or process, the company said. Valeant said today that
there’s a deadline of Jan. 31 on the offer because it is
“unwilling to spend too much time,” according to the filing.  Valeant made the bid public on Dec. 16, saying Irvine,
California-based Ista rebuffed three approaches. The price
includes debt. Ista rejected the offer, calling it “grossly
inadequate,” and said the company will explore strategic
options.  “I think what’s good about Valeant is they’re very
disciplined with it comes to price,”  Gary Nachman , an analyst
with Susquehanna Financial Group in  Bala Cynwyd , Pennsylvania,
said by telephone. “If it doesn’t work, then they’ll move on.”  Valeant rose less than 1 percent to $47.48 at the close in
New York. Ista rose 2.1 percent to $7.18.  Valeant is developing treatments in dermatology, neurology
and generic and over-the-counter drugs in a handful of countries
including Latin America, Europe and the U.S. The company’s
therapeutic and geographic diversity make many businesses
conceivable acquisition candidates, Nachman said.  “There’s a long list of potential targets and Ista is just
one of many,” he said.  Ista declined to comment on the Jan. 31 deadline, Justin
Jackson, an outside spokesman, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 