-- Via Gets Funding for Plug-in Trucks Before Detroit Auto Show
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-06T21:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/via-gets-funding-for-plug-in-trucks-before-detroit-auto-show.html
Via Motors Inc., a closely held
assembler of plug-in vehicles for fleet customers, received
$29.8 million in funding before it introduces new models at the
North American International Auto Show in  Detroit  next week.  The financing came from “private equity institutional
investors,” Richard Clayton, Via’s chief financial officer,
said today in a telephone interview without identifying them.  The funding follows $5.5 million received in March and $4.5
million in 2010 led by Carl Berg, chairman of lithium-ion
battery maker  Valence Technology Inc. (VLNC)   The company, based in Orem,  Utah , was formed in 2010 after
acquiring the electric drive vehicle technology of geothermal
power plant developer  Raser Technologies Inc (RZTIQ) ., now known as Cyrq
Energy. Bob Lutz, the former vice chairman of  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and designer of the Chevrolet Volt, joined Via’s board in
September. Via’s plug-in trucks, like the Volt, have a gas-
powered generator that can be used to extend driving range by
recharging the batteries.  Via currently is using Valence and A123 Inc. batteries to
repurpose stock vehicles, including GM’s Silverado pickup truck,
though it is seeking an agreement with an original equipment
manufacturer to obtain frames, axles and bodies for cheaper
assembly, Clayton said. Its trucks retail for $79,000 and have a
40-mile (64-kilometer) range that’s extended by as much as 400
miles by the gasoline generator.  It plans to deliver 50 vehicles in the first half of 2012
for customers including  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , PacifiCorp and the U.S. government’s
General Services Administration, Clayton said. In the second
half of the year it will increase production to a few thousand
vehicles, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  