-- Verizon Fixed-Line Sale Would Enable Vodafone Combination, Goldman Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-06T10:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/vodafone-lifted-to-buy-at-goldman-sachs-on-verizon-strength.html
A disposal of  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ’s fixed-line operations would clear the way for the company
to merge its wireless and enterprise units with partner  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , analysts at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  An agreement on a frequency purchase and marketing
cooperation that Verizon’s mobile-phone unit reached in December
with U.S. cable operators led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  would make
separating its divisions easier, the analysts, including Tim Boddy in London, wrote in a research report.  “The remaining wireless and enterprise businesses would
have faster growth and a clear fit with Vodafone’s assets and
strategy, making it a more attractive merger partner,” the
analysts said in the report yesterday.  Vodafone, which is based in Newbury,  England , owns 45
percent of New York-based Verizon’s wireless business, the
U.S.’s largest mobile-phone operator. The companies are
tightening a partnership after Verizon agreed last year to the
first payout from the joint venture since 2005, providing the
U.K. operator with a one-time dividend of 2.8 billion pounds
($4.34 billion).  The companies will focus on joint purchasing and service
agreements for their business customers in the short term, the
Goldman Sachs analysts said. Verizon Chief Financial Officer
Fran Shammo said in November that the two carriers were moving
from a financial partnership to a strategic relationship.  Peter Thonis, a spokesman for Verizon Communications,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment outside business
hours. Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Vodafone, declined to
comment.  Stock Rises  Vodafone  rose (VOD)  as much as 2.1 percent to 181.1 pence and was
up 1.9 percent at 10:50 a.m. in  London . The stock has gained 2.9
percent in the past 12 months.  Under the alliance reached with with cable operators,
Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based  Verizon Wireless  and the
companies agreed to market and sell each other’s services, and
Verizon Wireless also bought mobile-phone frequencies for $3.6
billion.  Verizon will offer cable-TV products in its retail stores
and receive a percentage of revenue for every cable customer it
signs up, while the cable companies will receive fees for each
wireless customer they attract.  The U.S. Justice Department is investigating the deal over
concerns it may reduce competition.  No More ‘Threat’  “Given that it no longer faces the threat of integrated
cable competitors, Verizon could potentially spin off its
remaining Consumer Wireline assets,” along with “large”
pension and benefit liabilities, the Goldman analysts said.  Vodafone may generate a total return of 55 percent over the
next two years, with 38 percent coming from a share-price
increase and 17 percent from dividends, Goldman Sachs said. At
the same time, free cash flow may rise to more than 10 billion
pounds for the 2014 fiscal year from 7 billion pounds for the
2012 period.  Vodafone’s stock generated a return of  10 percent (BETELES)  last
year, making it the third-best performer in the 21-company
Bloomberg Europe 500 Telecom Services Index. Shares including
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  recorded
losses in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  