-- Walgreen Is Open to Deal for Express Scripts Network, Pharmacy Chief Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-01-06T21:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/walgreen-is-open-to-deal-for-express-scripts-network-pharmacy-chief-says.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  is willing to resume
selling prescriptions to  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  customers after
the end of their contract Dec. 31 forced millions of consumers
to switch pharmacies, Walgreen’s pharmacy-services chief said.  “We’ve always been willing to remain in the  Express
Scripts  network, but it has to be at a rate which is fair for
the value that we provide,” Kermit Crawford, president of
Walgreen’s pharmacy, health and wellness services, said today in
a telephone interview.  Walgreen, the largest U.S. drugstore chain, offered
“significant cost concessions” in mid-December negotiations
with Express Scripts from an earlier proposal to keep
reimbursement rates flat for the next three years, Crawford
said. He supervises Walgreen’s negotiating team and reports to
Chief Executive Officer Greg Wasson.  Express Scripts “did not accept that offer and actually
suggested pushing negotiations into the new year,” said
Crawford, 52. “So I would say the ball is in their court. We
are actually not waiting to hear from them. We’ve made the
decision to move on.”  Express Scripts is open to an agreement with Walgreen,
 Brian Henry , an Express Scripts spokesman, said in an e-mail.
Still, Walgreen wants to be paid more than other pharmacies, he
said.  ‘Hasn’t Changed’  “We have remained open to having Walgreens in our network,
but only at rates and terms that are right for our clients and
are consistent with other pharmacies,” Henry said. “That
hasn’t changed.”  Walgreen is trying to convince health plans, employers and
pharmacy-benefit managers other than Express Scripts to maintain
access to its pharmacies, Crawford said. More than 130 Express
Scripts clients had taken such steps, Walgreen said in a
statement Dec. 30.  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , rose 1.1 percent to
$33.08 at the close in  New York . St. Louis-based Express Scripts
gained 1.9 percent to $49.39.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  