-- Weaker Koruna Preventing Czech Interest Rate Change, Bank’s Minutes Show
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-06T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/weaker-koruna-prevents-czech-interest-rate-change-bank-minutes-show.html
The Czech koruna’s weakening has
loosened monetary conditions and allowed the central bank to
maintain stable  interest rates  in December, according to minutes
from the Dec. 21 policy meeting published today.  The Prague-based Czech National Bank left interest rates
unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent, a quarter-point less
than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate, for a 13th meeting
last month after policy makers weighed a worsening economic
outlook against accelerating inflation. The Czech economic
outlook is clouded by the debt crisis in the euro area, which
takes about 70 percent of the country’s exports.  Board members said there are increasing risks of slower
economic growth and a weaker koruna exchange rate than assumed
in the central bank’s base-line forecast. Risks are slightly
pro-inflationary compared with the base-line forecast, while
inflation expectations are “firmly anchored in the longer-term
horizon,” according to the minutes.  “It was said several times that the Czech economy is
slowing and that no domestic demand-driven inflation pressures
were apparent,” the minutes said, without specifying views of
individual policy makers.  The bank has said the koruna’s moves are important for
future rate decisions as a firming currency tames inflationary
pressures and tightens monetary conditions, while its weakening
makes imports more expensive. The koruna has lost 3.9 percent to
the euro in the past three months, the second-worst performance
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after
Hungarian forint.  Stronger Koruna  The central bank’s base forecast, published Nov. 3, sees
the koruna gaining this year, with the average  exchange rate  at
23.1 to the euro. It assumed a decline in market interest rates
by the end of last year.  The bank also prepared an alternative scenario that sees a
“sharp slowdown” in the euro area’s economic growth next year.
Under this outlook, the koruna would be weaker, averaging 24.2
per euro, and market interest rates would stay stable.  The  inflation (CZCPYOY)  rate rose to a 35-month high of 2.5 percent
in November, mainly on food costs. Inflation relevant for
monetary policy, which is price growth stripped of the primary
impact of increases in indirect taxes, was also 2.5 percent,
more than the central bank’s target of 2 percent.  The  economy (CZGDPSAY)  shrank 0.1 percent in the third quarter from
the previous three months, the first quarterly contraction since
a 2009 recession.  -- Editor: James M. Gomez  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  