-- Li Tops Hong Kong’s Rich List Even as City’s Fortunes Shrink, Forbes Says
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2012-01-06T03:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/wealthy-get-poorer-as-li-tops-h-k-list-forbes.html
The combined wealth of Hong Kong’s
top 40 richest people, led by  Li Ka-shing , fell 7.4 percent to
$151 billion last year from 2010 as China’s economic growth
slowed and property prices dropped, Forbes Magazine said today.  Li, chairman of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., is Greater
China’s richest person, with wealth estimated at $22 billion,
8.3 percent less than last year, Forbes said in a press release.
 Henderson Land Development Ltd. (12) ’s Lee Shau Kee replaced  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ’s Kwok family as Hong Kong’s second richest,
with a personal fortune estimated at $17 billion, it said.  The net worth of Hong Kong’s wealthiest dropped in a year
that the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 20 percent and
property prices followed declines in China on a global economic
slowdown. Property tycoons dominated the Hong Kong list, with
more than one third of the top 40 wealthiest making the bulk of
their fortunes from real estate.  “The fallout is clear in Hong Kong’s stock market and the
new Hong Kong  Rich List ,” Russell Flannery, a senior editor at
Forbes, said in the release. “This year’s list further
underscores the deepening involvement of Hong Kong’s real estate
industry in the mainland.”  Home prices  in China fell for a fourth month in December
after the government reiterated plans to maintain property curbs,
according to SouFun Holdings Ltd. House prices in Hong Kong have
fallen to an almost nine-month low, after surging about 70
percent from the beginning of 2009 to June 2011, according to an
index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  China’s economy grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009, while Hong Kong’s
gross domestic product increased 4.3 percent, the most sluggish 
pace in seven quarters.  Biggest Gainer  New World Development Co. Chairman  Cheng Yu-tung  is the
biggest gainer on the Forbes list. His wealth jumped $6 billion
to $15 billion after an initial public offering of subsidiary
 Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929)  last month, according to
Forbes.  Cheng was the city’s fourth richest, after Sun Hung Kai
Properties’ Thomas Kwok and Raymond Kwok, who have combined
wealth of $15.4 billion, Forbes said.  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  Chairman  Stanley Ho , who ranked No. 13 a
year ago, with net worth $3.1 billion, was removed from the list
this year after dividing his assets among family members. SJM
Managing Director Angela Leong On Kei, mother of Ho’s youngest
children and a beneficiary, debuted on the list with a wealth of
$1.6 billion, Forbes said.  The minimum net worth to make the city’s 40 richest fell to
$950 million from $1 billion a year earlier, Forbes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stanley James in Hong Kong at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  