-- Yahoo’s New CEO May Have Compensation as High as $27 Million
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-01-07T02:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/yahoo-s-thompson-may-get-compensation-of-up-to-27-million-as-next-chief.html
Yahoo! Inc (YHOO) . Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Thompson  may receive compensation of as much as $27
million, including salary, potential bonus, restricted shares
and other forms of pay.  Thompson, formerly president of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal, will
get a base salary of $1 million and a possible annual bonus of
as much as two times that amount, Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo said in a regulatory  filing .  Thompson is tasked with turning around a company that has
struggled to vie with Google Inc., owner of the world’s most
popular search engine, and Facebook Inc., the leader in social
networking. He’ll oversee a strategic review that began after
the board ousted former CEO  Carol Bartz , and he’ll need to weigh
the possible sale of Yahoo’s stakes in Asian companies,
including  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) .  “That seems unusually high,” Mark Mahaney, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said of Thompson’s compensation during an
interview on “Bloomberg West.” “That said, you know, you are
taking him away from a very successful company. You’re putting
him in a risky situation.”  Other compensation includes an equity grant with a target
value of $11 million, a one-time “inducement grant” of $5
million, a cash bonus of $1.5 million and restricted stock units
that carry a grant-date value of $6.5 million.  Bartz’s Pay  He succeeds other CEOs who have backgrounds outside
 Internet advertising . Bartz, who was ousted in September after
less than three years, previously ran  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , a San
Rafael, California-based maker of design software. Yahoo lured
Bartz in 2009 with a compensation package that the company
valued at $47.2 million. That figure was mostly stock options
and restricted stock that didn’t immediately become available.  Another predecessor, Terry Semel, was a Hollywood executive
hired in 2001 to help turn Yahoo into a media company. He
resigned in 2007 and was succeeded by Yahoo co-founder  Jerry Yang .  Yahoo fell less than 1 percent to $15.52 at the close today
in New York.  Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Thompson’s pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net 
YHOO US <Equity>
EBAY US <Equity> 