-- 
Macarthur Coal Lures Bidders as Peabody Rouses China: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-04T20:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/macarthur-coal-lures-rival-bids-as-peabody-takeover-rouses-china-real-m-a.html
Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  is leaving the
door open for a rival bidder to step in for  Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC) 
by offering less for the Australian mining company than it did
last year, even as profit is projected to double.  Peabody, along with the world’s largest steelmaker
ArcelorMittal, is taking the bid of A$15.50 a share directly to
shareholders after Macarthur’s board demanded A$18 a share. In
early 2010 Peabody sought to acquire Brisbane-based Macarthur
for as much as A$16 a share before terminating the offer. While
flooding in Australia has hampered production, net income will
double in fiscal 2012 from 2010 as coal trades near a record,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Macarthur, the world’s biggest maker of pulverized coal,
said it’s in talks with other potential bidders as takeovers of
coal companies reach $19 billion so far this year, topping the
annual record set in 2010. While the current proposal is
comparable to other industry deals this year relative to 2012
earnings, Macarthur’s stock is trading above the offer as some
shareholders bet on a higher price tag. Macarthur’s largest
investor, Chinese metals producer Citic Group, may join a
counterbid, according to IG Markets.  “They’ve got a fantastic asset based on very good growth
prospects,”  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets
in  Melbourne , said in a telephone interview. “If you mix that
in with the strong coal demand that’s increasing then you can
see why people would want to get their hands on their assets,
especially steel producers, as well as the coal companies.”  All-Cash Bid  Martin Debelle, a spokesman for Macarthur, declined to
comment on other potential acquirers. Giles Read, a spokesman
for Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, declined to comment beyond
the company’s Aug. 1 statement.  “Bids are generally based on a premium to where the share
price is as opposed to any historic offers that may not have
been accepted in the past,” Vic Svec, a spokesman for St.
Louis-based Peabody, the largest U.S. coal producer, said in a
phone interview. “It’s a very healthy premium by any
standards.”  The all-cash offer from Peabody and  ArcelorMittal (MT) , which
already own 16 percent of Macarthur, values the company’s equity
at about A$4.7 billion ($5 billion) plus about A$415 million in
net cash, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It represents
a 43 percent premium to the 20-day stock average before the
proposal was announced July 11.  Talks with Bidders  The bidders said Aug. 1 they will take their proposal
directly to shareholders after failing to reach an agreement
over price with the mining company’s board. Macarthur, which
demanded as much as A$18 a share, said it’s continuing talks
with Peabody and ArcelorMittal, and other interested parties.  Since the unsolicited bid was announced, Macarthur has
gained 42 percent to A$15.75 yesterday, 25 cents above the bid,
indicating that some investors are betting on a higher offer.
The shares closed as high as A$15.86 on Aug. 2.  “The market is saying there’s a chance that there’s a lift
in the offer from Peabody and ArcelorMittal or that another
company comes in,” Tom Sartor, a mining analyst at RBS Morgans
Ltd., said in a telephone interview from Brisbane. “These types
of assets are fairly scarce. The scarcer the product, the more
expensive it becomes.”  Peabody fell 9.2 percent to $49.05 at today, the biggest
decline since June 2009. ArcelorMittal dropped 5.9 percent to
18.32 euros, the lowest price since May 2009. Macarthur rose 0.2
percent to A$15.78.  Rejected 2010 Bid  This marks the second time in two years Peabody has tried
to buy Macarthur in an attempt to expand its coal operations in
 Australia  and extract cost savings, Sartor said. Macarthur has
mines for pulverized coal, used to make the steel in cars and
buildings, in Queensland, Australia, which is the biggest
exporter of the fuel. ArcelorMittal would be able to better
hedge steel production costs as a result of the deal, he said.  Macarthur rejected a A$15-a-share bid from Peabody in May
2010 after it was reduced from A$16 because Australia, the
biggest exporter of coal and iron ore, proposed a tax on
resource profits that would hurt its investment. Macarthur said
at the time that its two biggest shareholders, Citic and
ArcelorMittal, were unlikely to support the bid.  “By offering less this time it leaves the window open for
other players,”  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at Tullet Prebon Plc, said in a telephone
interview from  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “It also seems like
Peabody and ArcelorMittal are saying that if there isn’t anybody
else out there, why do you want us to pay A$16? They would want
some kind of rationale for increasing their bid.”  More Outstanding Stock  While Peabody is offering less per share than in 2010,
Macarthur sold stock in August 2010, boosting its outstanding
shares by about 38 million. The current offer values the
company’s total equity at A$4.7 billion, versus A$3.7 billion
last year at the final offer price of A$15 per share.  “Macarthur has issued shares during that time so the
dollar value of this bid is significantly higher,” Peabody
spokesman Svec said. “The concept that somehow value is static
over a 15-month period also isn’t accurate.”  Adjusted earnings are projected to increase to A$1.04 a
share in the year ending June 2012, more than doubling from per-
share profit of 49 cents in fiscal 2010, according to the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That means
the current offer is valued at almost 15 times this year’s
expected earnings, compared with Peabody’s previous high bid of
A$16 a share equating to 33 times 2010 earnings, the data show.  Coal Takeovers  “It’s not like something materially happened where the
business deteriorated,” Shah said. “You would assume that
Peabody would be able to pay more rather than less, especially
since they’ve teamed up with another very large entity.”  The proposal values Macarthur at 7.9 times analysts’
projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for fiscal 2012. The median for coal takeovers
greater than $1 billion completed this year was 6.7 times
Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Takeovers announced in the coal industry have reached $19.1
billion so far this year, already exceeding the record $16.4
billion in all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal prices have surged on rising demand to feed power
stations and  steel mills  in  China , the world’s largest user of
coal, and amid global production disruptions, including record
flooding in Queensland.  Credit Suisse Group AG last month raised its price
forecasts for coking coal by an average of 15 percent for 2014-
2018, citing “unrelenting” demand. Prices jumped 47 percent to
a record $330 a metric ton in the second quarter.  ‘Undervaluing’ Macarthur  While the price for pulverized coal that Macarthur produces
more than doubled to $275 a ton in the second quarter of this
year from 2009, it may decline to $158 a ton next year, Peter Hickson, UBS AG’s global head of commodity research and basic
materials strategist, said in a presentation in July.  “To buy at the top of the market at the moment is a
risk,”  Peter Chilton , who helps manage about $790 million at
Constellation Capital Management LLC in Sydney, said in a phone
interview. “Coal prices are very high. They may stay high for
some time, but they won’t be at these levels forever.”  Andrew Pedler, senior analyst at Wilson HTM Investment
Group in Brisbane, said he expects a deal to reach A$18 a share
instead of the current A$15.50.  “This price is effectively undervaluing  Macarthur Coal ’s
portfolio of development projects,” Pedler said in a phone
interview. “You cannot discount an alternative offer. At the
same time you can’t necessarily bank on one being there.”  Citic Rival Bid  Macarthur may seek a rival bid that would involve its
largest shareholder, China’s state-owned Citic, according to RBS
Morgans’s Sartor. Citic’s director on the Macarthur board, Chen Zeng, hasn’t been involved in the board’s deal discussions and
has taken a leave of absence to avoid a potential conflict of
interest.  Citic or  South Korea ’s  Posco (005490) , the third-largest shareholder
in Macarthur, are the most likely to make a higher offer, said
IG Markets’ Weston, because they already owned about 24.6
percent and 7 percent,  as of May 2011 , respectively. Citic and
Posco invest in Macarthur for strategic reasons and may not want
a cash offer without a remaining equity stake, Pedler said.  “Citic has been a long-time supporter of the company, and
they’re in the best position to think about a counteroffer,”
Sartor said.  Citic has no comment regarding the takeover for the moment,
Amanda Xu, a Citic Resources Holdings Ltd. spokeswoman who works
for PR Asia Consultants Ltd., said in a response to an e-mail.
Chung Jae Woong, a Seoul-based spokesman for Posco, declined to
comment on whether it would bid for Macarthur.  ‘Preferred Product’  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , a miner of coal, platinum and diamonds,
and  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, are also
possible bidders, Constellation Capital’s Chilton said. James Wyatt-Tilby, a spokesman for London-based Anglo American, and
Fatima Cristina, a spokeswoman for  Vale  in  Rio de Janeiro ,
declined to comment on speculation.  Coal “is a very preferred product, so I wouldn’t be
surprised if there is a higher bid,” Mitesh Thakkar, an analyst
at FBR & Co., said in a phone interview from Arlington,
Virginia. “The bigger picture is that metallurgical coal is in
great demand for the steel mills.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  