-- 
Hacker ‘Armageddon’ Forces Symantec, McAfee to Seek Fixes

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-04T20:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hacker-armageddon-forces-symantec-mcafee-to-search-for-fixes.html
A surge in high-profile hacker
attacks this year is demonstrating the limits of an older
generation of security software from  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  and McAfee
Inc., putting pressure on them to revamp their product lines.  The top providers of security software are racing to adjust
to cloud computing and the growth of workers plugging mobile
devices into corporate networks. None of the recent attacks tied
to hacker groups such as Anonymous and Lulz Security could have
been repelled by traditional antivirus programs or firewall
software, according to Johannes Ullrich, a researcher at the
 SANS Technology Institute . That’s giving a boost to upstart
rivals, which are developing new ways to safeguard data.  “It sure feels like security Armageddon, and that’s what
we’re hearing from a lot of customers,” said George Kurtz,
chief technology officer at McAfee, now part of  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Along with providing competition to Symantec and McAfee,
security startups will become candidates for takeovers or
initial public offerings. More than 20 of these companies may
file for IPOs in the next 18 months, said Brent Bracelin, an
analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon .
Startups such as Q1 Labs Inc. and Palo Alto Networks Inc. are
working on more advanced approaches to firewalls, early
intrusion detection and around-the-clock systems monitoring.  ‘Security 1.0’  “Security 1.0 was about locking down fixed devices,”
Bracelin said. Now that everyone brings their own device to
work, companies have to adapt, he said. “We don’t see an easy
path for the Symantecs and the Intel/McAfees of the world to
evolve beyond the security 1.0 technology to the next-generation
market.”  Bigger security companies have already been losing share to
smaller ones, research firm  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said in a  report  last
week. The top five providers -- led by Symantec and McAfee --
accounted for 44 percent of the $16.5 billion worldwide security
software market in 2010, according to Gartner. That’s down from
60 percent in 2006.  Many promising startups may become takeover bait, extending
an acquisition binge for the industry. Four of the 10 biggest
security acquisitions in history were announced last year,
including Intel’s purchase of McAfee, said Rob Owens, an analyst
at Pacific Crest.  Symantec and Intel may use more acquisitions to fill gaps
in their product portfolios, along with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
International Business Machines Corp. and EMC Corp., Owens said.  Potential Targets  The companies likely to be acquired include Q1 Labs and
Splunk Inc., said  Robert Breza , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets . Waltham, Massachusetts-based Q1 Labs focuses on
security information and event management, or SIEM, a category
of software that monitors networks and manages security threats.
Splunk, located in  San Francisco , makes software that can
collect and index security data.  Symantec and McAfee both say they’re prepared to adapt to
the new security market. “Any segment focused on cutting-edge
security technology -- we’ve done very well,” said Francis deSouza, group president of enterprise products and services at
 Mountain View , California-based Symantec. McAfee’s Kurtz said
his company has “already started this transition and we’re
ahead of the curve.”  McAfee sold itself to Intel so that it could merge security
software with computer chips, a “much more next-generation way
of viewing security,” said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets in  New York . The first fruits of that effort
will be released later this year.  Whitelist Programs  McAfee has also released so-called whitelist programs,
which permit only approved applications to run. Whitelisting is
one of the most promising of the newer security technologies in
terms of ability to stop attacks, said Ullrich, the researcher
at Bethesda, Maryland-based SANS.  Symantec, meanwhile, is now selling software that blocks
files by “reputation.” Because today’s hackers often target
one user at a time -- thwarting traditional filters -- the
software screens files it’s never seen before.  An increase in security spending has given a boost to
Symantec’s sales the past two quarters. That’s contributed to a
31 percent gain in the shares over the past year. Symantec fell
$1.15 to $17.12 at 4 p.m. today on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Shares of  Santa Clara , California-based Intel, which are little
changed in the past 12 months, lost 96 cents to $20.85.  ‘Not Shy’  Symantec also will invest in areas such as data-loss
prevention on mobile phones and ways to safely enable workers to
use personal devices on corporate networks, deSouza said. That
effort may include acquisitions.  “We will certainly do a lot of organic stuff, but if
there’s something that’s interesting, we are not shy about
buying it,” he said in an interview.  The comments echoed remarks by Chief Executive Officer
 Enrique Salem , who said in May that Symantec plans to spend as
much as $1.25 billion on acquisitions in mobile and cloud-
computing markets. With cloud computing, users access software
and information over the Internet from remote data centers.  Last October, Hewlett-Packard ponied up about $1.5 billion
for ArcSight Inc., which makes SIEM technology. That helped turn
Hewlett-Packard into the fifth-biggest security-software seller.
Now it’s on the lookout for more acquisitions in the field, CEO
 Leo Apotheker  said in March.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , Hewlett-Packard’s biggest rival in the personal-
computer market, is making its own deals. In February, the
company acquired SecureWorks Inc., a seller of managed security
services. SecureWorks offers companies a service that monitors
the security of their networks. It’s now hiring 240 people to
handle the rising workload, said Jon Ramsey, an executive
director at SecureWorks.  IPO Frenzy  Other startups are preparing for IPOs. That includes Q1
Labs, which aims to go public by mid-2012, said CEO Brendan Hannigan. His company doesn’t want to be acquired, he said.  Imperva Inc., a maker of firewall software for Web
applications, filed paperwork in June to sell shares to the
public. Splunk is aiming for an IPO next year, said Joe
Fitzpatrick, a spokesman for the company. Palo Alto Networks is
considering going public as well, said spokesman Mike Haro. They
declined to discuss takeover possibilities.  At WhiteHat Security, which scans websites for security
flaws, either a public offering or a sale to a larger company
are possibilities, said CEO Stephanie Fohn.  In any case, the next generation of technologies needs to
take hold if companies want to keep pace with hackers, said
Pacific Crest’s Owens.  “The existing solutions clearly aren’t getting the job
done,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  