-- 
Hackers Take $1 Billion a Year as Banks Blame Their Clients

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   M i c h a e l   A .   R i l e y
-- 
2011-08-04T21:18:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hackers-take-1-billion-a-year-from-company-accounts-banks-won-t-indemnify.html
Valiena Allison got a call from her
bank on a busy morning two years ago about a wire transfer from
her company’s account. She told the managers she hadn’t approved
the transfer. The problem was, her computer had.  As Allison, chief executive officer of Sterling Heights,
Michigan-based Experi-Metal Inc., was to learn, her company
computer was approving other transfers as she spoke. During
hours of frantic phone calls with her bank, Allison, 45, was
unable to stop this cybercrime in progress as transfer followed
transfer. By day’s end, $5.2 million was gone.  She turned to her bank, a branch of  Comerica Inc. (CMA) , to help
recover the money for her metal-products firm. It got all but
$561,000 of the funds. Then came the surprise: the bank said the
loss was Experi-Metal’s problem because it had allowed Allison’s
computer to be infected by the hackers.  “At the end of the day, the fraud department at Comerica
said: ‘What’s wrong with you? How could you let this happen?’”
Allison said.  In increments of a few thousand dollars to a few million
per theft, cybercrooks are stealing as much as $1 billion a year
from small and mid-sized bank accounts in the U.S. and Europe
like Experi-Metal, according to Don Jackson, a security expert
at Dell SecureWorks. And account holders are the big losers.  ‘Losing More Now’  “I think they’re losing more now than to the James Gang
and Bonnie and Clyde and the rest of the famous gangs
combined,” said U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island
Democrat who chaired a Select Committee on Intelligence task
force on U.S. cybersecurity in 2010.  Organized criminal gangs, operating mostly out of Eastern
Europe, target small companies, school districts and local
governments that maintain fat commercial bank accounts protected
by rudimentary security measures at community or regional banks.
The accounts typically aren’t covered by insurance as individual
accounts are.  “If everyone knew their money was at risk in small and
medium-sized banks, they would move their accounts to JPMorgan
Chase,” said James Woodhill, a venture capitalist who is
leading an effort to get smaller banks to upgrade anti-fraud
security for their online banking programs.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest  U.S. bank , is the
only major U.S. bank that insures commercial deposits against
the type of hacking that plagues smaller banks, Woodhill said.  “Chase has invested substantially in fraud prevention and
detection capabilities for our clients,” Patrick Linehan, a
JPMorgan spokesman, said in an e-mail. “If there is fraud on an
account, we work with our clients on a case-by-case basis.”  Smaller Banks  Smaller banks as well as many of the victims tend not to
make the thefts public, according to interviews with the
customers and experts such as Woodhill. As the threat becomes
better known, small-business customers and other target entities
may shift their business to large, national banks, which can
better absorb the losses to maintain customer relations and
which have better security policies to protect clients from such
crimes.  “It’s frightening for small businesses because they have
no clue about this,” said Avivah Litan, an analyst at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc., which does computer analysis.
“They just don’t have any clue, and everyone expects their bank
to protect them. Businesses are not equipped to deal with this
problem, and banks are barely equipped.”  Customers used to being made whole when they are victims of
credit-card fraud or ATM thefts have had to sue small and
medium-size banks to recover losses after being blamed by their
branches for permitting the crime, as Allison was.  Law Enforcement  The traditional help of law enforcement hasn’t been there
either for such customers. In the heyday of bank robberies in
the 1930s, the FBI became famous for Tommy-gun shootouts with
the bad guys, who were put on the Most Wanted list. In most
cases, the identities of the John Dillingers and Pretty Boy
Floyds of the 21st Century aren’t known because of online
anonymity, and the bureau doesn’t disclose statistics on how
much these cybercrooks are stealing.  Victims in the last two years have ranged from Green Ford
Sales, a car dealership in Abilene,  Kansas , to Golden State
Bridge Inc., a construction company in  California  wine country.
No need to use a mask or gun. These criminals can steal millions
from the comfort of their homes dressed in their pajamas.  The crime profits can be staggering and the risks minimal.
Jackson, the security expert, said three sophisticated gangs
each haul in at least $100 million a year. That dwarfs the $43
million taken in all conventional bank heists in the U.S. last
year, from stick-ups to burglaries, according to the FBI.  A $100 Million Hit  “A $100 million hit on a bank or a series of banks,”
Whitehouse said. “That’s a pretty big bank robbery. And it
doesn’t even make the press. It just trickles through in FBI tip
sheets.”  To law enforcement officials, cybercrime is a new priority.
Both the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and the U.S. Secret
Service, which has jurisdiction over financial crimes, have
boosted manpower to combat computer-enabled robberies and have
formed partnerships with foreign law-enforcement agencies.  Those efforts have been swamped by the explosion in e-
commerce, said Chris Swecker, a former FBI assistant director
who advises companies on cybersecurity. As millions of customers
have shifted online, criminals have followed, their hacking
tools and nimble criminal organizations racing ahead of old-
school law enforcement models.  “Through cybercrime, transnational criminal organizations
pose a significant threat to financial and trust systems,”
including banking, stock markets and credit-card services,
according to a National Security Council report issued in July.  National Security Threat  Cybercrime has risen to the level of a national security
threat, according to the report, citing a “critical shortage of
investigators with the knowledge and expertise to analyze the
ever increasing amounts of potential digital evidence.”  The banking industry’s reluctance to confront this problem
head-on has allowed criminals to reinvest some of their booty to
create better, more effective malicious software, known as
malware, according to Woodhill.  Malware is what hurt Earl Goossen, business manager for
Green Ford Sales, when he logged on to the company’s payroll
account at First Bank Kansas at 7:45 a.m. central standard time
on Nov. 3, 2010. Just two days earlier he’d used his computer to
arrange for the bank to send out the $63,000 payroll to employee
accounts. Everything went smoothly at first. Goossen responded
to a follow-up e-mail request from First Bank Kansas to okay the
payroll, just as he did on the 1st and 15th of every month.  Malicious Software  Unbeknownst to Goossen, malicious software had infected the
computer with a so-called worm, which had the ability to grab
passwords, user names and credit-card data.  Some malware allows hackers thousands of miles away to take
remote control of machines it infects, as if they were sitting
at the keyboard. This malware is affordable and easy to obtain.
A basic version sells for less than $5,000, Jackson said. Many
models, licensed like commercial software from Microsoft Corp.
and Adobe Systems Inc., even come with tech support, he said.  The worm on Goossen’s machine allowed thieves to log onto
the website of the auto dealer’s bank using Goossen’s
credentials and set up a second payroll batch for the usual
amount for nine non-existent employees. The additional payroll
was sent out overnight by First Bank.  The software allowed the hackers to grab Goossen’s e-mail
password and banking details. All they had to do was change the
notification e-mail address to a name under their control.  Gun-Toting Robbers  When an amount like Green Ford’s $63,000 is taken from a
bank by gun-toting robbers, the FBI would typically dispatch
special agents to cordon off the crime scene and interview
witnesses. No agents arrived in Abilene on Nov. 4, and no one at
the company was ever interviewed by the bureau about the theft.  Green Ford’s owner, Lease Duckwall, filled out a report
with local police, who don’t have a cybercrime unit. The Kansas
Bureau of Investigation examined his computer and found nothing
of use. Frustrated, Duckwall turned detective, interviewing bank
employees, victims of similar crimes and whoever knew anything
about cybertheft. In the end, the trail went cold.  Representatives of the FBI and the Secret Service insist
they are not overwhelmed.  “I don’t think it’s right to conclude that because there
are not a lot of arrests that law enforcement is not doing its
job,” said Gordon Snow, the FBI’s assistant director of the
cyber division.  Fighting Cybercrime  The FBI and Secret Service have increased the number of
agents dedicated to fighting cybercrime. Last September, as part
of “Operation Trident Beach,” U.S. prosecutors in  Manhattan 
arrested a gang of money mules in connection with a wide-ranging
cyberfraud ring that had stolen $70 million from banks and tried
to grab another $150 million in the U.S. and Western  Europe . No
ringleader was arrested, even though five were questioned by
police in Ukraine, according to the FBI.  The inability to put handcuffs on suspects in Eastern
Europe is a source of frustration for law enforcement, according
to representatives of the FBI and Secret Service.  “We can’t let that stop us from continuing to move
forward,” said Pablo Martinez, who heads the cybercrime unit at
the Secret Service. “You have to go after every target.”  Mules, used by hackers as cutouts, are an obvious target,
even the unwitting ones. When thieves stole the money from
Duckwall’s dealership, some of the money first went to Shawn
Young’s account in upstate  New York . Young thought it was a
legitimate transaction -- at first.  Assistant Manager  Young, 35, was officially an assistant manager for R.E.
Company Back Office. He got his job in October through a
Careerbuilder website ad that said an Australian office services
company was looking to expand into New York state. He was
selected to scout locations in the Binghamton area. It did seem
odd his new employer never asked for his Social Security number,
he said in an interview.  Part of his job was to transfer payments made by some of
the company’s U.S.-based clients to various programmers. He
corresponded with his boss, Samantha Simons, exclusively through
the company’s intranet site.  At 8:45 a.m. on Nov. 3, Young got his first payment-related
assignment. He logged into the R.E. Company Back Office intranet
site and learned from his supervisors that $4,975 had been
deposited into his account at M&T Bank in Endicott, New York.
The sender was Green Ford Sales.  Act Quickly  His boss said he could keep $145 of the money if he acted
quickly. Within 10 minutes, he withdrew the funds and drove to
the closest  Western Union Co. (WU)  office, a few miles away. Young
pulled into the Western Union parking lot and his cell phone
rang. It was a manager from the M&T Bank branch where he’d made
the withdrawal. She said the bank had discovered the wire
transfer wasn’t authorized. It was only then that Young realized
something might be wrong, he said.  On his way back the bank, his phone rang again. It was
Simons, calling from a Syracuse telephone area code to see if
there was a problem with the transfer. Young, who had never
spoken with his boss, told her he’d been asked to return the
funds. In a matter-of-fact manner, Simons said OK and hung up,
he said.  After learning from his bank that the wire transfer from
Green Ford had been unauthorized, Young tried to log into the
R.E. Company Bank Office website, but his access had been
terminated.  “I was lucky I did not send the money,” Young said. “I
dodged a bullet there.”  Christine Palmer wasn’t as fortunate. In February, the
single mother from  New Britain , Connecticut who moonlights as
the manager of a band, Enemy Remains, applied for a position
advertised on Careerbuilder.com.  Flexible Gig  A woman named “Jennifer” from CS Office Services called
to say she had the job, a flexible gig that paid by the
assignment and required her to help process transactions.  On March 3, after a few weeks of online training, Palmer
woke up to find that $98,000 had been deposited into her account
at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  An e-mail instructed her to withdraw
$9,000 in cash and wire it to three individuals in the Ukraine
via Western Union.  Then, Palmer was to transfer the rest of the funds to a
Ukrainian bank account. As a fee, Palmer could keep $1,800 of
the total. Before she’d completed the wire transfer, a man with
an Eastern European accent called, urging her to speed things
up.  “He sounded very concerned, which made me think I was
going to lose my job,” Palmer said.  Stolen Funds  It wasn’t until a few days later, when  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America halted the wire transfer and told
her the funds had been stolen, that Palmer realized CS Office
Services didn’t really exist, and that her employers were part
of a criminal scheme.  Bank of America closed Palmer’s account and told her she
was responsible for paying back the $9,000 she’d wired overseas.  Palmer said she no longer looks for jobs advertised on web
sites.  Unwitting money mules aren’t the only ones to have gotten
wake-up calls in the new world of bank cybercrime. Customers
sometimes find their friendly bank has become an adversary,
quoting the fine print of account contracts about who is
responsible for what.  On May 7, 2009, cyberthieves hacked into the bank account
of Patco Construction Inc., based in Sanford,  Maine , and
initiated a series of wire transfers totaling $56,594. Some
transfers bounced back, causing Ocean Bank to send owner Mark
Patterson a routine return notice via the U.S. Postal Service.  Transfer Money  Over the next several days, the crooks continued to
transfer money out of Patco’s account, removing almost $500,000
before Patterson received the mailed letter from Ocean Bank. The
bank eventually recovered a portion of the transfers, leaving
Patco with a loss of $345,444, according to Patterson.  Patterson said Ocean Bank rebuffed his attempts to reach a
settlement, so in January 2010 he sued. He argued the bank
should have done a better job monitoring the company’s bank
account. Ocean Bank argued that its protections were
“commercially reasonable,” in keeping with general guidance
issued by the U.S. banking industry in 2005.  In May, a federal magistrate judge in  Portland , Maine,
found for Ocean Bank, now known as People’s United Bank, a unit
of Bridgeport, Connecticut-based  People’s United Financial Inc. (PBCT)   U.S. District Judge D. Brock Hornby in Portland affirmed
the magistrate’s decision today.  Infuriated  The magistrate’s ruling infuriated Woodhill, who co-founded
Authentify, a cybersecurity firm, in 1999. He is trying to
change the law governing liability in hacking cases.  “I can’t fathom how one could consider a security
procedure that makes it easy for people to steal money from
school districts, churches and small businesses to be
commercially reasonable,” Woodhill said.  Woodhill faulted banks for downplaying or hiding the scope
of bank heists, a posture he attributes to fear of undermining
confidence in an online banking system that saves financial
institutions tens of millions of dollars a year in transactions
that don’t have to be processed by a human teller.  Last year, Woodhill came to the rescue of Karen McCarthy,
whose marketing firm was victimized by hackers in February 2010.
McCarthy, who made one wire transfer on the same day every
month, for $1,000, noticed a problem with her computer on Feb.
10. The screen had turned blue and appeared frozen, while other
computers in her firm seemed to function normally.  McCarthy’s Plans  In the weeks leading up to the frozen-screen episode,
McCarthy had reached an agreement to sell her firm, Little &
King. She’d bought out her lease, sold her office equipment and
supplies and was preparing to join the new company as an
employee, leaving behind the worries of business ownership.  After her computer froze, she printed out statements from
Toronto Dominion Bank in preparation for the sale of her
company. Over the Feb. 13-15 Presidents Day weekend, she
couldn’t figure out discrepancies between recent bank statements
and the amount in her company’s checking account. Finally, on
the Monday evening, a national holiday, she checked her online
banking account and saw five unauthorized wire transfers.  She called TD Bank in a panic. Because of the holiday, she
was told no one was available. The next morning she marched into
her TD Bank branch, in Massapequa, New York, and asked an
assistant manager for help.  Calls Not Returned  At first the manager told her the bank would get her money
back, she said. Once it became clear the funds were stolen, the
bank stopped returning her calls, McCarthy said.  The theft derailed the sale of McCarthy’s company, forcing
her to raid her children’s college funds for needed cash. Of the
$164,000 stripped from her account, TD Bank recovered almost
$95,000, leaving her about $70,000 in the hole -- and without an
office or equipment, she said.  When she learned TD Bank was to hold a fraud-prevention
seminar on May 13, 2010, in Burlington,  Vermont , she hopped on a
plane and slipped into the meeting. During the morning
presentation, when an expert in wire transactions was talking
about ways that small businesses could protect themselves from
the dangers posed by cybercriminals, McCarthy raised her hand.  Why wasn’t TD Bank doing a better job protecting its small-
business clients, she asked. How had TD Bank allowed $164,000 to
be wired out of her account even though she hardly every made
wire transfers? As the speaker tried to respond, McCarthy kept
peppering him with questions about his bank’s responsibilities
to its clients.  Let’s Talk Outside  Two bank representatives, including TD Bank’s head of
corporate security and investigations, walked over to McCarthy’s
table and suggested they continue the subject outside. McCarthy
told the head of security it was good to meet him finally, since
she’d been calling him for weeks following the robbery and had
never gotten through.  Jennifer Morneau, a spokeswoman for TD Bank, confirmed
that there was such an incident involving a “woman from Long
Island” at one of its anti-fraud seminars, and didn’t have any
further information.  “We constantly monitor and assess the security of our
systems,” Morneau said in an e-mailed statement. “We also
believe that educating our customers is one of the best ways to
help them defend against online fraud and identity theft,
because even the best security measures can only prevent fraud
if customers are also vigilant about employing the necessary
safeguards to protect their information.”  Anti-Bank Website  With Woodhill’s support, McCarthy started a website she
calls www.yourmoneyisnotsafeinthebank.org and has organized
other cybercrime small-business victims across the country. In
industry presentations, Woodhill uses her as an example in
describing what’s wrong with online banking and the current
rules governing the commercial accounts of small businesses.  “If every small-business account holder in America knew
what Karen McCarthy had gone through, there would be a run on
the banks,” he said.  Last year Woodhill supported a proposed law, introduced by
U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, that would have
extended protections enjoyed by individual bank depositors to
publicly funded entities such as school districts and town
governments. Congress adjourned before any vote was taken.  Woodhill is now pushing for a federal law that would
require regional and community banks to warn their commercial
clients explicitly of the dangers of cyber fraud. He’s hired
former Louisiana congressman Billy Tauzin, a Democrat turned
Republican who chaired the House Energy & Commerce committee, to
represent him.  Bank Opposition  The American Banking Association has opposed attempts to
extend cyberfraud protection from depositors to small-business
clients. Until recently, the association’s position has
prevailed.  Then came the Experi-Metal lawsuit brought by Valiena
Allison against Dallas-based Comerica. In June, U.S. District
Judge Patrick J. Duggan ruled in  Detroit  in favor of Allison and
Experi-Metal, agreeing Comerica’s response to the fraud didn’t
meet standards of good faith and fair dealing. Comerica agreed
to pay Allison almost the entire amount stolen.  Other cybercrime victims have taken note of this precedent,
said Brian Krebs, who has written about the Little & King case
and other cyberthefts on his blog (www.krebsonsecurity.com).  Village View, an escrow company based in Redondo Beach,
California, that was robbed of $465,558 by cyberthieves in March
of 2010, sued Professional Business Bank just two weeks after
the Experi-Metal decision.  Bank Attitudes  The last thing community banks want is to be at odds with
their clients, said  Doug Johnson , a senior policy analyst for
the  American Bankers Association .  “Banks don’t like to sue their customers and customers
don’t like to sue their banks,” he said. “When disputes occur,
it’s best to try to work together for an appropriate result.”  Woodhill said the banking industry is behind the curve on
this matter, just as it was in 1978 when it opposed the
Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which protects consumer bank
deposits from fraud.  “That’s one of the biggest favors Congress ever did for
banks, even though they were against it,” he said. “Banks
truly do not understand what their own interests are. Corporate
lobbyists only play defense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  