-- 
Adidas Raises 2011 Profit, Sales Forecasts on Higher Demand for Reebok

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-04T09:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/adidas-raises-2011-profit-sales-forecasts-on-higher-demand-for-reebok.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, raised its 2011 earnings and sales
forecasts on improving profitability of the Reebok brand and
revenue growth in emerging markets such as China.  Adidas expects earnings per share to rise at a rate
“approaching” 15 percent, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company said today. The company had previously forecast an
earnings per share gain of 10 percent to 15 percent. The stock
rose as much as 5.6 percent, the most in almost three months.  “The outlook has gotten more bullish,” said Sebastian
Frericks, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler, who has
a “buy” recommendation on the stock. “Pressure has increased
in the sports branch, but they still managed to increase their
margins. Reebok is an important factor.”  Adidas joins larger rival  Nike Inc. (NKE)  in boosting forecasts
for 2011. Adidas has benefited from higher demand at its Reebok
unit, which has added retro sneakers and toning shoes to
capitalize on growth in personal-fitness spending. Adidas is
also expanding in China,  Russia  and  North America , where it
plans to generate about half of its targeted 50 percent sales
increase by 2015.  The stock rose 2.16 euros, or 4.4 percent to 50.99 euros at
11:31 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The shares have gained 4.6 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 10.7 billion euros
($15 billion).  Better Defined Buttocks  Nike in June raised its long-term sales forecast after
lifting prices to combat costs for cotton, labor and
transportation. Smaller rival Puma SE last month said it planned
to raise prices by as much as 10 percent starting in the fourth
quarter and reported profit that exceeded analyst estimates.  The market for  Reebok  toning shoes is “stabilizing,” and
toning shoes, which are designed to better define the wearer’s
legs and buttocks, will continue to be successful, Adidas Chief
Executive Officer Herbert Hainer said today on a conference
call. The Adidas brand will have growth in its running, training
and football products, the CEO said.  The analyst consensus for full-year EPS growth is 19
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter net income rose 11 percent to 140 million
euros, beating the average 137.3 million-euro estimate of
analysts surveyed.  Adidas, which increased its gross margins by 0.2 percentage
point in the second quarter, is fighting inflation in raw
materials such as rubber. The company plans to continue raising
prices and streamlining production to boost profitability,
Hainer said today.  ‘No Matter’  Full-year sales will gain about 10 percent on a currency-
neutral basis, the company said. Previously the company had
targeted a “high single-digit” rate. Second-quarter sales rose
5 percent to 3.06 billion euros, led by revenue in greater
 China , which advanced 31 percent.  “No matter which retailer I speak to, or which market
share statistic I read, our product sell-throughs are stronger
than they have ever been,” the CEO said on today’s call.  Adidas has gained market share in  Japan  after the
earthquake and tsunami earlier this year. Sales in the country
will decline at a “high single-digit rate” in the second half,
less than the company had originally anticipated. Of the 300
stores that were damaged by the natural disaster, 150 have
reopened, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 Smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 