-- 
Aeroportuario Pacifico Audit-Committee Members Step Down

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-04T20:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/aeroportuario-del-pacifico-audit-committee-members-step-down.html
Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB,
the airport operator battling a takeover attempt by Grupo  Mexico 
SAB, said audit-committee members Ernesto Vega Velasco and Jose Manuel Rincon Gallardo resigned.  The company will begin proceedings to appoint new board
members, the airport operator said yesterday in a statement. The
board members couldn’t be reached for comment.  Aeroportuario del Pacifico is asking Mexican courts to
block Grupo Mexico’s offer to buy all of its outstanding shares.
Grupo Mexico, the nation’s biggest mining company, owns a 23
percent stake in the airport operator and is challenging a bylaw
that says its ownership must be limited to 10 percent.  Vega Velasco and Rincon Gallardo were two of the three
members of the Guadalajara, Mexico-based airport operator’s
audit committee, according to the company’s website. The third
is Carlos Bravo Almenar.  Aeroportuario del Pacifico fell 67 centavos, or 1.4
percent, to 47.01 pesos at 4:10 p.m. New York time in Mexico
City trading. The shares have fallen 6.6 percent this year.  Both of the resigning members had served on the board since
2006, the year the airport operator had its initial public
offering in Mexico and the U.S. Vega Velasco, 73, is a former
chairman and current audit-committee member on the board of Wal-
Mart de Mexico SAB. Rincon Gallardo is a member of the Cemex SAB
board’s audit committee and was listed as 68 years old in a June
16 filing.  The board members didn’t provide a reason for their
departure in their resignation letter, Miguel Aliaga, a
spokesman for Aeroportuario del Pacifico, said today in an e-
mail.  Share Offer  Grupo Mexico isn’t interested in operating Aeroportuario
del Pacifico and wouldn’t necessarily buy all outstanding
shares, Chief Financial Officer Daniel Muniz said yesterday in a
conference call. Mexican rules require it to make an offer for
all shares of the company if it’s attempting to buy a majority
of shares, he said.  Aeroportuario del Pacifico operates 12 airports in Mexican
cities including Guadalajara, Tijuana and Puerto Vallarta.  Mexico’s securities commission has ruled that the airport
operator’s 10 percent limit on shareholder’s stakes should be
modified to comply with the law, Grupo Mexico said last week in
an earnings report. Aeroportuario del Pacifico board members who
act to block the offer are acting against the interests of
minority shareholders, the Mexico City-based company said.  A Mexican court upheld an injunction barring the securities
commission from issuing a decision on Grupo Mexico’s offer until
the court can rule on Aeroportuario del Pacifico’s request for
constitutional protection, the airport operator said today in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  