-- 
Affin, Boon Koon, Favelle, Guinness: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-08-04T23:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/affin-boon-koon-favelle-guinness-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,546.89.  Affin Holdings Bhd. (AHB)  : The banking group has
discontinued an existing agreement to acquire PT Bank Ina
Perdana because of a study being done by  Indonesia ’s central
bank to limit majority shareholdings in banks there. Affin may
re-negotiate the terms of the proposal after the policy is
released, the bank said in a statement. The stock was unchanged
at 3.39 ringgit.  Boon Koon Group Bhd. (BOKG)  : The auto-parts manufacturer
received a license from Malaysia’s trade ministry to assemble
commercial vehicles such as buses, trucks and vans. The shares
gained 14 percent to 37.5 sen.  Catcha Media Bhd. (CHM MK): The publisher and online media
business operator said HSC Healthcare Sdn. bought a 5 percent
stake in the company, according to a company statement. The
stock rallied 4.8 percent to 76 sen.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  : Malaysia’s second-
biggest bank agreed to form a joint venture to set up a Sri
Lankan investment banking and corporate advisory firm, according
to a company statement. CIMB advanced 0.4 percent to 8.40
ringgit.       Favelle Favco Bhd. (FFB)  : The crane maker received orders
totaling 93.4 million ringgit ($31 million) this month, the
company said in a statement. Favelle dropped 1.4 percent to 1.39
ringgit.       Guinness Anchor Bhd. (GUIN MK): Malaysia’s biggest brewer
by market value said profit in the fourth quarter ended June 30
fell 18 percent from a year earlier to 29.1 million ringgit,
according to an exchange filing. The shares rose 1.5 percent to
10.86 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  