-- 
Afghan Women Entering Police, Army Bear Risk of Taliban Return

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-08-04T04:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/afghan-women-entering-police-army-bear-risk-of-taliban-return.html
The U.S. is helping recruit and train
thousands of women for  Afghanistan ’s police and army, even as
officials seek a peace agreement that might return some power to
their former tormentors, the Taliban.  Some 1,200 women serve in Afghanistan’s national police and
320 in the army. More than 50 have graduated from the military’s
officer candidate school and another course is under way. Four
female second lieutenants from the army arrived in the U.S. last
month to train as helicopter pilots.  “We think that will make the difference in the security of
the country,” said Jack Kem, the senior civilian representative
in the NATO Training Mission. “There is a tie between women
having a role in the security forces of a society and how stable
a society is.”  This increasing return of women into Afghanistan’s
leadership and security forces is at risk as the Obama
administration steps up its drive for a peace agreement between
the Afghan government and the Taliban to speed the U.S. military
exit.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and U.S. officials will face
“centrifugal pressure” in any negotiations to re-open the
country’s current constitution, said Isobel Coleman, a senior
fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York . That
would put the clauses guaranteeing equality for women up for
grabs, she said.  Setting ‘Red Lines’  “I don’t know that the Obama administration speaks as one
voice on this,” said Coleman, who is author of “Paradise
Beneath Her Feet: How Women are Transforming the  Middle East .”
“You’ve heard senior members of the administration say things
like, ‘We can’t push just one issue.’”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has spoken frequently of
U.S. “red lines” requiring that the Taliban give up violence,
renounce al-Qaeda ties and adhere to the Afghan constitution,
highlighting the document’s promise of equal rights for women.
Still, in a February speech, she said those terms would be the
“necessary outcomes” of talks, dropping them as conditions
before negotiations could start.  President  Barack Obama , in a June 22 speech announcing the
beginning of a reduction of U.S. forces, referenced the three
conditions. He cited adherence to the Afghan constitution
without specifically mentioning women and went on to repeat a
limited aim that worries human rights advocates.  “The goal that we seek is achievable, and can be expressed
simply:  No safe haven from which al-Qaeda or its affiliates can
launch attacks against our homeland or our allies,” Obama said.
“We won’t try to make Afghanistan a perfect place.”  ‘Top Priority’  Afghanistan’s ambassador to the U.S., Eklil Hakimi, told a
group at a July 13 White House event for the State Department-
sponsored U.S.-Afghan Women’s Council, “The protection and
promotion of  women’s rights  is a top priority in our democratic
process.”  Kem is counting on U.S. and Afghan officials to deliver on
their public pledges to protect the rights of women in any
potential peace agreement.  “I want it to stick. I don’t want any of this stuff to
roll back,” Kem said in a July 22 interview in Washington. “We
need to be somewhat forthright in what our real policies are.”  Afghan women were the target of some of the world’s worst
abuses before the U.S. toppled the Taliban regime, which had
harbored al-Qaeda prior to the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.
Groups including the New York-based Human Rights Watch
documented how girls were forbidden from attending school. Women
were barred from work and most movement outside the home and
flogged publicly for violations, rights groups reported.  Women Targeted  Women leaders and activists remain targets. Suraya Pakzad,
founder of the Afghan non-governmental group Voice of Women,
counts 12 women activists killed since 2005. They include the
director of the women’s affairs ministry in Kandahar and a
journalist who ran a radio station and was killed while holding
her 6-month-old baby.  The 2008 assassination of police Lieutenant Colonel Malalai
Kakar in Kandahar illustrates the risk to women in the security
forces. The Taliban claimed responsibility.  Kakar had joined Kandahar’s police force in 1982, following
her father and brothers, who also were law enforcement officers,
according to a Sept. 28, 2008, news report on the  BBC ’s website.
After the Taliban took over in the mid-1990s, she was banned
from working, as were all Afghan women.  While women make up only 1 percent of the police in
Afghanistan and a smaller percentage of the army, they can play
a practical and essential role, said Coleman.  ‘A Big Deal’  They are more likely to be accepted in homes where women
are present when police or the army raid for militants or
weapons. And they can acceptably search women -- or men
disguised in the traditional burka -- at checkpoints, Coleman
said.  The Afghan government has set a goal of quadrupling the
number of women in the national police to 5,000 by 2014.  For the four Air Force pilots studying in the U.S., working
in security roles is a personal aspiration and a societal
mission.  “It’s a big deal for us to open this door for others,”
Second Lieutenant Sourya Saleh told reporters at Lackland Air
Force Base in  Texas  on July 13. “There are ladies that have the
dreams that can’t do it. We want to show them.”  Common arguments in Western circles that restrictions on
women in Afghanistan are a cultural issue are refuted by
history.  Afghanistan was one of the first countries to sign the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, Kem said during a
July 22 interview in  Washington . He is on leave from the U.S.
Army Command and General Staff College, where he is director of
the Land Power Studies Institute and holds a chair in military
innovation.  History Lesson  In the 1970s, women participated in all walks of life in
Afghanistan, Voice of Women’s Pakzad said in a July 29 telephone
interview from her home in the western Afghan city of Herat,
where electric power was cut off due to nearby fighting between
the Taliban and Afghan government forces.  Women dressed in Western fashions, worked in medicine and
served in Parliament, she said. As recently as 1985 to 1990,
which includes the period of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan,
women served in all levels of the military.  “The White House should understand that it’s not a
cultural issue,” said Pakzad, who was named in 2009 as one of
Time magazine’s 100 people “who most affect our world” and in
2008 received the State Department’s Women of Courage Award.
“My mother had much more freedom in her time than me.”  The women now in the security services are betting their
futures, and even their lives, on a more tolerant Afghanistan.  Trailblazers  “These women are putting themselves out there. They are
trailblazers, and the nail that sticks up gets hammered down,”
Coleman said in a July 28 telephone interview.  The new U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan,  Ryan Crocker ,
pledged to help protect the rights of women as the Obama
administration pursues an end to the war.  “For us to support Afghanistan, this means support for
sustainable, stable and capable Afghan institutions, both
military and civilians,” Crocker said during his July 25
swearing-in ceremony in Kabul, according to a U.S. Embassy
transcript. “It means doing everything we can to ensure the
strength and vigor of civil society and ensuring that the rights
of all, and especially women, are preserved.”  Kem favors cementing equal rights for women in more funding
arrangements and in a long-term strategic agreement American
officials are negotiating with Afghanistan.  “If that’s a red line,” he said, “then that red line
ought to have some teeth in it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 