-- 
Reid Says Deal Reached to Reopen FAA, Restore Jobs

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-04T20:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/agreement-reached-to-reopen-faa-reid-spokesman.html
Lawmakers have reached an agreement
to allow funding to reopen the  Federal Aviation Administration ,
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today.  “I am pleased to announce that we have been able to broker
a bipartisan compromise between the House and the Senate to put
74,000 transportation and construction workers back to work,”
Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement.  “This agreement does not resolve the important differences
that still remain,” Reid said. “But I believe we should keep
Americans working while Congress settles its differences, and
this agreement will do exactly that.”  Republicans and Democrats were divided over whether to make
it harder for airline workers to unionize and over subsidies for
rural airports. President  Barack Obama  spoke with House Speaker
 John Boehner  about resolving the dispute, White House spokesman
 Jay Carney  said earlier today.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood will grant waivers to
individual airports on a case-by-case basis to enable the FAA to
continue operating, an administration official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity. Existing federal law allows the
secretary to grant waivers, the official said.  Boehner’s spokesman, Mike Steel, said “I do not expect any
further action from the House.”  The FAA’s funding authority expired at midnight July 22
when Congress failed to extend it for a 21st time. The agency
has been operating on a series of 20 short-term extensions since
2007, when its last multi-year funding authorization ran out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
   llitvan@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  