-- 
FAA Set to Recall Workers, Resume Full Operation on Senate Vote

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-05T04:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/agreement-reached-to-reopen-faa-reid.html
The  Federal Aviation Administration 
is preparing to recall 4,000 furloughed workers and resume
collecting airline ticket taxes as the  U.S. Senate  votes today
on legislation to temporarily end a standoff over the agency’s
funding.  A deal reached by lawmakers yesterday calls for the Senate
to accept a  House-passed bill  to extend the FAA’s authority
through Sept. 16 and eliminate $16.6 million in subsidies for
flights to 13 rural airports, said Vincent Morris, a spokesman
for Senator  Jay Rockefeller , chairman of the Commerce, Science
and Transportation Committee. The Senate will meet at 10 a.m. in
 Washington  for that purpose, he said.  The FAA estimates it has lost $371.8 million in taxes,
including on airline tickets, jet fuel and cargo, since its
revenue-raising authority expired July 22, when the  House of
Representatives  and the Senate failed to agree on an extension
bill. The deadlock also stopped the agency from distributing
$2.5 billion in grants for airport projects around the country,
idling 70,000 construction workers, according to the government.  “I am pleased to announce that we have been able to broker
a bipartisan compromise between the House and the Senate to put
74,000 transportation and construction workers back to work,”
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a  Nevada  Democrat, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Rural airports that stand to lose subsidies under the House
bill include those in Ely, Nevada, in Reid’s home state, and in
Morgantown, West Virginia, represented by Rockefeller.  Once the Senate adopts the bill, it can go straight to
President  Barack Obama  for his signature.  Airport Waivers  As allowed under existing law, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood will grant waivers to individual airports on a case-by-
case basis, an administration official said on condition of
anonymity because the official wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record.  The agency has been operating on a series of 20 short-term
extensions since 2007, when its last multiyear funding
authorization ran out.  The House passed a four-year, $59.7 billion reauthorization
proposal in April. Before the bill was approved, Obama’s
advisers said they would recommend vetoing it over a provision
that would make it more difficult for airline workers to choose
union representation.  Republicans and Democrats have been divided over the labor
issue and over the subsidies for rural airports. Obama has
spoken with House Speaker  John Boehner  about resolving the
dispute, said  Jay Carney , a White House spokesman.  “This agreement does not resolve the important differences
that still remain,” Reid said in the statement. “But I believe
we should keep Americans working while Congress settles its
differences, and this agreement will do exactly that.”  The Senate passed a $34.6 billion, two-year reauthorization
measure in February without the labor provision.  Mike Steel, a spokesman for Boehner, said in an e-mail the
lawmaker is “pleased” the Senate agreed to pass the House-
approved extension bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  