-- 
AIG Swings to $1.84 Billion Profit on Gain From AIA Stake

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-08-04T22:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/aig-swings-to-1-84-billion-quarterly-profit-on-gain-from-aia-group-stake.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
swung to a second-quarter profit as it posted gains tied to a
stake in AIA Group Ltd., the third-largest Asia-based insurer by
market value.  Net income of $1.84 billion compares with a loss of $2.66
billion a year earlier, when charges tied to discontinued
operations wiped out profit, the New York-based insurer said
today in a statement. Operating income, which excludes some
investment results, was 69 cents a share, missing the 98-cent
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  retained a holding
in AIA last year when he divested a 67 percent stake in a share
offering as part of a plan to repay a government rescue with
funds from asset sales. The holding allows AIG to benefit from
gains in the Hong Kong-based insurer’s stock, which jumped 13
percent in the second quarter.  AIA is among insurers where executives “maintain strong
balance sheets, know their risks, insist on profitable
underwriting and have a tsunami of demand at their backs in
 Asia ” said  Bruce Berkowitz , who manages shares of both AIG and
AIA, in a letter to investors in his Fairholme Fund posted on
 Business Wire  this week. The AIA stake produced income of about
$1.52 billion, in the quarter, AIG said.  Share Slump  Benmosche has had to bolster reserves at property-casualty
units, settle lawsuits that predate his tenure and deal with
elevated catastrophe claims while working to attract private
investors as the Treasury Department seeks to wind down its 77
percent stake. AIG has declined 45 percent this year on the New
York Stock Exchange to $26.40. Shares were unchanged in late
trading at 5:52 p.m.  Pretax operating income for Chartis property-casualty unit
fell to $789 million from $955 million a year earlier on
disaster claims. AIG spent $1.04 per every premium dollar on
claims and expenses, compared with $1.02 a year earlier.  Catastrophes cost the firm $539 million in the quarter,
compared with about $300 million a year earlier. Costs from
storms including tornadoes in Missouri and  Alabama  wiped out
profit at rival insurer Travelers Cos. and operating income at
Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. in the period.  Operating profit at SunAmerica Financial Group, AIG’s U.S.
life-insurance and retirement-services division, declined 13
percent to $743 million on reduced investment income. Premiums
and other considerations rose 24 percent to $6.14 billion.  ‘The Right Path’  “Improving operating results should provide a catalyst for
the  U.S. Treasury  to sell its shares at a profit,” Benmosche,
67, said in the statement. “We are on the right path.”  The Treasury would need to sell shares at an average of
$29.70 to recoup a capital injection of $47.5 billion and unpaid
fees and dividends and fees of $1.6 billion, the Government
Accountability Office said last month. Excluding the dividend
and fees, the breakeven price is about $28.73. Treasury sold 200
million shares for $29 each in May.  Unrealized gains on bonds available for sale rose to $10.3
billion from $8.73 billion three months earlier, led by
corporate debt. The figures, reflecting market fluctuations that
aren’t counted toward earnings, are monitored by investors and
rating firms as a gauge of financial strength.  Pretax investment income dropped 11 percent to $4.46
billion on an $843 million decline in the value of mortgage-
linked assets turned over to Federal Reserve investment vehicles
as part of the bailout. AIG valued its share in the funds,
called Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane III, at $7.7 billion as of
June 30, compared with $8.6 billion at the end of the first
quarter. The Fed holds a majority stake.  Mortgage Bonds  Holdings of residential mortgage backed securities climbed
to $31.4 billion on June 30 from $25.9 billion at the end of
March. Benmosche is hunting for assets to boost annual returns
on AIG’s portfolio by $500 million to $700 million after the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  rejected his $15.7 billion
offer to buy back a pool of mortgage bonds turned over as part
of the company’s bailout.  AIG cut its municipal bond portfolio to $39.3 billion on
June 30 from $43.8 billion on March 31. The company has said it
has less use for tax-exempt securities after losses in prior
quarters helped it accumulate more than $25 billion in deferred
tax assets.  Buyout funds earned  $426 million , compared with $439
million a year earlier. Income from  hedge funds  climbed to $77
million from $67 million.  United Guaranty, ILFC  Operating profit at AIG’s mortgage insurer, United Guaranty
Corp., plunged 94 percent to $13 million on increased claims
costs a year after the unit benefited by pulling funds from
reserves. The plane business, International Lease Finance Corp.,
posted an $86 million operating profit, a decline of 53 percent
from a year earlier, as it took and impairment charge on its
fleet.  AIG may sell part of the plane-leasing unit in a public
offering that could raise $2 billion, said a person familiar
with the plans, who declined to be identified last month because
discussions are private.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 after losses on
housing-market bets by the Financial Products unit. The rescue
was revised at least four times, swelling to $182.3 billion, to
extend more credit and lower the interest charged.  The insurer repaid the last $21 billion it owed the New
York Federal Reserve and the Treasury converted its preferred
stake into 92 percent of AIG’s common stock in January. That
holding was reduced in May when the government and AIG raised
$8.7 billion in a share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  