-- 
AIG Counts BlackRock, Franklin Among Top Holders as Treasury Lowers Stake

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-04T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/aig-counts-blackrock-franklin-among-top-holders-after-offering.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
attracted investments from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Franklin Resources
Inc. (BEN)  as the U.S. government began to wind down its majority
stake in the bailed-out insurer.  Index funds overseen by BlackRock, the asset manager led by
Laurence D. Fink, tripled their investment in New York-based AIG
to more than 13 million shares in the quarter ended June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. San Mateo, California-
based Franklin held 16.6 million shares, the data show.  “It’s both important and natural to see large
institutional shareholders come on board,” said  Clark Troy , a
senior analyst based in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , for Aite
Group. AIG’s top investors “will look a lot like the
shareholder list of other major financial-services companies”
when the government exits its stake, he said.  Asset managers are betting AIG will recover from a bailout
that forced the firm to sell some of its most profitable units
to repay U.S. aid. Index funds are driven by AIG’s increased
weight in stock benchmarks after the government cut its stake to
77 percent. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  may today
report second-quarter net income of $1.63 billion, compared with
a loss of $2.66 billion a year earlier, according to the average
estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Results may include a gain on AIG’s remaining holding in
insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP. AIA, which became independent last year
when AIG divested a majority stake in a public offering, rose 13
percent in the quarter in  Hong Kong .  ‘Market Pressures’  The number of analysts covering AIG also increased after
the share sale as banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Barclays Plc resumed coverage. Goldman Sachs and Barclays have
the equivalent of “hold” ratings on the company and Newsome
advises investors to buy the stock.  The insurer trades at about 60 percent of book value, a
measure of assets minus liabilities, and is undervalued “due
mostly to market pressures caused by the  U.S. Treasury ’s desire
to sell,” wrote  Bruce Berkowitz , who oversees the largest non-
government stake in AIG.  Berkowitz’s  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  had a 94.8 million-share stake
in AIG as of May 31, according to a  report  that accompanied his
letter to investors posted on Business Wire this week. Fink’s
firm held 10.7 million shares at the end of the second quarter
through BlackRock Institutional Trust and 2.8 million at
BlackRock Fund Advisors.  Brian Beades , a spokesman for BlackRock, declined to
comment as did Franklin’s Matt Walsh.  GAO’s Report  Institutional investors are important shareholders in
companies that compete against AIG, said Tom McCool, director of
the Government Accountability Office’s July  report  on the
insurer. The GAO determined that institutions have the capacity
to purchase the Treasury’s entire stake in AIG without
“considerably changing” their asset-allocation strategies.  “In order to get a stock price that will allow the
government to recapture most, if not all of its investment, the
Treasury will have to look to the institutional market,” he
said. More investors will disclose stakes as they file lists of
holdings with the Securities and Exchange Commission this month.  Treasury would need to sell shares at an average of $29.70
to recoup a capital injection of $47.5 billion and unpaid
dividends and fees of $1.6 billion, the GAO said. Excluding the
dividend and fees, the breakeven price is about $28.73. Treasury
sold 200 million shares for $29 each in May.  AIG’s weighting in the  S&P 500  tripled to 0.1 percent after
an equity offering in May, in which AIG also sold 100 million
shares and the government’s stake was lowered from 92 percent.  Treasury’s Stake  The insurer will probably make up 0.44 percent of the index
once the government has divested all its shares, according to
Jimmy Bhullar, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. That increase
could prompt  index funds  to purchase 150 million more shares, he
said in a note to clients on June 27. Large mutual funds may
also increase holdings, he said. The Treasury now holds about
1.46 billion shares in the company.  Profit at the property-casualty unit may be hurt by
catastrophes, such as the tornado that killed more than 150
people in Joplin, Missouri, in May and the storms that flattened
Tuscaloosa, Alabama in April, said  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at
KBW Inc. The disasters led to a net loss at rival insurer
Travelers Cos.  “The weather is going to be a problem” for AIG, said
Gallant. “They’re going to have their share of those tornado
losses.” He rates the shares “underperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  