-- 
Taiwan Dollar Reverses Gain as Japan Intervention Spurs Sales

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-04T09:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/taiwan-dollar-rebounds-on-fed-stimulus-speculation-bonds-drop.html
Taiwan ’s dollar fell, reversing gains,
after Japan sold yen to stem appreciation in its currency that
threatened to hurt exporters amid signs the global recovery is
slowing.  Stocks and currencies across Asia declined after Japan’s
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  pledged to inject 10 trillion
yen ($126 billion) into the economy. The  Taiwan dollar  rose
earlier after the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday three
former top officials at the  Federal Reserve  said the central
bank should consider a third round of asset purchases to pump
funds into the banking system.  “The yen intervention highlights Japan’s worries that
exports will be threatened when the yen is so strong, especially
when economic recoveries in the U.S. and Europe aren’t bright,”
said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong. “That worry is shared by other central banks in
the region.”  Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.05 percent to NT$28.952 against
its U.S. counterpart as of the 4 p.m. close, a third day of
declines, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It earlier rose as much
as 0.4 percent to NT$28.835.  The Taiex Index of shares slumped 1.7 percent, taking
losses in the past three days to 4.5 percent. Overseas funds
sold $246 million more local equities than they bought today,
according to exchange data.  Government bonds fell. The yield on the 2 percent notes due
July 2016, the most-traded government debt, increased one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.139 percent, prices from
Gretai Securities Market show.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose one basis point to 0.389 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 