-- 
Alabama Suits Seeking to Block Illegal Immigrant Restrictions Consolidated

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-08-04T18:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/alabama-suits-seeking-to-block-illegal-immigrant-restrictions-consolidated.html
Lawsuits by churches, the U.S.
government and civil-rights groups seeking to stop  Alabama  from
enforcing new restrictions on illegal immigrants will be heard
as one.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in
Birmingham, Alabama, ordered the cases’ consolidation yesterday.
Episcopal, Roman Catholic and Methodist bishops; the U.S.
Justice Department, and the  American Civil Liberties Union  sued
Alabama Governor Robert Bentley starting July 8.  Church leaders claim the law stops them from carrying out
their religious mission by denying food, shelter and worship to
people who are in the U.S. illegally. The U.S. says the law
conflicts with federal authority over aliens, such as regulation
of migrant employment. The ACLU, joined by the  Southern Poverty
Law Center , objected that transporting children who are illegal
immigrants will be a crime.  The law requires the police to check the status of anyone
they stop and suspect might be in the country illegally.
Businesses will have to use a federal database called E-Verify
to determine whether job applicants are eligible to work.
Renting housing to illegal immigrants will be a crime.  An Aug. 24 hearing is scheduled on whether to stop the law
temporarily from being enforced. It goes into effect Sept. 1.
Alabama is the fifth state to enact similar legislation.  Under the consolidation, a lawsuit filed by the Hispanic
Interest Coalition of Alabama, which includes the ACLU and
Southern Poverty Law Center, will be the lead case where
pleadings are filed. The two other suits will be member cases.  The case is Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama, 11-cv-
02484, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama
(Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  