-- 
Alpiq Said to Consider Swapping Edipower Stake for Power Station

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-04T10:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/alpiq-said-to-consider-swapping-edipower-stake-for-power-station.html
Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) , a Swiss energy
company which has 20 percent of  Edison SpA (EDN)  unit  Edipower Spa ,
may give up its stake in exchange for a gas-fired power plant,
said two people with knowledge of the talks.  The ownership of Edipower, the electricity-producing unit
of Italian power company Edison, needs to be resolved in order
for Electricite de France SA to gain control of parent company
Edison, two of the people said, declining to be identified
because the negotiations are private. Edipower is 50 percent
controlled by Edison, 20 percent by Alpiq, 20 percent by  A2A
SpA (A2A) , and 10 percent by Iren SpA.  While A2A and Iren are Edison shareholders and involved in
both negotiations for Edison and for Edipower, Alpiq only owns a
stake in Edipower, making it easier to reach an agreement, the
people said. Both A2A and Iren are also negotiating to get
electricity producing assets and other concessions in exchange
for EDF getting control Edison,  Italy ’s second-largest power
producer.  Edipower posted revenue of 1 billion euros ($1.42 billion)
and net profit of 45 million euros in 2010, according to the
company website. The power producer owns six gas-fired power
plants and three hydroelectric plants in Italy.  Martin Bahnmueller, a spokesman for Alpiq, said the company
does not comment on rumors about the future of its 20 percent
stake in Edipower. An Edison press officer was unavailable for
comment.  Brescia-based utility A2A, which is leading negotiations
over control of Edison for the Italians, said July 7 it would
recommence talks seeking better terms. EDF Chief Executive
Officer  Henri Proglio  said last week he is waiting for approval
from the Italian government before going further with
negotiations.  Preliminary Agreement  A preliminary agreement reached in March between EDF and
Italian shareholders gave the French control of Edison in
exchange for assets and cash. The deal was held up by the
Italian government amid controversy over French efforts to take
control of dairymaker Parmalat SpA and jeweler Bulgari SpA.  Edison’s shareholders have until Sept. 15 to reach an
agreement, after which EDF and the Italians have to proceed with
an auction of Edison shares. If a new preliminary agreement is
reached, the Sept. 15 deadline may be put off further to allow a
final deal to be hammered out, the people said.  Alpiq owns a 5 percent stake in A2A, according to the
 website  of Italy’s market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  