-- 
Hamilton Sees U.S. Growth Picking Up While Odds of Recession Are Higher

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-04T15:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hamilton-sees-faster-growth-while-odds-of-recession-are-higher.html
The  U.S. economy  will probably gain
strength during the second half of the year, while the risk of a
relapse into recession has risen, said  James Hamilton , an
economics professor at the University of  California ,  San Diego .  “More likely than not we will have better growth in the
second half of the year than the first half,” Hamilton said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “The prospect
of getting into recession in 2011 is higher now than I would
have said it was at the beginning of the year, but that still
doesn’t mean it’s more than 50 percent.”  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, less than economists forecast, the
Commerce Department said July 29. Reports this week showed an
unexpected drop in  consumer spending  and slower-than-estimated
growth in manufacturing.  “At the moment I’m worried about  consumer confidence ,
business confidence, their spending and the residual effects
those are having,” Hamilton said, adding that the debt ceiling
debate may have done lasting damage to confidence.  “We may have dodged the bullet from the debt ceiling but
I’m afraid we could well have been hit by some of the shrapnel
from it,” he said.  Hamilton in his research has explored the idea that
measures of economic activity operate differently during periods
of economic growth and recession, and that an economy may hit a
tipping point and move quickly from one state to another.  Jeremy Nalewaik, a Fed board staff economist, published a
paper in April based partly on Hamilton’s research that
identified 1 percent growth or less “as a moderately useful
warning sign that the economy is in danger of falling into a
recession.”  ‘Stall Speed’  An expansion at that rate may hit a “stall speed,” or a
level of growth low enough that the economy loses its momentum
and begins to shrink, he said. The Commerce Department said last
week that the economy grew 0.4 percent in the first quarter of
the year.  Nine of the 11 recessions since 1945 were preceded by at
least one quarter of GDP growth below 1 percent in the year
before the recession began, according to Nalewaik’s research.  Still, quarters of such low growth don’t always herald
recession. Over the time period of Nalewaik’s study, 25 quarters
had growth below 1 percent, with 12 of the quarters preceding a
shrinking economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  