-- 
AngloGold Profit Surges on Gold Price; Production Target Cut

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-04T16:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/anglogold-quarterly-profit-jumps-by-68-as-demand-drives-prices-to-record.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-
largest gold miner, reported record profit after the metal’s
longest winning streak since the 1920s countered operational
problems that forced the company to cut a production target.  Second-quarter earnings excluding one-time items surged 68
percent to $342 million, or 89 cents a share, from $203 million,
or 53 cents, in the first quarter, the Johannesburg-based
company said. The adjusted earnings beat the median estimate
among six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of 63 cents a share.  Gold, advancing for 11 consecutive quarters, averaged
$1,509.22 an ounce in the period and reached a record $1,681.72
in  London  today as concern over slowing global economic growth
increased demand for a haven against financial turmoil.  “We’re generating more cash and earnings than we ever have
in our history,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said on
a conference call today, adding gold may “easily” break $1,700
an ounce in the next six months. The price may reach $2,500 in
the next two to three years, he said in a separate interview.
The company raised its interim dividend 44 percent to 13 cents.  Price gains, along with cost cuts and increased production,
mitigated the effect of difficulties including rain flooding the
Sunrise Dam pit in  Australia . Cutifani cut the annual production
forecast to 4.45 million ounces from about 4.65 million ounces,
the midpoint of the previous range of estimates. A pay strike in
 South Africa  last month lowered output as much as 45,000 ounces.  AngloGold declined 2.87 rand, or 1 percent, to 297.84 rand
by the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg, where the four-
member index of gold stocks dropped 1.3 percent.  Higher Output  AngloGold increased second-quarter output 4.5 percent to
1.086 million ounces from 1.039 million ounces in the first, and
targets 1.11 million ounces in the third. Its cost estimate for
the year was raised to $725 to $740 an ounce and it may reach a
target to produce 5.5 million ounces annually in 2014 or 2015.  “The flooding event in Sunrise Dam has been quite
challenging and will impact us a little bit more going
forward,” Cutifani said. “We’ll be coming out of that in the
fourth quarter.”  Acquisitions are unlikely as the company focuses on growth
at current projects. Adding an underground section at its Geita
mine in  Tanzania  is looking “very likely,” Cutifani said, as
the project moves from concept stage to a prefeasibility study.  AngloGold and South African rivals Gold Fields Ltd. and
Harmony Gold Mining Co. are trying to boost production even as
mines get deeper and more costly to operate. The three agreed to
raise workers’ pay by as much as double the country’s 5 percent
inflation rate after the strike halted mines for five days from
July 28. Average power prices jumped 26 percent this year.  South African Rivals  AngloGold, which also has mines in Australia and  Brazil , in
May targeted production of 1.09 million ounces at a cost of $760
an ounce in the second quarter, and annual output of between
4.55 million and 4.75 million ounces.  AngloGold and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the largest producer,
last year scrapped the last of the contracts that bound them to
sell gold significantly below the current price of the metal.
The contracts were agreed years earlier when gold wasn’t
expected to rise as much as it has.  While debt should rise in the second half on increasing
capital expenditure, AngloGold’s financing is “much stronger
than it was a year ago due to the improved cash flows following
the elimination of the hedge book,”  Leon Esterhuizen , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a note today, adding
the earnings exceeded his expectations.  Analysts compare results of South African miners with the
prior quarter rather than the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  