-- 
AngloGold Ashanti Plans Trial to Tap $118 Billion of 3-Mile Deep Deposits

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-05T07:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/anglogold-plans-trial-to-tap-118-billion-of-3-mile-deep-ore.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , which owns
the world’s deepest mine, will within two years trial new mining
methods in South Africa to access almost $118 billion worth of
gold lying more than three miles underground as it expects gold
prices to keep rising from this year’s record.  The world’s third-largest gold producer wants to gain
access to an estimated 70 million ounces of gold more than 3.1
miles below the surface to extend the lives of its South African
mines. The metal is worth $117.6 billion at current prices.  “We’ve got a pretty good shape in our heads of what this
could look like, which is different to what’s been done anywhere
previously,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said in an
interview in Johannesburg yesterday. The company, which is based
in Johannesburg, will undertake the trials at Kopanang mine 106
miles southwest of the city, he said.  AngloGold and its rivals are trying to boost production to
benefit from prices of the metal. Gold has had its longest
streak of gains in 20 years, rising for each of at least the
past ten consecutive quarters, to a record of about $1,684.70 an
ounce in  London  yesterday and traded at $1,657.75 as of 8:24
a.m. The price could “easily” exceed $2,500 an ounce in three
years, Cutifani said today.  Extracting gold becomes more difficult, costly, and
dangerous as depth increases.  Safety Concerns  Currently gold resources below 3.1 miles are “unlikely to
be developed because they’re either below the grade required to
cover costs, or locked up in areas that are difficult to get to,
or you may have concerns about safety,” Cutifani said. The
company, which mined 4.52 million ounces last year, extracts
gold from as deep as 2.4 miles at its Mponeng mine southwest of
Johannesburg.  AngloGold could combine existing technologies to boost the
ratio of waste rock versus gold-bearing rock extracted, Cutifani
said.  AngloGold’s initial spend on the trials would be “in the
low tens of millions” of dollars, Cutifani said.  The capital risk “relative to the size of the prize is
small,” he said. “It really is about the future. If we don’t
do something on this then you don’t have a future without it
here” in  South Africa .  While more than 30 percent of all the gold ever mined was
extracted in South Africa, according to Rand Refinery, the
country’s main processing plant, 31,000 tons of the metal, or
three tenths of world  reserves , still lie underground, according
to Johannesburg’s Chamber of Mines.  The country’s proportion of world gold production has
halved to about 8 percent from 16 percent in 2000 as the depth
of the remaining deposits discourage new mines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  