-- 
Art Treasure Faces Meltdown on Records for Gold, Silver Futures

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-08-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/art-treasure-at-risk-of-meltdown-on-record-prices-for-gold-silver-futures.html
Experts are watching thousands of
valuable heirlooms be melted down as financial-market turmoil
boosts investors’ demand for precious metals.  Gold futures are trading at close to record prices, and
silver has also been at its highest in 2011. Antique jewelry is
being thrown into furnaces as sellers forgo the uncertainty of
auctions for a quick cash sale from metal dealers. Auction
houses are having to pay more attention to melt prices as
speculators watch for lots that can be snapped up below their
scrap value.  Countless 18th- and 19th-century boxes, candlesticks and
salvers have already been lost forever, with collectors saying
that even more valuable Georgian and Victorian pieces are in
danger. Gold has gained about 17 percent to records this year,
with David Hightower of the Hightower Report saying prices may
drop to $1,600 an ounce before resuming a climb to $1,730. While
silver is down from its all-time high of $49.79 an ounce on
April 25, it has doubled in the last year.  “Over the last 18 months, we’ve had more people asking the
weight of lots,” said Jo Langston, Christie’s International’s
head of portrait miniatures and gold boxes. “They’re looking to
see if it’s more economical to buy a box rather than an ingot.
We would never sell an item for less than its melt value,
though.”  At the precious-metals dealer 375 Live Ltd. in the Hatton
Garden district of  London , plastic dustbins are filled with
tankards, teapots and cutlery.  Stunning Scrap  “For 20 years, silver was 3 to 7 pounds ($11.47) an
ounce,” said director Vince Clegg. “Now it’s at more than 20.
The antique stuff is outweighing itself. We’re scrapping some
stunning pieces.”  A Victorian Georgian-style salver and an 18th-century
three-piece tea set were among the items destined for the
furnace, respectively valued at 457 pounds and 800 pounds.  “Things like that shouldn’t be melted,” said Lewis Smith,
managing director of the London-based dealers  Koopman Rare Art .
“As the price goes up, there are going to be more mistakes.”  Neil Franklin, partner in the London-based antique silver
dealers  N. & I. Franklin , agreed. “If it carries on like this,
there will be nothing left to buy,” he said. “So much is being
melted that even the pedestrian pieces will become rare.”  Sotheby’s (BID)  now has to “take melt value into
consideration,” said the auction house’s London-based head of
silver, Cynthia Harris. “This only really applies to about 5
percent of the lots we’re selling, such as flatware and salvers.
We’ve also seen some new people coming to auctions who could be
described as speculators. They’re looking at heavy items like
centerpieces.”  Bubble Warning  Silver was the strongest performing asset in the latest
U.K.  Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors  art and antiques
market survey. A balance of 64 percent of responding members --
mostly auctioneers -- reported a rise in silver prices.  “It’s partly to do with a lack of trust in the financial
system,”  Daniel Brebner , head of metal research at Deutsche
Bank, said in an interview. “If it’s not a bubble now, there’s
a real chance one might be created in 2012.”  The U.S. billionaires Nelson Hunt and his brother Herbert
made a systematic attempt to corner the silver market during the
1970s. Speculation -- and a melting spree -- drove the price up
to almost $50 an ounce in 1980 before it collapsed.  “With so much instability, people are going into their
attics,” said David Wyler, director of the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based specialist dealers  S. Wyler Inc. , who compared
the price rise to the Hunt brothers’ speculation.  Industrial Demand  The current price is helped by industrial demand. About 40
to 45 percent of scrap is bought by the solar and electronics
industries, said Brebner.  “It’s had a massive impact,”  Alex Bernard , a craftsman
based in Sussex, Southern England, said in an interview. “Half
of my customers have disappeared since the beginning of the
year,” said Bernard, a member of the U.K.’s  Goldsmiths’
Company .  “The rise in gold and silver hasn’t done us any harm,”
Ian Goldbart, managing director of the London-based coin dealers
 A. H. Baldwin & Sons , said in an interview. “It just means
we’ve had to revise the prices of everything on our trays.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 