-- 
Asia Stocks Fall a Third Day as World Economy Concern Outweighs Yen Plunge

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-08-04T10:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-hitachi-advances-honda-falls.html
Asian stocks fell on concern the U.S.
economic recovery is faltering, overshadowing gains by Japanese
exporters after the nation intervened in the foreign-exchange
market to sell the yen.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s No. 1 lender,
fell 2.1 percent in Sydney. Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s biggest offshore
oil producer by market value, led declines by energy producers
after  oil prices  declined. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s
biggest carmaker, reversed earlier losses after Japan’s Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the country intervened to stem the
yen’s gains against the dollar. Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. pared gains after they rebutted
speculation they are in merger talks.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.5 percent to 130.33 as
of 7:40 p.m. in Tokyo, after gaining as much as 0.2 percent. The
gauge has fallen 6.2 percent in the last three days, its biggest
such decline since March 15. More than twice the number of
stocks fell as rose on the measure.  Stocks fell for a third day amid concern the U.S. economic
recovery is faltering after growth slowed in service industries
and employment cooled in the world’s biggest economy.  “Asian markets remain hostage to global economic
concerns,” said John Woods, Hong Kong-based chief Asian
strategist at Citigroup Inc.’s private bank. “Until we see a
sense of resolution of these macroeconomic issues, it’s highly
unlikely we’re going to see any risk appetite pick up on the
back of stock valuations becoming attractive.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 0.2 percent after
earlier rising as much as 1.4 percent. The yen dropped against
the dollar after the nation’s finance ministry said unilateral
action was taken to sell the currency.  U.S. Futures  South Korea ’s Kospi index slipped 2.3 percent, while
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 1.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index lost 0.5 percent, while China’s Shanghai
Composite Index climbed 0.2 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.9 percent
today. In  New York  yesterday, the index advanced 0.5 percent to
1,260.34, snapping a seven-day decline, amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may consider another economic stimulus program
to prevent a recession following weakening economic data.  Banks led declines on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index on
concern global economic growth will stall after U.S.  service
industries  expanded in July at the slowest pace in 17 months as
orders and employment cooled.  Global Economic Concerns  Commonwealth Bank sank 2.1 percent to A$47.55, while
National Australia Bank Ltd., the nation’s No. 3 lender by
market value, dropped 2.3 percent to A$22.67. HSBC Holdings Plc,
 Europe ’s biggest bank, fell 1.1 percent to HK$76.15 in Hong
Kong.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell for a third day today
after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses in the U.S., which covers about 90
percent of the economy, showed a decline to 52.7 from 53.3 in
June. Readings above 50 signal expansion, and the median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey was for 53.5 in July.
Companies hired fewer workers last month than in June, a report
from ADP Employer Services showed.  U.S. initial jobless claims climbed by 7,000 to 405,000
last week, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before data to be released later today.
The jobless rate was unchanged at 9.2 percent and nonfarm
payrolls advanced by 85,000 workers in July, other surveys show
before reports tomorrow.  ‘Hitting Brick Wall’  “You’ve got global growth apparently hitting a brick
wall,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under
management globally. “Those worries are hitting all cyclical
stocks today, especially banks.”  Oil companies  declined after crude oil fell for a fifth day
in New York as concerns of a slowing economy in the world’s
biggest crude-consuming nation countered speculation of another
stimulus program.  Cnooc sank 2.4 percent to HK$16.52 in Hong Kong. Inpex
Corp., Japan’s biggest energy explorer by sales, lost 2.1
percent to 572,000 yen in Tokyo even after reporting a 26
percent increase in net income.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, fell 2.5 percent to A$12.34 in
Sydney.  Samsung Slides  Among other stocks that declined, Samsung Electronics Co.
fell after the company said it stopped production of some
products, becoming the second-biggest drag on the Kospi Index.
The shares lost 1.4 percent to 821,000 won after a company
spokesman said Samsung yesterday stopped production lines for
fridges and vacuum cleaners at its Gwangju factory in South
Korea, without providing a reason for the stoppage.  The Asia Economic Daily earlier reported that the assembly
lines were halted after one of Samsung’s part suppliers stopped
deliveries because of financial difficulties.  Japanese exporters such as Toyota and Canon Inc. provided
the biggest support on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index as the yen
plunged against all its major peers after the country’s
government intervened in the foreign-exchange market for the
first time since March to stem gains in the currency that
threatens the nation’s economic recovery.  Toyota, which receives over 28 percent of its revenue from
the U.S., climbed 0.6 percent to 3,140 yen, reversing earlier
declines. Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera maker, rose 1
percent to 3,725 yen. Nintendo Co., the game maker which
receives 39 percent of its revenue from “the Americas”
advanced 1.1 percent to 11,950 yen.  BOJ Stimulus  Japanese shares pared gains even after the Bank of  Japan 
said it expanded its asset-purchase fund to 15 trillion yen
($189 billion) from 10 trillion yen, according to a statement
today. It also expanded a credit facility by 5 trillion yen to
35 trillion and kept its benchmark  interest rate  near zero.  The BOJ announced an asset-buying program of 5 trillion yen
($63.4 billion) in November which was doubled in March after an
earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster.  Japan last intervened on March 18, joining its Group of
Seven counterparts in selling the yen, the day after the
currency jumped to the postwar record of 76.25 per dollar
following the earthquake disaster. The yen traded at 79.99
today, compared with 77.15 at the close of  Tokyo  trading
yesterday. A weaker yen boosts exporters’ overseas income when
repatriated.  Continued Intervention?  “The intervention was timely and concerns about the yen’s
appreciation eased, however, that wasn’t great enough to erase
investors’ worries,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee
the equivalent of $18 billion as chief strategist at Toyota
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Gains in stocks were limited as
people still want to identify whether intervention will be
continued from now on.”  Hitachi pared gains of a much as 3.9 percent after saying
it is not in talks to merge some of their business with
Mitsubishi Heavy, rebutting earlier comments by Hitachi
President Hiroaki Nakanishi, who said the companies were in
merger talks in televised comments on Tokyo Broadcasting System.  Hitachi increased 1.7 percent to 471 yen, while Mitsubishi
Heavy rose 3.4 percent to 361 yen. The companies were among the
biggest positive supports on Japan’s Topix index, which slid 0.1
percent. After the market closed Hitachi, Mitsubishi Electric
Corp. and Mitsubishi Heavy said they had agreed to merge their
hydropower businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  