-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Commodity Prices Erase Gains for 2011

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-08-04T21:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/asia-commodity-day-ahead-commodity-prices-erase-gains-for-2011.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Erase Gain for 2011 on Signs Recovery Is Faltering  Commodities slumped, erasing gains for the year, on growing
concern that the global economic recovery is faltering.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Roaste.com Matches Java Sellers With Buyers Shunning Starbucks  Three years ago, Frank Lanzkron-Tamarazo traded a 15-year
career as a cantor singing prayers in a synagogue for roasting
beans at Chazzano Coffee Roasters, a company he started after a
friend suggested he follow his passion.  Southwest Focuses on Boeing Over Rivals in New Plane Talks (3)  Southwest Airlines Co., the biggest low-fare air carrier,
supports Boeing Co.’s decision to put a new engine on the 737
and isn’t in talks with other suppliers about orders, Chief
Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls Most in 10 Weeks as Economic Recovery May Stall  Copper futures fell the most in 10 weeks on signs that the
global economic recovery is stalling, damping the outlook for
commodity demand.  Escondida Workers to Weigh Offer at Strike-Hit Chilean Mine (3)  Striking workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida copper
mine, the world’s biggest, probably will vote today on a new pay
offer as long as the company delivers a formal proposal, said
union leader Marcelo Tapia.  MINING:  Vale, BHP Would Find Ferrexpo ‘Incredible Value,’ CEO Says (1)  Ferrexpo Plc would offer “incredible value” for the
largest iron-ore exporters should owners of the pellet
manufacturer operating in Ukraine ever decide to sell, Chief
Executive Officer Kostyantin Zhevago said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Futures Fall From Record as Equity Rout Spurs Metal Sales  Gold futures fell from a record $1,684.90 an ounce as some
investors sold the metal to cover losses in other markets.
Silver posted the biggest drop in almost three months.  AngloGold Profit Surges on Gold Price; Production Target Cut (1)  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., the third-largest gold miner,
reported record profit after the metal’s longest winning streak
since the 1920s countered operational problems that forced the
company to cut a production target.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans, Corn Drop as ‘Struggling’ Global Economy Damps Demand  Soybeans dropped the most in five weeks and corn declined
for a second straight day on speculation that the global economy
is faltering, eroding demand for food,  animal feed  and fuel made
from the biggest U.S. crops.  Cocoa Declines on Increased Output; Sugar Gains; Coffee Drops  Cocoa fell to a six-week low on signs that output is rising
in  Ivory Coast , the world’s largest grower. Sugar advanced, and
coffee retreated.  Hogs Gain on Signs of Higher U.S. Pork Demand; Cattle Decline  Hog futures rose for the first time in three days on signs
of increasing U.S. pork demand. Cattle fell.  Wheat Falls as Cheap Russia Grain Cuts Demand for U.S. Exports  Wheat futures dropped the most in five weeks on signs that
importers favor cheaper Russian grain, reducing demand for
supplies from the U.S., the world’s top exporter.  Orange Juice Slumps as Storm Concern Eases; Cotton Advances  Orange-juice futures declined the most this year on signs
that Tropical Storm Emily will spare groves in  Florida , the
world’s biggest citrus grower after Brazil. Cotton climbed.  Farmland Values Rise to Record on Higher Crop, Animal Prices (1)  U.S. farmland values rose to a record as crop and livestock
prices surged and demand for exports jumped.  Monsanto to Sell Biotech Sweet Corn for U.S. Consumers (1)  Monsanto Co., the world’s biggest vegetable seed maker,
said it will begin selling genetically modified sweet corn in
the U.S. this year, the first product it has developed for the
consumer market.  SHIPPING:  Diana Shipping Second-Quarter Profit Declines on Lower Rates (2)  Diana Shipping Inc., a Greek owner of ships that move
commodities including iron ore and coal, said second-quarter
profit fell 18 percent as shipping rates declined.  ECONOMIES:  Initial Jobless Claims in U.S. Fell Last Week to 400,000 (2)  Initial claims for unemployment insurance payments in the
U.S. fell last week to a level that shows limited improvement in
the labor market.  Trichet Says ECB to Offer Banks More Cash as Debt Crisis Spreads  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the ECB will offer banks additional cash as the region’s debt
crisis spreads, increasing pressure on policy makers to resume
bond purchases.  OTHER MARKETS:  Yen Drops by Most Since 2008 as  Japan  Intervenes; Dollar Jumps  The yen dropped by the most since October 2008 against the
dollar after Japan sold its currency to stem gains that threaten
the nation’s economic recovery.  U.S. Stocks Plunge as S&P 500 Posts Biggest Retreat Since 2009  U.S. stocks plunged, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to the biggest decline since February 2009, as concern the
global economy is weakening prompted a global rout.  Bovespa Index Plunges Most Since 2008 on Earnings, Commodities  Brazil ’s benchmark stock index posted the biggest drop
since November 2008, paced by declines in commodities producers,
on disappointing earnings and growing concern the global economy
is weakening.  Oil Erases 2011’s Gains as Commodities Tumble on Economy Concern  Crude oil  wiped out all of its gains for 2011 and natural
gas traded below $4 for the first time since April in  New York 
as concern the global economy is weakening sent raw materials
prices tumbling around the world.  SPORTS:  Tiger Woods Trails Leaders By Five Shots at Bridgestone Golf  Tiger Woods trails by five shots through 16 holes of
today’s opening round of the Bridgestone Invitational, where
Australians Jason Day and Adam Scott lead by one stroke.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  