-- 
Massacres, Heroism of War Evoked in Paris Photo Show: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-08-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/massacres-heroism-of-war-are-evoked-in-paris-photo-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The first casualty when war comes is
truth.  U.S. Senator Hiram W. Johnson (1866-1945), to whom that
dictum is ascribed, probably didn’t have photojournalists in
mind. Still, “The Shadow of War,” a show at the  Maison
Europeenne de la Photographie  in Paris, includes more than one
image whose truthfulness leaves something to be desired.  The exhibition opens with one of the most notorious
examples, Robert Capa’s “Death of a Loyalist Militiaman”
(1936), the picture of a militant supposedly at the moment of
death in the Spanish Civil War. Capa gave conflicting accounts
of its origin and was accused of having staged the scene.  Another famous picture is that of a Red Army soldier who
hoists a hammer-and-sickle flag on the roof of the Reichstag in
Berlin. After the  Soviet Union ’s demise, photographer Yevgeny
Khaldei revealed that he had been under orders to remove an
embarrassing detail: The officer supporting the soldier wore a
watch on each wrist, providing evidence of postwar looting. The
thief disappeared.  To unmask the photographers and their censors, however,
isn’t the purpose of the show. Organized by the  Fondazione
Umberto Veronesi , it aims at promoting disarmament and the
“Science of Peace.”  You may wonder if “science” is the right word for that
noble cause. Nevertheless, the 90 photographs depicting the
horrors of war, many well-known examples among them, will
impress even the most jaded visitor.  Battle Drama  Wartime photojournalism began in the middle of the 19th
century. For a long time, though, the camera was unable to
capture the dramatic action the public was accustomed to from
battle paintings and graphic illustrations.  Only when the Spanish Civil War broke out, in 1936, did
small cameras, more sensitive film and transmission by wire open
the way to the kind of coverage that we know today. This is
where the show starts.  It then moves on to World War II and the  Vietnam  War. The
difference, from the press photographers’ point of view, was
that in Vietnam they enjoyed a freedom from censorship that had
been unthinkable previously.  Dmitri Baltermants’s powerful image of Russian women
identifying the dead after a massacre in Crimea was published
after the war in Western magazines. Only at the very end of the
conflict, in April 1945, did the U.S. authorities allow the
depiction of a dead Allied serviceman, Capa’s photograph of a
sniped corporal in Leipzig.  Vietcong Execution  Most of the classic snapshots from the  Vietnam War  are
here, including Eddie Adams’s execution of a Vietcong prisoner
in the streets of Saigon and Nick Ut’s naked girl fleeing from a
village that had been attacked with napalm bombs.  Later photographs are from the conflicts in Biafra, Bosnia,
 Northern Ireland , Lebanon,  Nicaragua ,  Kosovo  and, finally,
 Afghanistan  and  Iraq .  In 1985, a French magazine portrayed a young war
photographer with the caption: “Twenty years old, the most
gorgeous babes, danger, the world’s strongest drugs, pals. And
they even pay you.” That romantic glorification glosses over
the fact that many photographers paid for their courage with
their lives, including Capa who was killed in Indochina.  The last picture in the show, of an exhausted GI in
Afghanistan, was shot by Tim Hetherington for  Vanity Fair .
Covering the fighting in  Libya , he was killed in April by a
mortar shell in the besieged city of Misrata.  “L’Ombre de la Guerre” is at the Maison Europeenne de la
Photographie in Paris through Sept. 25. Information:
 http://www.mep-fr.org  or +33-1-4478-7500.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  beech@bloomberg.net  or. 