-- 
Mattel Must Pay MGA $225 Million in Punitive Damages, Fees in Bratz Case

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-05T14:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/mattel-must-pay-mga-225-million-in-punitive-damages-fees-in-bratz-case.html
MGA Entertainment Inc., the maker of
Bratz dolls, won $225 million in punitive damages, attorney fees
and costs from  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , bringing the total award in the
trial over the doll’s origins to $310 million.  U.S. District Judge  David Carter  in Santa Ana, California,
yesterday awarded MGA $85 million in punitive damages and
$2.5 million in fees and costs for its trade-secret theft claims
against Mattel. The judge separately awarded MGA about
$137 million in fees and costs for having to defend against
Mattel’s copyright infringement claims.  “Mattel asserted a copyright claim that was stunning in
scope and unreasonable in relief it requested,” Carter said.
“The claim imperiled free expression, competition and the only
serious competitor Mattel had faced in the fashion doll market
in nearly 50 years.”  The jury in April agreed with closely held MGA that Mattel
stole its  trade secrets  when company employees got into MGA’s
showrooms at toy fairs using phony business cards.  The jurors awarded MGA $3.4 million for each of 26
instances in which they found Mattel misappropriated a trade
secret, a total of $88.4 million. Carter yesterday lowered the
jury award to $85 million.  The jury rejected a claim that MGA stole Mattel’s trade
secrets in 2000 when it made an agreement with  Carter Bryant , a
toy designer. Mattel said Bryant was working for it when he came
up with the idea for the Bratz dolls and made the first
sketches.  Copyright Claims  The jury also rejected claims that the pouty multiethnic
dolls, which MGA started selling in 2001, violated Mattel’s
copyright.  “This is a step in the right direction to right the wrongs
of Mattel’s criminal acts towards MGA,”  Isaac Larian , MGA’s
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will now pursue our antitrust case against Mattel and its CEO
Bob Eckert in order to get fully compensated for the damages
Mattel has caused MGA, MGA’s employees and the Bratz brand.”  Lisa Marie Bongiovanni, a Mattel spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately reply to phone and e-mail messages sent to her
office today seeking comment on the awards.  In a separate ruling yesterday, Carter denied Mattel’s
request for a new trial or for a ruling that the evidence
presented didn’t support the jury’s trade-secret
misappropriation verdict.  Fee Request  MGA, based in  Van Nuys , California, said in a May 6 fee
request that Barbie-doll maker Mattel set out to destroy most of
the value of its business and succeeded.  Mattel, based in El Segundo,  California , asked the judge to
reject the request for legal costs, saying its copyright-
infringement claims were “objectively reasonable.”  The case returned to court in January after a $100 million
verdict in favor of Mattel was overturned on appeal.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  found that
Stephen G. Larson, the judge who presided over the first trial
in 2008 and who has since returned to private practice, wrongly
ruled that Mattel automatically owned Bryant’s design under the
terms of an invention agreement and that the judge incorrectly
gave Mattel ownership of later Bratz dolls that MGA developed.  Mattel first sued Bryant in 2004, alleging he secretly
worked for a competitor while still employed at Mattel. Two
years later, Mattel filed its copyright-infringement and trade-
secret theft claims against MGA. Bryant settled with Mattel
before the start of the 2008 trial.  Designer’s Account  The doll designer said he came up with the Bratz idea and
made the first sketches in 1998, while he was living with his
parents in  Missouri  and wasn’t working at Mattel. He said the
idea came to him from observing students at Kickapoo High School
in Springfield, Missouri, and from advertisements he saw in
Seventeen magazine.  Mattel fell 42 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $24.20 at 10:03
a.m. in Nasdaq stock market trading in  New York . The stock
through yesterday rose 12 percent in the previous year.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California ( Santa Ana ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 