-- 
Australia Cricket Captain Clarke Forecasts Test Success on Sri Lanka Tour

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-04T07:47:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/australia-cricket-captain-clarke-forecasts-test-success-on-sri-lanka-tour.html
Australia cricket captain  Michael Clarke  forecast a successful start to his tenure in Sri Lanka as
his team seeks to work its way back up the Test rankings.  “I really hope we can turn things around straight away,”
Clarke said today at a news conference in Sydney. “If we keep
the same attitude we’ve had over the last couple of months with
our training and our dedication, if we continue on this road I
can see us having some success.”  The best-of-three contest, which will be Clarke’s first
elite series since replacing  Ricky Ponting  as skipper in March,
will be followed by matches against  South Africa  and  India . All
three are ranked above  Australia , which has slipped from first
to fifth in the  International Cricket Council ’s Test  ratings .  The Sri Lanka series marks Australia’s return to the Test
arena since it fell to a 3-1 home defeat to  England  in January.
It was Australia’s first Ashes loss at home for 24 years.  Clarke, 30, will be in a charge of a squad featuring four
rookies including spin bowler Nathan Lyon, who was working as a
groundsman at the Adelaide Oval in December when Australia was
playing England in the Ashes.  Clarke said he’s yet to meet Lyon, who was joined by fast
bowlers Trent Copeland and James Pattinson and batsman Shaun
Marsh as the newcomers in a 15-man roster.  “I’m really confident with the squad we have,” Clarke
added. “I love the fact we’ve got some new fresh faces that are
going to be excited and itching for their opportunity, but the
facts are we have to have some success. We have to improve from
our recent results in the last Australian summer.”  Review Due  The Ashes defeat prompted a review of the national team’s
performance by an independent panel, which may table its
findings at Cricket Australia’s next board meeting scheduled for
Aug. 18-19.  Chaired by former BHP Billiton chairman Don Argus, the
review team was tasked with identifying the cause of Australia’s
decline in Test matches and make recommendations to deliver
sustained success.  Australia opens its Test series against  Sri Lanka  on Aug.
31 in Galle with matches in Kandy and  Colombo  to follow. The
teams are also scheduled to play five one-day games between Aug.
10 and Aug. 22.  Clarke, who also leads the one-day squad, said he wasn’t
bothered by the prospect of the recommendations being made
public during the middle of the tour.  “We knew the review was going to take place,” Clarke said.
“I’m not too focused on it to be honest. We know what’s in
front of us and what we have to focus on as players, the rest
will take care of itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  