-- 
Aviva CEO Moss ‘Comfortable’ With Peripheral European Debt

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-04T16:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/aviva-ceo-says-he-s-comfortable-with-peripheral-european-debt.html
Aviva Plc (AV/)  Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Moss said he’s comfortable with the insurer’s holding of
1.4 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) of bonds sold by European
governments affected by the sovereign debt crisis.  The U.K.’s second-biggest insurer holds 900 million pounds
of Italian  government bonds  and a further 500 million pounds of
government debt in  Greece ,  Spain ,  Portugal  and Ireland, Finance
Director Pat Regan said today in a call with reporters. That’s
1.2 percent of its 113 billion pounds of shareholder assets.  “We’ve reduced exposures over the last couple of years as
we’ve seen some of these problems coming down the track,” Moss
told reporters today.  “All of our exposures are within risk appetite,” he said.
“We’ve done lots of contingency planning around any potential
outcome, and we feel comfortable with our ability to withstand
any of that given the very strong capital position that we
have.”  Aviva sought to increase sales in Europe under a program
announced in October 2009, saying an aging population and slow
economic growth would boost savings rates. The shares have
dropped 13.5 percent in the past month, making it the second
worst-performing member of the  FTSE ASX Life Insurance (FALIFE)  Index,
amid concern the European sovereign debt crisis may hurt
earnings.  The shares fell 4.6 percent to 357.5 pence in London
trading today, for a market value of about 10 billion pounds.  ‘Extremely Strong’  The insurer, which has 20 million customers across 12
countries in Europe, also has 6.6 billion pounds of assets
belonging to policyholders in  Italy  and a further 1.4 billion
pounds of customer-owned assets in Greece, Spain, Portugal and
Ireland, Regan said. Aviva has 352 billion pounds of assets
under management in total.  “The political commitment to the eurozone remains
undeniably extremely strong,” Moss said. “We’ll come through
this period.”  The insurer today reported a 5.3 percent rise in first-half
operating profit to 1.34 billion pounds. That beat the 1.29
billion-pound estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
firm’s earnings from  Europe  climbed 21 percent to 525 million
pounds and returns on its new life insurance policies increased.  “Savings rates in Europe remain high and our combination
of mature markets and emerging economies allows us to benefit
from varied growth rates across the region,” Moss said.  Net income declined to 125 million pounds in the six-month
period, compared with 1.1 billion pounds a year earlier, the
London-based company  said .  The fall was due to “unrealized investment variances” at
its Dutch division Delta Lloyd NV, Moss said. Aviva holds a
minority stake in the business after selling shares in the
division earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  