-- 
Axa’s First-Half Net Income Quadruples on Gains From Asset Sales in Asia

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-08-04T11:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/axa-first-half-net-income-quadruples-on-gains-from-asset-sales.html
Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-largest
insurer, said first-half profit more than quadrupled on gains
from asset disposals in  China ,  Australia  and New Zealand,
beating estimates. Shares rose as much as 6 percent in Paris.  Net income rose to 4 billion euros ($5.7 billion) from 944
million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based insurer said in an
e-mailed statement today. That was more than the 3.57 billion-
euro average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “These results show a company in good health,” said
Francois Chaulet, who helps manage 250 million euros at
Montsegur Finance in Paris and hold shares in Axa. “With this
improvement in operating earnings, there is lots of upside for
the stock.”  Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries is banking on
 Asia  to drive growth. He set a 2015 target in June to reach
annual operating profit of more than 6 billion euros compared
with 3.88 billion euros last year. Axa is expanding in Asia and
scaling back in  Canada  and the U.K. as it aims for 10 percent
annual growth in operating earnings per share through 2015.  In the latest period, operating earnings, which exclude
 capital gains , one-time charges and asset-valuation swings, rose
11 percent to 2.22 billion euros, beating the 2.14 billion-euro
estimate from analysts. Earnings from property and casualty
insurance rose 17 percent, while profit from the life and
savings unit, Axa’s biggest, fell 1 percent.  Asia Ambitions  Axa shares rose as much as 72 cents and traded up 28 cents,
or 2.3 percent, to 12.31 euros as of 1:10 p.m. in Paris. Before
today, the shares dropped 3.4 percent in 2011, less than the 7.9
percent decline of the 28-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index.  Germany ’s  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer, has
fallen 4.5 percent this year.  “Axa begins the second half of 2011 with a significantly
increased exposure to high-growth markets,” the CEO said.  De Castries, 56, who at the height of the global financial
crisis had to drop the firm’s 2012 earnings goals, is counting
on growth in Asia. Axa, along with AMP Ltd., completed in April
a A$13.3 billion ($14.2 billion) bid for Melbourne-based Axa
Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd. for control of businesses in a region
where wealth is growing at the world’s quickest rate.  By completing the deal on Axa Asia Pacific, Axa gained
direct control of its operations in Asian countries stretching
from  India  to  Indonesia . Axa also booked a one-time gain of 691
million euros in the first half from the disposal of its
business in Australia and  New Zealand , the company said.  Chinese Market  Axa’s first-half earnings benefited from a 749 million-euro
gain from the disposal of its stake in China’s Taikang Life
Insurance Co.  The French insurer is also seeking growth in the Chinese
market. De Castries flew to Beijing in October to seal a life-
insurance partnership with Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. ICBC bought a 60 percent stake in Shanghai-based AXA-
Minmetals Assurance Co., while the French insurer holds 27.5
percent and China Minmetals Corp. owns 12.5 percent.  Axa sold most of its U.K. life-insurance businesses last
year at a loss. The insurer said clients at its fund-management
units in 2010 withdrew 64 billion euros of assets as U.S.-based
Axa Rosenberg Group LLC suffered a coding error.  Axa’s profit dropped 24 percent in 2010. BNP Paribas SA,
 Europe ’s largest bank by assets and owner of a 5.2 percent stake
in Axa, took a 534 million-euro impairment in the fourth quarter
of 2010 on its holding because the insurer’s stock had often
traded below book value since the start of the financial crisis.  Asset Management  In asset management, Axa had 23 billion euros in outflows
in the first half, mostly from institutional clients withdrawing
funds at New York-based unit AllianceBernstein LP.  Axa is aiming to stop total net outflows in 2012 at its
asset-management business, Deputy CEO Denis Duverne said today.  The insurer has said it is making a “turnaround of net
flows” this year at the business, which may be able to attract
4 percent to 5 percent of net new money as a percentage of
assets under management between 2012 and 2015, according to the
June 1 presentation.  Separately, Axa booked a 92 million-euro net impairment in
the first half on its Greek sovereign-debt holdings, the insurer
said today. Axa follows BNP Paribas,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG in writing down holdings of Greek
debt as part of a rescue plan from the  Institute of
International Finance . The plan requires investors to take a 21
percent loss on holdings that mature by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 