-- 
Baht Little Changed on Speculation Policy Makers to Curb Gains

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-08-04T02:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/baht-little-changed-on-speculation-policy-makers-to-curb-gains.html
Thailand ’s baht was little changed on
speculation policy makers will curb gains to protect the
nation’s exports after it advanced the most among Asian
currencies excluding the yen in the past month.  The central bank has been in the foreign-exchange market to
curtail volatility, and policy makers have prepared measures to
ensure stability in the market, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said on July 21. Speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will start
another round of stimulus supported the baht, according to
Brown Brothers Harriman ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  “Central banks in Asia are a little concerned about the
rise of their currencies, and the Thai central bank seems to be
a little more worried than others,” said Christopher Gothard,
head of foreign exchange at  Brown Brothers . “If there is more
liquidity coming out of the U.S., it’s probably going to find
its way into Asia.”  The baht traded at 29.74 per dollar as of 8:21 a.m. in
Bangkok, compared with 29.73 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has advanced 2.5 percent in
the past month, the biggest gain among Asia’s 10 most-traded
currencies excluding the yen.  The Fed should consider a third round of bond purchases to
help the economy, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
former central bank officials  Donald Kohn ,  Vincent Reinhart  and
Brian Madigan.  Thai government bonds rose for a fifth day. The yield on
the 5.25 percent notes due May 2014 lost six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 3.68 percent, according to data from
the Thai Bond Market Association.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, added 3.5 basis points to
3.685 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  