-- 
Balanced-Budget Amendment Fails Fiscal Test: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-08-04T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/balanced-budget-bill-fails-fiscal-test-commentary-by-stephen-l-carter.html
At a Washington event in the early
1990s, I happened to find myself seated beside an official
fairly high in the White House of  George H.W. Bush . We got to
chatting, and he waxed poetic about a constitutional amendment
requiring the federal government to balance its annual budget.  He even had a new draft in his pocket, words he had
scribbled on a cocktail napkin. I don’t recall the precise
language, but his version was short, and began something like
this: “Except in time of war, the federal government shall not
..."  A free and frank exchange of views ensued.  Fast-forward to today: Republican lawmakers want a quick
vote on a balanced-budget amendment (or BBA, as the cognoscenti,
I am sad to report, are now calling it). This is an
understandable demand given  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates of near trillion-dollar deficits into the near future.  Yet, while I remain skeptical of objections that the
amendment would lead to fiscal disaster, I do think its
opponents are right on the merits. The amendment is a poorly
designed cure for a disease of complex causes.  The American tradition of deficit spending goes back to the
Revolutionary War, when the colonies financed their rebellion
with borrowed money. Shortly after the constitutional system
replaced the Articles of Confederation, the federal government
took on the debts incurred by the states, an act that sent the
new nation’s debt soaring, by most estimates, to a third or more
of GDP.  Founding Fiscal Hawks  That era had its own fiscal hawks, and providing a way to
pay down the debt was hotly debated at the constitutional
convention. In 1798,  Thomas Jefferson  wished the Constitution
had “an additional article taking from the federal government
the power of borrowing.”  The founders’ bills were paid off just in time to start the
whole merry-go-round again when the Civil War broke out.
Although some historians attribute the Union victory to its
superior creditworthiness -- the South faced far higher
borrowing costs -- the accumulated debt nearly bankrupted the
winning side, and took another half century to retire.  Abraham Lincoln  himself wondered how the U.S. would ever
pay back the money borrowed to finance the Civil War, fretting
that the conflict “has produced a national debt and taxation
unprecedented, at least in this country.”  And in the late years of the 19th century, a worried
Congress adopted laws restricting the purposes for which the
self-governing territories of the West could take on debt,
limiting their borrowing to no more than 1 percent of the value
of taxable property within their borders.  It was inevitable that the worries would eventually lead to
efforts to amend the Constitution. The first came in 1936, when
Representative Harold Knutson, a Minnesota Republican,
introduced an amendment to limit federal borrowing. It and its
successors have all failed, although several proposals in the
1980s and 1990s passed in one chamber of Congress.  Beyond political support, however, the real problem with a
balanced-budget amendment is that it would fail to do what its
supporters claim: Keep the nation’s fiscal house in order.  Consider Section 1 of a current  bill : “Total outlays for
any fiscal year shall not exceed total receipts for that fiscal
year, unless three-fifths of the whole number of each House of
Congress shall provide by law for a specific excess of outlays
over receipts by a rollcall vote.”  Sounds impressive, until one parses it. We all think we
know what a fiscal year is, but legislatures have redefined the
term constantly for budgeting purposes. To take the most obvious
example, the federal fiscal year begins on Oct. 1. But until
1976, the federal fiscal year began on July 1, and Congress has
often extended the fiscal year through a continuing resolution.
Businesses are allowed in some circumstances to use a 53-week
fiscal year.  Subject to Manipulation  Some experts argue that the fiscal year should be 18 months
to allow for smoother budgeting. In short, the amendment is
built on a concept both ill-defined and subject to manipulation.  Likewise, consider the rule that outlays must not exceed
receipts. Another section defines “total receipts” as “all
receipts of the United States Government except those derived
from borrowing” -- in essence, taxes, tariffs and fees. “Total
outlays” are “all outlays of the United States Government
except for those for repayment of debt principal.”  Here’s a quick and easy way for a future Congress to game
those definitions: Set up an independent, nonprofit,
nongovernmental corporation that issues bonds, for the avowed
purpose not of raising revenue but of giving Americans a place
to invest their money safely. We might call our new agency the
Federal National Bond Association, or Fannie Bae.  Fannie Bae’s bonds would not be quite as cheap as
Treasuries, but as Treasuries would no longer exist, these would
presumably be the next best thing, because of their implicit
federal guarantee. Most of the money Fannie Bae raised in the
market would then be turned over to the Treasury, which would
place it in a  trust fund . (A small part would be kept to run
Fannie Bae.) The funds are now just like Social Security -- a
“receipt” within the meaning of the amendment -- and
“outlays” may therefore rise by that amount.  Now, you might protest that the establishment of Fannie Bae
would seem to vitiate the purpose of the amendment. But the
federal government gets around constitutional provisions all the
time. (Remember the congressional power to declare war?)  Maybe the courts would strike down Fannie Bae, but to
imagine them doing so is to accept the likelihood that federal
judges would have final say over fiscal policy. As Walter Dellinger, a solicitor general in the Bill Clinton
administration,  warned  recently in the New York Times, “the
process of enforcing” such an amendment “would be uncertain
and perilous.”  Counting the Receipts  Although one is tempted to respond that this quality, alas,
does not differentiate the proposed amendment from any other
provision of the Constitution, the more provisions we add, the
greater the possibilities for, let us say, unpredictable
interpretations.  Furthermore, for the amendment to operate, someone --
presumably the  Congressional Budget Office  -- would have to
figure out each year what the total receipts and total outlays
probably will be. Every corporation has to do the same thing,
but the prospect of such review proved too much for even the
fiscal watchdogs of the Wall Street Journal  editorial board :
“We doubt the historic 1981 Reagan tax cuts within the Kemp-
Roth bill, once subjected to Congress’s revenue-neutrality
accountants, could have survived the balanced budget mandate.”  This objection hints at the biggest problem with the
proposed amendment: It seeks to enshrine as fundamental law a
single theory about the relation of fiscal policy to the
operation of the  U.S. economy . And this would be a grave
mistake.  In microeconomics, the theory of supply and demand is
rigorously worked out and often tested. Despite soft spots, it
remains the heart of every introductory economics class,
precisely because it is concise, understood and essentially
correct.  Macroeconomics is of a very different character. It is a
field rich with theories difficult to test. One difficulty is
trying to model the entire economy, and no matter how many
variables are held constant, there is always something important
unaccounted for. This helps to explain why economists are all
over the map. Keynesians and supply-siders alike can all present
data favoring their theories. That is why politicians and the
economists whose work they rely on should approach the subject,
as Harvard economist N. Gregory Mankiw has put it, with
 humility .  So the balanced-budget amendment, whatever its political
popularity, possesses the following difficulties: It is poorly
written and easy to circumvent; it invites judicial control of
the appropriations process; and it pretends to know more than we
can confidently say we do about how the economy works. For an
amendment to the Constitution, those are just too many deficits.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at Yale
and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the
Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 