-- 
Banks Push Credit Cards in Bid to Counter Debit Swipe-Fee Caps

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-04T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/banks-push-credit-cards-in-bid-to-counter-debit-swipe-fee-caps.html
U.S. caps on debit-card transaction
fees set to take effect in October are spurring the biggest
banks to push consumers into credit products that will generate
more than triple the revenue.  Lenders will create incentives for “people to use credit
cards instead of debit cards,” James Rohr, 62, chief executive
officer of Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
said during a July 20 conference call with analysts. Almost 1.1
billion credit-card offers were mailed in the second quarter, a
20 percent increase over the prior three-month period, according
to market-research firm Synovate.  The caps, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, may reduce annual
revenue at the biggest U.S. banks by $8 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg Government show. The cost to merchants won’t exceed
24 cents on an average debit ticket, replacing a formula that’s
typically 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or 44 cents. Swipe
fees for credit cards, which aren’t regulated, equal roughly
2 percent and generate about $40 billion a year.  A shift from debit to credit may erode expected savings for
U.S. merchants who pay the swipe fees set by San Francisco-based
 Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  U.S. consumers also took on more
revolving debt in May, primarily credit-card balances.  In May, revolving credit climbed $3.36 billion to $793.1
billion from an almost seven-year low of $789.8 billion in
April, according to the  Federal Reserve . The gain, the second
since August 2008, equaled a 5.1 percent annualized increase.  Visa, MasterCard  Visa, the biggest payments network, said last week that
U.S. credit-card purchases rose 9.8 percent to $224 billion in
the quarter ended June, compared with a 5.9 percent growth in
the same period last year. U.S. credit-card spending at No. 2
MasterCard rose 6.1 percent, compared with 1.1 percent in the
second quarter of 2010, the Purchase, New York-based firm
reported yesterday.  The transition from debit to credit may be slow as economic
growth stagnates and unemployment remains above 9 percent, Visa
CEOJoseph W. Saunders, 65, said in a July 6 conference call
with analysts.  “It’s easy to talk about doing that, but the last time I
checked we were still in a recession and in order to move
transactions from  debit cards  to credit cards you have to be
willing to give the credit to people,” Saunders said. “That
will happen over time, but I don’t think it’s anything
immediate.”  Fee Caps  The Fed capped debit fees at 21 cents per swipe. It will
let issuers tack on 5 basis points of each transaction, or
almost 2 cents based on the average debit ticket of $38, and a
conditional 1-cent adjustment for lenders that follow certain
fraud-prevention standards.  The limits, championed by U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , an
Illinois Democrat, have spurred banks to curtail debit-card
rewards programs and add fees for checking accounts.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the lender with the largest U.S. branch
network and the second-biggest debit-card issuer after  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , stopped enrolling customers in debit rewards and
is testing a $3 monthly debit-card fee in some markets,
according to Lisa Westermann, a spokeswoman. The firm predicted
last month that the fee caps will reduce annual profit by about
$1 billion.  “We expect to recapture at least half of this over time
through volume and product changes,” Chief Financial Officer
Timothy J. Sloan said during a July 19 conference call, without
elaborating.  ‘Can’t Wait’  Wells Fargo CEO  John Stumpf , 57, said on the call that he
“can’t wait to get a credit card in every one of our
creditworthy customers’ wallets.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, ended debit perks for most customers in July. Regions
Financial Corp. and SunTrust Banks Inc. also cut their programs.  Paul Hartwick, a spokesman for JPMorgan, said the lender
isn’t encouraging cardholders to switch from debit to credit.  “Our aim is to give our customers clear reasons to do more
business with us, regardless of what type of card they are
using,” Hartwick said in an e-mail.  As banks stop offering debit-card customers perks such as
cash-back bonuses and airline miles, lenders including JPMorgan
and McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  are
sweetening credit-card come-ons.  ‘Very Competitive’  “Issuers are becoming very competitive in attracting
consumers with high credit scores, and they are using the best
reward offers we’ve seen in several years,” said Bill Hardekopf, CEO of LowCards.com and author of “The Credit Card
Guidebook.”  JPMorgan last month offered 50,000 rewards points, enough
for two round-trip flights, for new users of its Southwest
Airlines Rapid Rewards Premier credit card, Hardekopf said in a
July 13 e-mail.  The challenge for banks will be to develop products that
“look and behave like a debit card,” said  Moshe Orenbuch , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “If you were using a debit
card before, whatever it is you liked about that card would need
to be packaged into a credit card with similar features.”  Otherwise, lenders risk angering customers and driving them
to one of about 7,500 smaller banks, those with less than $10
billion in assets, that are exempt from the debit caps, said
Mallory Duncan, general counsel at the Washington-based  National
Retail Federation , which lobbied for the new rules.  Durbin’s Prediction  “Credit cards have always been a more lucrative vehicle
of the banks and the networks,” said Brian Dodge, a spokesman
for the Retail Industry Leaders Association, an Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group that represents merchants including
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp. “Any effort by the banks
and the networks to steer people toward credit will run headlong
into a consumer that prefers debit cards over credit.”  Durbin, the architect of the debit caps, predicted in
December that card issuers would seek to circumvent the
legislation.  “The big banks and card networks are likely to start
steering their customers away from traditional debit cards and
toward less-regulated products,” Durbin wrote in a Dec. 21
letter to  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser who
organized the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 