-- 
Bank of Japan Adds Monetary Stimulus, Supporting Effort to Cool Yen Gains

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-04T05:12:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bank-of-japan-eases-policy-as-authorities-intervene-to-stem-yen-s-advance.html
The  Bank of Japan  added monetary
stimulus after authorities intervened to stem an advance in the
yen to protect the nation’s economic recovery.  The central bank expanded its asset-purchase fund to 15
trillion yen ($189 billion) from 10 trillion yen, according to a
statement in  Tokyo  today. It also expanded a credit facility by
5 trillion yen to 35 trillion and kept its benchmark  interest
rate  near zero. It ended the meeting a day earlier than
scheduled after the government intervened.  The yen tumbled more than 2 percent against the dollar
after Japan unilaterally sold its currency. Its move came a day
after the Swiss central bank unexpectedly cut interest rates to
stem gains in the franc.  “The concerted action between the MOF and the BOJ should
be taken as a clear sign that both the government and the BOJ do
not want to break the current economic recovery due to the
unacceptable yen appreciation,” Masaaki Kanno, chief  Japan 
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ
official, said before the decision.  It was the first time the central bank expanded the asset-
buying fund, its main policy tool, since March, when it stepped
up purchases to combat a plunge and stocks and a surge in the
yen after the earthquake and tsunami. The fund buys financial
assets ranging from  government bonds  to real-estate investment
trusts.  Sony Sales  Sony Corp., Japan’s largest exporter of consumer
electronics, is among companies that have lowered sales
forecasts because of a stronger currency that is reducing its
global competitiveness. Even Toyota Motor Corp., which raised
its full-year profit forecast by 39 percent, estimates a 15-yen
change in the  exchange rate  over the past year has “blown off”
300,000 yen, or $3,900, in profit on a $20,000 car.  “Frankly speaking, losing 300,000 yen per vehicle is a
real drag,” Senior Managing Officer Takahiko Ijichi said in
Tokyo this week.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa yesterday faced criticism from lawmakers in parliament
about their inability to halt the yen’s climb toward a postwar
high, moves politicians said would hurt the nation’s rebound and
encourage companies to move factories and jobs overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  