-- 
UniCredit Writes Down Russian Brokerage to Zero as Sberbank, VTB Compete

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-04T13:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bank-austria-standalone-securities-unit-in-russia-less-in-focus.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  wrote down to zero the
goodwill on the Russian brokerage it bought for four times book
value in 2006, doubting the business can make money in an area
increasingly targeted by Russian state-owned banks.  UniCredit’s Bank Austria unit wrote down the entire
remaining goodwill of 50 million euros ($71 million) on its
Moscow-based CJSC UniCredit Securities unit, Bank Austria Chief
Financial Officer Francesco Giordano told journalists in Vienna
today. The writedown on the unit formerly known as Aton follows
previous impairments in 2008 and 2009. Bank Austria owns most of
the Italian lender’s eastern European assets.  “To be honest, if you look at the results, Aton has not
been particularly exciting,” Giordano said, adding that “we
have reassessed partially our activity.” UniCredit now wants to
“do securities business mostly as support for corporates and a
little bit less as a standalone activity,” he said.  UniCredit agreed to buy what was then known as Aton for
$424 million in 2006, winning against rival suitors that
included Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
according to Russian media at the time. That was four times
Aton’s book value, according to  Bank Austria’s 2007 annual
report . The bank wrote down 140 million euros of goodwill in
2008, and another 18 million euros in 2009.  Growing Competition  UniCredit’s Russian broker business is facing growing
competition. OAO Sberbank, the state-controlled lender, is
buying  Troika Dialog ,  Russia ’s oldest brokerage, and VTB Group,
another state-controlled bank, was the leading equity and debt
underwriter last year in Russia two years after it hired more
than 100 bankers from Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow for its start-
up.  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who recently entered
politics as a leader of business-friendly Pravoye Delo party,
bought a 50 percent stake in  Renaissance Capital  in September
2008.  Aton was founded in 1991 by Yevgeny Yuryev, an adviser to
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev . Yuryev retained Aton’s asset
management business and in 2009 started a new broker under the
same name. The new Aton competes with UniCredit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  