-- 
BofA Says Loan Repurchase Costs May Exceed Previous Forecast

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bank-of-america-sees-claims-rising-from-fannie-mae-for-mortgage-buybacks.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender, posted its worst two-day decline since 2009 after
telling investors that claims from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
may cost more than previously forecast.  The bank fell 7.5 percent yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the biggest drop in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , and extended its slide for the past two
sessions to 15 percent. New demands for refunds on soured loans
from the two U.S.-owned mortgage firms are coming “in numbers
that were not expected based on historical experience,” the
company said in its Aug. 4 quarterly report to regulators.  The filing signals that the $30 billion of expenses booked
by  Brian T. Moynihan  since he became chief executive officer
still may not be enough to clean up the faulty mortgages
inherited from former CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis . The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based firm told investors in June that actions taken
during the second quarter probably would cover any further
buybacks unless Fannie Mae and Freddie changed their stance.  “Yet again, another line in the sand from Bank of America
turns out to be fungible,” said  Tony Plath , a professor of
finance at the University of  North Carolina  in Charlotte. “I
don’t think it’s anything nefarious, it’s just that they don’t
know what the magnitude of losses in that portfolio will be --
and until they do, none of their numbers have credibility.”  Stock Reaction  Bank of America fell more than all its biggest peers, with
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  sliding 3.9 percent, Wells Fargo & Co. dropping
2.1 percent and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  off less than 1 percent.
The decline to $8.17 a share left Bank of America down
39 percent this year, dogged by concerns that mortgage expenses
and a stagnating  U.S. economy  will crimp profit and force it to
bolster capital by selling new shares.  The last time the bank traded at this level was in April
2009, the month when Lewis was ousted from the chairman’s post
amid doubts about the bank’s purchases of Merrill Lynch & Co.
and Countrywide Financial Corp., the subprime lender whose
mortgages are generating most of the buyback claims.  The possibility that  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac will step
up their demands increased the risk that Bank of America may
have to raise capital, Ed Najarian, head of bank research at
International Strategy & Investment Group, said in a note to
clients. Moynihan has repeatedly said this year that the firm
won’t need to issue common stock.  Fannie Mae’s Pressure  Fannie Mae faces its own pressures, with the mortgage firm
reporting a $2.9 billion second-quarter loss yesterday and
asking for another $5.1 billion in federal aid. The company,
which was seized by the government in 2008 to save it from
insolvency, has drawn $104.8 billion in U.S. assistance.  Fannie Mae can request a buyback if a mortgage insurer
denies coverage for a Bank of America loan, even when the lender
disputes the insurer’s decision, according to the bank’s filing.
Companies currently have three months after being denied
coverage to appeal the repurchase demand and will have just
30 days starting in July 2012, Bank of America said.  “This announcement could result in more repurchase
requests from Fannie Mae than the assumptions in our estimated
liability contemplate,” Bank of America said. The lender may
not be able to resolve insurance disputes in time, meaning that
“our representations and warranties  liability  may increase.”  Bank of America said in a May filing that the behavior of
the two government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs, “continues
to evolve” and that claims had increased in the first quarter.
The firm’s disclosure elaborates on that theme, said Larry DiRita, a bank spokesman.  “We have previously disclosed that GSE behavior is
evolving in a way that diverges from our longstanding course of
dealing with them,” DiRita said in an e-mail. “We have taken
into account and will continue to closely monitor and assess the
possible risks associated with these changed behaviors.”  Damage Control  In January, the bank disclosed the $3 billion in
settlements with Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . Assuming stable
housing prices and that the behavior of the GSEs didn’t change,
the accords “largely addressed” those liabilities, the bank
said, and Moynihan told investors that management was “pleased
to put the GSEs behind us.”  Since then, the bank has announced more than $15 billion in
additional provisions for loan repurchases. While most of that
is tied to an $8.5 billion settlement with institutional
investors, some of the new expenses are tied to Fannie Mae.  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
declined to comment.  Countrywide’s Legacy  The accord is subject to court approval. New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  asked a judge to reject the
settlement, saying that Bank of New York Mellon Corp. violated
state law as part of its role representing investors in mortgage
securities created by Countrywide.  “The proposed cash payment is far less than the massive
losses investors have faced and will continue to face,”
Schneiderman said in a filing in state court in  Manhattan .  Ron Gruendl, a BNY Mellon spokesman, said the attorney
general’s allegations are “outrageous, baseless, unsupported by
fact” and that the company will fight them in court if needed.  Bank of America warned investors in its filing that if it
fails to get court approval on the deal, the $14 billion in
second-quarter provisions for repurchase costs from
institutional investors “could be insufficient” and its costs
could balloon. The firm already expects $5 billion in additional
costs from repurchase demands from non-GSE mortgage buyers.  Resolving the firm’s housing-market liabilities “could
have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial
condition and results of operations,” the bank said.  Matthew Burnell, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , cut his
recommendation on Bank of America to “market perform” from
“outperform” in a research note because of lower expectations
for the U.S. economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  