-- 
Banorte Beats Itau as Acquisition Boosts Lending: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   E s p i n o s a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/banorte-beats-itau-as-acquisition-boosts-lending-mexico-credit.html
Bonds sold by Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB,  Mexico ’s fourth-largest bank by outstanding loans,
are outperforming debt from financial peers in Latin America
after an acquisition helped the company boost lending by 29
percent.  The 6.1 percent rally in Banorte’s dollar bonds due in 2021
this year compares with an advance of 5.7 percent for bank debt
in the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Credit Suisse Group AG. Similar-maturity bonds sold by Banco
Itau Unibanco SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by market value,
gained 6 percent during the same period. Debt due in 2020 issued
by Bancolombia SA,  Colombia ’s biggest bank, rose 5.5 percent.  Banorte, based in Monterrey, Mexico, is tapping into a
growing demand for credit in  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy. Total loans for Banorte  expanded  18 percent in the past
year, the most since 2008, according to Mexico’s National
Banking and Securities Commission. Banorte said on July 25 that
its acquisition of Ixe Grupo Financiero SAB helped increase its
loan portfolio to 312 billion pesos ($26.4 billion) in the
second quarter from 242 billion a year earlier.  “They grew at a healthy pace in the quarter and I’m
expecting it to continue,” Natalia Corfield, an ING analyst who
recommends investors buy Banorte’s bonds, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “The banking sector has a very good
growth potential.”  The yield on Banorte’s bonds sank 47 basis points, or 0.47
percentage point, this year to 4.72 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Mexican government dollar notes that
mature in 2020 yield 3.45 percent.  Credit Expansion  Pedro Rodriguez , a spokesman for Banorte, didn’t return a
phone message seeking comment.  Yields on Sao Paulo-based Itau’s bonds due in 2020 fell 41
basis points during the same period to 5.39 percent. Itau
declined to comment through an e-mailed statement.  Mexican banks including Banorte are benefiting from the
expansion of credit to a larger share of the population, said
 Alonso Madero , who helps manage about $5.5 billion in debt at
Corp. Actinver SAB. The country’s private credit measured as a
percentage of the gross domestic product was 21.8 percent in
2009, compared with 45 percent in  Brazil , according to ING.  “Banks could lend a lot more,” Madero said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City, “It’s very clear that this is how
they could grow. There’s a big potential growth to capitalize on
because of the low banking penetration.”  Growth Outlook  Banks in Mexico are increasing lending as the economy may
grow “a little bit more” than 4.3 percent this year, Finance
Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said in an event in Mexico City
yesterday. Gross domestic product expanded 5.4 percent in 2010,
the most in a decade.  Slowing growth in the U.S., the destination for 80 percent
of Mexico’s exports, may curb demand for credit in the Latin
American country, said Araceli Espinosa, debt analyst at  Scotia
Capital .  A report yesterday showed that  service industries  in the
U.S. expanded in July at the slowest pace in 17 months as orders
and employment cooled, indicating the biggest part of the
economy had little spark to begin the second half of the year.
Economic figures in the U.S. in last two weeks have shown
declining home sales, weaker factory orders, waning  consumer
confidence  and the first decrease in household spending in two
years.  “If the economy is not growing, the loan portfolio for the
banks is not going to grow,” Espinosa said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City.  Yield Spread  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in May were unchanged at 4.99 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank will wait until that month to
raise benchmark borrowing costs from a record low 4.5 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 128,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis point to 112, according to CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  The peso advanced 0.2 percent to 11.8193 per dollar,
extending its advance this year to 4.4 percent.  Banorte is likely to exercise a  call option  on its bonds in
2016, ING’s Corfield said. The yield to the 2016 call date on
the company’s notes may drop 50 basis points from 6 percent
yesterday, she said. A call is a contract that gives the holder
the right to buy a security at a set price within a set period.
The holder of the call is not obligated to buy the security.  ‘Well Positioned’  Banorte has used takeovers, including the 2001 acquisition
of Bancrecer SA, to grow into a national financial group from a
north-Mexican regional lender since the country’s banking
industry collapse in 1995.  Banorte reported a 24 percent increase in second-quarter
net income to 2.05 billion pesos. Ixe added 119 million pesos to
the profit.  “It’s a benign environment for Mexico now and Banorte is
well positioned to benefit from it,” Corfield said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
{Andres R. Martinez} in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  