-- 
Barroso Seeks Boost for Euro Rescue Fund, Criticizes ‘Undisciplined’ Talk

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-08-04T11:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/barroso-seeks-boost-for-euro-rescue-fund-criticizes-undisciplined-talk.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  sought more firepower for the euro region’s rescue fund
and rapped the “undisciplined communication” that has
propelled Italy and  Spain  deeper into the debt crisis.  Barroso urged European leaders to review “all elements”
including the size of the 440 billion-euro ($627 billion)
 European Financial Stability Facility  and the 500 billion-euro
European Stability Mechanism that will replace it in mid-2013.  “Markets remain to be convinced that we are taking the
appropriate steps to resolve the crisis,” Barroso told the
leaders in a letter released today in Brussels. Speculative
attacks on Italy and Spain “reflect a growing skepticism among
investors about the systemic capacity of the euro area to
respond to the evolving crisis.”  Spanish and Italian bonds rose for a second day on
speculation that the European Central Bank today might indicate
a willingness to step back into the market to buy debt of
fiscally ailing countries.  Barroso said the crisis has been exacerbated by bad public
relations, as government leaders, finance ministers and central
bankers clash in public over how to restore order in markets.  “We are no longer managing a crisis just in the euro-area
periphery,” Barroso said. “Euro-area financial stability must
be safeguarded.”  ‘Complexity and Incompleteness’  Barroso urged the governments to quickly ratify a July 21
accord to empower the EFSF to lend pre-emptively, buy bonds in
the secondary market and engage in bank recapitalizations.  Markets don’t fully understand the package because of its
“complexity and incompleteness,” Barroso wrote.  Country-by-country approval of the strengthened EFSF is
delayed until after parliaments return from the summer break, a
process that needs to be accelerated, Barroso said.  In comments directed at  Finland , Barroso said that national
approval must “avoid introducing excessive constraints in terms
of either additional conditionality or collateralization of EFSF
lending.”  Finland, one of six triple A countries in the euro region,
is insisting on collateral, such as a stake in a state-owned
Greek company, to underwrite its share of future loans to
 Greece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  