-- 
Beiersdorf CEO Appointment May Help Rebuild Investor Confidence

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-10-06T08:53:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/beiersdorf-raises-annual-sales-forecast-citing-nivea-campaign.html
Beiersdorf AG (BEI) ’s appointment of Stefan Heidenreich as chief executive officer may help rebuild
confidence among investors after the Nivea skin-cream maker cut
profit forecasts twice at the end of last year, analysts said.  Heidenreich, the 48-year-old head of Swiss food company
Hero AG, will join Beiersdorf’s board in January and succeed
Thomas Quaas as CEO after the April annual general meeting, the
Hamburg, Germany-based company said yesterday. Quaas, 59, who’s
been CEO since 2005, will join Beiersdorf’s supervisory board.  “Heidenreich’s appointment gives a fresh leader to a fresh
strategy and he will start from a position of hope and
credibility with investors,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein in  London , said in a note.  The new CEO, who worked at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc before joining Hero in 1996, will need to
address shrinking margins and stagnant sales at Beiersdorf’s
consumer unit. At Hero, he led acquisitions such as the purchase
of Schwartauer Werke GmbH’s retail unit and he may bring new
ideas on how to use the company’s 2 billion-euro ($2.67 billion)
cash pile.  “An injection of the entrepreneurial culture prevalent at
Hero could also be a welcome addition at Beiersdorf,” Celine Pannuti, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove, wrote in a note,
adding that he’ll face the challenge of growing the company’s
business outside western  Europe .  Share Reaction  Beiersdorf fell 15 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 40.97 euros at
10:29 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, boosting the company’s market
value to 10.3 billion euros. The stock gained 4.5 percent
yesterday on the news of Heidenreich’s appointment.  “We can understand the positive stock reaction,” said
Bernstein’s Wood. “The new appointment does increase the
chances that Beiersdorf can outperform our expectations.”  Hiring Heidenreich will add credibility to Beiersdorf’s
focus on reinvigorating the Nivea brand, Guillaume Delmas, an
analyst at Nomura in London, wrote in a note.  The company can “rapidly return to above-industry growth”
by exiting its makeup and haircare businesses in some markets
and strengthening its skin-care franchise, Delmas said.  Beiersdorf is reducing its beauty-products lineup to focus
on skin care, including sun-protection creams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 