-- 
Blackstone Group Agrees to Acquire Medical-Biller Emdeon for $3 Billion

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-08-04T20:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/blackstone-to-buy-health-care-biller-emdeon-in-deal-valued-at-3-billion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, agreed to buy  Emdeon Inc. (EM)  for about
$3 billion, taking the health-care billing firm private again
after two years as a public company.  Emdeon shareholders will receive a cash payment of $19 a
share, the Nashville, Tennessee-based software maker said in a
statement today. The deal would give investors a 44 percent
premium over the closing price for Emdeon stock on July 26, the
day before news broke that the two sides were talking.  Emdeon went public in 2009 and won’t provide New York-based
Blackstone a lot of waste to easily cut, said Bret D. Jones, an
Oppenheimer & Co. analyst in  New York . Instead, the equity firm
probably aims to expand Emdeon’s share of the growing market for
companies that help doctors, hospitals and insurers exchange
electronic medical records, Jones said.  “Emdeon was private only three years ago, so it’s hard to
believe that their cost structure could be that inflated,” he
said by telephone. “That tells me they’re going to have to do
something to increase revenues, and the strategy to do that is
probably going to be to take over the clinical-data market.”  The software maker’s biggest shareholders, private-equity
firms Hellman & Friedman LLC and General Atlantic LLC, have
agreed to the acquisition, the statement said. Hellman &
Friedman, based in  San Francisco , will maintain a “significant
minority equity interest” in the company, it said.  Understanding  Blackstone and Hellman & Friedman “each have an in-depth
understanding of our business and industry, and will be
tremendous partners as we continue to pursue our strategy of
making health-care efficient,” George Lazenby, Emdeon’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “We are looking
forward to building upon our leadership position in health-care
information technology and services.”  Emdeon rose $2.10, or 13 percent, to $18.35 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen
36 percent this year.  Emdeon is the leading provider of financial clearinghouse
services to process claims for doctors, hospitals and insurers,
said Oppenheimer’s Jones. Sales in that market have slowed the
past two years as the weak economy and higher copays cut into
Americans’ use of medical services, he said.  The company has less of a presence in transmitting medical
data, an area likely to become a “multibillion-dollar market,”
boosted by government stimulus spending to encourage the use of
electronic health records, Jones said.  Clinical Data Market  For Blackstone, “the expectation is if they can take over
the clinical-data exchange market, they can take Emdeon public
again in a few years at a better price,” he said.  There have been 297 announced or completed acquisitions of
medical software companies in the past five years, with an
average deal size of $127.6 million and a typical premium of 45
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest
was the $5.06 billion takeover of IMS Health Inc., a collector
of prescription-drug data, by a private-equity consortium in
2009.  The acquisition would be one of Blackstone’s biggest
corporate buyouts since the credit crisis triggered partly by
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. It’s
among the largest public-to-private deals announced by buyout
firms this year.  Kinetic Concepts  Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , a maker of wound-care products and
hospital beds, agreed last month to be bought by investors
including Apax Partners LLP for $4.98 billion in cash. If
approved by shareholders, it would be the largest corporate
leveraged buyout since the crisis.  Blackstone is making the purchase through its latest
buyout fund, for which it has gathered about $16 billion in
commitments from pensions, endowments and sovereign wealth
funds. The New York-based firm is the world’s largest private-
equity company by assets, factoring in its real estate, hedge
fund and credit investing businesses.  Blackstone in October 2008 completed the purchase of Apria
Healthcare Group, a provider of home medical equipment, for $1.7
billion.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  acted as lead financial adviser and  UBS
Investment Bank  was co-financial adviser to Emdeon’s board,
according to the company’s statement. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP was Emdeon’s legal adviser and King &
Spalding LLP acted as legal adviser to its outside directors.  Blackstone Advisory Partners LP, Banc of America Merrill
Lynch,  Barclays Capital  and Citigroup Inc. acted as financial
advisers to Blackstone and have committed financing to the deal,
the statement said. Ropes & Gray LLP acted as legal adviser to
Blackstone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ; {Jason Kelly} in New York at 
617-
2397 or  jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 