-- 
BNP Paribas to Buy 60% of South Africa’s Cadiz Securities for $22 Million

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-08-04T08:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bnp-paribas-to-buy-60-of-south-africa-s-cadiz-securities-for-22-million.html
BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest
bank, agreed to buy a 60 percent stake in  Cadiz Holdings Ltd. (CDZ) ’s
securities unit for 150 million rand ($22 million) to expand in
 South Africa .  The combined unit will provide clients with cash
management, derivatives research and brokerage services, Paris-
based BNP Paribas said in a statement today.  The transaction is
expected to close in the fourth quarter, the lender said.  “We’ve been struggling in the last few years to retain
market share,” Ram Barkai, Cadiz’s chief executive officer,
said in a telephone interview from Cape Town today. “Some firms
open offices in  London  or  Hong Kong  but we thought that was too
expensive and too risky. We’ve been working on finding a partner
for the past two years.”  Cadiz Securities, which makes up almost 50 percent of Cadiz
annual profit, has faced increasing competition as international
firms from Renaissance Capital to Religare Capital have entered
the South African market. With growth in many African nations
forecast to outstrip that in developed countries, financial
firms are seeking to profit from that expansion.  “The deal demonstrates both a commitment to our strategy
of developing an offer in emerging markets, and our growth
ambitions in derivatives research and brokerage,” Eric Deudon,
global head of emerging markets for  BNP Paribas (BNP) , said in the
statement.  Cadiz rose 5 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 2.85 rand as of 9:37
a.m. in Johannesburg trading while BNP Paribas added 2.1 percent
to 42.69 euros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  