-- 
BNY Mellon to Charge for Large Deposits

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-08-04T22:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bny-mellon-sets-13-basis-point-charge-on-clients-excess-cash-deposits.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custody bank, will charge institutional clients
a fee for “extraordinarily high” cash deposits to stem a
flight of capital into the safety of  bank deposits .  “I’ve never seen this happen, not in 25 years,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine ,
said an interview. Other banks may follow BNY Mellon’s lead,
Cassidy said.  Investors are seeking the safety of bank accounts as
concern increases that the global economy may relapse into a
recession and governments in the U.S. and Europe struggle with a
rising debt load. A legislative stalemate last week over the
U.S. debt ceiling prompted institutions to pull $103 billion
from money funds in the week ended Aug. 2, the most since the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Money market rates, which surged during the debt ceiling
debate, dropped below zero percent today as  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis bolstered U.S. government securities’ appeal as the
world’s safest assets. With little scope to reinvest deposits in
short-term debt at a profit, banks like BNY Mellon are left with
the cost of insuring the deposits with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  “I suspect more banks will do this for their wholesale
customers, saying we love you guys but every dollar you put in
here costs us money,” said Bert Ely, a banking consultant in
Alexandria, Virginia. “I’m not sure that this has ever happened
in the U.S.”  ‘Excess’ Cash  BNY Mellon will charge clients 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, on “excess amounts of cash based on June
averages, which were already at elevated levels,” Joe Ailinger,
a spokesman for the New York-based bank, said in a telephone
interview.  The fee will apply to U.S. dollar deposits of more than $50
million per client, though it won’t “impact clients whose
balances are consistent with prior averages,” according to a
letter BNY Mellon sent to clients.  “We have seen a growing level of deposits on our balance
sheet from clients seeking a safe haven in light of the global
interest rate and credit environment,” the bank said in an e-
mailed statement. When markets stabilize and cash levels drop
“it is likely this fee will no longer be necessary,” the bank
said.  Market Selloff  A global rout in equities drove the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to its worst slump since February 2009 today, while two-
year Treasury yields plunged to a record low amid concern the
economy is weakening. The  S&P 500  tumbled 4.8 percent to
1,200.07 at 4 p.m. in  New York . It has dropped 11 percent since
July 22, the biggest loss over the same amount of time since
March 2009.  Demand for short-term government debt instruments is rising
after the U.S. signaled it won’t increase sales of Treasury
bills even following lawmakers’ agreement to raise the debt
ceiling. One-month Treasury bill rates traded at zero percent
today after earlier falling to negative 0.0102 percent. They
reached 0.1825 percent on July 29, the highest since February
2009.  Overnight general-collateral Treasury repurchase-agreement
rates averaged 0.07 percent through 2:50 p.m. New York time,
according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker,
unchanged from yesterday. That was down from 0.32 percent on
Aug. 1.  ‘Hot Money’  The rising deposits at custody banks represent mostly “hot
money” and some banks have begun to pass on the burden of
insuring it to their large, institutional investors,  Joseph
Abate , money-market strategist at Barclays Plc in New York,
wrote in a note to clients.  “All things equal, we expect this fee to push money into
the bill and repo markets and drag those rates back toward zero
after a recent and fleeting foray into the double digits,”
Abate wrote.  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, hasn’t
changed its pricing on customer deposits, spokeswoman Alicia
Curran Sweeney said in a telephone interview. She declined to
say whether the Boston-based bank charges a fee on large
deposits.  Northern Trust Corp., the third-largest independent custody
bank, based in  Chicago , said in a statement it hasn’t
implemented a charge for clients.  Alex Samuelson , a spokesman
for New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest
custody bank, declined to comment.  Money Fund Challenge  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest  U.S. bank , doesn’t charge
clients fees for placing deposits with the bank, according to a
person familiar with direct knowledge of the lender’s policies.  “I’m sure a number of banks were just waiting for the
first bank to go public with this,” Anthony Carfang, a partner
at Chicago consulting firm Treasury Strategies, said in a
telephone interview.  If other banks follow BNY Mellon’s example, investors may
shift some of their cash into money-market mutual funds, said
 Peter Crane , president of money-fund research firm Crane Data
LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts . The funds have faced a
challenge in past months in finding enough securities they are
eligible to buy and without lowering their yield.  “If the European problem continues to deteriorate and
Europe becomes off limits and if the supply of Treasuries
doesn’t rebound, it could become a problem for money funds,”
Crane said.  Regulatory changes made last year by the Securities and
Exchange Commission reduced the proportion of assets money funds
can hold in securities that lack a top short-term rating. The
supply of short-term debt from companies and banks has also
dropped, according to  Fitch Ratings .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  