-- 
BofA’s Moynihan to Answer ‘Skeptics’ in Conference With Investor Berkowitz

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-04T14:49:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bofa-s-moynihan-to-answer-skeptics-in-berkowitz-conference.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , seeking to reverse a 28 percent stock
slide this year, will take the “toughest questions” on a
public call hosted by  fund manager   Bruce Berkowitz  next week.  Berkowitz’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC, which held
92.6 million Bank of America shares as of March 31, will host a
90-minute conference call with Moynihan on Aug. 10, the Miami-
based manager said yesterday in a statement. The event aims to
help investors understand why the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based lender is a core holding for Fairholme, Berkowitz said.  The dive in Bank of America’s stock has helped to sink the
returns of investors including Berkowitz, who was named U.S.
domestic stock-fund manager of the decade last year by
Morningstar Inc., and hedge-fund manager  John Paulson . It’s more
common for executives to speak at conferences with research
analysts than a big shareholder, said Jonathan Hatcher, a
Jefferies Group Inc. credit strategist specializing in banks.  “It’s unique -- I can’t recollect the last time the CEO of
a large firm agreed to something like this,” Hatcher said in an
interview. “The market always appreciates executives being more
open with the investment community, but I suspect it will be a
repeat of what was discussed on the last earnings call.”  Fairholme’s Decline  Berkowitz, 53, is seeking to reassure investors after his
flagship  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  declined 15 percent this year through
yesterday, trailing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gain of less
than 1 percent. In a report to investors this week, he said his
strategy was to “embrace the hated” among stocks. Financial
firms that have significant cash flows and narrowing
restructuring costs are at a “tipping point,” he said.  The call will be open to the public, said Hedda Nadler, a
spokeswoman for Fairholme.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, fell 30
cents at 10:26 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
to $9.24, the lowest since May 2009. Moynihan, 51, has reached
settlements with buyers and insurers of defective mortgages,
booking about $30 billion in accords and writedowns since taking
over last year.  Fairholme began acquiring its stake in Bank of America
during the first quarter of 2010 and bought the majority in the
last nine months of last year, according to company filings.
Bank of America’s average stock price during 2010 was $14.69.
The highest closing price that year was $19.48 and the lowest
was $10.95.  ‘Desperate Measures’  “I suppose desperate times call for desperate measures,”
said Manal Mehta, a partner at Branch Hill Capital, a San
Francisco-based hedge fund that has short positions on Bank of
America stock. “While a push for greater transparency is always
welcome, it isn’t clear that Moynihan can give investors comfort
that Bank of America has command over its mortgage
liabilities.”  The CEO “appreciates the opportunity to discuss the
company’s strategy and performance with investors and to take
their questions, and he does so regularly in a variety of
venues,” said Larry DiRita, a Bank of America spokesman.  Bank of America will generate enough earnings to comply with
new capital standards, end liabilities from the 2008 takeover of
Countrywide Financial Corp., and return funds to investors,
Berkowitz said yesterday. The lender has the “management in
place” to reach these goals, he said.  Skeptics Invited  “Skeptics are invited to participate on the call,”
Berkowitz said in the statement, adding that the comments in the
release were solely his opinions. Moynihan will make opening
remarks, then Berkowitz will ask him the “toughest questions”
submitted by e-mail to  askbrian@fairholmefunds.com , he said.  The fund manager “is probably trying to put pressure on
Bank of America to clarify its strategy going forward in
addressing the legacy issues they still face,” said Jonathan Finger, whose family-owned investment company, Finger Interests
Ltd., owns 1.1 million Bank of America shares. “If you listen
to the conference calls, it’s difficult to understand from
Moynihan’s responses what the company’s strategy is.”  Berkowitz previously hosted a  conference  call with the head
of a company that he considered undervalued. In March 2009, he
peppered then- Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  CEO Jeffrey Kindler with questions
about the prospects for the firm, his biggest holding at the
time.  In the three months that ended Nov. 30, 2009, Fairholme
reduced its Pfizer stake to 17.3 million shares from 76.5
million, according to a semi-annual report filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on Jan. 28, 2010. Pfizer
stock had climbed 56 percent between early March and the end of
November of that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 