-- 
Brazil Futures Yields Show Bet on Interest Rate Cut; Real Sinks

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-08-04T23:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/brazil-futures-yields-show-bet-on-interest-rate-cut-real-slides.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts showed traders betting the central bank may
cut  interest rates  this year on speculation the global economy
could be headed toward another recession, damping inflation.  Yields on the contract due January 2013 fell 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point to 12.35 percent, the biggest
drop since February. The level indicates policy makers may cut
the benchmark Selic this year. As recently as July 15, traders
were betting on an increase this month.  The real weakened 1.7 percent to 1.5779 per dollar, the
biggest drop since May 4, from 1.5603 yesterday.  Traders began betting on the first cut to borrowing costs
since July 2009 as world equity indexes plunged on concern the
global economy is weakening. Brazil’s benchmark stock index
posted the steepest drop among the world’s 20 biggest gauges,
tumbling 5.7 percent. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini,
speaking in an interview on public television, said growth in
 Brazil  is “moderating,” and that annual inflation will slow
“significantly” in the fourth quarter as the measures already
taken by the government work.  “The interest-rate futures curve already shows the
probability of a cut,” said Marina Santos, an economist at
Squanto Investimentos in  Sao Paulo . “Depending on the external
scenario, this risk makes sense,” she said in a telephone
interview.  Stimulus Speculation  Concern that the global economic recovery is faltering has
driven investors out of stocks and into the relative safety of
gold, Treasuries, the Swiss franc and yen. It is spurring
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will start another stimulus
program. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled that the ECB has resumed bond purchases as it offered
banks more cash to stop the debt crisis from engulfing Italy and
 Spain  and hurting the economy.  Emerging market, or EM, currencies are “in this
environment, pretty vulnerable,” said Win Thin, global head of
emerging-markets currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co.  “EM’s just getting hammered,” Thin said by phone from  New
York . “There’s still very risk-off trading right now. Look at
the equity markets, you look at EM, you look at commodities, you
look at the spreads on peripheral debt, it’s still a lot of risk
out there, so I think EM remains vulnerable.”  Tombini said policy makers are “more comfortable” with
inflation because consumer price increases will slow starting in
September, and will drop by two percentage points by next April.  The annual inflation rate, which is running at a six-year
high, will peak this month and drop by two percentage points
until April, Tombini said. Monthly inflation is already “low,”
he said.  “Tombini showed himself as an optimist and this is
weighing on the yield curve,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda. in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  