-- 
British Companies Trading With Iran Hidden by U.K. to Avert U.S. Sanctions

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-04T21:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/british-companies-trading-with-iran-hidden-by-u-k-to-avert-u-s-sanctions.html
The U.K. government is determined to
keep secret British companies that applied to sell goods with
potential military uses to  Iran , saying international banks are
under U.S. pressure to drop them as clients.  The disclosure of the companies may result in them losing
access to bank services, Britain’s  Export Control Organization 
said in reply to a Freedom of Information lawsuit filed by
Bloomberg News.  President  Barack Obama  signed a law almost a year ago
broadening the scope of sanctions against Iran to stunt its
nuclear development program. Even before then, U.K. banks were
cutting off customers with links to Iran to avoid being targeted
by American authorities or losing permits to do business in the
U.S., said the export agency, which issues licenses to ship
supplies with dual military or civilian uses, as well as torture
equipment and radioactive material to other countries.  “Publicity in newspapers brings our members, who undertake
legal trade with Iran, to the attention of the U.S. authorities,
who pursue them, and to their own banks, who withdraw banking
facilities,” Martin Johnston, the director general of the
 British-Iranian Chamber of Commerce , said in a filing supporting
the U.K. government position.  The British-Iranian trade group, which promotes exports to
Iran on behalf of about 120 companies, says the banks’ behavior
“borders on a witch-hunt” that can cause financial mayhem for
potential exporters to the Middle Eastern nation.  Export Oversight  The dispute stems from a 2009 Bloomberg News request that
the U.K.  Department for Business, Innovation and Skills , or BIS,
which oversees the export agency, release the names of British
businesses that applied to ship controlled goods to Iran in the
first half of that year.  “It’s critical to understand who’s doing business with a
pariah state,”  Mark Stephens , Bloomberg News’s lawyer with
Finers Stephens Innocent LLP, said in an interview. “Such vital
information shouldn’t be hidden from public scrutiny.”  The case, heard today by a tribunal in London, tests
transparency in the licensing process, the accountability of
U.K. companies and the release of information in the public
interest, Stephens said.  The Bloomberg News request, which BIS denied, was part of
an investigation into a string of Iranian air disasters that
killed hundreds of people, including a February 2003 crash in
which 276 died in central Iran.  The BIS said in an e-mailed statement that it, “would be
inappropriate to comment whilst the tribunal is ongoing.”  ‘Political Risk’  “Banks have withdrawn banking facilities from companies
which do business with Iran, on the basis that the political
risk” is too high, Tom Smith, who leads the export agency, said
in written testimony.  Philip Coppel, a lawyer for Bloomberg News, argued at the
hearing the government’s witnesses exaggerated the potential
threat to the more than 500 businesses that sought export
licenses to Iran during the disputed period.  “You have no first-hand evidence of a U.S. agency taking
retaliatory action against a company simply for applying for and
receiving an export license,” Coppel said to Johnston at the
hearing.  Bloomberg News, based in  New York , sought to find out
whether U.K. firms were denied licenses to legally sell civilian
aircraft parts to the country. Iranian authorities blamed the
crashes on U.S. sanctions blocking imports of aircraft parts.  Public Interest  “The U.K. is one of the largest manufacturers and
exporters of civil aviation parts in the world,” Bloomberg News
said in a filing in the case. “It was of public interest to
know whether U.K. companies were applying to export such
products to Iran and were being denied.”  The  Information Commissioner’s Office , which oversees U.K.
Freedom of Information disputes, initially backed a request from
Bloomberg News to release the information. It later reversed the
decision after the BIS filed secret third-party responses with
the ICO. The Information Commissioner never told Bloomberg News
or the public that it was considering the matter.  The Information Commissioner has never explained why it
changed its position, according to Bloomberg News.  “The manner in which this was done was obviously
alienating and likely to sow suspicion,” Bloomberg News said in
a filing. “There is a public interest in safe civil aviation
wherever a person may be traveling.”  Kirsty McCaskill, a spokeswoman for the Information
Commissioner, declined to comment.  ‘Not-So-Secret’  The U.K.’s concern on behalf of British companies may be
justified, said Suzanne Maloney, a former State Department
official who is now a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington. The extra-territorial reach of U.S. sanctions is
a “not-so-secret” weapon used against Iran, she said.  Banks “have been effectively intimidated into not doing
any kind of business with Iran directly or even very
indirectly,” Maloney said in an interview. “That’s precisely
the impact that people in the  U.S. Treasury  wanted.”  The U.S. sanctions are overseen by the Treasury’s Office of
Foreign Assets Control. U.S. trade-secrets laws prevent the
Treasury from disclosing the names of companies seeking licenses
to export goods that would otherwise be prohibited by sanctions,
according to a U.S. Treasury spokeswoman, who declined to be
identified and said she couldn’t comment on the U.K. case.  Treasury Routinely Releases  Clif Burns, who practices export law in  Washington  at the
law firm Bryan Cave LLP, said that Treasury’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control, in response to freedom of information requests,
routinely releases names of companies applying for licenses to
export agricultural products, medicine and medical devices to
Iran under a congressional exemption passed in 2000.  “Recently one major U.S. newspaper obtained from OFAC, and
published, a list of 100 corporations that had received the most
licenses to export these goods to Iran and other sanctioned
countries such as Cuba and  Sudan ,” Burns said in an e-mailed
statement.  BIS argued the British company names qualify for an
“absolute exemption” from U.K. Freedom of Information
requests, tribunal filings show.  Need for Secrecy  The need for secrecy is a result of U.S. pressure on U.K.
banks, and the consequences for applicants regardless of whether
they ship controlled goods to Iran, according to Smith’s filing.
The U.S. sanctions are “extremely wide-ranging” and go much
farther than U.K. or European Union sanctions, he said.  Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the British Bankers’
Association, a trade group for the country’s lenders, said that
banks may drop clients that trade with Iran in order to reduce
the risk of sanctions.  “Banks may choose not to do business with any client with
direct or indirect connections to Iran,” Mairs said. The BBA is
discussing with its members the potential consequences of the
U.K. government seeking to hide the names of companies that may
be trading with the country, he said.  Many people in the banking industry aren’t aware that the
U.K. government is trying to hide the names of such companies,
according to Stephens, Bloomberg News’s lawyer.  Johnston said the threat from U.S. banks is exemplified by
“agreements” the country forces on large banks relating to
Iran and “heavy penalty payments” that discourage financial
institutions from servicing companies trading with Iran.  The U.S. passed sanctions in July 2010 against foreign
suppliers of gasoline to Iran, prompting four of  Europe ’s five
biggest oil companies to wind down operations there. The same
implied threat exists for companies that apply for legal export
licenses to Iran in the U.K., the government’s witnesses say.  “Even if the U.S. government weren’t to take direct action
against them, the overall context of U.S. government policy
would have a chilling effect on their business,” Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  