-- 
BTA of Kazakhstan Said to Plan Change of Chairman, CEO

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-08-04T12:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bta-of-kazakhstan-said-to-plan-change-of-chairman-ceo-correct-.html
BTA Bank plans to replace Chairman
Arman Dunayev with Chief Executive Officer Anvar Saidenov as
 Kazakhstan  shuffles management of state-owned lenders to improve
performance, according to two people familiar with the decision.  The board of Kazakhstan’s third-biggest bank approved the
changes, as well as the appointment of Marat Zairov, currently
CEO of Nurbank, as Saidenov’s successor, according to the people
who declined to be identified because the changes haven’t been
announced. Asel Tynyshbekova, a BTA spokeswoman in Almaty,
declined to comment today.  BTA defaulted in April 2009, two months after it was taken
over by National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna. The bank’s first-
half loss narrowed to 11.8 billion tenge ($80.6 million) from
117 billion tenge in the same period last year, according to the
central bank’s financial oversight committee.  “We expect a more effective business model from BTA Bank
and remain unhappy with the lack of profit at the lender,”
Aidan Karibzhanov, a deputy CEO at Samruk-Kazyna, said in a July
5 interview in Astana, Kazakhstan’s capital.  Kazakhstan plans to create a new company to oversee its
holdings in three lenders rescued by Samruk-Kazyna after the
nation’s property bubble burst in 2008, central bank Chairman
Grigori Marchenko said April 19. The state owns 81.5 percent of
BTA, 67 percent of Alliance Bank and 79.9 percent of Temirbank,
according to the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange.  BTA creditors, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc and Barclays Plc, gained equity stakes last year as
part of a debt restructuring agreement that reduced the bank’s
obligations to $4.2 billion from $16.7 billion. BTA’s global
depositary receipts have fallen 63 percent since they began
trading in Luxembourg in February.  Nazarbayev Connections  The changes come after Timur Kulibayev, the husband of
Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s second-eldest daughter,
replaced  Kairat Kelimbetov  as head of Samruk-Kazyna in April.  Zairov was deputy CEO of Halyk Bank, controlled by
Kulibayev and his wife, when he was named chief executive of
Nurbank, owned by Nazarbayev’s eldest daughter at the time, in
March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dunayev, a former head of Kazakhstan’s financial market
regulator, resigned as deputy CEO of Samruk-Kazyna on May 17. He
was replaced by Karibzhanov, who was deputy chief executive
officer of BTA at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  