-- 
Buffett Can’t Get Analysts to Say Buy Berkshire

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-04T12:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/buffett-can-t-get-analysts-to-give-buy-rating-after-berkshire-s-decline.html
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  can’t get a buy recommendation from equity analysts, even
as it trades in New York at the cheapest price relative to book
value since March 2009.  Berkshire fell this week to its lowest since June 2010 and
has underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the last
12 months. The company faces a sluggish U.S. economy, declining
world equity markets and reinsurance claims tied to Japan’s
biggest earthquake. In March, the resignation of  David Sokol 
raised questions about succession for Buffett, the 80-year-old
chief executive officer, and Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 87.  “Hopefully we’ll pull out of this, but it looks like it’ll
be slow,” said  Meyer Shields  of Stifel Nicolaus & Co., one of
four equity analysts who rates Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
at “hold” or an equivalent level. “And every day of slowness,
 Warren Buffett  and  Charlie Munger  get another day older.”
Shields raised his rating to “hold” from “sell” in February.  Berkshire investors have trusted Buffett, who’s held the
top job since 1970, to boost the share price by picking stocks
and making takeovers. The firm hasn’t named a successor or set a
timetable for CEO transition.  Jay Gelb , who has a “neutral”
rating on Berkshire at Barclays Plc, said in May that Sokol’s
exit means “succession risk is elevated.” Sokol, former
chairman of Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings, was seen as
a possible successor to Buffett before he resigned.  Japan Quake  Berkshire, which may report second-quarter results
tomorrow, fell 7.3 percent on the New York Stock Exchange in the
last year through yesterday, compared with a 12 percent gain in
the  S&P 500 . The Class A shares dropped 13 percent since the
March 11 quake in  Japan . The S&P 500’s slide in the same period
was 3.4 percent.  “It’s the cheapest that I’ve seen it in a while,” said
Tom Lewandowski, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co., who has a
“hold” rating on Berkshire shares. “It’s hard for me to get
really positive on that.”  Berkshire trades at about 1.14 times book value, a measure
of assets minus liabilities. That compares with a ratio of 1.04
on March 9, 2009, a day when the S&P 500 fell to its lowest
level since September 1996.  Berkshire, which has a market value of about $180 billion,
has attracted less attention from brokerages and research firms
because its trading volume tends to lag behind that of companies
of similar size.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank,
has “buy” recommendations from 20 analysts and “hold” calls
from 18. No analyst tracked by Bloomberg advised selling
Berkshire or Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America.  Succession Planning  “This is a business that should have a  succession plan ,”
Charles Ortel, managing director of Newport Value Partners, said
of Berkshire. “The market deserves to see what that plan may
be.” Ortel doesn’t advise buying the shares. Berkshire said in
a February filing that it had identified four candidates to
succeed Buffett, without naming them.  The last analyst tracked by Bloomberg to recommend buying
Berkshire was Christopher Neczypor of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
who suspended his coverage in October. Berkshire owns warrants
to buy $5 billion of shares of New York-based Goldman Sachs.
Clifford Gallant, an analyst with KBW Inc., downgraded Berkshire
to “market perform” from “outperform” in March 2010.  Munger’s View  “Berkshire stock went to a price we never thought,”
Munger said at a forum in Pasadena, California, on July 1. The
earthquake which struck North of  Tokyo  cost Berkshire $1.1
billion in the first quarter and was cited by Munger as a cause
for the stock decline.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for an interview e-
mailed to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Berkshire’s slide has coincided with disappointing data on
the U.S. economic recovery and stagnation in major stock indexes
from Tokyo to the  London . In the last decade, Buffett has used
acquisitions and derivatives to bet on the health of the  U.S.
economy  and long-term growth in stocks on three continents.  The U.S. gross domestic product expanded less than expected
in the second quarter, while  consumer spending  fell in June and
manufacturing declined last month. Berkshire’s equity-index
derivatives, tied to the S&P 500, Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average, the Eurostoxx 50 Index, the U.K.’s FTSE 100, were
recorded as a $6.5 billion  liability  as of March 31. The
liability was $7.1 billion a year earlier.  Berkshire doesn’t hold the quarterly earnings conference
calls scheduled by most of the largest publicly traded firms to
update Wall Street analysts. Buffett has said his goal is to
attract long-term investors and not to maximize the price at
which Berkshire’s shares trade.  Church, School  “We don’t understand the CEO who wants lots of stock
activity,” Buffett said in the  letter  accompanying Berkshire’s
1988 annual report. “For that can be achieved only if many of
his owners are constantly exiting. At what other organization -
school, club, church, etc. - do leaders cheer when members
leave?”  Buffett said on Jan. 20, 2010, that Berkshire was
“undervalued” in the market.  That day, Class A shares traded
between $100,000 and $105,001. The stock closed yesterday at
$110,957.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 