-- 
Bundesbank’s Weidmann Is Said to Oppose Resumption of ECB Bond Purchases

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-08-04T15:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/bundesbank-s-weidmann-is-said-to-oppose-ecb-s-resumption-of-bond-purchases.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
opposed the  European Central Bank ’s decision to resume bond
purchases today, an official familiar with the discussions said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told a press briefing in
 Frankfurt  that while the decision was not unanimous, it was
taken with an “overwhelming majority.” The official, speaking
on condition of anonymity because the ECB policy meeting is not
public, said Weidmann was not the only Governing Council member
against the move. A Bundesbank spokeswoman declined to comment.  Germany ’s Bundesbank, under then president  Axel Weber ,
opposed the ECB’s initial decision to start buying the bonds of
distressed euro-area governments in May last year, opening a
rift with Trichet and other ECB policy makers. The ECB, which
ceased purchases 18 weeks ago, re-entered markets today after
Italian and Spanish yields soared to euro-era records.  Weidmann interrupted his summer holiday to attend today’s
council meeting, the Bundesbank spokeswoman said. When asked
during the press conference who opposed reactivation of the
purchase program, Trichet declined to comment.  “We have a rule, according to which we speak with one
voice when the decision is taken,” Trichet said later in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. Central banks around the
world take decisions based on majority rather than unanimity, he
said.  ‘Stability Risks’  Weber last year argued against buying bonds on the grounds
that the action poses “stability risks.” At that time, ECB
Executive Board member  Juergen Stark , a former Bundesbank vice
president, said he shared Weber’s opinion.  “But such risks only emerge if these measures are used
over the long term and the additional liquidity isn’t
absorbed,” Stark was quoted as saying by the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung on May 17, 2010.  Trichet said today the purchases are not quantitative
easing because the ECB will continue to “sterilize” them by
taking term deposits from banks equal to the amount of liquidity
created. The ECB has bought 74 billion euros ($105 billion) of
bonds since initiating its program last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  