-- 
Canadian Dollar Drops Most in a Year on Signs of Global Economic Slowing

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-04T21:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/canadian-dollar-drops-most-in-seven-weeks-after-japan-s-yen-intervention.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened by the most
in more than a year as investors spurned risk-associated assets
on concern the global economy is slowing.  The Canadian currency fell to the lowest since June 29
before a government report tomorrow that economists predict will
show the nation’s employers added jobs for a fourth straight
month. An index of stocks in developed nations dropped for a
seventh day and crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell below
$87 a barrel.  “What you’re seeing is the market coming unhinged as it’s
unnerved at the plight of the global recovery,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency
trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “The
commodity complex is getting destroyed and the Canadian dollar
is suffering along with the risk currencies.”  The Canadian currency weakened 2 percent to 98.15 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in  New York , compared with 96.21 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0189.  The Bank of Japan followed its Swiss counterpart in easing
monetary policy, with Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  saying the
Japanese action was unilateral following joint yen sales by
Group of Seven nations in March. The yen fell as much 4.1
percent against the dollar, the biggest drop since a 6.1 percent
decline on Oct. 28, 2008, and surpassing the 3.9 percent drop at
the previous intervention on March 18.  ‘New Lows’  “For the time being, they’ll probably achieve their
objective of trapping it into a range,” said  Adam Cole , head of
global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, by phone from
 London ., referring to the yen. “The overwhelming risk longer
term is that dollar-yen does go back to new lows.”  Government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year note 16 basis points lower to 2.5 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The 3.25 percent security
maturing in June 2021 increased $1.45 to C$106.48.  The loonie remained lower after European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet said the ECB has resumed bond
purchases and will offer banks more cash to stop the region’s
debt crisis from engulfing Italy and Spain and hurting the
economy.  Canada’s currency fell versus 10 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts today as the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, a measure of stocks
in developed nations, tumbled more than 4 percent. Oil dropped
to the lowest since February, erasing all of this year’s gains.
Crude for September delivery declined 5.8 percent to $86.63 a
barrel in electronic trading in New York.  ‘Key Resistance’  “In this environment, and absent any domestic data, we
would expect the Canadian dollar to continue to underachieve,”
 Shaun Osborne  and Jacqui Douglas, currency strategists at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, wrote in a note to
clients. “Key resistance for funds stands at 98.14 cents, where
the 200-day moving average, which has provided solid resistance
since September last year, resided.”  Resistance refers to the upper boundary of a trading range,
in this case for the  U.S. dollar  versus the Canadian dollar,
where sell orders may be clustered.  Canada’s dollar has declined 3.8 percent this year versus
the currencies of nine other developed nations in the second-
worst performance, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The greenback has fallen 5.7 percent and the
yen has lost 3.1 percent of its value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  