-- 
Cargill Turkey Linked to Salmonella Sparks Second-Biggest U.S. Meat Recall

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-08-04T19:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/cargill-turkey-salmonella-link-spurs-second-biggest-u-s-recall.html
Cargill Inc. is pulling back almost
36 million pounds (16,300 metric tons) of ground turkey -- one
of the biggest recalls in U.S. history -- after a  salmonella 
outbreak linked to one death and more than 70 illnesses in 26
states.  The Cargill Meat Solutions unit halted ground-turkey output
at the Springdale, Arkansas, plant that may have produced
tainted meat from Feb. 20 to Aug. 2, Wayzata, Minnesota-based
Cargill said yesterday in a statement. The recall was prompted
by an internal investigation and information from the government
and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The recall, following a disease outbreak that began in
March, was the result of a “painstaking” investigation, Dr.
David Goldman, with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food
Service and Inspection Service, told reporters today in a
conference call. The CDC’s Dr. Chris Braden said the outbreak
was “slowly building in the beginning.”  Production of ground turkey was suspended at Cargill’s
Springdale plant based on information presented to the company
on July 29, though no definite source of the outbreak has been
found, Steve Willardsen, the president of Cargill’s turkey-
processing business, said in an e-mailed statement. The
company’s other three U.S. turkey-processing plants will remain
in operation.  One Fatality  Braden said 78 illnesses connected to ground-turkey were
reported from March 1 through Aug. 3. The one death reported
among those affected by the salmonella Heidelberg bacteria was
in Sacramento County,  California , according to the  CDC . Michigan
and  Ohio  reported the most cases as of Aug. 1, 10 each, the CDC
said.  Texas  had nine, Illinois seven and California six.  “It is regrettable that people may have become ill from
eating one of our ground-turkey products and, for anyone who
did, we are truly sorry,” Willardsen said.  The illnesses have prompted calls for tighter regulation of
the U.S. food supply. Poultry needs to be checked for the
antibiotic-resistant strain of the bacteria blamed in the
outbreak, said the Atlanta-based CDC, which in May petitioned
the government to require such testing. Future infections are
likely without stepped-up federal monitoring, according to Sarah
Klein, the Washington-based organization’s  food-safety  attorney.  “This outbreak represents the urgency of the situation,”
Klein said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We need to take
a proactive approach.”  Checking Turkeys  The investigation by closely held Cargill, the biggest U.S.
agricultural company, includes looking at whether the salmonella
was brought into its Springdale plant by the turkeys, which came
from more than 180 contract growers in Missouri, Arkansas and
 Oklahoma , according to Mike Martin, a spokesman.  Sections of the plant that produce whole birds, sausage,
drumsticks and bone-in breastmeat continue to operate, Martin
said by telephone from Wichita,  Kansas .  “We are monitoring the salmonella counts, and we are not
seeing anything on that side that’s problematic,” Martin said.  Supermarket-chain owner  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  said some of the
recalled product was packaged as “Safeway Fresh Ground Turkey”
and sold at its Randalls and Tom Thumb stores in Texas. Those
outlets are voluntarily participating in the recall, the
Pleasanton, California-based company said in a  news release .
None of its other operations are affected, Safeway said.  Cincinnati-based  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery-store
chain, said it has removed the recalled products from its
shelves and asked customers to return products with the
Honeysuckle and Kroger Ground Turkey labels with “use or freeze
by” dates from Feb. 20 to Aug. 23.  Biggest Recalls  The USDA’s Goldman said the recall was the third-largest in
U.S. history, although he did not name the other two. According
to a 2010 study by the  University of Minnesota , the largest meat
recall in U.S. history was in 2008, when Westland/Hallmark Meat
Co. pulled back 143 million pounds of beef, according to USDA
records and a 2010 study by the University of Minnesota.
Westland/Hallmark had allowed potentially sick “downer” cattle
into the  food supply .  The next largest had been the 35 million pounds of frozen,
ready-to-eat meat products recalled by Thorn Apple Valley Inc.
in 1999 because of concern the meat was contaminated with
listeria, according to the study.  Goldman is the assistant administrator of the Office of
Public Health Science with the USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection
Service. Braden is the director of the Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne and Environmental Diseases with the CDC.  ‘Short-Term Memory’  Cargill’s recall may cause short-term weakness in demand
for turkey products, Karl Skold, an economist and the former
head of commodity procurement for Omaha, Nebraska-based ConAgra
Foods Inc., said in a telephone interview. Consumers tend to
have a “fairly short-term memory,” he said.  “Once it’s removed and the shelves are restocked, most
people will go back to buying it,” Skold said. Initially,
demand for other products like ground beef or ground chicken may
improve as consumers substitute those meats for turkey, he said.  Salmonella bacteria are common to poultry and can be
eliminated with proper cooking practices. In a July 29  public-
health alert , the USDA reminded consumers that ground turkey
should always be cooked to an internal temperature of 165
degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius) to kill food-borne
bacteria, including salmonella.  Consumer Education  Reminding consumers of the need to properly cook turkey,
which eliminates salmonella risk, is appropriate for the USDA to
do, said Sherrie Rosenblatt, a spokeswoman for the National
Turkey Federation based in Washington.  Consumer awareness and the current regulation system puts
“the proper framework” in place for food safety, said
Rosenblatt, whose organization includes Cargill,  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT)  and Butterball LLC, the unit of Maxwell Farms LLC and
 Seaboard Corp. (SEB)  that’s the biggest U.S. turkey producer.  Salmonella bacteria are the most  frequently reported cause 
of foodborne sickness, according to the USDA. The pathogen
causes an estimated 1.4 million cases of illness a year, with an
estimated 400 deaths, according to the CDC.  The initial symptoms of salmonella poisoning are usually
diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps. Most people recover
without treatment. In some cases, hospitalization is necessary,
and an infection can be deadly if not treated promptly with
antibiotics. The Heidelberg strain of the bacteria is antibiotic
resistant.  Older adults, infants and people with impaired immune
systems are more likely to have a severe illness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  