-- 
CEZ Invests $841 Million in Romanian Wind Farm, CFO Vrska Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-04T12:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/cez-says-it-invested-2-5-billion-lei-in-romanian-wind-farm.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the largest Czech energy
producer, plans to increase its total investment in Romanian
wind farms to 4 billion lei ($1.3 billion) this year as it seeks
to triple its energy output in the country.  The company plans to invest as much as 1.5 billion lei this
year in its second wind farm in the southern Romania town of
Cogealac after completing an investment of 2.5 billion lei last
year in a 300 megawatt farm in neighboring Fantanele, Ondrej
Safar, CEZ’s project manager, said in an interview in Bucharest
today.  “We estimate the total cost of the projects at 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) and we plan to complete the Cogealac farm
by the end of next year,” Safar said. “We also plan to triple
our output from Fantanele to 0.72 terra-watts hour this year as
compared to last year.”  CEZ is one of the biggest investors in  wind energy  in
Romania, together with EDP-Energias de  Portugal  SA, Portugal’s
biggest utility, EON AG,  Germany ’s biggest utility, Enel SA and
 Iberdrola SA. (IBE)  Companies were attracted by the country’s
potential because of its location along the  Black Sea , where the
average wind speed stands at about 25.2 kilometers per hour
(15.7 miles per hour).  The eastern European country’s plan to support renewable
energy projects was cleared by the European Commission in July.
It will probably start granting so-called Green Certificates for
each megawatt-hour of clean energy generated beginning in
September, Safar said.  Wind Certificates  CEZ received 250,000 certificates for the wind energy
produced last year, Safar said, amounting to 13.7 million euros,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  The certificates can be sold on an independent market, and
electricity suppliers are obliged to acquire a certain number
each year to prove they’re taking some of their power from low-
carbon generators. Failure to do so results in a fine.  The government’s incentives for renewable energy will
probably lead to an increase in electricity prices between 2
percent and 4 percent for consumers in CEZ’s supply area of
Oltenia, in southern  Romania , said Adrian Borotea, the corporate
affairs manager at CEZ Romania, at a conference in Bucharest
today.  Distribution Investment  CEZ also plans to invest as much as 250 million lei in its
distribution unit, CEZ Distributie, this year and 290 million
lei in 2012, company director Martin Zmelik said in a separate
interview.  The Czech company may have to ask for bankruptcy for its
unprofitable sales unit, CEZ Vanzare, or stop investing in it if
it fails to recover a 330 million-lei debt from state-owned
railway company, CFR, said CEZ Romania Chief Executive Officer
Jan Veskrna said in the conference.  “Our shareholders will probably not agree to increase the
capital of CEZ Vanzare, which is losing so much money, because
CFR is not paying its debts,” Veskrna said. “We haven’t
received any money from them for three years and because it’s a
strategic company we can’t stop giving them energy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  