-- 
CFTC Finalizes Swap-Database Rules to Expose ‘Dark Market’

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-08-04T16:17:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/cftc-aims-to-expose-dark-market-by-completing-swap-data-rules.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  completed the first set of Dodd-Frank Act rules
governing companies at the center of the $601 trillion swaps
market by adopting regulations for information databases.  CFTC commissioners voted 4-1 today to adopt a rule
registering the databases, part of a Dodd-Frank requirement that
all transactions be reported to swap data repositories that will
make information on trading volumes and prices available to
financial regulators.  “With this rule regulators -- for the first time -- will
have specific information on the market’s scale and risk,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the commission’s Washington
meeting.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July 2010,
aimed to reduce risk and boost transparency in the swaps market
after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Private derivatives contracts complicated efforts
to resolve the crisis by making it difficult for regulators to
unravel trading links among financial firms after the September
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The law requires the CFTC and  Securities and Exchange
Commission  to write rules for the new repositories. The rules
will govern trades conducted by financial firms such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as well as energy and
commodity firms including Cargill Inc.  ‘Dark Markets’  “We used to call these dark markets for swaps trading,”
CFTC commissioner Bart Chilton said in a statement prepared for
today’s meeting. The databases are about “letting the sunshine
in,” said Chilton, one of three Democrats on the five-member
commission.  The database rule is the first in a series that will
determine registration requirements for market participants such
as swap dealers, major swap participants, end-users and
clearinghouses.  The CFTC altered an earlier version of the data rule,
originally proposed in November, to ease information-sharing
with overseas regulators, according to an agency summary of the
final rule. Under the final version, foreign regulators wouldn’t
need to indemnify swap-data repositories or U.S. regulators for
litigation costs if databases are registered with U.S. and
overseas regulators.  ‘Ensuring Confidentiality’  European regulators and repositories such as the  Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.  had questioned the original proposal,
saying it might cause the global swaps data market to become
fragmented.  “Ensuring confidentiality is essential for exchanging
information among regulators and such indemnification agreements
undermine the key principle of trust,”  Carlos Tavares , vice
chairman of the  European Securities and Markets Authority , wrote
in a January letter to U.S. regulators.  New York-based DTCC controls a data warehouse for credit-
default and equity swaps, and has won private industry contracts
to serve as a data repository for interest rate and commodity
derivatives as well. Michael V. Dunn, a Democratic commissioner,
said he has “grave concerns” that the agency isn’t requiring
databases to have independent directors on corporate boards. The
agency could consider a separate rule about the governance of
databases, Gensler said.  The CFTC also voted 4-1 to complete a rule that will let
corporate whistleblowers collect as much as 30 percent of
penalties when they report financial wrongdoing to the agency.
Whistleblowers would be eligible if information they provide
leads to a successful enforcement action that results in
sanctions of at least $1 million. There are fewer than 50
enforcement actions a year that produce sanctions of at least
that value, a CFTC official told reporters yesterday.  Internal Compliance  A CFTC panel would determine the amount of the award, which
could range from 10 percent to 30 percent of the sanctions. The
panel would include representatives from three of the agency’s
divisions.  The  Futures Industry association  and  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association  had  criticized  the proposed
rules for failing to require whistleblowers to report wrongdoing
first to internal company compliance offices. Under the final
version, the CFTC could consider increasing the value of an
award if a whistleblower turned first to a company’s compliance
office.  The agency also voted 5-0 to finish a third rule that would
remove regulations that for more than a decade treated
agricultural swaps differently than  interest rate , credit and
other swaps in the overall market.  Next Meetings  Agricultural swaps “do not pose greater risk than other
types of swaps,” John T. Hyland, chief investment officer of
U.S. Commodity Funds LLC, an Alameda, California-based firm
whose exchange-traded products include the U.S. Natural Gas Fund
and U.S. Oil Fund, said in an October letter to the CFTC.  The CFTC has scheduled meetings to vote on Dodd-Frank rules
on Sept. 8 and 22, Oct. 4 and 18, and Nov. 1 and 17. The agency
may consider rules governing clearinghouses and limits on
speculation in September or October and rules governing trading
systems later in the year, Gensler said at the meeting.  Republican Commissioners Jill E. Sommers and  Scott O’Malia 
voted against scheduling the meetings in October and November,
citing a desire that the agency publish a full timetable for
when the rules will be implemented in the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  