-- 
Li Ka-Shing Dismisses ‘Hard Landing’ Risk for China as Global Growth Slows

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-04T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/cheung-kong-s-first-half-profit-almost-triples-on-hutchison-unit-spinoffs.html
Li Ka-shing , the Hong Kong
billionaire who predicted China’s 2008 stock market decline,
said the nation’s economy will avoid a hard landing even as
global growth slows.  “Every task that’s carried out in China these days has
gone through careful consideration,” Li, 83, told reporters in
Hong Kong yesterday. “I don’t think there’ll be a hard landing
and I’m not concerned.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s policies to rein in consumer and
property prices have raised concerns they will trigger a
slowdown in the economy that’s been the main contributor to
global growth. Li, chairman of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. and
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , said yesterday his companies will be
“active” in investments, after earlier this week agreeing to
buy the U.K.’s Northumbrian Water Group Plc for 2.4 billion
pounds ($3.9 billion).  “Li’s companies had acted very sensibly and anticipated
the more challenging economic environment, and they are now in a
good position,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI
Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “This week’s U.K. acquisition shows his
preference for more stable investments in the slowing economy.”  Li is sitting on cash after his companies sold $7.1 billion
worth of shares in a container-terminal operator and real estate
trust this year.  Sitting on Cash  “For the whole group we have a lot of cash,” Li said
referring to Cheung Kong, Hong Kong’s second-largest developer
by value. “We have many opportunities in front of us.”  Cheung Kong said yesterday first-half profit almost tripled
after contributions from units including Hutchison increased and
on gains from the spin off of assets including several
properties in Beijing.  Net income climbed to HK$33.3 billion ($4.27 billion) from
a restated HK$12.3 billion, the company said in a Hong Kong
stock exchange filing yesterday. That missed the median HK$34.9
billion estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Net income at Hutchison Whampoa, whose businesses include
 Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  in  Canada  and 3 Group in  Europe  and  Australia ,
jumped to HK$46.3 billion from HK$6.3 billion.  “Globally there’re many places that deserve our concern,”
Li said. “Many countries are facing debt problems.”  Concerns are rising that the U.S. will return to recession,
and a widening in the Europe’s debt crisis has led to a sell-off
in Spanish and Italian debt.  Japan  yesterday sold the yen and
pledged to inject 10 trillion yen ($127 billion) in funds into
the economy.  Superman Nickname  Li, nicknamed “superman” by the local media for his
investing prowess, opened a plastic flower factory after World
War II and began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967
after riots from  China ’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices.  Li was ranked the world’s 11th wealthiest by Forbes
magazine in March after his net worth increased $5 billion to
$26 billion. He forecast in 2007 that China’s stock-market
bubble would burst and in 2009 predicted the rally in Hong Kong
 home prices . The Shanghai Composite Index lost 65 percent in
2008, the most among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  Cheung Kong sold the most apartments among the city’s
developers in the first half when home prices rose 12 percent.
The company in April raised 10.5 billion yuan ($1.6 billion)
when it listed Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust.  “Property sales were significantly higher than we
expected,” said Paul Louie, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura
International Hong Kong Ltd. “The results continue to highlight
this is a business which is turning out strong earnings and
strong cash flows.”  ‘Invest More’  Cheung Kong  and its partners have added land holdings in
Hong Kong over the past six months that amount to more than
127,000 square meters of gross floor area, the statement said.  “For Cheung Kong’s property businesses, our policies over
the past several decades has been to invest more when the market
slows down,” Li said. “In today’s market when we see this
approach to be appropriate, we’ll do it.”  Cheung Kong’s shares have fallen 0.3 percent this year, the
smallest decline among the five Hong Kong-owned developers in
the seven-member Hang Seng Property Index, which dropped 5.6
percent during the period.  Hutchison shares fell 0.9 percent to close at HK$90.35 in
Hong Kong yesterday, before the announcement. The stock has
gained 13 percent this year, compared with the 5 percent decline
in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  