-- 
Chief Executives in U.S. Less Confident on Sales, Employment

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/chief-executives-in-u-s-less-confident-on-sales-employment.html
Confidence among U.S. chief executive
officers waned at the start of the third quarter as business
leaders anticipated smaller gains in sales, employment and
equipment purchases, a private survey showed.  The  Young Presidents’ Organization  gauge of sentiment
dropped to 61.1 in July from April’s record-high 64.1 reading,
according to the Dallas-based group. Figures greater than 50
shows the executives’ outlook was more positive than negative.  “CEOs are concerned that the slower growth registered in
the first half of this year might continue through year-end,”
YPO member Dave Maney, chairman at Headwaters MB, a Denver-based
investment bank, said in a statement. “The relatively modest
decline would indicate that CEOs have grown cautious, rather
than pessimistic.”  The world’s largest economy cooled in the first six months
of 2011 as higher food and fuel costs strapped consumers facing
flagging job growth. Absent bigger income gains later this year,
a pickup in the household spending that accounts for 70 percent
of the economy may fail to materialize.  “The negative shift in CEO sentiment is not surprising in
light of second-quarter events, which include the run-up in
gasoline prices and the debt-ceiling gridlock in  Washington ,”
Stephen Slifer, chief economist at NumberNomics and YPO Global
Pulse economic adviser, said in a statement.  Forty-eight percent of respondents said sales will increase
in the coming 12 months, while 21 percent anticipate demand will
shrink, the nonprofit service organization’s survey showed.  Hiring Outlook  Hiring will pick up by July of next year at about 36
percent of businesses, down from the 42 percent of respondents
who said they planned to boost employment in the prior period.
Almost 5 percent said they anticipate trimming payrolls
throughout the year.  The economy probably failed to add enough jobs in July to
reduce unemployment which held at 9.2 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey ahead
of tomorrow’s Labor Department report. Private payrolls
increased by 57,000 in June, the smallest gain since May 2010.  The fixed-investment index dropped to 59.2 in July from a
record-high 61.3 reading, according to the YPO survey, with 41
percent of CEOs planning to boost  capital spending . Twenty-seven
percent of executives in the  construction industry  said they
plan to increase investment, down from 45 percent one quarter
ago.  The quarterly survey, conducted during the first two weeks
of July, received responses from 1,045 U.S. CEOs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski at   akowalski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  