-- 
China Said to Draft Proposal to Allow Some Local Governments to Sell Bonds

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-04T05:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/china-said-to-draft-proposal-to-allow-some-local-governments-to-sell-bonds.html
China ’s  finance ministry  has drafted
a preliminary plan that would allow some provincial and city
governments to sell bonds to investors on a trial basis, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  The proposal aims to boost local authorities’ repayment
ability, the person said, declining to be identified as the
matter is confidential. The local government liabilities fell to
7.1 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) as of June 30 after banks
reclassified 2.1 trillion yuan as normal corporate credit with
sufficient cash flows to meet obligations, the person said.  Allowing the sale of municipal bonds may ease concerns that
defaults on payments owed to lenders could lead to China’s third
banking bailout in less than two decades. As much as 30 percent
of the credit may sour,  Standard & Poor’s  estimated, after a
record lending boom -- much of it for road and airport projects
-- powered China’s recovery from the global financial crisis.  “To avoid a bank default, we believe the authorities need
to take decisive action to restructure local debt,”  Qu Hongbin ,
chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong , wrote
in an Aug. 1 report. “We see the issuance of municipal bonds as
the best option.”  The finance ministry didn’t respond to a fax and telephone
call seeking comment. The 21st Century Business Herald reported
the finance ministry’s proposal earlier today.  Local governments, barred from borrowing debt directly, set
up 6,576 financing vehicles by the end of 2010 to fund projects
such as new roads and airports, according to a report from the
National Audit Office on June 27. They had 10.7 trillion yuan in
outstanding liabilities at the end of 2010, of which 8.5
trillion yuan was from bank loans, it said.  ‘More Transparent’  The management of some of these companies was “irregular”
and their ability to repay debt is weak, auditor-general Liu Jiayi said at that time. The financing vehicles had more than 8
trillion yuan in debt overdue, he said.  Selling bonds “also opens a channel for local governments
to raise funds needed for future infrastructure investment in a
more transparent and market-based fashion,” Qu wrote in the
report. “Demand for local  government bonds  is not an issue, not
least because of the huge pool of savings amassed by Chinese
households.”  China’s finance ministry plans to study the establishment
of a debt financing system for local governments in the second
half of this year, according to a  July 26 statement  posted on
its website.  Understating Debt  The banks reclassified part of the local government
liabilities after the creditors reached a consensus that the
projects financed by the debt would generate sufficient cash
flows for repayments, the person said. The remaining loans are
subject to higher provisions as well as  capital requirements 
that may be as much as three times that of standard loans, the
person said.  The nation’s first audit of local government debt
underestimated the loans given by banks by about 3.5 trillion
yuan, Moody’s Investors Service said July 5. Lenders may be left
to manage a portion of any bad debt that arises on their own,
the ratings company said, fueling concerns that banks’ credit
outlook may deteriorate.  China’s Guangdong and Zhejiang provinces are working on a
pilot project to sell bonds directly to investors, the Economic
Observer newspaper reported July 1. Those local governments will
sell the bonds this year, the Observer said, citing local
Treasury officials.  -- John Liu , with assistance from Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong.
Editors: Chitra Somayaji, Russell Ward  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7565 or
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  