-- 
China’s Health-Care Push May Curb Growth for Pfizer, Merck Sales

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-05T10:51:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/china-s-push-to-boost-medical-care-may-curb-sales-growth-for-pfizer-merck.html
China’s efforts to make medicines
cheaper for 700 million rural people have dragged its biggest
health-care stocks down 26 percent this year. Plans to expand
the program to wealthy cities may also hurt  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Merck & Co.  A new way to buy essential drugs being tested in Anhui
province caused prices to fall by as much as 90 percent. The
system, which encourages drugmakers to compete on price and
quality for state contracts, may go national and be widened to
include other medicines, according to lobbyists representing 38
foreign drugmakers in China.  Foreign companies oppose that because they say it will
force them to lower prices to compete with generic-drug makers.
That may erode the profit earned from every prescription they
sell in the world’s fastest-growing pharmaceutical market, which
was worth $41.1 billion last year, according to  IMS Health Inc.   “There is some consideration within the government to
expand the Anhui tender system beyond the essential drugs list,
and that would be an even worse situation for us,” said Joseph
Cho, who heads the Research and Development-Based Pharmaceutical
Association Committee in Beijing.  “We can understand if some poorer regions need to use this
process. But for those regions with better finances, they should
not be restricted by the government to just low-priced
generics.”  No. 3 Market  Prescription drug sales in  China  have more than doubled
since 2006, making it the world’s third-largest market,
according to Norwalk, Connecticut-based IMS Health. Wider
health-insurance coverage and higher incomes have improved
people’s access to medical care, especially in cities including
 Shanghai  and coastal provinces including Jiangsu and Guangdong.  The government is trying to make medicines more affordable
for everyone by encouraging competition among suppliers and
favoring generics over brand-name treatments.  Anhui , China’s fourth-poorest province, started seeking
bids from pharmaceutical companies in September, one of five
provinces testing the system. Now, medicines on the government’s
essential list -- including treatments for  heart disease  and
high  blood pressure  -- are 53 percent cheaper on average than
the maximum retail price set by the government, said Xu Hengqiu,
the local deputy director of health.  Stock Slump  “We’re guided by one principle: when drug prices are low,
the common people benefit,” Xu said.  A seven-pill pack of a generic version of Merck’s
cholesterol-lowering drug Zocor has plunged to 2.45 yuan (38
cents) from about 25 yuan, and copies of  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Lopressor
blood pressure medicine go for 4.75 yuan for 20 tablets,
compared with 9.5 yuan.  Shares of companies supplying products on the essential-
drugs list have slumped. The  MSCI China (MXCN) /Health Care Index is
down 26 percent this year, making it the second-worst performer
of 10 industry groups in China tracked by MSCI.  Shineway Pharmaceutical Group, which sells traditional
remedies, has lost half its market value on the Hong Kong
exchange this year, making it the worst performer of 137 stocks
on the MSCI ACWI/Health Care Index.  The company, based in  Hebei province , was beaten in two
tenders earlier this year, said Eva Chun, a Hong Kong-based
equities analyst at Kingsway Group, citing discussions with the
company’s management. Shineway, which earns a third of its
revenue from remedies for fever and hepatitis, didn’t respond to
a request for comment on its sales.  ‘Lot of Uncertainty’  “The policy changes have generated a lot of uncertainty,”
said Jason Siu, a health-care analyst with OSK ( Asia ) Securities
 Hong Kong  Ltd. “The concern is that the price cuts will affect
profits along the entire supply chain, from finished drugs to
retail stores and drug distributors.”  China’s central government maintains a list of 307 drugs
that it deems necessary for state-run hospitals and clinics to
stock.  Those medicines typically generate a higher sales volume,
though only account for about 10 percent of China’s
pharmaceutical market by value, said  Du Jinsong , a health-care
analyst with Credit Suisse AG in Hong Kong. The government has
ordered 27 rounds of price cuts during the past decade, Du said.  “Many companies had thought the essential drugs-list
market would be very attractive, but are gradually moving away
because the tender price is too low,” Du said.  ‘Important Task’  Credit Suisse describes the system as the “lowest-price-
win Anhui model.” It was introduced under Sun Zhigang, the
former provincial vice-governor who now is director of the
Office of Medical Reform, a unit of the policy-setting State
Council that reports to Premier  Wen Jiabao .  The introduction of a new procurement system “has become
an urgent and important task,” and the State Council has
requested that 22 provinces implement a tendering method modeled
on Anhui’s, Sun  told  the official Xinhua News Agency in June.  Patients in the wealthier provinces of Jiangsu, Zhejiang
and Guangdong already use foreign drugmakers’ products, said Cho,
who is also chairman of the Chinese unit of  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ,
 Japan ’s third-largest pharmaceutical company.  “If the ‘Anhui Model’ is fully implemented throughout
China, then even those patients would not be able to use our
products,” he said.  Cho’s group speaks for all its members on the tendering
system, Xi Qing, a spokesman for Pfizer China in Shanghai, said
in an e-mail.  Better Options  In Guangdong, which neighbors Hong Kong, some drugmakers
have threatened to  boycott  the tenders because of price
competition, the Nanfang Metropolis News, part of the Chinese
Communist Party-controlled  Nanfang Daily Press Group , reported
July 28, citing interviews with drug-company executives it
didn’t identify.  “I might as well invest in funds or go buy a property --
anything is better than drugs these days,” said Tang Changshou,
who runs Yangcheng Pharmaceutical, a maker of generic medicines
including the antibiotic cefixime and the diabetic treatment
metformin.  Tang’s company has lost out in all the provincial tenders
it has participated in, he said.  After a  meeting  on May 24, China’s six biggest
pharmaceutical industry associations issued a statement urging
the government to avoid focusing on price cuts.  WHO Critique  Yet the measures are helping people like retired rice
farmer Lin Hecai, who lives in a village at the foot of a
mountain 80 kilometers (50 miles) outside Anqing, in Anhui
province.  Cheaper medication and a new insurance policy means he pays
10 yuan to see a doctor, compared with 30 yuan two years ago, he
said.  “Even for just small ailments -- flu and fever -- I can
afford to see the doctor whenever I fall sick,” the 64-year-old
said as he waited for a consultation in the village clinic.  The benefits of China’s economic growth “haven’t been
shared equally” among rural dwellers like Lin, the Geneva-based
 World Health Organization  said in an April  report .  Public-health needs should be addressed even at the expense
of the pharmaceutical industry, said Xu, Anhui’s deputy health
director.  “If there are drug companies that fail, we will let them
fail,” said Xu, a professor of rural medical reform at Anhui
Medical University. “It’s not our responsibility to help them
survive.”  --Daryl Loo. Editors: Jason Gale, Michael Tighe  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7540 or
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  