-- 
China Elbows Into German Soccer as Solar Rivalry Hits Field

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-08-05T08:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/china-elbows-into-german-soccer-as-solar-power-rivalry-heads-to-the-field.html
Chinese solar companies are reaching
into the homes of German soccer fans for the first time, ramping
up advertising to oust local suppliers from  Europe ’s biggest
power market.  China’s Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest
solar-panel maker, tomorrow will put its name on jerseys of  1899
Hoffenheim ’s players for their opening game in the Bundesliga,
the most profitable soccer league. Baoding-based Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co. this year began backing  Bayern Munich , the
country’s most successful club, which aims to unseat champion
 Borussia Dortmund , sponsored by German panel maker  Q-Cells SE. (QCE)   “It’s an unprecedented marketing push,” Pascal Schulte,
senior consultant at Sport+Markt, a sports marketing research
firm in Cologne, said in an interview. “I can’t remember so
many companies from a single industry, some of which many people
hadn’t even heard of, entering the Bundesliga with such force in
such a short period of time.”  The Chinese are chasing business in the biggest solar-
energy market, where German homeowners spent about $6.7 billion
on panels in 2010 and officials face a power shortfall after
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  pledged to shut atomic reactors by
2022.  The rush to build brand awareness increases pressure on
German solar manufacturers  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Q-Cells. Together
they burned through 343 million euros ($485 million) of cash in
the first quarter, almost a third of their total, battling
greater competition from cheaper Chinese photovoltaic devices.  ‘Open Race’  German solar companies with 130,000 workers are defending
their territory via their own sponsorships, which vie with the
Chinese and global brands such as Coca-Cola Co. and Adidas AG.
The Bundesliga has the highest attendance in European soccer,
according to Deloitte LLP, with an average of 42,700 fans at
each game, compared with 35,363 in  England ’s Premier League.  While Q-Cells, the biggest German solar cell maker,
sponsors the reigning champion, Bonn-based Solarworld backs
Cologne and runs advertisements featuring its star striker  Lukas Podolski , who has scored 42 times for the German national team.  “It’s an open race,” said Philipp Hasenbein, managing
director of consulting firm Sportfive  Germany , who advises 10
out of 18 Bundesliga clubs, which now earn more ad money from
solar companies than power utilities, such as EON AG and RWE AG.
“I expect more companies from the solar sector to enter soccer
sponsoring over the coming months.”  Slowing Demand  Bayern is the 8-15 favorite to oust Dortmund from the top
position this year, according to Irish bookmaker Paddy Power.
That means a successful $8 bet on the team would return $15 plus
the original stake. Dortmund, the second favorite, is a 9-2 bet.  Getting their names in front of panel installers and
millions of property owners who are their most important
customers may help the strongest manufacturers differentiate
themselves from rivals as demand slows, Lars Dannenberg, a solar
analyst at the German bank Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. in
 London , said in an interview.  The Germans are maintaining ad spending even as cheaper
rivals erode their sales. Q-Cells shares fell about 80 percent
in the past 12 months, and analysts expect the company to post a
loss of 43 million euros this year. Its cash dropped 41 percent
in the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The pressure is on to find a good marketing solution and
this is a good one,” Dannenberg said. “The attraction the
Bundesliga has in Germany is enormous.”  New Chinese Factories  Chinese equipment makers that added factories just before
the market slowed this year also face a tougher times. Annual
panel installations globally may rise as little as 19 percent in
2011, compared with a 135 percent gain in 2010,  Bloomberg New
Energy Finance  analyst Martin Simonek said.  German developers installed 1 gigawatt of panels through
May, compared with 7.4 gigawatts across 2010.  Suntech, having almost tripled net income last year,
slumped about 40 percent since many solar stocks peaked on Feb.
18, while Yingli is down about 55 percent in that period.  Suntech likely will pay about 13.5 million euros over the
course of the three-year deal with Hoffenheim, according to
marketing research company Sponsors Verlag GmbH. Other shirt
sponsors in the Bundesliga include Volkswagen AG, Deutsche
Telekom AG and  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural
gas provider, which pays Schalke about 18 million euros a year.  JinkoSolar, Chaori  “Suntech is paying a considerably higher sum” to
Hoffenheim than the previous jersey sponsor TV Digital, Schulte
said. “The clubs are benefiting enormously from solar
companies’ rush for sponsorship.”  JinkoSolar Holding Co., based in Shangrao,  China , in July
announced a three-year deal to place ads next to the playing
field at  Bayer Leverkusen ’s stadium. Shanghai Chaori Solar
Energy Science & Technology Co. in June agreed with Schalke,
which stars record Champions League goalscorer  Raul Gonzalez , to
advertise at games and have players endorse their products.  The image push may help them increase sales even as the
market slows by driving out smaller competitors, Dannenberg
said.  “No one wants to be left behind,” Schulte said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  