-- 
Citigroup Shares Fall to 17-Month Low Amid Economic Concern

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-04T20:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/citigroup-shares-fall-to-15-month-low-amid-economic-concern.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, fell to the lowest in 17 months, erasing much of last
year’s gain amid slower U.S. economic growth and concern the
lender may face losses linked to indebted European nations.  The shares declined 6.6 percent to $34.81 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Citigroup advanced 43
percent last year as the Treasury Department sold its 27 percent
stake in the New York-based bank. Stocks plunged amid concern
that the economic recovery is faltering, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its worst slump since February 2009.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ,
54, has declined 26 percent this year, the fourth-worst
performer on the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The bank, which says
it has operations in more than 100 countries, is more exposed to
a global recession than other lenders and that’s contributing to
its decline, according to Charles Peabody, an analyst with New
York-based Portales Partners LLC.  “Wherever there has been a crisis, Citi has emerged with
an exposure,” said Peabody, who has a “hold” rating on the
bank’s shares. “What the market a year ago perceived as a
unique strength is now turning out to be a global risk.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank, fell 7.4
percent to $8.83.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest,
declined 5 percent to $37.92.  ECB Buys Bonds  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
today that the ECB has resumed buying the bonds of distressed
euro-area governments and will offer banks more cash to prevent
the region’s debt crisis from spreading to Spain and Italy.  Pandit and Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach told
analysts on July 15 that it has at least $22 billion in loans,
trading assets and other “exposures” to Greece, Italy,
Portugal, Spain and Ireland.  This figure is net of hedges and includes $13 billion in
so-called funded exposure, mostly in the form of credit to
financial institutions and companies, according to a company
 presentation . Pandit and Gerspach declined to tell analysts what
the gross exposure to the five countries was.  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to comment.  Also weighing on the bank’s shares are emerging-market
economies such as Brazil, India and  China , which are showing
signs of slowing down after a two-year credit binge, Peabody
said.  “You’re seeing indications that economies in Brazil and
China and India are starting to roll over or at least
threatening to roll over,” Peabody said. “Without that global
growth story, Citi doesn’t have the unique attraction that it
would have relative to other banks that are more domestically-
oriented.”  -- Editors: William Ahearn, Dan Kraut  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 