-- 
Citibank’s Elmer Says Japan Faces ‘Headwinds’ in Weakening Yen

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   R e y n o l d s
-- 
2011-08-04T07:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/citibank-s-elmer-says-japan-faces-headwinds-in-weakening-yen.html
Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10
currency strategy for Asia ex- Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in
Singapore, comments on the yen after Japan sold the currency
today to protect exporters.  The yen slid against all its major counterparts, tumbling
3.4 percent to 79.78 per dollar as of 8:50 a.m. in  London  from
yesterday in  New York .  “The initial intervention in dollar-yen looks modest
relative to that seen in March and September.  “As opposed to one ‘overwhelming’ bout of intervention, it
could signal that they will use multiple smaller bouts. This
could prove somewhat more effective than the previous tactic,
insomuch as it may go further to introducing real two-way risk
into the market.  “Nevertheless, Japan faces stronger headwinds in its
efforts to defend its  exchange rate . Most significantly, Finance
Minister Noda has noted that the intervention was solo. This
means that foreign authorities are less receptive to the action
than was the case in March and they could apply pressure to
Japan to not engage in protracted intervention.”  On reasons for yen to rise:  “Profit taking among retail investors, increased hedging
activity by exporters and more balanced hedge-fund positioning
than was the case ahead of the previous intervention may not be
as conducive to a major rally.  “Coupled with a broadly negative dollar-environment and
continued strong demand for safe-havens, this signals Japanese
authorities may ultimately have limited success in pushing
dollar-yen higher.  “We are reluctant to chase the move higher in the dollar-
yen and any broad dollar strengthening or rise in risk appetite
associated with the move itself is likely to prove short-
lived.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  