-- 
Civilian Mission in Afghanistan Requires a New Commitment: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-04T00:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/civilian-mission-in-afghanistan-requires-new-commitment-from-obama-view.html
With a drawdown of 33,000 U.S. surge
troops now under way, and plans for all U.S. and NATO combat
forces to exit  Afghanistan  by December 2014, the fate of the
civilian mission -- the diplomats and aid workers -- in
Afghanistan is uncertain.  We argued against the drawdown of surge troops on the
grounds that additional military pressure would give the
breathing room for the Afghan National Security Forces and
civilian institutions to gain traction, and allow a political
settlement with the Taliban time to play out. The decision to
withdraw the military element means that policy makers in
Washington must devise a new strategy for the civilian mission.  That effort has accomplished some remarkable feats in just
the past two years. A surge of diplomats and aid workers in 2009
was designed to complement the troop increases. Since then, the
civilians -- a team that peaked at 1,400 people this summer --
have worked alongside the troops on short-term stabilization
projects and have helped the Afghan government build legitimacy,
especially in provinces where allied forces had driven out the
Taliban. This was the counterinsurgency strategy.  That strategy is now clearly ending. And the death in
December of  Richard Holbrooke , President  Barack Obama ’s special
representative to Afghanistan and  Pakistan , means that the
civilian mission has lost its architect and most ardent
advocate, leaving it in flux.  The civilians shouldn’t be expected to secure and build in
all the areas that were reclaimed during the counterinsurgency
campaign. That would be an impossible mission; but the civilians
will be critical to any long-term success in stabilizing the
country. Their assistance can help create an Afghanistan that is
politically stable enough to survive the effect of reactionary
Islamist politicians, in addition to making headway in providing
education and health services and facilitating economic
investments.  Hurdle in Congress  The first hurdle to that success will be in Congress. We
support the State Department’s request for $3.2 billion in 2012
to prevent Afghanistan from falling back into the abyss. With
the military goals scaled back, however, lawmakers aren’t likely
to have much enthusiasm for spending money on Afghanistan.  For the civilian mission to survive the coming budget cuts
in Washington, the administration must demonstrate its enduring
value as the counterinsurgency strategy ends. That’s why a
recent Senate Foreign Relations Committee  report , “Evaluating
U.S. Foreign Assistance to Afghanistan,” urged the
administration to devise a long-term civilian assistance
strategy now. We agree.  A sustainable and effective civilian mission in Afghanistan
beyond 2014 will be a logistically complex undertaking. To guide
the transition from military to civilian control, the U.S.
should take heed of the lessons learned from missteps in  Iraq .  Important decisions about the Iraq mission’s purpose and
logistics were put off. As the Office of the Inspector General
for the State Department  put it , the civilian transition in Iraq
was hampered by “the lack of timely decisions on key issues,
which stems from a lack of senior level participation in the
process.” In 2012, the U.S. civilian force there is expected to
be about 16,000 people: 1,900 diplomats and aid workers, and
14,100 contractors. Security threats, however, have so far
confined the majority of civilians to the U.S. Embassy compound
in  Baghdad .  In Afghanistan, the new U.S. ambassador,  Ryan Crocker ,
should be given the authority and senior staff to ensure the
effort gets consistent, high-level attention.  Needs Credible Plans  Also, the U.S. needs credible plans for what its civilians
can accomplish outside of Kabul, without the U.S. military
providing overall security. Some troops will probably remain to
provide training for the Afghan forces, but bases for 26
provincial reconstruction teams, which have housed both troops
and diplomats throughout the country, will be shuttering. And
the situation in some areas -- especially in the south and east,
where the Taliban, Haqqani Network and other extremist factions
are strongest -- is too precarious to allow meaningful civilian
assistance.  A civilian mission as large and immobile as the one in Iraq
shouldn’t be replicated in Afghanistan. Instead of rushing to
fill the troop void with more contractors, the administration
should focus on developing a core group of hundreds of people
with deep expertise on Afghanistan who are committed to
remaining in the country longer than the standard one-year
assignment.  There is now an 85 percent turnover at the embassy in Kabul
each summer; this pattern depletes the U.S.’s institutional
memory there. To lengthen the tours of service, civilians could
be given an option of serving two continuous years in
Afghanistan or two years over a four-year period, with
alternating years between Afghanistan and  Washington .  The civilian mission in Afghanistan may no longer be a
burning issue in the U.S. But its work will help make a long-
term strategic partnership between the West and Afghanistan
possible.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 