-- 
Piers Morgan Needs to Answer Phone-Hacking Questions, U.K. Lawmakers Say

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-04T10:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/cnn-s-morgan-needs-to-answer-phone-hack-questions-lawmakers-say.html
Piers Morgan , the presenter of  CNN ’s
 “Tonight”  show and a former editor of the U.K.’s Daily Mirror
newspaper, should return to Britain to answer questions about
phone-hacking, lawmakers said.  Harriet Harman, the deputy leader of the main opposition
 Labour Party , and Therese Coffey, a member of the Culture
Committee that questioned  Rupert Murdoch  last month, said Morgan
should respond to hacking allegations by Heather Mills, the
former wife of ex-Beatle  Paul McCartney . Mills told  BBC 
television that a senior executive at  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , the
Mirror’s publisher, admitted to her in 2001 that information had
been gained from messages left on her mobile phone’s voice mail.  “It’s not good enough for him to say, or someone to say on
his behalf, I always complied with the law and the Press
Complaints Commission code of conduct, he’s got to answer,”
Harman told Sky News television today.  The phone-hacking scandal in the U.K. has so far mostly
affected Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , which has seen the resignation of
two executives, the shutdown of the 168-year-old News of the
World newspaper and the termination of the company’s takeover
bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  At least 11 people
have been arrested.  Morgan, editor of the Daily Mirror between 1995 and 2004,
wrote an  article  in the Daily Mail newspaper in 2006 in which he
said he’d been played a recording of a message left by McCartney
for Mills. One of the newspaper’s most prominent scoops under
his editorship was the 2002 revelation that the England soccer
team manager, Sven-Goran Eriksson, was having an affair with a
TV presenter. In his 2009 memoir, “God Bless America,” Morgan
said the newspaper  got the story  after “learning of a similar
message left by the then England manager on her phone.”  ‘Add More Light’  “I just hope that the police take the evidence and go with
it, and if Mr. Morgan wants to come back to the U.K. and help
them with their inquiries, and I don’t mean being arrested in
any way, I’m sure he can add more light,” Coffey told the BBC
yesterday. “I think it would help everybody, including himself
and this investigation, if he was able to say more about why he
wrote what he did in 2006.”  “Heather Mills has made unsubstantiated claims about a
conversation she may or may not have had with a senior executive
from a Trinity Mirror newspaper in 2001. I have no knowledge of
any conversation any executive from other newspapers at Trinity
Mirror may or may not have had with Heather Mills,” Morgan said
in a statement issued through CNN, which is owned by  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  “I have never hacked a phone, told anyone to hack a phone,
nor to my knowledge published any story obtained from the
hacking of a phone.”  Morgan said the BBC had told him the executive didn’t work
for the Daily Mirror.  “All our journalists work within the criminal law and the
PCC code of conduct,” Nick Fullagar, a Trinity Mirror
spokesman, said by telephone. The PCC administers the system of
self-regulation for the press in the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 