-- 
Codelco May Borrow as Much as $2.5 Billion in Bonds, Loans to Fund Mines

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-04T07:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/codelco-ceo-hernandez-says-studying-1-billion-bond-sale-1-.html
Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, may raise as much as $2.5 billion in bonds and loans
by the end of 2012 to fund record spending on its mines in  Chile .  The Chilean state-owned company may sell more than $1
billion in bonds, Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said
today in an interview at Bloomberg’s office in  Melbourne .  Codelco will spend at least $20 billion this decade to
boost annual production to meet forecast rising global demand
for the metal used in pipes and wiring. Teck Resources Ltd. sold
$2 billion of debt in June as the cost to protect company bonds
from default in the U.S. fell by the most since March.  “Next year we will go to financial markets and if
conditions are good this year we will advance that plan,”
Hernandez said. The company was looking to borrow “$2 billion
to $2.5 billion” to finance about $4 billion in total
investment next year, he said.  Codelco sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds in October. The
company sold the notes to yield 3.965 percent, 130 basis points
more than similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries , in a transaction
arranged by Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc.  “We’ll probably go for bonds and loans from banks,” said
Hernandez. “More will be in bonds but it depends on the
conditions.”  Copper Output  Chile’s copper output will probably fall 5 percent below an
initial target of 5.6 million metric tons in 2011 because of
project delays, weather disruption and strikes at mine sites,
Hernandez said.  Strikes have hit mines in Chile, the top copper supplier,
joining protests worldwide as surging Chinese demand swelled
profits at producers including Codelco and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company  Labor strikes at BHP’s Escondida copper operations in Chile
have stretched into its second week, forcing the unit to declare
force majeure, a legal clause used when suppliers can’t meet
obligations because of circumstances beyond their control.  The dispute at Escondida follows a 24-hour strike at
Codelco on July 11 and protests by contract workers at Codelco’s
El Teniente last month.  Copper in  New York  for September delivery rose 0.2 percent
to $4.33 a pound at 5:26 p.m. Melbourne time. It’s gained 27
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  