-- 
Colombia’s Peso Falls the Most in Seven Weeks on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-08-04T18:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/colombia-s-peso-falls-the-most-in-three-weeks-on-global-growth-concern.html
Colombia ’s peso fell the most in
seven weeks as concern grew the global economic recovery is
stalling and after the Bank of  Japan  sold its currency, causing
the  U.S. dollar  to gain against all of its major counterparts.  The peso slipped 0.8 percent to 1,785.77 per U.S. dollar at
2:01 p.m. New York time, from 1,770.82 yesterday. That’s its
biggest drop since June 15.  “Risk aversion is leading to declines in global markets
including currencies,” said Daniel Escobar, an analyst at
Global Securities brokerage in Bogota. “Colombia has a strong
dependence on its exports, and U.S. indicators aren’t showing
the recovery that was once expected.”  Concern the global economic recovery is faltering has
driven investors out of stocks and into the relative safety of
U.S. Treasuries, the yen and Swiss franc.  Oil, Colombia’s biggest export, fell in  New York , erasing
its 2011 gains. The U.S. is Colombia’s biggest trading partner,
buying about 40 percent of the Andean country’s exports.  Finance officials from  South America  and Mexico plan to
meet in Lima tomorrow to seek a coordinated response to protect
their currencies and economies from the debt crisis in Europe.
Near-zero borrowing costs in advanced economies such as the U.S.
and Japan sparked rising dollar inflows into emerging markets,
causing currencies to rally.  Colombia and Brazil have been affected by their
strengthening local currencies, Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  said at an event in Bogota organized by the Inter-
American Development Bank. The meeting tomorrow to work out
joint currency policies will have “important weight,” Santos
said.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024
snapped 10 days of declines, rising seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 7.63 percent, according to the stock
exchange. The bond’s price fell 0.599 centavo to 119.127
centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  