-- 
Comcast Sues DirecTV Claiming False Advertising for Its Football Package

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-04T17:37:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/comcast-sues-directv-claiming-false-advertising-for-its-football-package.html
Comcast Corp., the biggest U.S. cable
television company, said  DirecTV (DTV)  deceives consumers with
advertisements for its National Football League program package.  In a lawsuit filed yesterday in Chicago federal court,
Comcast accused DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite TV provider,
of false advertising, unfair competition and consumer fraud.  DirecTV’s ads claim that its NFL Sunday Ticket games
package is currently free, while failing to disclose a two-year
minimum contract, second-year charges and an early cancellation
penalty, according to Philadelphia-based Comcast’s complaint.  The satellite company’s strategy was to “get as many cable
subscribers to switch to DirecTV before they realize they are
trapped in a two-year -- and decidedly non-free -- deal,”
according to the complaint.  Comcast is seeking a court order blocking the print, radio
and Internet ads and compelling DirecTV to retract and correct
its claims. The cable provider is also asking for unspecified
cash damages for lost profit.  “We believe Comcast’s complaint is completely without
merit and we plan to defend ourselves vigorously,” Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for the El Segundo, California-based
DirecTV, said in a telephone interview.  The satellite programming purveyor has more than 28 million
subscribers, according to its 2010 annual report.  Comcast Units  In addition to its cable television offerings,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  units include NBCUniversal, which produces movies and
television shows, and Comcast-Spectacor, which owns professional
hockey’s Philadelphia Flyers and their home arena.  Comcast, in its complaint, alleged DirecTV’s ads preyed on
football fans in the wake of a four-month National Football
League labor lockout triggered by disagreements over terms of a
new collective bargaining agreement.  The dispute was resolved last month. The regular season is
scheduled to begin on Sept. 8 with the  New Orleans Saints  at
Green Bay,  Wisconsin ’s Packers.  The case is Comcast Cable Communications LLC v. DirecTV
Inc., 11cv5284, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  