-- 
Commodity Shipping Costs Seen Declining by Barclays

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-04T11:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/commodity-shipping-costs-seen-declining-by-barclays-correct-.html
(Corrects timeframe for panamax shipping in final paragraph
of story published Aug. 2.)  The Baltic Dry Index, a global
measure of commodity shipping costs, is expected to be 1,250
points on average during the second half as ship rents fall due
to an oversupply of vessels, according to  Barclays Capital .  “The burgeoning dry-bulk fleet supply has once again
returned to put pressure on freight rates,” Barclays wrote in a
commodities research note e-mailed today. Rates will drop “in
coming months” and stabilize at lower levels in 2012 as the
fleet continues to grow, according to the bank.  The index lost 0.2 percent to reach 1,253 points, falling
for the 18th consecutive trading session in the longest streak
since April 26, according to the Baltic Exchange, a London-based
provider of freight rates on 29 international routes for grains
and minerals.  An increase in hire costs for capesize vessels, the largest
vessel size tracked by the gauge, was offset by decreases for
the other three types, exchange data show.  The global fleet of 8,578 bulk carriers will swell by 15
percent this year, more than three times faster than demand for
commodities shipped by sea, which is forecast to reach 3.6
billion metric tons, according to Clarkson Research Services, a
unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  The highest-ever average earnings in 2007 spurred orders
for a record 2,300 bulk carriers that year, followed by 1,150
orders in 2008, Barry Rogliano Salles, a Paris-based shipbroker,
wrote in a report published yesterday.  There have been 326 new ship deals to date this year,
compared with 190 in 2009, when the worst recession since World
War II affected business, according to BRS.  Over-Capacity  “The combination of over-capacity is looming like never
before with everything under pressure, from freight rates to
corporate balance sheets to timely ship delivery, although the
latter can be a blessing in disguise,” the report said.  The total number of bulk carriers contracted to be built at
shipyards globally peaked at 3,811 in 2009, according to
Clarkson.  Panamaxes, the largest ships that can transit the Panama
Canal, will perform better than larger capesize vessels, which
usually haul  iron ore  and coal, in the next 18 months, according
to the Barclays report.  Demand for vessels to transport grains, coal and ore from
new destinations with smaller ports, especially to  India , will
work to the advantage of panamaxes, according to the report.
Capesizes would be priced out of longer-haul routes by larger
ships set to dominate shipping ore from  Brazil  to  China ,
according to Barclays.  Iron Ore  Capesize rents rose for the first time since July 7,
gaining 0.7 percent to $9,356 daily, as costs to ship iron ore
from  Australia  to China gained, according to the Baltic
Exchange.  That’s $2,044 a day more than operating costs, excluding
fuel, financing and interest, according to calculations from
Moore Stephens International, a London accounting firm.  Supramax vessels that ship grains and minerals were little
changed, at $13,088 a day, down $22, according to the  Baltic
Exchange . Rents for handysize ships, the smallest tracked by the
gauge were 0.6 percent lower at $9,813 daily, according to the
exchange.  Panamax commodity carriers shipped about 19 percent of all
dry-bulk commodities in the first half of the year, German
transportation lender DVB Bank SE said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiesebockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  