-- 
Commodities to Withstand Slower Growth, Buy Gold, JPMorgan Tells Investors

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-08-04T08:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/commodities-to-rally-buy-gold-jpmorgan-chase-tells-investors.html
Investors should retain holdings in
commodities even as the global economy expands at a slower pace
as raw-material demand is strong enough to support further gains,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said, forecasting gold and copper rallies.  Gold may jump to a record $1,800 an ounce by yearend, while
copper revisits $10,000 per metric ton, Colin P. Fenton and
Matthew Lehmann wrote in a report yesterday. The bank had raised
forecasts for both metals, they said, without giving the earlier
estimates. The bank can’t release a separate report of full
calls, said spokeswoman Polly Leung, citing compliance policy.  Commodities as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index fell for a seventh session today, the longest slump since
May 2010, on concern that the global economy is slowing.
JPMorgan cut its forecast for third-quarter U.S. growth by a
percentage point to 1.5 percent, Chief U.S. Economist  Michael Feroli  said yesterday. The U.S. is the world’s largest user of
oil, and is second to  China  in terms of copper and aluminum.  “Baring a material contraction in global growth, which we
do not currently expect, commodities should continue to move
higher,” said New York-based Fenton, global head of commodities
research and strategy, and London-based Lehmann, a strategist.
“Even at a now slower pace, global growth in the second half
should be enough to outpace still-constrained supply in the
major commodity markets.”  Second-Half Outlook  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley last month kept
their bullish views on copper and oil, predicting a global
economic recovery in the second half. Copper was set to benefit
from Chinese restocking, Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Hussein Allidina  said in a July 6 report.  The S&P GSCI Spot Index has advanced 6.3 percent this year,
driven by gains in precious metals, lean hogs and energy. The
gauge rallied 20 percent last year and soared 50 percent in 2009
as the global economy emerged from recession.  “In keeping with our overall portfolio strategy to put our
money as far from the current crisis spots as possible, we stay
long commodities,” with gold as a “top pick,” Fenton and
Lehmann wrote. So-called long positions are bets on gains.  “The major commodity markets are all currently
experiencing supply issues which in spite of slowing demand are
keeping prices high,” the JPMorgan report said. “We remain
positive on commodity performance over the medium term.”  Spot gold climbed to record $1,672.80 an ounce yesterday,
taking this year’s gain to 17 percent, as investors sought haven
assets. Three-month copper traded at $9,560 per ton on the
London Metal Exchange at 4:01 p.m. in  Singapore  today. The metal
touched an all-time high of $10,190 on Feb. 15.  ‘Outstrip Supplies’  The global copper market “is tight as demand continues to
outstrip supplies, which is forcing consumers to substitute
copper with other metals when possible and increase the use of
scrap supplies,” the report said.  Worldwide demand for the metal used in wires is set to
exceed output by 377,000 tons this year, according to the
International Copper Study Group. A decline in average grades is
putting upward pressure on costs for the industry, Codelco, the
world’s largest copper producer, said today in a presentation.  Corn and wheat, like gold, are “least sensitive to growth
shocks,” Fenton and Lehmann wrote the report. Harvests of the
grains “in the fall will likely bring much lower yields than
currently expected,” they said.  Wheat rallied 17 percent last month in  Chicago  and traded
at $7.45 per bushel today. Corn has gained almost 13 percent
this year to $7.0625 per bushel on speculation that higher
demand for ethanol and animal feed will keep stockpiles low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  