-- 
ConocoPhillips Investor Says Pay Plan Forgoes Tax Deductions

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-04T19:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/conocophillips-investor-sues-over-executive-compensation-plan.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, was sued by an investor who claimed its
executive compensation plan doesn’t comply with tax regulations
that allow for deductions.  The plan, which sets maximum pay limits for executives at
$400 million a year in stock and cash, doesn’t let the company
take a tax deduction for compensation greater than $1 million,
according to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware, by Robert Freedman, who said he has held
shares in the company since December.  “The board’s payment of compensation that is not tax
deductible constitutes waste,” Freedman said in the complaint.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Code imposes the $1 million
threshold for company chief executives and the four highest paid
officers, with exemptions for performance-based pay, according
to the complaint. Houston-based Conoco’s performance goals are
too vague and don’t adhere standards set by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to qualify, according to the complaint.  Company directors misled investors about the plan in a
proxy statement that failed to make proper disclosures before a
shareholder vote in May, Freedman alleges. The plan was approved
by about 59 percent of the votes cast, according to the
complaint.  Freedman is seeking a court order barring awards and
payments under the plan as well as unspecified damages on behalf
of the company.  “We do not comment on litigation,” said Aftab Ahmed, a
ConocoPhillips spokesman, in an e-mailed message.  The case is Freedman v. Mulva, 11-00686, U.S. District
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 