-- 
Copper Falls Most in 10 Weeks as Slower Economic Growth May Reduce Demand

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-08-04T18:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/copper-may-climb-rebounding-from-three-week-low-on-concern-about-supply.html
Copper futures fell the most in 10
weeks on signs that the global economic recovery is stalling,
damping the outlook for commodity demand.  The MSCI All-Country World Index, a measure of global
equities, has dropped more than 10 percent from this year’s high
in May. U.S. initial jobless claims fell last week to a level
indicating limited improvement in the labor market. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials fell, erasing
this year’s gain.  “Sentiment has taken its turn for the worse,”  Gayle Berry , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “The markets are worried about what the
implications of fiscal austerity mean for the trajectory of
economic growth, and therefore for metal demand.”  Copper futures for September delivery declined 9.05 cents,
or 2.1 percent, to close at $4.2355 a pound at 1:17 p.m. the
Comex in  New York , the biggest decline since May 23. Earlier,
the price touched $4.226, the lowest for a most-active contract
since June 30.  The metal fell for the fourth straight day, the longest
slump since June. Copper has dropped 4.8 percent this year.  Service industries  in the U.S., the largest part of the
nation’s economy, expanded in July at the slowest rate in 17
months, a report showed yesterday. European services and
manufacturing growth eased last month to the slowest pace in
almost two years.  “The market is in the process of discounting a higher
probability of a significant slowdown in the world economy,”
Jesper Dannesboe, a strategist at  Societe Generale  in London,
said in a report. “It is very hard to see how copper can
totally ignore this.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell $180, or 1.9 percent, to $9,355 a metric ton ($4.24
a pound).  Aluminum, nickel, zinc, tin and lead also fell in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net 
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  