-- 
Copper Seen Above $4 a Pound on China Recovery, Codelco Says

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-05T00:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/copper-to-stay-above-4-a-pound-on-china-recovery-codelco-says.html
Copper prices may remain above $4 a
pound in coming months, driven by a recovery in demand from
 China , according to Codelco, the world’s largest producer.  “Chinese inventories seem to have decreased and now the
industry is catching up again,”  Diego Hernandez , chief
executive officer of the Chilean state-owned company, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” program with
Susan Li. The metal closed yesterday in  New York  at $4.23 a
pound.  Copper demand in China, the world’s biggest user, may gain
8 percent this year, depleting global supplies and boosting
prices, according to metals trader Wanxiang Resources Co.  Output from Chile, the world’s largest copper producer, may
miss a target of 5.6 million metric tons in 2011 by 5 percent
because of project delays, weather disruption and strikes at
mine sites, Hernandez said. The company expects annual
production of more than 1.7 million tons this year and  next, he
said.  Strikes have hit mines in  Chile  as surging Chinese demand
swelled profits at producers including Codelco and BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company. Labor protests at
BHP’s Escondida mine have stretched into a second week, forcing
the unit to declare force majeure, a legal clause used when
suppliers can’t meet obligations because of circumstances beyond
their control.  The dispute at Escondida follows a 24-hour strike at
Codelco on July 11 and protests by contract workers at Codelco’s
El Teniente last month. The company lost 18,000 tons of
production because of the actions, Hernandez said.  Codelco plans to spend about $20 billion this decade to
boost annual production to meet forecast rising global demand
for copper. It wants set up an international unit over the next
year to focus on overseas expansion, Hernandez said in  Melbourne 
yesterday. The unit, which will seek joint ventures in countries
including Brazil and  Colombia , will be based in Chile and may
list shares in the local market or abroad, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  