-- 
Wheat Drops as Demand for U.S. Exports May Weaken on Russian Production

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-04T11:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/corn-wheat-decline-as-economic-slowdown-seen-reducing-global-grain-demand.html
Wheat dropped as Russian supplies may
curb exports from the U.S., and as speculative investors
liquidate bets that prices will rise amid economic concerns that
threaten global demand for raw materials. Corn also fell.  Russian growers have collected 27 million metric tons of
wheat this year as yields surged 32 percent to 3.32 tons per
hectare (2.5 acres), the  Agriculture Ministry  said earlier this
week. Italy may be forced to turn to the  European Central Bank 
for emergency funding unless financial markets reopen by
September, Morgan Stanley said yesterday. Wheat jumped 5.3
percent on Aug. 2.  “Russia is having an effect on prices and the slowdown in
 China  is giving everybody a little pause,” said  William Adams ,
a  fund manager  at Resilience AG in Zurich. “Everything in the
market is 100 percent emotional right now with the debt issue
and with Italy becoming a huge problem. Anytime you get double
digit gains, people are looking to protect that profit.”  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 12.50 cents, or
1.7 percent, to $7.375 a bushel by 12:42 p.m.  London  time.
Milling wheat for November delivery fell 0.3 percent to 199
euros ($283.65) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in Paris.  Russia  may export 20 million to 25 million tons of grain
this season, Interfax reported yesterday, citing Arkady Zlochevsky, the Grain Union president. Russia lifted an export
ban on July 1 after the most-severe drought in 50 years cut
grain production in 2010. The nation was the world’s second-
largest wheat exporter during the 2009-2010 season,
International Grains Council data show.  Russian Harvest  Russia may harvest 54 million tons of wheat in the year
that began July 1, up from 41.5 million tons a year earlier,
according to a U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Foreign
Agricultural Service  report  posted on its website yesterday.  Corn and soybeans dropped for a second day on speculation
rain and moderating temperatures next week will boost crop
prospects in the U.S., the world’s biggest shipper of both
commodities.  Precipitation and cooler weather will ease stress to corn
and soybeans in the Midwest, including Iowa and  Illinois , the
biggest U.S. growers, and in the central plains, Telvent DTN
said in a report yesterday. Corn gained 7.8 percent in July and
soybeans rose 4.9 percent as hot, dry weather curbed crop
prospects.  “Weather reports are coming suggesting that next week will
bring near-ideal growing conditions for corn and beans,” said
 Dennis Gartman , an economist, in his daily edition of The
Gartman Letter. The forecast for moderate temperatures and rain
bodes well for grain, he wrote.  Global Economy  Corn futures for December delivery lost 11 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $7.02 a bushel in Chicago. Soybean futures for
November delivery fell 14.25 cents, or 1 percent, to $13.5875 a
bushel.  Prices also dropped on concern the global economy will sag
amid lower spending by U.S. consumers and companies, reducing
demand for the grain used in food, feed and biofuels.  “Markets fear that the U.S. economic slowdown is not
‘transitory’ as believed by the  Federal Reserve , but something
more pervasive,” Natalie Robertson, a commodity analyst at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote in a report
today. “The mood today is expected to remain glum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net , or
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 