-- 
Credit Markets Safest Since 2008 as Derivatives Migrate to Clearinghouses

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-08-04T17:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/credit-markets-safest-since-2008-as-derivatives-migrate-to-clearinghouses.html
Credit markets, which inflicted more
than $2 trillion of losses and writedowns on the world’s biggest
financial institutions from 2007 through 2009, are now seen as
the safest since before the financial crisis.  The amount of money at risk in over-the-counter derivatives
has fallen to the lowest level in three years, according to the
 Bank for International Settlements  in Basel,  Switzerland . To
close all trades, U.S. banks would need less than half the
amount required at the worst of the downturn, the Comptroller of
the Currency in  Washington   says .  A combination of voluntary bank reforms and international
regulation is reining in a market that threatened to topple the
financial system three years ago. Government-prompted use of
clearinghouses, which act as a sort of guarantor to lessen the
effects of a default by counterparties in a trade, has led to
almost $14 billion worth of collateral being pledged to back up
transactions in the credit-default swap market.  “Counterparty risk in the over-the-counter derivatives
market is going down decidedly,” said  Darrell Duffie , a
professor of finance at Stanford University and a member of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s financial advisory
roundtable. Duffie, author of “How Big Banks Fail and What to
Do About It,” warned before the crisis about a lack of risk
management and poor pricing models in credit derivatives.  ‘More Cautious’  The financial system is safer because of higher capital and
cash requirements for banks, increased collateral, or margin,
for swaps and the use of clearinghouses, Duffie said.  Banks trying to rebuild their balance sheets are also
contributing to the improved atmosphere for credit. “Some of
the lower risks are simply from the crisis itself causing people
to be more cautious,” he said.  During the worst of the meltdown three years ago, banks
stopped making short-term loans when they couldn’t determine how
exposed their trading partners were to subprime mortgages and
the credit-default swaps written against the loans.  Financial companies reported more than $2 trillion in
losses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The September
2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the largest in
history, exacerbated the crisis and came just before the
government’s takeover of American International Group Inc. in a
bailout necessitated by the insurer’s use of credit swaps that
would total $182.5 billion. A month later, Congress passed a
$700 billion financial markets rescue plan.  Junk Bond Revival  Investors are now returning to higher-risk markets as more
information about trading partners and financial guarantees
emerges.  Sales of high-yield, high-risk debt in the U.S. surged 44
percent to $197.7 billion through Aug. 2 compared with the same
period last year, Bloomberg data show. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use as a measure
of U.S. corporate credit risk, has fallen to 97.5 as of
yesterday from a high of 279.7 in November 2008, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Investors demand an extra 2.18 percentage points in yield
to own the bonds of U.S. banks instead of Treasuries, down from
7.26 percentage points in December 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Two-year interest-rate swap spreads, a gauge of fear in the
financial system, also signal less concern about the financial
system even though  Europe  is struggling with a sovereign debt
crisis and the U.S. came within days of defaulting as lawmakers
failed to reach an agreement on raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion borrowing capacity.  Shrinking Spread  The spread measured 24.7 basis points yesterday, down from
more than 60 in May 2010 when concern first rose that  Greece 
would need a bailout and more than 167 in October 2008 following
Lehman’s bankruptcy. The gap averaged about 40 from 1988 to
August 2007, when defaults on subprime mortgages ignited the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  International regulators working through the  Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision are attempting to lessen risk
in financial markets by raising capital standards on the world’s
largest banks. Those firms will need to have available capital
of as much as 9.5 percent of common equity by 2019. The
requirement was 2 percent in the 1990s.  While the use of clearinghouses has been voluntary, the
Dodd-Frank Act mandates that most swaps must be processed
through them once they’ve been traded on exchanges or similar
systems. The European Parliament voted in May to allow
regulators to decide which interest-rate, credit-default and
other swaps should be processed by these institutions.  $20 Trillion  Banks have adopted measures to cut risk before the rules
take effect. Since 2009, more than $20 trillion in notional
amount of credit-default swaps, mainly executed between banks,
have been accepted by independent clearinghouses. Notional value
is used to determine periodic swaps payments, and doesn’t
represent actual money changing hands.  Prior to that year, contracts were traded privately between
investors and banks, which had to rely on each other to not
default and make good on losing trades.  While the creation of credit swaps in the 1990s freed up
capital to allow banks to make more loans, they also made it
easier to bet on or against a borrower’s creditworthiness.  Trading in the contracts grew so fast that banks struggled
to keep up with the paperwork. Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  complained at an industry forum in May 2006 that
dealers often recorded trades on “scraps” of paper, calling
the practice “appalling.”  Daily Monitoring  Clearinghouses reduce risk by becoming the buyer to every
seller in derivative transactions. They require initial margin
to accept a trade and monitor market prices several times daily
to ensure losing positions don’t accrue. If investors can’t meet
their daily margin call, their trades are sold off.  They can also move trades from one bank to another, easing
a situation such as when Lehman failed and its trading partners’
collateral was trapped by bankruptcy proceedings. Clearinghouses
allow regulators access to traders’ holdings and prices.  The banks that dominate the market began clearing credit-
default swaps at  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s U.S. and
European clearinghouses in 2009.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and the
U.S. arm of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  accounted for 96 percent of all
private derivatives at the end of the first quarter,  according 
to Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, data.  Bank Obligations  The amount banks would have to pay if all outstanding OTC
derivatives were settled, one measure of market risk, totaled
$21.1 trillion at the end of 2010, according to the Bank for
International Settlements, or BIS, the lowest since it was at
$20.4 trillion in June 2008. At the height of the financial
crisis in 2008, the total was $33.9 trillion.  U.S. commercial banks would have had to pay $353 billion to
close all derivative trades at the end of the first quarter, the
OCC said in June. That’s the smallest amount since the fourth
quarter of 2007 and less than half the peak of $800 billion in
the fourth quarter of 2008, OCC data show.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
underlying assets such as stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities, or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the
weather.  Other measures of market risk have also improved. The
percentage of the  $364 trillion notional value  of interest-rate
swaps that are handled by clearinghouses more than doubled to
51.8 percent at the end of 2010 from 21.3 percent at the end of
2007, according to the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association , an industry and lobbying group.  More Margin  The number of trades backed by margin doubled from early
2009 to the first quarter this year, according to the OCC. The
largest U.S. commercial banks held collateral against 72 percent
of their netted exposures as of March 31, compared with a range
of 30 percent to 40 percent in the first quarter 2009, OCC data
show.  While measures of risk have been declining since the
crisis, a deteriorating global economy and banks seeking more
profit may reverse that trend. Manufacturing reports from  Asia 
to Europe and the U.S. this week signal a slowdown is underway.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid for eight consecutive days
until yesterday, preventing its longest slump since 1978. The
index is down 2.9 percent today as of 1:52 p.m. in  New York .
Yields on two-year Treasury notes fell to 0.31 percent, the
lowest on record.  “There’s concern the economy is weakening,” said Kurt Wilhelm, director of financial markets at the OCC. “Any time
the economy weakens, there will be concerns about credit”
related to companies unable to pay their debt, he said.  Long-Term Capital  Banks have lowered risk taking after past crises and then
reversed themselves.  The September 1998 near-collapse of Long-Term Capital
Management, a hedge fund that had more than $1 trillion in
derivative contracts, required a $3.625 billion bailout by 14
banks including Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and Merrill Lynch & Co.
that was orchestrated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  Two years later, the banks successfully lobbied Congress to
exempt private derivatives from regulation when they helped pass
the 2000 Commodity Futures Modernization Act. The  derivatives
market  exploded six-fold to $598 trillion in notional value in
2008 from less than $100 trillion in 2000, according to the BIS.  “History shows us that the regulatory and legislative
changes will stick, but the bankers are the smartest guys in the
room,” said Kevin McPartland, a senior analyst in New York with
Tabb Group, a financial markets research and advisory firm.
“They will eventually find ways to do the business they want to
do and make the money they want to make.”  Structured Notes  Before the financial crisis, Basel  capital rules  allowed
large banks and investment banks to employ credit swaps to
reduce the amount of capital required by regulators by using the
contracts to shift risk from their balance sheets. That, in
part, made the contracts popular with banks, McPartland said.
“We saw how that worked out.”  Banks are selling more structured notes, which package debt
with derivatives to offer higher returns than  savings accounts 
while carrying more overall risk of losing money.  Sales of the investments, which can have returns as high as
20 percent versus about 4 percent for a corporate bond, rose to
a record $25.3 billion in the first six months of 2011 from
$22.2 billion a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from prospectuses filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  LCH.Clearnet Cash  Because of the greater use of clearinghouses, investors now
know how much margin and guaranty funds have been set aside to
help cover potential losses. Before such trades were cleared,
money wasn’t always advanced to back positions.  LCH.Clearnet Ltd. , the world’s largest interest-rate swap
clearinghouse, has almost $16 billion in margin via cash and
acceptable securities and $1 billion in a default fund,
according to the company. Rate swaps account for the largest
part of the OTC derivatives market, at $364 trillion in notional
value as of the end of 2010, BIS data show. Credit swaps totaled
$30 trillion, down from $42 trillion at the end of 2008.  Margin at Intercontinental Exchange’s U.S. and European
credit-default swap  clearinghouses , the world’s largest, totaled
$8.3 billion at the end of the first quarter, according to the
company. Guaranty funds, which are a separate level of
collateral from margin held by the clearinghouse for use in
default situations, were $5.6 billion.  ‘Daisy Chain’  No guaranty funds existed for credit swaps prior to the
clearinghouses being created.  Use of clearinghouses in the previously unregulated swaps
market eliminates the need for dealers to pass along their risk,
said Chris Allen, an exchange and brokerage analyst with
Evercore Partners Inc. in New York.  Before clearing, the only way to get the swap off the
balance sheet was to enter an offsetting trade with another
market participant, who would then often offset that with
another trade. This made it hard to identify the underlying
winners and losers.  “The daisy chain gets compressed” by clearinghouses
because they are the ultimate trading partner, he says. “You’re
reducing risk in that regard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  