-- 
Credit-Raters Risking Conflict with Congress over U.S. AAA Grade

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-08-04T17:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/credit-rating-companies-risk-conflict-with-congress-over-u-s-s-aaa-rating.html
The debate over raising the U.S. debt
limit put  Standard & Poor’s , the world’s biggest provider of
credit ratings, and its competitors in an awkward spot: judging
the creditworthiness of the U.S. government at the same time
that Congress considers rules to limit their power.  “This is the definition of a rock and a hard place,” says
 Peter Appert , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San
Francisco . “There’s no upside for the rating agencies in this
debacle.”  Congress and federal regulators are discussing ways to
implement the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains provisions aimed at
reducing the raters’ role in the financial system and creating
more competition in an industry dominated by S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. In an April report, a
Senate panel blamed raters for fueling the financial crisis,
saying they engaged in a “race to the bottom” to stamp
inflated grades on mortgage-backed securities.  Washington  is now watching as the ratings companies mull
whether to lower the nation’s grade, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Aug. 8 edition. S&P is considering striping the
U.S. of its AAA rating even after Congress agreed to lift the
debt limit. The country’s debt to gross domestic product ratio
is nearing 75 percent, putting it on a worse track than top-
rated France and Germany, the company said in a July 14
statement.  “We suspect they’re under tremendous pressure not to
downgrade,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond
funds, said in an Aug. 3 interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “But if they stick to what they
told the world on July 14, they will downgrade.”  Moody’s Take  Moody’s, the second-biggest rater, and Fitch, No. 3,
affirmed their AAA ratings after Congress reached the debt deal
while warning that downgrades are still possible if lawmakers
fail to enact further debt reduction measures or the economy
weakens.  “We have the people who helped cause the financial crisis
now claiming that they’re experts on what the American budget
should be,” Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts
Democrat, said in a telephone interview.  The Dodd-Frank law, passed last year, directs bank
regulators such as the  Federal Reserve  to avoid using credit
ratings in making rules such as bank capital requirements.
Regulators have yet to comply with that provision, in part
because they are searching for an alternative way to judge
bonds.  Called to Congress  When Congress summoned S&P President Deven Sharma to a
hearing on July 27 to discuss ways to implement Dodd-Frank,
politicians also questioned him about his analysts’ warnings on
the U.S. credit rating.  “Do you honestly believe that the  United States  could
default on its debt?” Representative Francisco Canseco, a Texas
Republican, asked Sharma.  “Our analysts don’t believe they would,” Sharma replied.
“Changing a rating doesn’t mean it would default. AAA, all it
means is that it is a low probability, a very low probability,
of a default.”  Ratings companies are “well aware of the power that
politicians have” over them, Christian Opp, a professor at the
 University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, said in a telephone
interview.  Moody’s paid Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld $610,000 this
year to lobby Congress on financial regulation, according to
disclosure forms filed with the Senate, while S&P’s parent
McGraw-Hill Cos. paid Podesta Group $240,000.  Franken’s Proposal  Last month, a House panel passed a measure to repeal a part
of Dodd-Frank that would make raters liable if they award a high
grade to securities that turn out to be risky. The Securities
and Exchange Commission is considering the feasibility of a
Dodd-Frank rule written by Senator  Al Franken , a Democrat from
Minnesota, that would set up a board with the power to assign
raters to some bond issues, giving an opportunity for smaller
companies to get more assignments.  At the same time, the government has been pressing its case
to retain the AAA rating. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
and  Jacob Lew , director of the White House Office of Management
and Budget, met with  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign
rating committee, and other S&P analysts on Apr. 13 to discuss
the administration’s fiscal-reform plan and the odds of it
passing, Geithner told Congress in a letter.  “It’s one thing for them to be lobbied by General
Electric,” said  Peter Morici , a professor of business at the
University of  Maryland . “It’s another thing to be lobbied by
your government.”  ‘Strict Firewall’  S&P’s analysts are separated from its lobbyists and
salespeople by a “strict firewall,” said Patti Rockenwagner, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based company. She declined to
comment on any conversations the company may have had with
government representatives since April.  Mary Miller , assistant Treasury secretary for financial
markets, said at a news conference on Aug. 3 that the Treasury
doesn’t solicit the ratings and has made officials “available
to answer any questions about the legislation as we would in
just the normal course of events.”  In  Europe , politicians raised the specter of retaliation
when ratings companies withheld their approval of plans to
rescue Greece, Portugal, and Ireland. After Moody’s cut
Portugal’s rating to junk on July 5, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said there’s a need to “break up” the big
raters’ dominance.  Bond Gatekeepers  The raters retain their role as gatekeepers in the  bond
market . About two-thirds of the biggest pension funds require
that any bonds they buy have ratings from S&P, Moody’s, or
Fitch, according to Kroll Bond Ratings Inc., a competing firm
that issued its first assessments this year.  Bloomberg LP, owner of Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg
News, also started providing its own credit ratings last year.  Moody’s revenue from rating corporate bonds rose to a
record $563.9 million last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. S&P doesn’t break out similar figures.  “We didn’t go as far away from the rating agency model as
people expected,”  Jeff Matthews , author of “Secrets in Plain
Sight: Business & Investing Secrets of  Warren Buffett ,” said in
a telephone interview. Buffett owns 12.4 percent of Moody’s,
Bloomberg data show. “Not only are companies dependent on them,
but now countries are too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  