-- 
Currency Intervention Revived as Odds of Fed Easing Escalate

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-04T12:23:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/currency-wars-enter-new-stage-as-chances-of-fed-asset-purchases-escalate.html
Just eight months ago, Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  declared a “truce” in
competitive currency devaluations. Now, Japanese and Swiss moves
to weaken the yen and the franc show reviving tension in
foreign-exchange markets as the deteriorating U.S. economy
weighs on the dollar.  Japan sold yen today, causing the currency to weaken more
than 4 percent against the dollar after rising 5 percent last
month. “Ongoing one-sided moves” would hurt the recovery from
a March earthquake, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said.
Yesterday, the Swiss National Bank cut interest rates to rein in
the franc after a gain of about 36 percent in the past 12
months.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and the battle between
Republican leaders and U.S. President Barack Obama over the
budget and borrowing limits drove investors to the perceived
safety of yen and francs. The risk of a U.S. return to
recession, forcing the  Federal Reserve  to another round of
monetary easing, has exacerbated dollar weakness. The currency’s
drop last year left all of Asia’s 10 biggest economies seeking
to influence their own exchange rates to aid exporters and
growth.  ‘A New Stage’  “We seem to be entering a new stage of the currency wars
where it’s not just the emerging markets that are responding to
broad dollar weakness,” said Callum Henderson, global head of
currency research at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore , who
has written books on currency markets. “Expect much more
intervention in the future and further acrimony in terms of how
the  U.S. dollar  is doing.”  (For a related story on Japan’s move, click here. To read a
story on Switzerland’s currency woes, click here.)  The  U.S. economy  shows signs of slowing, say five of nine
economists on the academic panel that dates recessions. Harvard
University economics professor Martin Feldstein, a member of the
Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of
Economic Research, sees a 50 percent chance of another
recession.  Finance officials from Group of Seven nations held a
conference call yesterday to discuss the European sovereign debt
crisis and the U.S. political stalemate over raising the
borrowing ceiling, according to a G-7 official.  Asset Purchases  A government report tomorrow may show the U.S. unemployment
rate held at 9.2 percent in July, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey, up from 8.8 percent in March.
Barclays Capital economists cited “QE3 speculation picking up”
ahead of the Fed’s Aug. 9 policy meeting, referring to a third
round of quantitative easing, where the Fed mounts asset
purchases.  Among the 16 major currencies, the Swiss franc,  New Zealand 
dollar, yen,  Brazil ’s real and Singaporean dollar have gained
the most against the U.S. currency in the past three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The euro has tumbled
more than 3 percent against the greenback. The European currency
dropped 0.7 percent today versus the dollar to $1.4229 as of
13:12 p.m. in  London .  Brazil’s Mantega said Nov. 30 that his nation’s currency
was trading at a reasonable level as  Europe ’s worsening debt
crisis brought a “temporary truce” to a global currency war.
Since then, the real has gained about 10 percent against the
dollar, and Mantega said last month that the so-called war was
still on.  More Stimulus  Mantega’s complaint followed Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s
August 2010 statement in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that policy
makers would provide more stimulus if needed. The statement,
which the Fed followed up with a decision in November to buy
$600 billion in Treasuries, sparked outrage from countries
including Brazil that devalued currencies to counter the effects
of capital flows to emerging markets.  Brazil buys dollars to limit gains in the real and has also
introduced rules aimed at discouraging bets on dollar weakness.
The South American nation said on Aug. 2 that it will provide
$16 billion in tax breaks and toughen trade barriers to protect
manufacturers hurt by a currency rally that’s fueling a surge in
imports from  China .  Latin American finance officials plan to gather this month
to discuss ways to protect their currencies and economies from
the turmoil in the U.S. and Europe.  Bank Lending  The Bank of  Japan  today expanded an asset-purchase fund
that includes  government bonds , real-estate investment trusts
and corporate debt to 15 trillion yen from 10 trillion yen. It
also boosted a program aimed at encouraging banks to lend by 5
trillion yen, bringing it to 35 trillion yen.  The yen depreciated more than 4 percent against the dollar,
the biggest decline since a 6.1 percent drop on Oct. 28, 2008,
before trading 3.6 percent lower at 7:15 a.m. in  New York .  In New Zealand, Finance Minister Bill English said that the
government can do little to alter the currency’s course after it
rose to 88.43 U.S. cents on Aug. 1, the most since exchange-rate
controls were removed in 1985. New Zealand’s central bank
doesn’t comment on currency intervention, spokesman Mike Hannah
said when asked if Japan’s move has affected the  Reserve Bank  of
New Zealand’s currency actions.  The central bank should seriously consider intervention
should the New Zealand dollar remain in the high 80s over
“coming weeks” while export commodity prices slide, Roger Kerr, who advises on currencies as owner of Asia-Pacific Risk
Management, wrote in a  column  this week on interest.co.nz, an
online financial news provider.  Rate Increases  Currency gains may mean that central banks in nations
including New Zealand,  Canada  and  Australia  tighten monetary
policy at a slower pace than they otherwise would, said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank
of Canada.  “It manifests itself by more pushing back or delaying of
any planned rate hikes as opposed to outright intervention to
weaken their respective currencies,” Trinh said. “You’re
seeing that already. The Bank of Canada has been pushing out its
tightening campaign, the Reserve Bank of Australia is taking on
a protracted pause in its tightening cycle and there are
question marks on how aggressively the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand is able to hike as well.”  ‘Prudential Limits’  South Korea’s government is reviewing “all possibilities”
on curbing capital inflows, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan told
reporters in Seoul today, adding that he’s “closely
monitoring” the situation, while declining to comment on the
impact of Japan’s intervention.  The Philippines is prepared to impose controls to cap
volatility in the peso after its currency rose to a three-year
high this week, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in an
e-mail late yesterday. The bank “will not go against the
fundamental currency trend but will not hesitate to use tools,
including imposing prudential limits on certain transactions of
banks,” he said.  Turkey’s central bank said today it will sell dollars to
banks when it sees it’s necessary to support foreign exchange
liquidity in the domestic market. Policy makers there
unexpectedly lowered their benchmark  interest rate  to a record
low of 5.75 percent today after an emergency meeting of the
monetary policy committee.  At  Standard Chartered , Henderson highlighted that Japan and
Switzerland were both members of the Group of 10 nations,
signaling a shift from the early 2000s when the G-10 countries
didn’t intervene, with the exception of Japan. “The currency
wars will continue to bubble along and get worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  