-- 
Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Euronext Merger to Face Expanded EU Antitrust Probe

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-08-04T18:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/deutsche-boerse-nyse-euronext-merger-to-face-expanded-eu-antitrust-probe.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  faces an expanded
probe by European Union regulators into “significant” concerns
over how its $8.34 billion takeover of NYSE Euronext will effect
competition in derivatives trading and clearing.  “The proposed merger would remove a strong competitor from
the market and would give the merged company by far the leading
position in derivatives trading in  Europe ,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an e-mailed statement
today. The European Commission set a new deadline of Dec. 13 to
examine the deal.  Regulatory approval is the last hurdle for the combination
to create the largest owner of equities and derivatives markets.
Deutsche Boerse said last month NYSE Euronext shareholders
approved its bid for control of the 219-year-old exchange. The
all-stock transaction would give Deutsche Boerse 60 percent of
the combined entity, while  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  would run the organization.  “The issue for investors remains what concessions might be
needed -- possibly open access to the clearing house -- and what
concessions Deutsche Boerse and NYSE are prepared to make,”
said Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in
London. “This has been well flagged by both companies and now
it’s a three-month haggle with the competition commission.”  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext may form a “near
monopoly” for derivatives, the FIA European Principal Traders
Association told the EU in a submission. The exchanges will
control 91 percent of index derivatives, 95 percent of equity
derivatives and 99 percent of interest-rate derivatives traded
on exchanges, it said.  Confidence  “ Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE Euronext remain confident that
their planned combination will be approved,” the companies said
in a joint statement following the EU announcement. A longer
probe was “fully anticipated,” they said.  The European Commission said the deal may reduce innovation
in derivatives products and technology. Exchanges may face less
competitive pressure to reduce fees for banks, funds and brokers
as rivals find it harder to enter the market, it said.  The core of any concessions will likely be improved access
to clearing at Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex and NYSE Euronext’s Liffe
exchanges, said  Simon Holmes , a lawyer at SJ Berwin LLP in
London. “The devil is in the detail and there’s going to be a
lot of debate about what exactly access implies.”  Clearing Access  The Brussels-based antitrust agency’s initial month-long
probe identified concerns that Deutsche Boerse’s “vertical
silo,” which routes all trade clearing through its own
services, may hinder new services by competitors. “Access to
the merged company’s enlarged post-trade clearing facilities”
is one of the concerns, it said.  A fault at NYSE today that limited derivatives trading and
prevented updating of equity indexes was the sixth in less than
two months for the exchange in Europe.  The EU also cited antitrust concerns raised by rivals and
customers over equities trading and settlement, as well as index
licensing.  A series of planned exchange tie-ups around the world have
run into trouble with regulators this year.  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  abandoned their
unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext in May after the U.S. Justice
Department threatened an antitrust suit.  Singapore Exchange
Ltd. (SGX) ’s bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  collapsed in April after Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan said the deal wasn’t in the national
interest.  Cost Savings  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext forecast cost savings of
400 million euros ($565 million) when they announced the merger
in February. The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , a
group of banks and brokers including  Switzerland ’s UBS AG,
Deutsche Bank AG and  France ’s BNP Paribas SA, told the EU it
doubted the exchanges would pass on a “fair share” of those
savings to customers.  NYSE Euronext’s Niederauer said on Aug. 2 that regulators’
“focus will be on what conditions may be placed” on the
companies rather than blocking the deal.  Deutsche Boerse’s Chief Financial Officer Gregor Pottmeyer
said last week the exchange expected the EU to send a formal
antitrust complaint over the combination by October. He said
then that he was still “hopeful” the deal would close by the
end of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 