-- 
Deutsche Telekom Quarterly Profit Declines on T-Mobile USA

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-08-04T08:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/deutsche-telekom-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-t-mobile-usa-client-losses.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Europe ’s largest
phone company, reported a 6.5 percent decline in second-quarter
profit before some items as it ceded mobile-phone customers in
the U.S. and recorded costs for early retirements in Germany.  Adjusted earnings before interest taxes, depreciation and
amortization slid to 4.69 billion euros ($6.7 billion), compared
with the 4.76 billion-euro average estimate by analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  T-Mobile USA  had a net loss of 281,000 contract
clients in the quarter, bringing losses to almost 1 million over
12 months, Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom said today. Analysts had
projected a termination of 200,000 accounts.  Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann, 48, is focused on
returning Deutsche Telekom’s European markets to growth by 2013
after agreeing to sell T-Mobile USA to  AT&T Inc. (T)  for $39 billion
in March. He’s also overseeing a shift into areas such as mobile
Internet, digital content and health services to help make up
for falling sales from traditional landline and voice services.  “Germany was solid and the U.S. weak,” said Stefan Borscheid, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart who recommends buying the shares. “What matters is
that they still have their guidance firmly in view and after
these results that doesn’t seem unfounded.”  France Telecom , Telefonica  Deutsche Telekom shares rose as much as 1 percent to 10.36
euros and was little changed at 10.26 euros as of 10:13 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . Before today, the stock had gained 6.2 percent this
year, the third-best performance on the 21-company Bloomberg
Europe Telecommunication Services Index, which lost 6.2 percent.
Paris-based  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
were each down 10 percent, while  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  had slumped
14 percent.  Second-quarter net income fell 27 percent to 348 million
euros, missing the average estimate of 673 million euros.
Deutsche Telekom had one-time expenses of about 600 million
euros, mostly from costs linked to early retirements of German
employees. The company had about 80,000 workers in its home
country at the end of last year.  At T-Mobile USA, operating income before depreciation and
amortization fell 10 percent to $1.28 billion. The loss of
contract customers wasn’t compensated for by users of cheaper
prepaid phones. The sale of T-Mobile USA to AT&T is undergoing a
lengthy regulatory review, with some U.S. lawmakers saying the
creation of the largest U.S. wireless operator would increase
fees and stifle competition.  Ceding Market Share  Verizon, AT&T and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  all increased their
share of the U.S. wireless subscription market in the second
quarter, according to data from IDC, which doesn’t have an
estimate for second-quarter figures for T-Mobile. In the first
quarter, T-Mobile’s share shrank 0.4 percentage point to 10
percent, the researcher said.  “They lose customers as they probably aren’t taking as
good care of them as before,” Jacques Abramowicz, an analyst at
Silvia Quandt & Cie AG in Frankfurt who has a “buy”
recommendation on the shares, said by telephone.  Second-quarter revenue slipped 6.8 percent to 14.5 billion
euros, trailing the 14.7 billion-euro estimate, Deutsche Telekom
said today. The decline was led by  Greece , Romania and  Hungary ,
where sales slumped by 8 percent during the quarter in each of
the three countries.  Greece, Hungary  “Although these figures are not a cause for celebration,
they still give us reason to be confident that we will achieve
our targets in a persistently difficult environment,” Obermann
said in a statement. “We are now also seeing light at the end
of the tunnel in southeastern Europe.”  In June, Deutsche Telekom raised its stake in Greece’s
 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  to 40 percent after
the Greek state exercised a sell option. The company, known as
OTE, is trying to convince unions to reduce payroll costs by 300
million euros over four years, abolishing permanent tenure among
its employees and cut worker benefits.  As rivals including France Telecom and Telefonica look for
growth in emerging economies, Deutsche Telekom is seeking to
profit from a German economy that’s been the engine of Europe’s
recovery. Adjusted Ebitda as a percentage of revenue grew to
40.7 percent from 39.3 percent a year earlier, eclipsing the
Europe and U.S. divisions as the company cut costs and benefited
from more customers surfing the Internet.  Mobile Internet  The company’s German broadband Internet lines exceeded
traditional phone connections for the first time last quarter,
while revenue from mobile Internet jumped 30 percent to 409
million euros from a year earlier.  While the CEO has excluded the possibility of larger
acquisitions, the company may add assets in European countries
to benefit from cross-selling between fixed and mobile offers,
Roland Mahler, the interim Europe chief, said in May.  Deutsche Telekom last month appointed former McKinsey & Co.
executive Claudia Nemat to take over as head of the European
business excluding  Germany , a unit that generated 29 percent of
Deutsche Telekom’s sales last year. Nemat will face the
challenge of streamlining operations from  Athens  to Warsaw and
gaining back customers wary to commit to phone contracts amid
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong 
in Berlin at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  