-- 
Dexia Record Loss Pushes Shareholder Equity to Two-Year Low

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-08-04T18:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/dexia-record-loss-pushes-shareholder-equity-to-two-year-low-2-.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) ,  Belgium ’s biggest bank by
assets, posted the largest quarterly loss in its history because
of provisions to sell assets and a writedown of Greek debt,
bringing shareholder equity to a two-year low.  The net loss of 4.03 billion euros ($5.7 billion) in the
second quarter eroded Dexia’s own funds to 3.56 euros a share,
the lender said today in a statement. That fell short of the
3.88 euro estimate of Dirk Peeters, an analyst at KBC Securities
NV in Brussels. The loss also included a 377 million-euro pretax
writedown on Greek bond holdings.  Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, relied on 34 billion
euros of central-bank funding at the end of June. Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Mariani has sought to reduce the need
for funding as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis spreads to  Italy 
and Greek bondholders take losses on their holdings. The cost of
insuring Dexia’s senior debt against non-payment is at the
highest since September 2008, default-swap prices show.  “We remain worried about the widening of Dexia’s
spreads,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam, wrote in an investor note yesterday. “This
highlights market concerns over Dexia’s exposure to peripheral
Europe and continued fears over a disorderly contagion spiral
remain despite the plan for Greece.”  Stock Performance  The bank, formed in a 1996 merger, dropped 1.5 percent to
1.66 euros at the 5:40 p.m. close of trading in Brussels today,
the lowest closing price since March 2009. Credit-default swaps
on Dexia Credit Local SA’s senior debt rose 11 basis points to
496 at 4:30 p.m. in  London , according to CMA. That’s the highest
since Sept. 29, 2008, one day before Belgium and France took the
lead in a 6 billion-euro rescue of Dexia.  Dexia wrote down the value of 1.8 billion euros of Greek
 government bonds  after signing the  Institute of International
Finance ’s proposal for a bond exchange and buyback program last
month, which requires investors to take a 21 percent loss on
holdings that mature by the end of 2020. The majority of Dexia’s
Greek bond holdings in the banking book don’t mature until after
2020, European Union stress-test results showed on July 15.  The lender held 4.27 billion euros of Greek government
bonds at the end of last year including holdings in the
insurance unit, according to its 2010 annual report. Dexia also
held 13.5 billion euros of Italian sovereign bonds and 1.7
billion euros of Spanish  government securities  as of Dec. 31.  U.S. RMBS  The loss compares with profit of 248 million euros a year
earlier. The bank said in May that it would book 3.6 billion
euros in costs for the anticipated sale of mostly U.S.
residential mortgage-backed securities and disposals of long-
term bonds, loans and units.  Dexia said today that it sold $8.8 billion of the $9.5
billion of asset-backed securities earmarked for sale by the end
of July, without identifying the buyers. The transactions helped
reduce risk-weighted assets by 11.1 billion euros in the quarter
to 127 billion euros at the end of June, leaving Dexia a core
Tier 1 ratio, a measure of the bank’s ability to absorb losses,
of 10.3 percent.  Dexia’s reliance on central-bank funding increased for the
first time in more than two years, doubling to about 34 billion
euros at the end of June. That covers about 35 percent of
Dexia’s short-term funding needs, which decreased by 8 billion
euros from the end of March. Dexia has about 20 billion euros of
securities left it could use as collateral to obtain additional
loans from the  European Central Bank .  ‘ Risk Aversion ’  “Concerns over the sovereign debt position of  Greece  and
some other euro-zone countries grew, led to some risk aversion
of U.S. banks and investors vis-a-vis European market players,”
the lender said in the statement. “Dexia exercised cautious
treasury management and constituted an ECB liquidity buffer.”  Dexia’s main banking units had their senior debt ratings
lowered two steps to A3 last month by Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited the lender’s vulnerability to funding shocks. The
bank also has 32 billion euros of government-backed debt
maturing by mid-2014.  The results also included a 131 million-euro writedown
linked to the value of Dexia Crediop SpA pending the sale of
Dexia’s 70 percent stake in the Rome-based lender to local
authorities in Italy.  Dexia said the impairment reflected a deteriorating outlook
for the disposal, which is among the conditions set by the
European Commission for approval of the 208 bailout by  France 
and Belgium. Dexia needs to sell Crediop by the end of October
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans in London at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  