-- 
DirecTV Shares Slump as U.S. Subscriber Gains Miss Estimates

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-04T20:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/directv-exceeds-analysts-profit-estimates-after-gaining-tv-subscribers.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, had its biggest drop in more than two years
in Nasdaq trading after adding fewer U.S. customers than
analysts estimated in the second quarter.  DirecTV said today it added 26,000 users in the U.S. and
472,000 in  Latin America . The U.S. gains missed the average
analyst estimate of 57,000, according to Ryan Vineyard, an RBC
Capital Markets analyst in New York. The shortfall may have
occurred due to a lack of special promotions in the quarter,
said Tom Eagan, an analyst at Collins Stewart LLC in New York.  Investors may be concerned that customers are leaving for
cable-TV carriers that offer TV service bundled with  Internet
access , a package that El Segundo, California-based DirecTV
doesn’t offer, Eagan said.  “The bear case for DirecTV is that they’re structurally
impaired versus a cable operator because they don’t have
broadband,” said Eagan, who has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Churn, the percentage of customers who left the service
each month, accelerated to 1.59 percent, higher than the 1.47
percent estimate of Citigroup Inc. analyst Jason Bazinet in New
York. DirecTV Chief Executive Officer  Michael White  said the
company has made “excellent progress in addressing” churn in
July and expects “better” results in the third quarter.  DirecTV slumped $2.84, or 5.7 percent, to $46.63 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the largest drop
since February 2009. It has gained 17 percent this year.  Economic Woes  A sluggish  U.S. economy  may also prompt consumers to pull
back on paying for TV, Eagan said. The economy grew at a 1.3
percent pace in April-June following revised growth of 0.4
percent in the first three months of the year that was slower
than previously estimated, the Commerce Department reported last
week. The jobless rate is holding above 9 percent.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  said last week it lost 130,000
residential video subscribers in the second quarter and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  yesterday said it dropped 238,000.  DirecTV’s net income climbed 29 percent to $701 million, or
91 cents a share, from $543 million, or 42 cents, a year
earlier. Analysts projected profit of 85 cents a share, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales increased to $6.6 billion from $5.85 billion, beating
the $6.54 billion analysts projected. Subscriber growth in Latin
America rose to a record, DirecTV said, predicting annual
subscriber gains in the region will “meet or exceed” the
company’s prior forecast of 1.25 million to 1.5 million.  “Latin America is still the jewel of DirecTV,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,
who has a “market perform” rating on shares.  ‘Looking’ at Hulu  White said acquiring Hulu LLC, the online video service
that’s selling itself, is “an interesting opportunity, so we’re
taking a look at it.” DirecTV has already taken steps to make
its content available on the Internet, including developing
“NFL Sunday Ticket To-Go,” which allows subscribers to watch
all NFL games on Sunday on mobile devices.  White said he has yet to “form a judgment” about Hulu’s
business model, which is “critically dependent on the
distribution relationships” and contracts it has in place with
content providers.  “There’s still more for us to learn,” White said. “I
don’t think it’s kind of something we have to have, frankly.”  DirecTV spent $1.51 billion to buy back 31 million shares,
part of a $6 billion repurchase program announced in February.
The company plans to continue to buy back shares in the “same
$100 million per week range,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick Doyle said on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  