-- 
Dominican Republic Baits $770 Million of Wind Farms With Perks

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-08-04T12:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/dominican-republic-baits-770-million-of-wind-farms-with-perks.html
The Dominican Republic, the Caribbean
country that shares an island with  Haiti , plans to roll out $770
million of wind farms through 2015 by enticing developers with
some of the region’s most generous rates for renewable energy.  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA,  Europe ’s second-largest wind-
turbine maker, and  Spain ’s Grupo Inveravante are among companies
developing 350 megawatts of capacity over the next four years,
said Hipolito Nunez, a national energy commission adviser.  The Dominican Republic gets about 12 percent of its power
from renewable sources, with the rest generated from costlier
fossil-fuel imports. It plans to boost that share to 25 percent
by 2020 by offering wind developers more than double the amount
of money for their electricity than is available in some other
Latin American countries, according to Nunez.  “Wind energy is much cheaper than petroleum,” he said
Aug. 2 in a telephone interview. “We will install the maximum
that the grid can support.”  Under a government incentive mechanism for renewable
energy, state-owned power utility  Corp. Dominicana de Empresas
Electricas Estatales , known as CDEEE, is offering about $137.40
for every megawatt-hour produced from wind farms, according to
Ana-Maria Vidaurre, a team leader at the  Inter-American
Development Bank  that’s financing two projects in the country.  Country Risk  The price, which will be linked to U.S. inflation until
2018, has to be high enough to cover the cost of shipping
equipment there and to offset perceived country risk, she said.  “Historically, there have been delays in offtakers’
ability to pay, but in the end they always pay,” she said.  Argentina  offered wind developers an average of $127 a
megawatt-hour in a government auction, national energy company
Energia Argentina SA said in September last year.  Brazil  offered
131 reais ($83.27) and Peru agreed to pay $65.50 in their latest
auctions, according to statements from their energy regulators.  Gamesa and Inveravante weren’t immediately available to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  While the price per megawatt-hour, known as the feed-in
tariff, is higher than in other Latin American countries, it’s
lower than the average $142 a megawatt-hour paid by local power
distributors for spot-market electricity from January to October
last year, according to Vidaurre.  “Most generation in the  Dominican Republic  is based on
fossil fuels that have to be imported and are subject to price
volatility,” she said.  First Wind Park  The Dominican Republic’s first 33-megawatt wind farm,
belonging to Santo Domingo-based power utility  Empresa
Generadora de Electricidad Haina SA , will come online in
September, Development Director Jose Rodriguez said by e-mail.  Gamesa, based in Zamudio, Spain, is developing a 50-
megawatt wind park in the southern Dominican province of Monte
Cristi, while Inveravante plans a 30.8-megawatt facility in
Peravia, according to a July 13  statement  from the Inter-
American Development Bank, which is providing $78.3 million in
loans for the ventures.  They will be the country’s first renewable-energy projects
to benefit from the feed-in tariff program, the bank said.  Bringing 350 megawatts of wind farms online in four years
may be difficult for a poor country such as the Dominican
Republic, Fraser Johnston, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in  London , said yesterday by phone. It took six years
for  Poland  to start up 270 megawatts of wind parks and seven
years for  Bulgaria  to build 343 megawatts, he said.  The Dominican Republic “would be beating lower-tier EU
countries,” he said. “That’s quite ambitious.”  The nation’s gross national product per capita was about
$6,300 in 2004, ranking the country 114th in the world,
according to the U.S.  Central Intelligence Agency . A quarter of
the population live below the poverty line, according to a CIA
webpage last updated in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  