-- 
DoubleLine’s Santa Ana Testifies Firm’s System Should Be ‘Similar’ to TCW

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-04T19:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/doubleline-s-santa-ana-testifies-firm-s-system-should-be-similar-to-tcw.html
DoubleLine Capital LP executive Cris  Santa Ana  testified that likenesses were to be expected between
the firm’s proprietary system for analyzing mortgage bonds and
the approach used at TCW Group Inc., where he formerly worked.  Santa Ana, an ex-managing director at the mortgage-backed
securities group in the Los Angeles-based unit of Societe
Generale SA, told jurors today at a trial in California state
court that DoubleLine’s analytical system was designed by some
of the same people who built TCW’s system and went over to
DoubleLine in December 2009.  “They should be similar,” Santa Ana said under
questioning by TCW’s lawyer, John Quinn.  TCW alleges that DoubleLine was set up with proprietary
information and trade secrets stolen by its ex-investment chief,
 Jeffrey Gundlach , along with Santa Ana and two others. The
DoubleLine defendants haven’t denied downloading TCW data,
including client portfolio information, starting in September
2009. They deny having used any of this information when they
started DoubleLine in December of that year, after TCW fired
them. They say TCW terminated them to avoid paying Gundlach’s
group hundreds of millions of dollars in performance fees.  Santa Ana said today that he downloaded TCW data at
Gundlach’s request before they were fired. Co-defendant Jeffrey Mayberry, another executive who left TCW for DoubleLine,
previously testified that he started downloading TCW
information, including a mortgage-backed securities database and
client portfolio holdings, on Sept. 3, 2009. He said that was
when people in Gundlach’s unit thought TCW Chief Executive
Officer Marc Stern was about to fire Gundlach.  Mayberry said Aug. 2 that he started downloading at the
instruction of Santa Ana, who sat at a workstation next to him
at TCW’s trading desk and used an external hard drive to
download data on a daily basis.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  