-- 
The New Physics of Gridlock in a Polarized Capital: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-08-04T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/the-new-physics-of-political-gridlock-in-a-polarized-capital-ezra-klein.html
Here’s the general theory of
legislative failure: Political polarization leads to
congressional gridlock, and congressional gridlock leads to
legislative inaction. If Congress can’t get its act together,
then the worst that happens is nothing gets done.  But that standard version of political physics is wrong, or
at least incomplete. Political polarization does lead to
congressional gridlock, but congressional gridlock often leads
not to inaction, but to extra-congressional action -- that is,
action that either skirts Congress altogether or radically
subverts the normal legislative process. If you believe
government should be accountable, efficient and, for business,
predictable, that’s not a good outcome.  It is, however, an increasingly frequent one. The  debt deal 
that Congress passed this week is the latest example. The core
of it isn’t the $900 billion in cuts scheduled to come soon;
it’s the special  committee  charged with cutting $1.5 trillion
later. If that committee produces a plan supported by a majority
of its 12 members, the proposal is allowed to speed through both
chambers of Congress, immune to the filibusters and amendments
that impede most legislation. The committee’s powers are so
great and so unusual that it has attracted a not entirely
affectionate nickname: “Supercommittee.”  This is the age of superpowers. Last year’s  Affordable Care
Act  plotted a detour around congressional inaction, and even
opposition, by creating the  Independent Payment Advisory Board ,
a 15-member panel of experts empowered to make profound changes
to the system. To stop the board’s recommendations from taking
effect, Congress must vote them down, after which the president
must either agree with Congress or have his veto overridden by
two-thirds of each house. Bloomberg View columnist  Peter Orszag ,
former director of the Office of Management and Budget and the
panel’s chief sponsor, called it “the largest yielding of
sovereignty from the Congress since the creation of the  Federal
Reserve .” He meant it as a compliment.  At the Department of Education, Secretary  Arne Duncan  has
prepared contingency plans in the event Congress fails to
reauthorize or replace the  No Child Left Behind Act . Duncan
would unilaterally grant waivers to all 50 states, releasing
them from most of the law’s mandates. Neither Duncan nor
Congress favors this path. It’s just not clear that lawmakers
will be able to get their act together and pass an education
bill in this polarized environment. And if Congress doesn’t act,
someone else must.  The Fed is considering its own bypass of Congress, seeking
unconventional measures it might be able to uncork to support a
floundering economy that Congress seems uninterested in aiding.
With  interest rates  near zero and the central bank’s ability to
deploy monetary policy constrained, it would be far easier for
Congress to support the economy with fiscal policy -- tax cuts
or infrastructure investment, for example. But Congress won’t
act. As a result, the Fed might be forced to.  The list goes on. One more: The Environmental Protection
Agency is preparing to regulate  carbon emissions  because
Congress has been unable to pass an energy bill. Gridlock
doesn’t simply mean nothing gets done. It means that nothing
gets done in the transparently democratic way it is supposed to.  All of these extra-congressional ventures take place with
the implicit approval of Congress. If Congress chose to exercise
its constitutional powers, it could shutter the EPA, hamstring
the secretary of Education, repeal the Independent Payment
Advisory Board, abolish the Fed and pass its own deficit-
reduction bill. Conversely, it could vote to protect the
environment, reauthorize No Child Left Behind, overhaul
Medicare, stimulate the economy and bring spending in line with
revenue.  But rather than choose one path or another, Congress
delegates responsibility to others to exercise power on its
behalf. It leaves governance in a liminal state. Congress
neither musters sufficient support for policies to enact them,
nor generates sufficient opposition to policies to stop others
from acting on them. The result is not stasis, which seems to be
the logical conclusion of gridlock. It is action. It’s just a
kind of action that is far less accountable, and less effective,
than that produced by a fully functioning legislative body.  Observers occasionally sigh deeply and blame this on bitter
polarization of the two major political parties. But that’s not
quite the problem. Nor is the issue that our political system is
ill-designed. It’s that our political system is ill-designed for
parties that are so polarized. Our system is designed for
consensus. When that breaks down, the system turns on itself,
its many veto points and blockages placing a chokehold on
action. To escape the gridlock, the parties establish elaborate
extra-congressional fixes, circumventing the political system
itself. The government can still work. It just doesn’t work very
well: not for liberals, not for conservatives, not for the
country.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein at   wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 