-- 
Lebanon Approves Border Demarcation Amid Dispute With Israel

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-08-04T15:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/lebanon-approves-border-demarcation-amid-dispute-with-israel.html
Lebanon’s parliament approved the
demarcation of the country’s maritime border amid a dispute with
 Israel  over the drilling for natural gas and oil in the
 Mediterranean Sea .  “We had to pass this law without delay, especially because
Israel and Cyprus have started to drill for oil,” Parliament
Speaker Nabih Berri said today during the house session. Lebanon
is expected to submit the law, which allows the country to
define its exclusive economic zone and explore resources, to the
 United Nations .  Israel’s cabinet approved on July 10 the demarcation of its
northern maritime border after Lebanon complained that Israel’s
drilling for natural gas and oil in the Mediterranean Sea
encroached on its territory. Lebanon’s militant group Hezbollah,
which fought a war with Israel in 2006, has pledged to protect
the country’s offshore resources.  Lebanon has asked the UN to adopt measures to prevent a
conflict with Israel over energy exploration in areas that may
fall within Lebanese territorial waters. Israel’s agreement last
year with Cyprus to set maritime borders for the purpose of
energy exploration “is a violation of Lebanon’s sovereignty and
economic rights,” Lebanese Foreign Minister Adnan Mansour said
in a letter to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in June.  Israel has discovered two gas fields, Tamar and Leviathan,
off its Mediterranean coast. Together they hold an estimated 25
trillion cubic feet of the fuel. Investors in the sites include
 Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  of Houston, and Israeli companies Delek
Drilling-LP, Delek Energy Systems Inc., Avner Exploration-LP and
 Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP. (RATIL)   For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman, Jordan, at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  