-- 
EBRD, IFC Sign ‘Landmark’ $266 Million of Romanian Wind Loans

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-08-04T14:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ebrd-ifc-sign-landmark-266-million-of-romanian-wind-loans.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and International Finance Corp. loaned 188
million euros ($266 million) for  Romania  wind power, including
funds from CaixaBank,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   “Commercial banks were looking for a landmark Romanian
wind-farm transaction so we had quite a lot of interest linked
to the presence of a lead-lender like ourselves,” said Adam
Schwartzman, a senior investment officer at the IFC.  The deal shows Romanian projects are able to get commercial
loans, Schwartzman said by phone today in Istanbul. The European
Union has approved an incentive program for renewable energy
technology in Romania as the country seeks to meet a goal of
generating  24 percent  of its power from green sources by 2020.  The IFC, the  World Bank ’s private-sector lending unit, and
EBRD are each loaning 36.7 million euros to Pestera Power SA, a
wind company majority owned by a Romanian unit of  EDP Renovaveis
SA (EDPR) , Schwartzman said. The institutions will also each lend 57.4
million euros to fund the Cernavoda I and II wind parks,
majority held by the local unit of EDP-Energias de Portugal SA.  The agencies are syndicating 50 million euros of the total
loans to banks, Schwartzman said. “The commercial banks were
skeptical about Romania but as time went on everyone could sense
that the sector was ready to take-off,” he said.  The EU’s program grants producers of electricity from clean
sources so-called Green Certificates for each megawatt-hour
generated. Wind projects receive two certificates for each
megawatt-hour until 2017 and one thereafter, Schwartzman said.  “We like to do strategic investments in one way or another
that transform the market,” he said, declining to give the
terms of the loans, except to say the tenure is “long-term.”  Pestera and Cernavoda are in Dobrogea region and jointly
form one of the country’s largest wind farms at 228 megawatts.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  