-- 
ECB Keeps Key Rate at 1.5% as Crisis Spreads

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-04T11:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ecb-keeps-key-rate-at-1-5-as-crisis-spreads.html
The  European Central Bank  left
interest rates unchanged as economic growth slows and the
region’s debt crisis spreads to Italy and Spain, increasing
pressure on policy makers to resume bond purchases.  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt today kept the benchmark
rate at 1.5 percent after lifting it by 25 basis points last
month, as predicted by all 54 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. With yields on Italian and Spanish bonds near euro-era
records and the economy showing signs of weakening, investors
have reduced bets that the ECB will add to its two rate
increases in 2011, even as some Governing Council members push
for more monetary tightening to tame inflation.  “Economic growth has gone beyond moderation -- in fact
we’re flirting with recession -- and financial-market tensions
have intensified,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist
at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “The question is: Will there
merely be a pause, or is the tightening cycle over?”  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet holds a press conference
2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. Separately, the  Bank of England  kept its
key rate at 0.5 percent.  Greek Bailout  While European leaders last month agreed on a second
bailout package for  Greece  that includes voluntary contributions
from private-sector bondholders and widens the scope of the
European rescue fund, investors aren’t convinced the measures
will stop the 21-month debt crisis from spreading. Governments
must still ratify the plan, which would empower the European
Financial Stability Facility to start buying bonds on the
secondary market.  The ECB, which ceased buying the bonds of distressed euro-
area governments 18 weeks ago, may be forced to re-enter markets
if Italian and Spanish yields keep rising, Royal Bank of
Scotland economists  Jacques Cailloux  and  Nick Matthews  said. The
central bank has bought 74 billion euros ($106 billion) of
assets since May last year in an effort to ease market tensions.  “With the periphery crisis deepening, we expect the ECB to
ultimately be forced to resume bond purchases before year-end
with a size equivalent to an annualized rate of 1 trillion
euros, at least as an interim measure until the EFSF is fully
operational,” they wrote in a research note.  Currency Intervention  Europe ’s debt crisis and concerns about slowing growth in
the U.S. are starting to hurt other economies as investors seek
havens, driving up their exchange rates and undermining exports.
The Swiss central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  yesterday
and said it will increase the supply of francs to money markets
to stem the currency’s gains after it rose to records against
the euro and the dollar.  Turkey’s central bank today reduced its benchmark rate to a
record low of 5.75 percent to shield its economy.  Japan  sold yen
to halt an appreciation that saw it approaching a postwar high
against the dollar. The  Bank of Japan  also pledged to inject an
additional 10 trillion yen ($126 billion) into the economy.  While the ECB has put the onus on governments to come up
with a solution to Europe’s worsening crisis, soaring bond
yields in the region’s third and fourth-largest economies are
raising the stakes.  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds jumped to 6.26 percent
yesterday, the highest since the introduction of the single
currency in 1999, while the yield on Spanish 10-year debt surged
to 6.46 percent this week. Yields retreated today.  Risk of Default  Credit default swaps imply a 27 percent chance that Italy
will default on its debt within the next five years and a 31
percent probability that  Spain  won’t be able to meet its
obligations.  “If the ECB didn’t re-activate its bond program in the
last few weeks, it won’t do so now,” said  Klaus Baader , chief
euro-area economist at  Societe Generale  in London. “It would be
harmful for the political discussion because governments may
take it as reason to restrain potential interventions by the
rescue fund.”  There are signs the debt crisis is starting to weigh on
confidence in core euro-area economies such as  Germany , where
growth is already slowing as the global recovery falters.
Investor sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low last month and
business confidence waned.  European services and manufacturing growth weakened in July
to the slowest pace since the euro region emerged from recession
two years ago. The ECB in June revised down its 2012 growth
forecast to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent.  Rate Forecasts  Investors have pushed back expectations for another ECB
rate increase into next year, Eonia forward contracts show.
While economists still expect the ECB to tighten borrowing costs
again in October, according to the median of 33 forecasts in a
July 29 survey, the number of those expecting no change in rates
rose to 14 from 10 in the previous survey on July 1.  Euro-area inflation, which the ECB aims to keep just below
2 percent, slowed to 2.5 percent last month from 2.7 percent in
June, driven by a sharp drop in  Italy ’s rate. M3 money supply
growth, which the ECB uses as a gauge of future price pressure,
also decelerated. At the same time, inflation in Germany
unexpectedly quickened to 2.6 percent.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on July 7 that the
ECB’s interest rates are “still relatively low,” indicating he
sees room for further tightening. Fellow ECB council member
 Andres Lipstok  of Estonia said on July 26 that focusing
excessively on countries that have succumbed to the region’s
debt crisis entails the “threat of price-rise acceleration in
the entire euro area.”  “It might be a bit too early to see them significantly
changing their language,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. “But if you look at the
way things are going, there has to be some heightened
probability now of a pause in rate hikes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  