-- 
Economy at Stall Speed May Signal U.S. Descent Into Recession: Peter Coy

-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 
2011-08-04T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/economy-at-stall-speed-may-signal-descent-into-a-renewed-u-s-recession.html
Economics isn’t rocket science, but
the  U.S. economy  is a little like a rocket. If it has enough
thrust, it can escape the tug of economic gravity. Not enough,
and it just might go into a tailspin. Economists at the Federal
Reserve and elsewhere are studying whether today’s slow growth
is a precursor to an outright recession -- and if so, why.  It’s widely accepted that a slowly growing economy is more
likely to tip into recession, for the obvious reason that it’s
already too close to the line; any shock can knock it into
negative territory. And today’s slow growth is at least in part
a symptom of underlying problems such as consumer indebtedness,
high energy prices, and the jitters induced by debt ceiling
brinkmanship, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its August 8-14
edition.  What’s harder to prove is the hypothesis that slowness is
not just a symptom of trouble but a cause of it. In other words,
some economists say, if the economy grows too weakly, that
slowness itself could create conditions that lead to a
recession. Why? Maybe the sluggishness undermines consumer and
business confidence. Maybe investors lose faith in the recovery
so stock prices, already down 9 percent from their April high,
plummet. Or maybe lenders get nervous about borrowers’ ability
to repay loans and start withdrawing credit. Any such reaction
could cause the very downturn that’s feared. “When the growth
rate gets low enough, certain factors may kick in, nonlinearly,”
says Menzie Chinn, an economist at the  University of Wisconsin 
at Madison and co-author of a new book, “Lost Decades.”  Debt Deal  The debt deal that President  Barack Obama  signed on Aug. 2
sets up the economy for what might be called a Christmas crisis:
If the congressional super committee that’s supposed to
negotiate more cuts doesn’t reach an agreement by Dec. 23, some
big spending reductions take effect automatically, sapping
demand from an economy that’s already starved for it.
Macroeconomic Advisers, a St. Louis-based forecasting service,
said on Aug. 1 that the combination of agreed-upon spending caps
and cuts required by the fallback mechanism -- if it’s triggered
-- could sap 0.8 percentage points from economic growth in
fiscal 2013, which begins in October 2012.  “This economy is really balanced on the edge,” Harvard
University economist  Martin Feldstein  said in a Bloomberg TV
interview on Aug. 2. “There’s now a 50 percent chance that we
could slide into a new recession.” Even  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  has referred in speeches to the risk of an
economic stall -- another aerospace metaphor. In a stall, a
plane loses lift and starts plunging toward the ground.  Useful Warning  Federal Reserve staff economist Jeremy Nalewaik in April
published a paper, “Predicting Recessions Using Stall Speeds,”
that identified 1 percent growth or less in the economy “as a
moderately useful warning sign that the economy is in danger of
falling into a recession.” The economy grew at annual rates of
just 0.4 percent in the first quarter and 1.3 percent in the
second. Nalewaik hasn’t announced what the indicator is saying
now about the likelihood of a recession.  The confidence of consumers and businesses will help
determine whether slow growth tips over into no growth, says
Chris Varvares, senior managing director of Macroeconomic
Advisers. “If businesses think things are good, they’ll continue
to hire and invest,” he says. “But if they’re very uncertain
about the future, the initial slowdown could lead them to put
things on hold. If enough firms are doing that, you’ve got a
down cycle.”  The problem is that confidence is indeed shaky, increasing
the risk that any fresh shock to the system could be enough to
push the economy into recession. Business optimism is “softish,”
says Varvares: Capital goods orders, excluding defense and
aircraft, are growing at an annual rate of 3.5 percent over the
past three months before adjusting for inflation, down from
5.6 percent over the past year as a whole.  Foreshadowing Recession  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
50.9 in July, just above the 50 mark that divides expansion from
contraction. A plunge of this magnitude foreshadowed all six
recessions in the past five decades, with only one “head fake,”
in 1984, according to economist David A. Rosenberg of Gluskin
Sheff & Associates.  Consumers aren’t responding well, either. Retail sales
excluding gasoline, building materials, and vehicles grew just
2 percent per year over the past three months, down from a
6 percent rate in the past half-year, Varvares notes. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is stuck near the lows of the
2007-09 recession.  Consumer spending  unexpectedly dropped in
June for the first time in almost two years.  Unfortunately, lack of confidence in the economy’s
prospects could become a self-fulfilling prophecy. This rocket
is carrying a heavy payload.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  