-- 
Ecuador Plans International Bond Sale to Test Market Demand After Default

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-08-04T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ecuador-plans-international-bond-sale-to-test-market-demand-after-default.html
Ecuador , which has defaulted on $3.2
billion of foreign debt since 2008, plans to sell international
bonds this year or next to test the appetite for the country’s
notes, President  Rafael Correa  said.  The government has a “pilot plan” to sell debt, in what
would be the first international sale since 2005, and will use
the money to finance public works projects next year, Correa
told reporters in Quito yesterday, without providing more
details. This year’s budget needs are “covered,” he said.  “There is a pilot plan to sell international bonds, I’m
not sure if it will be ready this year or next,” Correa said at
a meeting with the nation’s foreign press association. “We’ll
see how we do and if we do well, then good, and if we do bad,
we’ll continue as we are now.”  Ecuador, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
smallest member, has tapped its public pension fund and relied
on Chinese loans to help finance its budget since defaulting on
$3.2 billion of foreign bonds in 2008 and 2009. The loans from
 China  and windfall oil revenue are reassuring investors that
 South America ’s seventh-biggest economy will keep servicing its
debt, Richard Francis, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  New
York , said in a June 24 interview.  The timing of the bond sale depends on market conditions,
Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  said to reporters after the
meeting.  “This depends on conditions and right now we have the
necessary liquidity and there are no immediate plans,” Rivera
said. “It’s an option, as the president said, but it isn’t the
most important option.”  Growth Forecast  The Finance Ministry yesterday lowered its 2012 forecast
for economic growth to 4.2 percent from an earlier 5.17 percent.
Gross domestic product will slow next year as planned repairs to
the nation’s biggest refinery cut output and boost fuel imports,
Rivera said.  Ecuador’s bonds are rewarding investors with the best
performance in  Latin America , returning 15 percent this year,
compared with 9.9 percent for Latin American sovereigns on
average, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Yields on the nation’s bonds due 2015, the only foreign
debt the government kept servicing after the default, fell 260
basis points, or 2.60 percentage points, this year to 9.37
percent. Similar maturity Brazilian bonds yield 1.66 percent,
down 120 basis points from the end of December, according to
Bloomberg prices.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 789 basis points yesterday, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. Ecuador’s spread has narrowed 1.24
percentage points this year, according to JPMorgan.  Ecuadorean government debt is the second-riskiest after
 Venezuela ’s among 15 emerging markets tracked by JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  