-- 
Medtronic to Release Infuse Data in Deal With Yale to Review Bone Studies

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-08-04T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/medtronic-to-release-infuse-data-in-deal-with-yale-to-review-bone-studies.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  said it will make the
data on its embattled bone-growth product Infuse available to
the public and pay for two independent analyses of the
information in a move the company says may set a new industry
standard.  Medtronic, the world’s biggest maker of heart-rhythm
devices, will pay  Yale University  $2.5 million to assemble a
steering committee, hire two research organizations to review
studies of the bone product and design a database that can be
used by outsiders to get access to the information. The findings
should allay concerns about potential risks from Infuse and may
set a precedent for health-care companies, said Rick Kuntz, the
Minneapolis-based company’s chief scientific officer.  A series of reports released June 29 in  The Spine Journal 
criticized the company for failing to disclose financial ties to
Infuse researchers and to report serious side effects in spinal-
fusion patients treated with the product. The company plans to
post its clinical trial results on the National Library of
Medicine’s  clinicaltrials.gov  website, Kuntz said in a telephone
interview.  “We were taken aback that there was a concern about the
trustworthiness of the data with Infuse, especially since it
passed the regulatory hurdles,” Kuntz said yesterday. “Had
this information been publicly available, I don’t think the
conclusions that were reached would have been reached.”  Infuse, a genetically engineered protein, was approved by
U.S. regulators in 2002 to spur the growth of new bone after
spinal surgery. Medtronic conducted 13 clinical trials involving
780 patients, according to the Spine Journal’s review.
Infertility in men is among the product’s unanticipated side
effects, the review found.  ‘Historic Agreement’  “It’s a historic agreement and one I hope will set a
standard for everyone else in the industry,” said Harlan Krumholz, professor of internal medicine, epidemiology and
public health at Yale, who will lead the work. “For too long
we’ve been in a situation where questions are raised about the
safety of a product but companies don’t share the information.”  While there is concern that the information might be used
by plaintiff’s attorneys or rivals, the Yale group will serve as
an intermediary to ensure the data is handled appropriately,
Krumholz said. The two new analyses, which will include
information on individual patients, should be available within
six months, he said.  “In the end, I think we are going to say goodbye to an era
when some of the data that will be helpful to make a treatment
decision is hidden from public view,” he said. “This is a
first step. No other company has done this. There are risks, but
the risk of not sharing the data is even greater.”  New Approach  Medtronic’s moves are a “sea change” in how big companies
interact with the academic community,  Eugene Carragee , chief of
spinal surgery at Stanford School of Medicine near  Palo Alto ,
 California , said in a telephone interview.  While it is a good first step, questions will remain after
the analysis is done, he said. Infuse is predominantly used in
surgeries that haven’t been studied by Medtronic, Carragee said.
Thus, the two reviews and the database won’t provide any clear
answers for those patients, he said.  “They simply are not going to have enough data on the main
usage of it to give a really precise estimate of how safe or
dangerous it is,” said Carragee, who is editor in chief of the
Spine Journal and led the publication’s review of Infuse.  The main problem with the published Infuse trial results is
that they didn’t include the product’s complications, Carragee
said. Surgeons didn’t know to look for things like cancer and
male sterility, he said. That will reduce the number of cases
reported to the company and  U.S. Food and Drug Administration ,
and they won’t show up in the analysis, he said.  Diminished Accuracy  “The accuracy of that has been severely impacted by 10
years of telling everybody that there are no problems,” he
said. “I never reported a male sterility event to the company
or the FDA because I didn’t think it was a complication of the
product. It’s the same thing for infections or cancer or bladder
problems. It was all news to us.”  Exposing data that normally remains confidential is a two-
edged sword, Kuntz said. The disclosure will make Medtronic
vulnerable to inappropriate use of its information that may
exaggerate the benefits and harms, he said. It may also turn up
new findings, he said.  If the process is successful, the company may release
results for other products in a similar way, Kuntz said.  “We understand those risks and benefits and we’re willing
to take the risk,” he said. “We really want to find the truth
about all of our therapies so we can help our patients and act
appropriately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  