-- 
Lehman and Hong Kong Liquidators Resolve $20 Billion of Bankruptcy Claims

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-08-04T03:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/lehman-brothers-hong-kong-unit-liquidators-resolve-20-billion-of-claims.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  said it
settled $20 billion of intercompany claims with liquidators for
Lehman  Hong Kong  and won the affiliate’s support for its
liquidation plan.  Details of the agreement, which is subject to court
approval in the U.S. and Hong Kong, weren’t provided in Lehman’s
statement yesterday.  Edward Middleton, a partner at KPMG  China  and one of the
Hong Kong liquidators, said that the settlement will benefit
creditors by speeding liquidations.  A final reconciliation of claims related to derivatives
positions should be reached within 60 days, he said today.  Lehman is gathering support for a $65 billion liquidation
plan. It said last month that creditors holding more than $100
billion in claims signed their support for the company’s latest
payout plan, which allots more money to a group including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders including
Paulson & Co.  The compromise reached, after contentious battles with
creditors, by Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal and
negotiators including lawyer Lori Fife of Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP, Lehman’s bankruptcy law firm, ends the threat of
“protracted litigation” over the plan, Lehman said in a
statement in July.  Plan Confirmation  Lehman aims to confirm its plan by year end and start
distributing a “significant” amount of its $21 billion in
available cash shortly after, Fife said.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for New York-based Lehman,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment after
regular business hours yesterday.  Lehman’s eight Hong Kong units have about $24 billion of
assets and claims totaling more than $36 billion on their books,
Middleton said today. That included about 2,500 listed equity
investments and more than 2,700 derivative trades when  KPMG  took
over in September 2008, he said.  While Middleton said he wasn’t able to quantify the
recovery rate under the settlement pending final numbers, he
said that Lehman Brothers Asia Holdings, the regional funding
entity for the Asia Pacific, has already paid its non-Lehman
creditors a first initial dividend of 5 percent, or a total of
HK$500 million ($64 million).  In February, Lehman said it will allow bankrupt German
affiliate Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG to claim $6.6 billion from
the parent company as part of a settlement, compared with an
original claim of $25 billion.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, Lehman
entered bankruptcy almost three years ago and twice amended its
proposals to pay claims in response to creditor challenges.  Marsal aims to raise a total of $65 billion from the firm’s
assets, including the cash already in hand. He previously
estimated final claims at more than $300 billion.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy in 2008 with assets of
$639 billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  