-- 
Emerging Stocks Enter Correction as Argentina, Brazil Lead Global Plunge

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-04T22:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/emerging-stocks-enter-correction-as-argentina-brazil-lead-global-plunge.html
Emerging-market stocks sank from  Sao
Paulo  to  Seoul , driving the benchmark index down 11 percent from
this year’s high, as concern deepened that the global economic
recovery is stalling. Currencies dropped versus the dollar.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index plunged 2.7 percent to
1,073.02 at 4:36 p.m. in  New York , bringing the drop from the
year’s closing high on May 2 over the 10 percent threshold that
signifies a correction to some analysts and investors.  Argentina’s Merval Index plunged 6 percent, the biggest
decliner among 91 equity benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg.
Brazil’s Bovespa index tumbled the most since November 2008 and
led declines among the world’s 20 biggest equities markets.
Poland’s WIG20 Index led losses across  Europe ’s emerging
markets. South Korea’s benchmark completed its steepest three-
day sell-off since 2008.  Developing-nation stocks are set for their largest weekly
decline since May 2010 after U.S. reports on manufacturing,
spending and the services industries fueled concern the world’s
biggest economy is faltering. Initial unemployment claims in the
U.S. reported today showed limited improvement in the labor
market.  Turkey ’s central bank reduced the benchmark  interest
rate  to a record low of 5.75 percent to shield the economy from
the impact of the European debt crisis and slowing growth in the
U.S.  “Everything risky is out of favor, so emerging-market
stocks will get crushed,” said  Tim Hartzell , who oversees about
$350 million as chief investment officer for Houston-based
Sequent Asset Management.  Currencies Tumble  All but one of the 25 major emerging currencies weakened
versus the dollar, led by  South Africa ’s rand and the Turkish
lira. The Mexican peso lost 1.9 percent and Brazil’s real slid
1.8 percent, the worst performers in  Latin America .  The lira tumbled as much as 2.8 percent to the weakest
level against the dollar since March 2009. The  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  of stocks fell 3.2 percent, the most since March 1, as
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the nation’s largest lender, slid
4.8 percent.  “The danger with this totally out-of-the-box move is that
investors will seriously begin to question the credibility” of
the Turkish central bank, Timothy Ash, the London-based head of
emerging-market strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
wrote in an e-mailed report today. “Foreign investors’ prime
concern at present on Turkey are fears of overheating.”  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
the ECB has resumed bond purchases and will offer banks more
cash to stop the region’s debt crisis from engulfing Italy and
 Spain  and hurting the economy. The central bank earlier left
benchmark rate unchanged at 1.5 percent as economic growth
slows.  Latin American Rout  Brazil ’s benchmark index sank 5.7 percent, paced by
declines in commodities producers, on disappointing earnings and
growing concern the global economy is weakening. Billionaire
Eike Batista’s mining company MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA sank
16 percent while Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the state-controlled
oil company, fell to its lowest level since December 2008.  Argentina’s Tenaris SA, the world’s largest producer of
steel tubes used in the petroleum and mechanical industries,
dropped 9.9 percent.  Mexico ’s IPC stock index retreated 3.4 percent, the most in
25 months, as concerns about a flagging economy crimped demand
for equities in the U.S.’s southern neighbor. Cemex SAB, the
largest cement maker in the Americas, dived 6.1 percent. Peru’s
Lima General Index fell 5.6 percent and Chile’s Ipsa index
dropped 3.9 percent, led by Lan Airlines SA, Latin America’s
largest airline by market value, which slipped as much as 5.2
percent.  Kopsi, Sensex  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  retreated 2.3 percent.  LG Chem
Ltd. (051910) , the nation’s biggest chemicals maker, slid 7.5 percent in
Seoul on speculation the profit margin for the company’s key
petrochemical products won’t recover soon, said Cho Seung Yeon,
an analyst at HMC Investment Securities Co.  India ’s Sensitive Index fell 1.4 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex
index declined 1.7 percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.2 percent,
halting a two-day loss. Anhui Conch Cement Co. led gains for
cement companies after the government said combined profit at
domestic makers of the building material more than doubled in
the first five months.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  surged 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, to 328, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps jumped 10 basis
points to 225.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  