-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Drop for Third Day on Concern U.S. Recovery Slowing

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-08-04T07:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/emerging-market-stocks-drop-for-third-day-on-concern-u-s-recovery-slowing.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, driving
the benchmark index toward its biggest three-day loss in 13
months, amid concern the U.S. economic recovery is stalling,
threatening global growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 0.6 percent to
1,096.54 at 3:06 p.m. in Singapore, set for a three-day, 4.4
percent plunge that will be the steepest since July 2010.  South
Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  tumbled 2.3 percent, completing its biggest
three-day sell-off since November 2008. Taiwan’s Taiex index
declined 1.7 percent and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of Chinese companies’ H shares retreated 1 percent.  Developing nation stocks are set for their largest weekly
declines since May 2010 after U.S. reports this week on
manufacturing, spending and the services industries fueled
concern the world’s biggest economy is faltering. Japan sold the
yen and expanded monetary stimulus a day after Switzerland cut
 interest rates  and weakened its currency, underscoring concerns
global growth is stalling.  “People are worried about the U.S. economy and whether the
U.S. will have a second recession,” Ang Kok Heng, who oversees
$292 million as chief investment officer at Phillip Capital
Management Sdn., said in a phone interview in  Kuala Lumpur .
“The U.S. may have no choice but to have another stimulus, the
economy needs it. The uncertainties and problems are weighing on
stocks.”  United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , decreased 2 percent in
Taipei after the world’s second-largest contract maker of chips
said second-quarter net income fell 39 percent. Samsung
Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of chips, flat screens and
mobile phones, slipped 1.4 percent in Seoul after the company
said it stopped production of some products.  Stocks Slide  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 4.8 percent this
year, more than the 1.5 percent decline in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index,
a measure for developed markets. Stocks in the developing nation
index are valued at about 10.6 times estimated profits, less
than the multiple of 12 times for developed shares.  U.S. data this week showed manufacturing expanded at the
weakest pace in two years, spending unexpectedly fell and the
services industries grew at the slowest pace since February
2010. Signs of a U.S. slowdown are fueling speculation that the
Federal Reserve will start another stimulus program, with the
Wall Street Journal reporting that former Fed officials  Donald
Kohn ,  Vincent Reinhart  and Brian Madigan said the central bank
should consider a third round of bond purchases.  U.S. Payrolls  Investors are awaiting a government employment report
tomorrow, which economists forecast will show the U.S. added
85,000 jobs last month including a 113,000 boost to private-
sector employment.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.2 percent,
halting a two-day loss. Anhui Conch Cement Co. led gains for
cement companies after the government said combined profit at
domestic makers of the building material more than doubled in
the first five months.  Xi’An Aircraft International Corp. (000768) 
climbed 2.9 percent after Shanghai Securities News reported the
government will make aircraft manufacturing one of the nation’s
strategic industries.  In South Korea, SK Innovation Co. led refiners lower on
speculation that sales would be affected by the slowing global
recovery, according to Ahn Sang Hee, an analyst at Daishin
Securities Co.  SK Innovation, which owns the nation’s biggest oil refiner,
dropped 8 percent, the sharpest decline since April 4.  GS
Holdings (078930) , which has the nation’s second-largest refiner, fell
8.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  