-- 
English Says Stronger N.Z. Dollar ‘Difficult for Our Exporters’

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-04T04:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/english-says-stronger-n-z-dollar-difficult-for-our-exporters-.html
A rising New Zealand dollar makes it
harder for the nation’s exporters to compete in the global
market and the government can do little to alter the currency’s
course, Finance Minister  Bill English  said.  “The exchange rate has reached levels I don’t think any of
us anticipated,” English said today in response to questions
from parliament. “The high dollar is difficult for our
exporters. We would much prefer the dollar to be lower but there
is no obvious monetary policy tool that could achieve that.”  New Zealand’s currency this week surged to the highest
since exchange rate controls were removed in 1985, prompting
calls from the government’s political opponents for currency
intervention and policy change that would require the central
bank to consider economic growth as well as inflation. Exports
make up 30 percent of gross domestic product.  The local currency bought 85.38 U.S. cents at 4:18 p.m. in
Wellington. It reached a record 88.43 cents Aug. 1.  The government isn’t planning “significant” changes to
policy because none are required, English said. Macro-prudential
policies have become an important part of the mix of tools
available to determine monetary conditions and  New Zealand ’s
central bank is a leader in that development, he said.  Earlier today,  Japan  followed  Switzerland  in seeking to
stem appreciating exchange rates that threatened to damage
export competitiveness.  New Zealand’s central bank doesn’t comment on currency
intervention, spokesman Mike Hannah said when asked if Japan’s
intervention has affected the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s
currency actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  