-- 
EPA Should Require Disclosure of Fracking Chemicals, Groups Say

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-08-04T14:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/epa-should-require-disclosure-of-fracking-chemicals-groups-say.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
should order companies such as  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  to disclose the hydraulic fracturing chemicals used in U.S.
oil and gas drilling, advocacy groups said.  Earthjustice, an environmental  law firm , will ask the EPA
to issue such a rule in a petition filed with the agency today
on behalf of 114 national and state groups, Megan Klein, a
lawyer for the Oakland, California-based firm, said in an
interview. The groups want the manufacturers of fluids used in
the drilling process, called fracking, to also conduct toxicity
tests on the chemicals, Klein said.  The EPA is studying the effects of fracking on drinking
water amid questions about the safety of the technique, in which
millions of gallons of water, sand and chemicals are forced into
rock to free trapped gas and oil. Results of the U.S. study
aren’t expected until 2014, according to the agency.  New York 
state may lift a ban on fracking later this year.  “Thousands and thousands of wells are being drilled each
year using these chemicals,” Klein said yesterday. “We want
the public to fully understand the risk of these chemicals being
injected near their homes, schools and hospitals.”  By 2035, 46 percent of U.S. gas will come from shale, up
from 14 percent in 2009, according to estimates of reserves by
the Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration.  The groups are asking the EPA to use the Toxic Substances
Control Act to require makers of fracturing fluid to release
health and safety information they have on the mixtures.
Manufacturers include Schlumberger and Halliburton, Klein said.  Schlumberger, Halliburton  Spokeswomen for Schlumberger, the world’s No. 1 oilfield-
services provider, and Halliburton, the second largest, didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment. Both companies are
based in Houston.  The EPA will review the groups’ petition, EPA spokeswoman
Betsaida Alcantara said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The Independent Oil & Gas Association of New York, an
industry group whose directors include representatives from
Halliburton, has said fracturing is safe.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
largest U.S. natural-gas producer, has said the worry about
fracking isn’t warranted and is hurting development.  “A lot of the concern has been based on casual statements
about risks that simply are not backed up by facts or any kind
of studies,” Exxon Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  said
after the Irving, Texas-based company’s May 25 annual meeting.  The EPA, as part of its national study, has requested and
received information from nine oilfield services companies about
the content of their fracking fluid, Alcantara said.  ‘Risk of Harm’  The EPA needs to take stronger action now because of the
uncertainty about the safety of fracking, according to Klein.  “We think there’s information out there showing that these
chemicals pose an unreasonable risk of harm, but there’s not
enough information out there to know for sure,” Klein said.  The “fracking-fueled gas rush” in the U.S. has led to
reports of tainted drinking water, polluted air, animal deaths
and sick humans, according to Earthjustice. The  Natural
Resources Defense Council , a New York-based environmental group,
has said the chemicals used are often toxic, citing cases in
 Wyoming  and  Pennsylvania  where residents were told not to drink
well water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  