-- 
Itau Chief Setubal Sees 15% Jump in 2012 Profit Driven by Brazil Rate Cuts

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 
2011-09-15T20:32:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/merrill-lynch-said-to-hire-barbuti-from-santander-as-banker.html
Profit at  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,
Latin America’s largest bank, may jump 15 percent next year as
interest-rate cuts in Brazil reduce loan delinquencies, Chief
Executive Officer Roberto Setubal said.  “We’ll have a period of reduction in the  interest rates 
and this will help to reduce delinquencies, and improve economic
conditions in general,” Setubal, 56, said in an interview
yesterday at his office in Sao Paulo. “So it’s very positive
for credit and positive for banks.”  Net income, which fell short of analysts’ estimates in the
second quarter, will climb at least 10 percent this year, he
said. Recurring net income, similar to profit from continuing
operations and excluding one-time items, rose 7.6 percent in the
first half of 2011 to 6.96 billion reais ($4.1 billion) from the
same period last year. Setubal said he targets profit growth of
15 percent to keep return on equity higher than 20 percent.  Brazil ’s central bank surprised economists by cutting
interest rates last month and signaled it will continue to
reduce borrowing costs in the world’s second-largest developing
economy after  China . That may reverse a surge in delinquencies
that crimped second-quarter profit and led to a 29 percent
increase in funds set aside to cover bad loans, Itau said in an
Aug. 2 statement.  Itau preferred stock rose 47 centavos, or 1.7 percent, to
28.75 reais in Sao Paulo, the third biggest gain in the
benchmark Bovespa index, which was flat today. Itau’s holding
company Itausa-Investimentos SA added 1.6 percent to 9.55 reais,
the fourth-biggest gain. Itau has dropped 28 percent this year,
compared with declines of 12 percent at  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and 19
percent for the Bovespa index.  Default Rates  The Brazilian central bank reduced the Selic rate to 12
percent from 12.5 percent after all 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted no change.  Itau plans to boost lending by 15 percent annually, more
than triple the rate of economic growth Setubal expects in the
years to come, he said. Loans climbed 21 percent to 317 billion
reais in the second quarter from the same period last year.  The default rate, a measure of payments at least 90 days
overdue, rose to 4.5 percent at the end of June from 4.2 percent
in the first quarter, Itau said last month. The bank forecast
that the rate would increase 20 to 30 basis points in the second
half of the year.  The delinquency rate “is pretty much under control,”
Setubal said. “Next year will be a better year, and we already
see signs of that.”  Acquisitions on Hold  While Itau is seeking to expand operations in  Latin America 
to diversify revenue, Setubal said he’s postponing plans to make
acquisitions outside of Brazil because the stock is undervalued
relative to takeover targets. About 90 percent of Itau’s
business is in Brazil.  “Given relative valuations, the asset prices in Latin
America and in the  United States  are expensive,” he said. “For
us, it would be very costly to do an acquisition outside Brazil
right now.”  In  Chile , Itau is adding 10 to 16 branches this year to a
network of 60, he said. The bank recently hired Barbara Angerstein from Celfin Capital SA to set up a Chilean equity
research department aimed at institutional clients. Itau is also
opening offices or applying for banking licenses in Colombia and
 Peru , he said.  Itau has no plans to buy assets outside of the Americas,
Setubal said, even as the European debt crisis caused the price
of banks in that region to tumble.  The acquisition of Unibanco - Uniao de Bancos Brasileiros
SA, completed in March 2009, will continue to help cut costs in
the coming years, Setubal said.  “We have this integration in Itau and Unibanco and we
could not really capture all the synergies that were possible,”
he said. “Now that we have one bank, the target is to make it
more efficient.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  