-- 
Euronext Outage Amid Stock Selloff Highlights Antitrust Concerns

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-08-04T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/euronext-outage-amid-stock-selloff-highlights-antitrust-concerns.html
A glitch that halted derivatives
trading on NYSE Euronext’s Liffe system during Europe’s worst
selloff in 15 months highlights antitrust regulators’ concerns
that its merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  may reduce competition.  The computer malfunction stopped trading in Liffe’s
benchmark derivatives, including Euribor futures and contracts
based on the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , for about two hours
yesterday and also left traders without prices for its European
stock indexes. Data from benchmark gauges in Paris, Amsterdam,
Brussels and  Portugal  were disrupted, though individual equities
could still be bought and sold.  The outage came on the same day that the European
Commission expanded its probe into NYSE Euronext’s proposed $8.8
billion takeover by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse. Regulators
set a new deadline of Dec. 13 to examine their “significant”
concerns about competition in derivatives trading and clearing.  “When Liffe goes down there are no alternatives,” said
 Larry Tabb , founder of Westborough, Massachusetts-based
financial-market research and advisory firm Tabb Group LLC.
“These platforms, especially in the futures space where there
isn’t much competition, are actually critical for
infrastructure. This will strengthen the calls for competition
on the futures side.”  Sixth Breakdown  The breakdown was the sixth in less than two months and
came as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index tumbled 3.4 percent, the
biggest drop since May 7, 2010, amid concern the global economy
is weakening. The decline pulled the gauge’s slide from this
year’s high in February to 16 percent on speculation that Europe
will fail to contain the sovereign debt crisis. Volume in Stoxx
600 shares yesterday was 61 percent higher than the average over
the past 50 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “For the system to be down today is a total disaster,”
Lex Van Dam, a London-based  fund manager  at Hampstead Capital
LLP, which oversees $500 million, said in an interview
yesterday. “This is a really scary market. It’s so busy and for
people not to be able to get out of their positions or hedge on
today of all days is really terrible.”  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in  New
York , said yesterday that the company is “still investigating
and isolating the problem” and expects to provide further
information today.  Delayed Start  NYSE Euronext’s four benchmark European equity indexes
didn’t update for almost two hours on July 29 and 3 1/2 hours on
July 12. That followed a June 27 glitch that stopped trading in
CAC 40 stocks for more than 45 minutes and two incidents the
previous week that delayed the start of trading by an hour in
Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Luxembourg and Lisbon and halted
transactions in the largest Dutch and Belgian stocks.  “We have analyzed the situation, we have taken mitigation
actions in the short term and maybe more importantly, we’re
running a taskforce,” Dominique Cerutti, deputy chief executive
officer of NYSE Euronext, told analysts on an Aug. 2 conference
call. “We expect results in the next 30 days to check whether
or not we have other vulnerabilities in our system and make sure
that we will come back to best-of-breed stability.”  Cerutti joined NYSE Euronext from International Business
Machines Corp., where he spent 23 years including being general
manager of IBM Southwest Europe.  Trading Engines  Liffe has four trading engines, two for financial products
and two for equities. Trading Engine 1 failed at 3:17 p.m.
London time yesterday, the pre-opening process in which orders
are placed started at 3:40 p.m. and trading resumed at 5:10 p.m.
The last time a Liffe trading engine failed was Dec. 30, 2009.  NYSE Euronext matches equity trades on its Universal
Trading Platform while  Deutsche Boerse  uses its Xetra technology
and is developing a new system for all its markets. The two
exchanges have said they will seek to save more than 51 million
euros ($72 million) by having common trading and clearing
infrastructure and combining networks. They haven’t said whose
systems they will use after the takeover is completed.  NYSE Euronext, formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007,
has cited improving computer systems as a goal of its
combination with Deutsche Boerse, first announced in February.  “The proposed merger would remove a strong competitor from
the market and would give the merged company by far the leading
position in derivatives trading in  Europe ,” European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said yesterday as he
announced the extension of the antitrust probe.  Exchanges are seeking mergers as competition from new
entrants such as Chi-X Europe Ltd. and Bats Europe, who are also
trying to combine, eats into their market share and revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  