-- 
Euro Debt Crisis Will Delay Czech Rate Increase, Singer Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-08-04T13:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/euro-debt-crisis-will-delay-czech-rate-increase-singer-says.html
Concern over the euro region’s debt
crisis will delay an increase in the Czech benchmark interest
rate by about a quarter to the end of this year, Governor
Miroslav Singer said.  Even as inflation is set to accelerate beyond the 3 percent
upper bound of the central bank’s target, the increase is mainly
driven by changes in indirect taxes and domestic price pressures
remain contained, Singer said at a press conference after
policymakers voted 5-2 to leave the benchmark rate at a record
low for a 14th month.  The debt crisis, which threatens to spread to Italy and
 Spain , is prompting central banks across  Europe  to delay
increases in borrowing costs even as rising commodity prices
fuel inflation. Singer said in May that Czech borrowing costs
could be lifted as early as in October, though the new
macroeconomic forecast released today pushes the outlook
forward.  “The forecast postpones the increase in the rates by
roughly a quarter,” Singer told reporters in Prague. The
forecast takes into account “the persistent turmoil” in
European financial markets.  The prediction implies market rates will start gradually
rising “at the turn” of 2011 and 2012, Singer said. The
central bank sees the three-month  interbank rate  at the end of
this year at 1.2 percent, compared with 1.3 percent in the
previous forecast, while the prediction for 2012 was cut to 1.7
percent from 2 percent.  The gradually strengthening koruna, which the bank sees at
24.1 against the euro at the end of 2011 and 23.1 a year later,
will also help keep inflation under control, Singer said. Risks
to the bank’s forecast on inflation are balanced as a weaker-
than-projected koruna may fuel price growth, while lower-than-
expected foreign interest rates would restrict it.  The central bank raised its 2011 forecast for economic
growth to 2.1 percent from 1.5 percent in a May 5 forecast. The
economy is seen growing 2.2 percent next year, down from its
last forecast of 2.8 percent on government’s austerity measures
and slowing export demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  