-- 
Euro’s Problems Need Fixing Before Markets Lose Faith: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-04T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/euro-s-problems-need-fixing-before-markets-lose-faith-view.html
The  U.S. Congress  may have narrowly
avoided a government-debt disaster, but financial troubles are
resurging across the Atlantic. If European leaders can’t find
the political will to implement the drastic measures needed to
stem their crisis, markets could soon put them in an untenable
position.  The market for Italian and Spanish government bonds offers
an indication of how little confidence Europe’s most recent
package of rescue measures has inspired. As of Wednesday, the
yield on the 10-year Italian bond stood at 6.08 percent, near
its highest point since the introduction of the euro. The yield
was about 3.7 percentage points higher than the yield on 10-year
German bonds -- a spread that suggests rising concern that  Italy 
might default. The comparable spread on  Spain ’s 10-year bond was
3.9 percentage points, up from 3.2 a month earlier.  Belgium ’s
spread hit a euro-era high of 2.1 percentage points.  Investors’ jitters are dangerous, because they can become a
self-fulfilling prophecy. As worries about default push up
governments’ cost of borrowing, debts that were once manageable
can become unsustainable. No wonder European Commission
President  Jose Barroso , while calling the rising yields in Italy
and Spain unwarranted, voiced “deep concern” Wednesday about
the market developments.  Debt Burden  Consider Italy, which carries the euro area’s second-
largest debt burden after  Greece . At a 5 percent cost of
borrowing, the government must run a budget surplus of about 29
billion euros a year -- not including interest payments -- to
stabilize its gross government debt at its current level of
about 120 percent of annual economic output. At a 10 percent
cost of borrowing, the required surplus rises to about 125
billion euros, or one-sixth of all government revenue. That’s
roughly what the government spends every year on Italy’s largely
state-run health system. At some point, default becomes a
necessity.  To restore confidence,  Europe ’s leaders -- specifically
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  -- must demonstrate they are willing and able to fix the
flaws in the currency union that the crisis has laid bare.  As Bloomberg View has advocated, any comprehensive solution
will probably entail creating a  finance ministry  with the sole
power to issue euro bonds backed jointly and severally by all
the nations of the union. It will also involve fiscal transfers
that, like earned-income tax credits and unemployment insurance
in the U.S., ease the pain of wage and competitiveness
adjustments that states in a currency union inevitably must
undertake.  Raft of Measures  The latest raft of measures takes some steps in the right
direction. For one, European leaders have essentially said
they’re ready to backstop governments and recapitalize banks
throughout the euro area. By lowering the  interest rates  on
loans from the  European Financial Stability Facility , and by
aiming to channel more infrastructure investment toward Greece,
they’ve also moved toward fiscal transfers.  Still, the package isn’t nearly comprehensive enough. Even
the relatively ambitious debt relief provided to Greece is a
half-measure. It’s enough to make credit-rating services call
Greece in default, but probably not enough to put Greece’s
finances on a sustainable path.  If political will is lacking, Europe does have some
options. Instead of replacing the debt of strapped governments
with euro bonds, leaders could push the  European Central Bank  to
step in and buy large quantities of troubled governments’
outstanding debt. But that would risk undermining the ECB’s
independence and inflation-fighting mandate, and in any case
would be only a temporary solution.  Ultimately, like the debt crisis in the U.S., Europe’s
challenge in resolving its problems boils down to a fundamental
social question: Can Germans and Greeks, rich and poor, find
common ground? If they can’t, the advanced world is headed down
the path to polarization. History suggests it wouldn’t end well.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 