-- 
Global Banks Tumble on Concerns About Growth, Sovereign Credit

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-04T21:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/european-banks-fall-to-two-year-low-as-sovereign-crisis-worsens.html
European banks dropped to a two-year
low and led a plunge in financial stocks around the world on
growing fear about faltering growth and the creditworthiness of
countries such as Ireland and  Italy .  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks Index dropped 4.2
percent to its lowest since April 2009. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24
U.S. financial stocks slid 5.3 percent in New York, the biggest
percentage decline since July 2010.  “The biggest issue that the European banks have is that
they are undercapitalized,” said Daniel Alpert, managing
partner at Westwood Capital LLC, a New York-based investment
bank. “While U.S. banks don’t have a tremendous exposure to the
sovereign debt in Europe, the bottom-line issue is these banks
in Europe are important parts of the worldwide financial
system.”  The market reaction spilled over to the U.S., where  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the nation’s biggest lender by assets, fell 7.4
percent to $8.83,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest,
tumbled 5 percent to $37.92 and Citigroup Inc., the third-
biggest bank, fell 6.6 percent to $34.81. It was the biggest
percentage drop in JPMorgan stock since January 2010.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet today
offered banks unlimited money for six months and extended
existing liquidity measures in an effort to quell concern that
southern European lenders might have trouble borrowing in the
debt markets.  Reaction Time  “The ECB’s program is virtually useless, because it’s not
big enough to stomach Italy or Spain,” said  Ronny Rehn , a bank
analyst at KBW Inc. in London. “Politicians need to get ahead
of the curve and stop reacting to events when it is too late.”  Spanish and Italian banks have been struggling to borrow
money for more than 30 days’ duration over the past two months,
according to analysts at Morgan Stanley in London.  “The funding markets are drying up and short-term funding
is getting shorter,” Rehn said.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, fell 10 percent after reporting a first-half loss and
larger Irish bad-loan provisions. The U.K. government owns 41
percent of Lloyds. Italy’s two biggest banks --  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  -- fell 9.3 percent and 10 percent
respectively after a speech by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
failed to ease market concerns about the country’s debt.  The Bloomberg European Banks index has slumped 11 percent
in the last five trading days, with Intesa SanPaolo, Lloyds, and
France’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA all shedding more than one-fifth of
their stock market value.  Italy and Spain  European officials are trying to put a firewall around
Italy and Spain on concern that they will have to follow Greece,
Ireland and Portugal in seeking bailouts. The cost of insuring
Italian debt surged to a record today, with credit-default swaps
rising 18 basis points to 384, according to CMA in London.  In a speech yesterday, Italy’s Berlusconi said that
financial markets aren’t estimating risk correctly and said that
Italy is “up to the task” of tackling the debt crisis. Earlier
today he said that he doesn’t think the current market turmoil
will get worse.  “Berlusconi did one thing you aren’t supposed to do,”
Alpert said. The 19th-century English economist “Walter Bagehot
once said, ‘As soon as you start telling everyone your credit is
good, you don’t have any.’”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers rose 6
basis points to 205, according to JPMorgan, nearing the 210
basis-point record of March 2009.  U.S. Follows  Among U.S. lenders, Wells Fargo & Co., the biggest home
lender, dropped 5.7 percent, the most since August 2009. The
weakness in U.S. bank stocks “is a carry-over,” said  Peter Boockvar , equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.
“It’s the disappointing and deteriorating global economy that
unveils the massive debt problems.”  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custody
bank, said today it will start charging institutional clients a
fee for “extraordinarily high” cash deposits to stem a flight
of capital into the safety of  bank deposits . Other banks that
have experienced dramatic increases in their cash deposits may
follow, saidGerard Cassidy, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets 
in Portland, Maine, who said he’d never seen a bank charge for
taking institutions’ deposits.  In other signs of investors’ aversion to risk, the yield on
the two-year  U.S. Treasury  dropped to a record low and rates on
Treasury bills fell to zero.  “Bank funding remains stressed for southern Europe and
remains a key source of risk for bank earnings, ability to lend
and a drag on economic recovery,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analyst Huw van Steenis said by telephone today. While the provision of six-
month money is “at the margin helpful, it is not of sufficient
term to really offer game-changing help to re-open term funding
markets, which is the focal point of the stress.”  ‘Could Have Done More’  Trichet said the ECB has also resumed bond purchases after
it stopped buying the bonds of distressed euro-area governments
18 weeks ago. Citigroup analysts led by Giada Giani described
the decision to re-open the program for Portuguese and Irish
debt as “half-hearted” and liable to leave Italian and Spanish
bonds “highly vulnerable to further market turbulence.”  “Trichet could have done more to calm the markets,” said
 Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd.
in London. “The lack of political leadership and an
unwillingness to take things seriously is hurting the market.”  U.S. banks are declining because European developments and
uncertainty in Washington about  government spending  may tip the
American economy into recession, said  Marty Mosby , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC, which manages more than $100 billion,
including Bank of America shares.  “Given the things in Washington, are we really going to be
able to address concerns this year?” said Mosby, who is based
in Nashville, Tennessee. “You then add what’s happening in
 Europe  -- if we are fragile, a downturn or financial crisis in
Europe will spread over here and add more pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  