-- 
Ex-Mizuho Investment Banker Charged With Insider Trading in U.K.

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-04T10:25:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ex-mizuho-investment-banker-charged-with-insider-trading-in-u-k-.html
Thomas Ammann, a former investment
banker at Mizuho International Plc, and two women were charged
with insider trading in shares of  OCE NV (OCE) , a Dutch printing-
equipment maker.  Ammann and Jessica Mang were charged last week, and
Christina Weckwerth, a German national, was charged this morning
at a London court, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said
today. Ammann was charged with three counts of insider dealing,
Weckwerth two counts and Mang with one count. Ammann and
Weckwerth were also charged with  money laundering , and the ex-
banker is also facing two counts of encouraging insider dealing.  The charges relate to trading in OCE shares between
February and November 2009, the FSA said. Canon Inc. agreed to
buy OCE in a 730 million-euro ($1 billion) deal in November
2009. Mizuho acted as the financial adviser to Canon, the
Japanese imaging company, in the deal, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The FSA, which hadn’t brought an  insider-trading  case until
2008, is currently prosecuting 13 other individuals for the
crime. It separately arrested seven people last year in what may
become its highest-profile insider-trading probe. The suspects,
which include  Moore Capital ’s Julian Rifat and employees from
Deutsche Bank AG and Exane BNP Paribas, are on extended bail and
are being called in by the regulator for interviews.  Mizuho said in a statement the FSA hasn’t alleged any
wrongdoing by the bank and no actions are being taken against
it. “The transactions to which the charges relate were executed
by the individual in his personal capacity and were not done
through, or processed by, Mizuho International,” the bank said.  Released on Bail  The trio were released on bail and are scheduled to appear
again before a  London  judge on Aug. 23. A lawyer for Ammann
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  The FSA arrested Ammann and Mang and searched two addresses
in London in November. They worked with police and prosecutors
in Hesse,  Germany , to conduct a search there as well.  The regulator in February secured the longest-ever U.K.
insider-trading sentence when former Dresdner Kleinwort banker
Christian Littlewood was imprisoned for 40 months after
admitting illegally trading over a 10-year period, along with
his wife and an accomplice.  The agency also won a conviction against  Malcolm Calvert ,
an ex-partner at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Cazenove unit, last year
in its first successful case against a finance professional for
insider trading. It had previously convicted a former company
lawyer, a brokerage intern and his father, a dentist, in two
other cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  