-- 
Ex-Wall Street Lawyer O’Brien Pleads Guilty to Failure to Pay U.S. Taxes

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-04T21:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ex-wall-street-lawyer-o-brien-pleads-guilty-to-failure-to-pay-u-s-taxes.html
John J. O’Brien, a former lawyer at
 Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP specializing in corporate mergers and
acquisitions, pleaded guilty to charges he failed to pay income
taxes.  O’Brien, 48, of Caroga Lake in the foothills of  New York ’s
Adirondack Mountains, was charged in a misdemeanor criminal
information yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan . He entered
his plea today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman and was
released on a $100,000 personal recognizance bond with a week to
secure a co-signer.  O’Brien earned about $10.8 million in partnership income
for the tax years 2001 to 2008 and failed to file a federal  tax
return  for each of those years, the government said. He used the
unreported income to pay for personal expenses, including the
purchase of a weekend home, funding of a rare-books business,
Hudson Street Books, and international travel, prosecutors said.  “ John O’Brien  went to work every day at a prestigious  law
firm  where he advised clients on how to comply with the law at
the same time that he was knowingly breaking it,” Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. “He thumbed
his nose at the IRS to fund an even more lavish lifestyle than
his generous income permitted.”  O’Brien, a 1992 graduate of New York University Law School,
made more than $3 million in capital contributions to the rare-
books business from 2004 to 2008 instead of paying income tax
liabilities that totaled more than $2.5 million, prosecutors
said.  Possible Sentence  O’Brien was charged with two counts of willful failure to
file U.S. individual income tax returns and two counts of
willful failure to pay tax. He pleaded guilty to all four and
faces as much as one year in prison on each count at sentencing,
which is scheduled for Nov. 16 before Pitman.  O’Brien agreed to pay no less than $2.8 million in
restitution, representing the full amount of taxes and interest
due to the  Internal Revenue Service  for the tax years 2001 to
2008, prosecutors said in a plea agreement. He has paid about
$800,000 to the IRS, said his attorney, Russell Neufeld, during
today’s hearing.  Neufeld declined to comment after the hearing. Karen Braun,
a spokeswoman for Sullivan & Cromwell, declined to comment on
the charges before today’s plea.  The case is U.S. vs. O’Brien, 11-cr-0652, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 