-- 
FAA Funding Deadlock in Congress Idles Construction From New York to Vegas

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-08-04T18:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/faa-funding-deadlock-idles-construction-from-new-york-to-vegas.html
Congress’s impasse over the  Federal
Aviation Administration ’s funding extension is stalling airport
construction work from  Memphis  to  Las Vegas , with hundreds of
projects put on hold and thousands of workers idled.  John Yusunas, southwest district manager for Anderson
Drilling, which is working on the foundation for a new air-
traffic control tower at McCarran International Airport in Las
Vegas, said he had 15 people working on July 22 when he got a
call saying the job was on hold.  “The idea was we’d be back to work by the 29th,” Yusunas
said. “From what I’m reading now it could be September.”  The U.S. House of Representatives and Senate recessed for
the month of August without extending the FAA’s funding
authority, which expired July 22. Without it, the agency can’t
distribute $2.5 billion in grants to fund airport projects
around the country, collect $28.6 million a day in aviation
taxes or bring back 4,000 furloughed employees.  About 70,000 jobs in construction are hurt by the lack of
funding, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has said, citing
data by the Associated General Contractors of America. The data
is based on a formula for construction spending, prepared by
Stephen Fuller, a public policy professor at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax,  Virginia , said Brian Turmail, a spokesman
for the Washington-based contractors group.  Of those jobs, about a third are construction workers,
about 15 percent are suppliers and services and as many as half
are linked to the construction sites, such as the corner store
where a builder would buy a sandwich on break, Turmail said.  Rural-Airport Subsidies  On July 20, the House passed a bill by Representative John Mica, the Florida Republican who chairs the House transportation
committee, that would extend FAA funding through Sept. 16 and
end $16.6 million of subsidies for flights to 13 rural airports.  Senate Democrats have objected to Republican efforts to
bring Mica’s proposed extension to a vote.  A broader issue is a separate four-year $59.7 billion FAA
funding proposal, passed by the House in April. Before the bill
was approved, President  Barack Obama ’s advisers said they would
recommend vetoing it over a provision that would make it more
difficult for labor unions to organize airline workers.  The Senate passed a $34.6 billion, two-year reauthorization
measure in February.  Mica said yesterday he had added the rural air-service cuts
as a “negotiating tactic” to conclude discussions on 12
unresolved issues between the two chambers -- not just the labor
provision -- in the longer-term FAA authorization bill.  Resolving the Deadlock  Obama urged lawmakers yesterday to return to  Washington  to
resolve the deadlock this week.  Because Congress hasn’t adjourned for the next month, each
chamber could reconvene with only a few members present to
approve legislation if all lawmakers in the body agree on that
legislation beforehand. Still, the House is insisting that the
Senate accept its measure and Senate Democrats are demanding
that the House pass an extension without restrictions on aid to
rural airports.  Congress needs to “come back from vacation” to pass an
extension, LaHood said.  “Do not hold unemployed workers hostage because you have a
difference or two,” LaHood said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today. “This is Congress’s job. Come back, do your
job and then go on vacation.”  Forty “dedicated” airport-safety inspectors are working
without pay or travel-expense reimbursement, LaHood has said.  ‘Playing With Lives’  Alan Hayes, a manager with the FAA’s aeronautical
information management group, is among the agency’s 4,000
furloughed employees.  “Don’t you realize you are playing with our lives?”
Hayes, a federal employee for 29 years, wrote in an e-mail to
the president and lawmakers. “I am married with two children
and have a disabled parent living with me. I am already having
financial problems because of the economy, and now I am out of
work. And whose fault is it? Congress. Enjoy your time off WITH
pay.”  Work has stopped on more than 200 projects, including the
demolition of the old air-traffic control tower at  New York ’s
 LaGuardia Airport .  Memphis International Airport will need to borrow money or
take out a line of credit to finish up projects that were
dependent on FAA funding, said Larry Cox, chief executive
officer of the Memphis-Shelby County Airport Authority, which
runs the Memphis airport.  Interest Cost  “Not having the FAA fund available now means now we’re
going to do not only the cost of construction but the interest
cost of construction,” Cox said. “We’ll have to pass on our
costs to the airlines, with higher landing fees and terminal
rental fees.”  The airport had planned to get $16 million from the FAA for
projects before July 30.  The construction of an air-traffic control tower at the
Oakland International Airport, a project that employs about 60
people, has been halted, Isaac Kos-Read, director of external
affairs for the Port of Oakland, which oversees the airport,
said in a telephone interview.  The new tower is being funded with $31 million from the
2009 federal stimulus package, he said. Construction began last
year and is slated for completion in 2013, Kos-Read said. The
construction equipment that’s sitting idle on the site is
costing $6,000 a day, he said.  $6,000 a Day  “This is a knock on our nation’s ability to get things
done and not helping our ability to promote the airport,” Kos-
Read said. “We’ve gone overseas to market our airport as a
gateway for air service between  China  and the Bay Area. But this
news about not being able to move forward on a basic piece of
our infrastructure doesn’t help.”  In addition to federally funded airport construction, the
FAA’s furloughed inspectors can’t sign off on other projects,
such as a new school at a general aviation airport in  Fort
Wayne ,  Indiana , that’s seeking to begin classes next year, said
Debby McElroy, a spokeswoman for  Airports Council International 
-  North America , an airport trade group.  The furloughs and halted construction projects come after
the U.S. jobless rate rose to 9.2 percent in June. It probably
remained unchanged in July, according to the median of 80
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The jobless data are due
tomorrow.  In Las Vegas, unemployment was 13.8 percent in June. Most
of the construction workers on the McCarran tower project aren’t
working right now, said Anderson Drilling’s Yusunas. He said
he’s been sending e-mails to members of Congress, asking them to
renew FAA funding, even though he doesn’t think they’ll receive
them during the recess.  “I just feel bad for the guys that have been off work for
a couple of months and I can’t tell them when I can put them
back to work,” Yusunas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  