-- 
Fidelity Small Cap Biggest Loser as Market Erases $2 Trillion

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-08-04T15:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/fidelity-s-small-cap-fund-biggest-loser-as-market-drop-erases-2-trillion.html
Fidelity Investments ’ largest mutual
fund that invests in small-company stocks was the biggest loser
in the U.S. as the past week’s market plunge wiped out about $2
trillion in global equity value.  As world markets sold off on concern that the  U.S. economy 
may be sliding back into recession, the $3.8 billion Fidelity
Small Cap Stock Fund fell 11 percent from July 25 to Aug. 2, the
most of 1,131 domestic stock funds with assets of at least $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $3.1
billion Aston/Fairpointe Mid Cap Fund and the $2 billion Ariel
Fund were the next-worst performers, losing 10.4 percent.  The political tussle over the U.S. debt ceiling combined
with lower-than-expected factory orders, declining  consumer
confidence  and weaker household spending triggered a 6.8 percent
slide in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over seven sessions
before part of the U.S. benchmark’s loss was recouped yesterday
with a 0.5 percent gain. All 10 of the worst-performing funds in
the selloff specialize in small or mid-sized stocks.  “A lot of the sentiment that has soured on small caps has
been driven by softening economic expectations,” Jeff Tjornehoj, an analyst with Denver-based research firm Lipper,
said in an interview. “Small-caps tend to do best when
economies are accelerating.”  Stocks continued their decline today on concern that the
economy is weakening. The MSCI All-Country World Index sank 2.2
percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.7 percent at
10:09 a.m. in  New York .  ‘Strong Track Record’  “We encourage investors to take a long-term approach to
investing and not to put undue focus on short-term results,”
Adam Banker, a spokesman for Fidelity, said in an e-mailed
statement. Manager Andrew Sassine “has a very strong track
record” since taking over on July 1, 2008, and the fund has
beaten its benchmark over three, five and 10 years, Banker said.  The Fidelity Small Cap fund has posted average annual
returns of 5 percent over the past five years, better than 78
percent of similarly-managed funds, according to data from
Morningstar Inc. in Chicago. Over the past 10 years, the fund
has advanced 7.4 percent, beating 81 percent of peers, the data
show.  Ariel’s John W. Rogers and Fairpointe’s Thyra Zerhusen
weren’t available for comment, according to spokesmen for the
two firms.  Over the past decade, small-company stocks have
outperformed large stocks, Lipper’s Tjornehoj said. The average
annualized return for U.S. small-cap stock mutual funds in the
10 years through through July was 7.1 percent, compared with 2.4
percent for large-cap funds, he said, citing Lipper data.  Stock Market Slump  U.S. stocks slumped for the third straight month in July as
Congress debated a debt agreement and credit raters warned of
possible government downgrades. The top-performing mutual funds
were those that invest in gold and precious metals, including
the $620 million Gamco Gold Fund, which advanced 9.4 percent in
the past month as the price of the metal rallied to records. The
$1.4 billion Federated Prudent Bear Fund, which bets on a stock-
market decline, climbed 8.2 percent.  Fidelity Small Cap Stock Fund (FSLCX)  slipped about 13 percent in
the past month, compared with the 8.1 percent average decline of
102 funds tracked by Bloomberg that invest in small-company
stocks. The fund dropped 8.2 percent this year through Aug. 2.  Assured Guaranty  The fund’s top holding at midyear was  Assured Guaranty
Ltd. (AGO) , the bond insurer that has tumbled 22 percent in 2011.
Airline company  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , which has
fallen 24 percent this year, was the second-biggest position.  Fidelity Small Cap seeks to invest at least 80 percent of
its assets in companies similar in size to those in the Russell
2000 Index, according to Boston-based Fidelity’s website.  The Ariel Fund, which invests in medium-size companies and
is managed by Rogers of Ariel Investments LLC in  Chicago ,
declined about 12 percent in the past month. The fund, whose
stocks had an average market capitalization of $3.9 billion as
of June 30, was hurt by its largest position, Interpublic Group
of Cos. The advertising and marketing company plunged 16 percent
on July 28 after reporting revenue and earnings that were short
of analysts’ estimates.  Gannett Stake  The fund’s No. 2 holding was Gannett Co., the newspaper
publisher and TV station owner. Gannett, whose papers include
 USA Today , has fallen 21 percent this year as advertising and
circulation has slowed. Ariel lost about 5.3 percent in 2011
through Aug. 2.  Over the past five years, the Ariel fund has risen at an
average annual rate of 2 percent, trailing behind 79 percent of
rivals, according to Morningstar. The fund has returned 5.8
percent over the past decade, lagging behind 61 percent of
peers, the data from Morningstar show.  The Aston/Fairpointe fund, managed by a team led by
Zerhusen of Chicago’s Fairpointe Capital LLC, invests in medium-
size companies. Top holdings as of June 30 were tax preparer  H&R
Block Inc. (HRB)  and medical device maker  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  The
fund declined 11 percent in a month and 6.6 percent in 2011
before yesterday.  Over the past five years, the fund has advanced at an
average annual rate of 8 percent to beat 99 percent of its
peers, while it has returned 8.5 percent over the past 10 years
to beat 90 percent of rivals, data from Morningstar show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  