-- 
Bank of America, BAT, TCW, Total, UBS, CIBC in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-04T11:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/foreclosure-probe-bat-document-quest-bofa-total-cibc-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  has held
settlement negotiations with some states over home foreclosures
separately from talks with a larger group of state and federal
officials, two people familiar with the matter said.  The proposed deal would give the bank liability releases
from state and federal claims over its mortgage practices in
exchange for reducing loan principals to help struggling
homeowners, said the people, who didn’t want to be identified
because the discussions aren’t public.  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of
America, over their servicing and foreclosure practices.
Attorneys general from all 50 states began investigating the
practices last year.  Bank of America, in its separate negotiations, has offered
to fund more principal writedowns than what is being discussed
in the larger settlement talks, one of the people said. The bank
is seeking a blanket liability release that would be broader
than what would be available for the other banks involved in the
negotiations, the person said.  Other attorneys general were unaware of the separate talks
with Bank of America, the person said.  Rick Simon , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom
Miller, declined to comment. Miller is leading negotiations for
the 50 state attorneys general.  The other banks involved in the broader talks with state
and federal officials are  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  For more, click here.  Bank of the West Suit Against UBS Over CDO Claims Is Dismissed  Bank of the West’s lawsuit claiming UBS AG designed a
collateralized debt obligation fund to insure against its own
subprime investment losses was dismissed.  Bank of the West, in a complaint filed in state court in
 San Francisco , said UBS created the CDO in 2007 to induce
investments from other financial institutions to insure against
the losses. That case was dismissed in November, according to a
court filing.  Jim Cole, a spokesman for Bank of the West, said yesterday
in an e-mail that the lawsuit was settled.  Christiaan Brakman, a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS,
declined to comment on the case.  Bank of the West, based in San Francisco, is a unit of
BancWest Corp., the U.S. consumer-banking unit of  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA. BNP Paribas is  Europe ’s largest lender by assets.  The case is Bank of the West v. UBS, CGC-09-489590,
Superior Court of  California  (San Francisco).  BAT Seeks  Australia  Documents for Fight Against Packaging  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  urged an Australian appeal
court panel to order the release of government documents to help
it fight a proposed law to remove all manufacturers’ markings
from cigarette packs.  The Dunhill maker needs to deploy the documents “in its
efforts to persuade members of parliament that the legislation
should not be passed,” Allan Myers, British American Tobacco’s
lawyer, told the three-judge panel in Melbourne yesterday. A
debate on the law is scheduled for next month, he said.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world aimed at
banning logos and color variations on cigarette packages. New
Zealand,  Canada  and the U.K. had considered the move but dropped
it out of concern it would be illegal, British American Tobacco
 said . The proposal may infringe international trademark and
intellectual property laws, said the producer of Pall Mall and
Australia’s best-selling cigarette brand, Winfield.  Australia had considered plain packaging for cigarettes in
the mid 1990s and on Dec. 14, 1995, the government received a
13-page report from a commission that studied the proposal,
Myers said. The government released a summary and in 1997 it
also issued a response to a separate Senate report, he said.  The background documents that led to the government’s
decision not to go ahead with the earlier plan weren’t released
and the government says they’re privileged and must remain
confidential.  The judges reserved a decision and both the company and the
government agreed to provide additional written submissions
before Aug. 10.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v.
Secretary, Department of Health and Aging. VID314/2011. Federal
Court of Australia (Melbourne).  For more, click here.  Stanford Liquidators Seek $20 Million Held in U.K.  Stanford International Bank’s liquidators are seeking the
release of $20 million frozen in the U.K. to fund their efforts
to recover other assets for victims of R. Allen Stanford’s
alleged Ponzi scheme.  Grant Thornton LLP, the accounting firm that replaced
Vantis Plc as liquidator of the Antigua-based bank in May, needs
the cash to cover a legal claim as well as the marketing and
sale of the bank’s real estate assets, its lawyers told a London
court yesterday.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office wants the $100 million in
total U.K. assets held by the bank, most of which is invested in
 hedge funds , to remain untouched and eventually be handed over
to the U.S. Justice Department.  Stanford International Bank’s U.K. assets have been the
subject of a legal battle between Antiguan liquidators and U.S.
authorities seeking to return money to investors. Judge
Elizabeth Gloster will decide whether the $20 million can be
released by tomorrow.  Andrew Mitchell, a lawyer representing the SFO, said the
agency made an application to “repatriate” the assets to the
U.S.  Without the U.K. money, Grant Thornton would have to rely
on a hedge fund to pay for its proposed legal claim, the firm’s
attorney Andrew Bodnar said. Under the deal, the hedge fund
would then claim up to $74 million of any money recovered,
Bodnar said, without giving further details or naming the fund.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  TCW Employee Says She Smuggled External Hard Drive in Bra  A TCW Group Inc. vice president said she smuggled an
external hard drive in her bra to a managing director at the
firm the day he was put on leave together with investment chief
 Jeffrey Gundlach  and escorted from the building.  Dolores Talamantes testified yesterday at a trial that pits
TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE) , against
Gundlach, ex-managing director Cris Santa Ana and two other
former employees who joined Gundlach’s DoubleLine Capital LP,
the asset-management firm he formed within weeks after TCW fired
him in December 2009.  TCW alleges that Santa Ana downloaded confidential and
proprietary information on the hard drive in 2009 as he and
Gundlach plotted to start DoubleLine. The former TCW employees
deny having used the information at DoubleLine and claim TCW
fired them to avoid having to pay hundreds of millions of
dollars in performance fees to Gundlach’s group.  Talamantes said that she had been with other TCW employees
from Gundlach’s group at a bar/restaurant downstairs from the
firm’s office in downtown  Los Angeles  on Dec. 4, 2009, the day
Gundlach was relieved of his duties. She said she had gone up to
the office around 6 p.m. and ran into another employee, Melissa
Conn, who was holding the hard drive.  “I said ‘give it to me’ and stuffed it in my bra,”
Talamantes told jurors in Los Angeles state court.  Conn testified earlier yesterday that she had taken the
hard drive from Santa Ana’s desk around that time and put it in
her purse and that she was uncertain whether she should take it
from the trading floor because it might contain TCW data as well
as Santa Ana’s private files. Conn had also been at Magnolia,
the restaurant downstairs, earlier that evening before going
back up to the office, she said.  After she found Santa Ana, who had been escorted from the
office in the afternoon, at Magnolia, Talamantes told him she
had something for him and they went to his car where she gave
him the hard drive, she testified.  TCW said Gundlach, Santa Ana and the others were fired
because they started stealing trade secrets and confidential
information, including client portfolio information, in
September 2009. TCW alleges Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to
set up DoubleLine as quickly as he did without its proprietary
information.  Gundlach, whose group managed more than half of TCW’s $110
billion under management, says TCW owns him about $500 million
in management and performance fees for the distressed-asset
funds he started in 2008 and that went “through the roof.”  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Bank of America Sued by Investors Over Mortgage Securities  Bank of America Corp., which is seeking approval for an
$8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement, was sued by investors
that want the bank to buy back loans underlying their
securities.  Bank of America must buy back the loans because its
Countrywide Financial unit breached representations and
warranties about them, Walnut Place LLC and related entities
said in a complaint filed yesterday in  New York  State Supreme
Court.  The lawsuit comes as Bank of America is seeking court
approval to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims from mortgage
investors and avoid repurchasing loans packaged into bonds by
Countrywide.  Walnut Place has “serious concerns about the adequacy of
the settlement and the conflicts of interest of the parties that
negotiated it,” the company said in the complaint.
“Countrywide and Bank of America agreed to pay only $8.5
billion as a settlement of claims that are worth many times that
amount.”  Walnut Place previously sued Bank of America over a
different trust that holds mortgage loans and issued securities
to investors.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the new
complaint.  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc,
652146-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Total Chief Faces Trial in Iraq Oil-for-Food Corruption Case  Total SA (FP)  and its Chief Executive Officer Christophe de
Margerie will stand trial in Paris over alleged wrongdoings
regarding Iraq’s oil-for-food program during Saddam Hussein’s
rule, a French judicial official said.  Total is accused of bribing foreign nationals, said the
official at the Paris prosecutors’ office, declining to be named
in line with internal policy.  In the case filed last week, the Total CEO and 18 other
people, including businessmen, former diplomats, a former
politician and a journalist, will stand trial at an unspecified
date, the judicial official said.  “We are confident about the trial’s outcome and that Total
will be cleared of these allegations and the charges will be
dropped,” the Paris-based company said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case centers on claims that some people received oil
vouchers in exchange for lobbying to loosen sanctions on Saddam
Hussein’s regime, and that employees of Total bought that oil.
In 2006, De Margerie was placed under investigation over
possible violations under the oil-for-food program, which
allowed Iraq to sell a certain amount of crude and spend the
proceeds on humanitarian goods.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-UBS Client Greeley Pleads Guilty to Hiding $13 Million  A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  client pleaded guilty to filing a false
U.S. tax return that concealed more than $13 million in two
Swiss accounts, according to the Justice Department.  Robert E. Greeley admitted in federal court yesterday in
San Francisco that he filed a tax return in 2008 that failed to
disclose two UBS accounts set up in the names of Cayman Islands
entities.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer set Greeley’s sentencing
for Nov. 9. Greeley agreed to pay a civil penalty of $6.8
million for failing to file a Report of Foreign Bank and
Financial Accounts form.  Greeley, a resident of San Francisco, was a client of
former UBS banker Renzo Gadola, who pleaded guilty Dec. 22 in
federal court in Miami.  Greeley is one of more than two dozen former UBS clients
accused of tax crimes since 2007. Zurich-based UBS avoided U.S.
prosecution in February 2009 by paying $780 million, turning
over the names of U.S. account holders and saying it helped
Americans hide assets from the Internal Revenue Service.  The case is U.S. v. Greeley, 11-cr-374, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Ex-CIBC Employees Suit Tentatively Settled for $10.2 Million  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and its insurers
tentatively agreed to pay $10.2 million to settle a 2005 U.S.
lawsuit filed by two former employees over a money-losing
company investment fund, according to court papers.  In a Delaware Chancery Court complaint, James Forsythe and
Alan Tesche contended the bank failed to properly oversee the
$561 million CIBC Employee Private Equity Fund (U.S.) Inc.  “The parties agree that the settlement consideration
constitutes fair, adequate and reasonable consideration for the
settlement of all claims,” lawyers for the employees and the
bank said in court documents. Judge J. Travis Laster will rule
on fairness of the agreement at a hearing in Wilmington Oct. 26,
according to an order signed yesterday.  The lawsuit alleged that Toronto-based CIBC officials
wasted millions due to “willful and wanton lack of supervision
of the fund’s management.” The company reported almost $12
billion in revenue last fiscal year.  The settlement money, minus as much as $3 million in
plaintiffs’ legal fees and expenses, will be deposited in the
fund, court papers show.  The case is Forsythe v. CIBC, CA1091-N, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  Playboy Founder’s Son-in-Law Settles SEC Inside-Trading Suit  The son-in-law of Playboy magazine founder Hugh Hefner
settled allegations of insider trading in Playboy stock,
agreeing to resolve a lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission for $168,352.  William A. Marovitz, who is married to former Playboy
Enterprises Inc. Chief Executive Officer Christie Hefner, made
$100,952 on the trades, according to the SEC complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Chicago.  “Despite instructions from his wife that he should not
trade in shares of Playboy and a warning from the general
counsel of Playboy about his buying or selling Playboy stock,
Marovitz bought and sold shares of Playboy in his own brokerage
accounts between 2004 and 2009,” the SEC said.  An attorney and former Illinois state senator, Marovitz,
66, has been married to Hefner since 1995, according to the
complaint. Hefner led Chicago-based Playboy from 1988 to 2009.  Before her departure, Playboy had been negotiating its
possible sale to New York-based Iconix Brand Group Inc. Hefner
met with Iconix CEO Neil Cole in October and December 2008 and
continued to represent Playboy in the talks after stepping down,
the SEC alleged.  “Mr. Marovitz has no comment on the complaint or the
settlement agreement,” his attorney, Jim Streicker of Chicago,
said in a telephone interview. “He lost substantial sums of
money on his investments in Playboy over the years,” he said.  While Hefner’s husband didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s
allegations, he consented to a court order barring him from
further violation of the SEC’s regulations, according to the
commission’s statement. The settlement is still subject to court
approval.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Marovitz, 11cv5259, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  New Jersey Doctors’ Group Loses Health-Care Law Appeal  A U.S. appeals court rejected a bid by group of New Jersey
doctors to reinstate their lawsuit challenging the federal
health-insurance overhaul.  New Jersey Physicians Inc., a nonprofit group, and a
patient identified only as “Patient Roe” failed to adequately
plead a concrete or actual injury, the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Philadelphia ruled yesterday. The ruling affirms a lower-court
decision tossing the case in December.  “The plaintiffs have not met their burden in pleading
facts that establish the requisite injury in fact and therefore
fail to demonstrate standing,” the three-member appeals panel
said in a 15-page opinion.  The nonprofit sued in March 2010, along with Mario
Criscito, a New Jersey doctor affiliated with the group, and
Patient Roe challenging the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act’s requirement that citizens purchase insurance. The
entire act is unconstitutional because the individual mandate
exceeded Congress’s authority, the group claimed in the
complaint.  The ruling is a “minor setback,” Robert J. Conroy, a
lawyer for the group, said in a phone interview yesterday. The
nonprofit has 90 days to decide whether to re-file its complaint
or petition the Supreme Court, he said.  The law, intended to create the first near-universal U.S.
health-care coverage program, bars insurers from rejecting
coverage for people who are already sick and from imposing
limits on lifetime costs. It also requires almost every American
resident to have health insurance starting in 2014 or to pay a
tax penalty.  The case is New Jersey Physicians Inc. v. President of the
U.S., 10-4600, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Philadelphia).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 