-- 
Obama Taps Ex-Microsoft Exec as Tech Chief

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-08-04T15:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/former-microsoft-executive-named-top-u-s-technology-official.html
The Obama administration appointed
today former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive Steven VanRoekel as the
U.S. government’s top technology official.  VanRoekel, 41, worked from 2009 to 2011 as the managing
director at the Federal Communications Commission. He will
replace federal Chief Information Officer Vivek Kundra, who is
leaving this month for a joint position at Harvard University’s
John F. Kennedy School of Government and the Berkman Center for
Internet and Society.  President  Barack Obama  selected VanRoekel for the position
because of his career-long focus on technology, combined public
and private-sector experience, strategic ability and “track
record for execution,” Jeffrey Zients, deputy director of the
Office of Management and Budget, said during a meeting today
with reporters.  VanRoekel, whose official first day of work at the White
House is tomorrow, will continue the cloud-computing and data-
center consolidation initiatives Kundra started, VanRoekel and
Zients said.  The administration is not “asking someone to come in and
make radical changes” to the information-technology reform
policy outlined by Kundra during his tenure, though “Steve will
be adding to the agenda over time,” Zients said.  Cybersecurity is “of course a tremendous priority,”
VanRoekel told reporters. After being selected for the position,
VanRoekel said “my very first meeting was with  Howard
Schmidt ,” the White House cybersecurity coordinator.  FCC Initiatives  VanRoekel most recently served as executive director of the
citizen and organizational engagement division at the U.S.
Agency for International Development, according to a White House
statement. Before  moving  to USAID in June, he oversaw all
operational, technical, financial, and human resource aspects at
the FCC.  VanRoekel said in a blog post last year that he had worked
to improve communication and openness among FCC employees
through technology and new media, including the creation of an
internal website that let workers comment anonymously.  He also promoted the use of social media and helped to
implement Kundra’s data-center consolidation and cloud
initiatives inside the agency, VanRoekel said. The FCC was the
first federal agency to have a website based on a “FISMA-
compliant cloud,” or an Internet-based web platform   that met
government security standards, he said.  Bill Gates ’s Assistant  Before entering government, VanRoekel worked at Microsoft
from 1994 to 2009, including almost three years as Chairman Bill Gates’s assistant. His last post at the Redmond, Washington-
based company was as senior director for the Windows server and
tools division.  “Steven is a well-respected member of the tech community
and he is well positioned to carry on the great work started by
Vivek Kundra,” Microsoft said in a statement.  VanRoekel received a B.A. in management of  information
systems  from  Iowa State University , according to a White House
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  