-- 
Geithner Hasn’t Made Decision on Whether to Quit at Treasury, Carney Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-04T18:51:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/geithner-hasn-t-made-decision-on-whether-to-quit-at-treasury-carney-says.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  hasn’t indicated he’s made a decision on whether to
remain in the administration now that the debt ceiling deal has
been enacted, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “He has said he will be here for the foreseeable future,”
Carney said at a briefing, referring to previous public comments
by the treasury secretary. “That’s what he tells us.”  Carney called Geithner, who has been in President Barack Obama’s administration since the start of the term in January
2009, a “key member” of the White House economic team.  Geithner, 49, previously signaled to White House officials
that he was considering leaving once the months-long debate over
raising the federal debt limit was settled. The Senate gave
final approval to the legislation on Aug. 2 and Obama signed it
into law that day.  In an interview with ABC News broadcast Aug. 2, Geithner
said he hadn’t decided on his next step.  “We’ve got a lot of challenges, president’s got a lot of
challenges, and you know, I got other pressures on me, too,” he
said on the network’s “Good Morning America” program. “But
I’ll make that decision at the right moment.”  Geithner has told associates he needs a break from
government service after dealing with the turmoil that followed
the collapse of Wall Street firms, including Bear Stearns Cos.
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., first as president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and then as Treasury secretary.  His son has decided to finish high school in  New York  and
the Treasury secretary said June 30 that he’s “going to be
commuting for a while.”  Turnover  An exit by Geithner would complete the turnover in Obama’s
original economic team and leave him with two key posts to fill
as the recovery slows. The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent
in June, and the economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the
second quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in the
first three months of the year, the government reported.  “There is, and always has been, in administrations a fair
amount of turnover” during the course of a president’s term,
Carney said today. “The president has a lot of confidence in
his economic team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtaleve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 