-- 
Spanish Yield Spread Over Bunds Shrinks as ECB Keeps Interest Rate on Hold

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-04T11:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/german-government-bonds-snap-nine-day-gain-before-interest-rate-decision.html
Spanish 10-year bonds climbed,
pushing yields down versus benchmark German bunds, on
speculation the region’s policy makers will take new steps to
stem the debt crisis after  Japan  moved to weaken the yen.  German bonds halted a nine-day advance as investors gauged
whether the  European Central Bank  will announce measures to
support markets after it held its benchmark rate at 1.5 percent
today. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  speaks at a news conference
at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Japan followed the  Swiss National
Bank ’s surprise rate cut yesterday with measures to curb gains
in the yen. Spain’s borrowing costs rose at a note auction.  The ECB “could be willing to act as a lender of last
resort to Italy and Spain,” said Christoph Rieger, head of
fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “This is
where people are placing their hopes.”  Spanish 10-year yields dropped nine basis points to 6.16
percent, at 12:46 p.m. in  London , reducing the difference in
yield, or spread, with similar-maturity German debt by nine
basis points to 376 basis points. The 5.5 percent security
maturing in April 2021 rose 0.635, or 6.35 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,425) face amount, to 95.225.  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds were little changed at
6.08 percent, leaving the gap with bunds at 369 basis points.  German Orders  Ten-year bund yields were little changed at 2.40 percent
after reaching 2.46 percent earlier. The yield slumped to 2.33
percent yesterday, the least since Oct. 15, after the longest
run of declines since August 2005. The yield on two-year German
government notes was unchanged at 1.05 percent after earlier
reaching 1.14 percent.  German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, increased 1.8 percent from May, when they rose a
revised 1.5 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said in a statement
today. Economists forecast a drop of 0.5 percent, according to
the median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Demand for big-ticket items drove factory orders in
 Europe ’s largest economy, whose strength has prompted the ECB to
raise rates this year to tame inflation.  The ECB held its main rate at 1.50 percent today, as
predicted by all 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Bunds slid
after last month’s meeting on July 7, when the central bank
increased borrowing costs for the second time this year.  Trichet will speak at a news conference this afternoon amid
increasing concern that measures to ring-fence the debt crisis
are failing. Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will meet
with executives, bankers and unions to discuss overhauling the
nation’s economy as the recent surge in bond yields stoked
concern the country might be the next victim.  Bond-Buying Speculation  Purchases of Italian bonds by the ECB would lead to a
“very significant rally for peripheral debt today,” according
to Ciaran O’Hagan, head of European interest-rate strategy at
Societe Generale SA in Paris.  “ If the ECB does not deliver it today, we are set to see
new highs on Italian bond yields,” he wrote in an e-mailed
note. Any buying would be “balanced by a very tough line on
inflation, raising fears of rate hikes,” he said.  Investors betting that the ECB will signal an intention to
buy  government bonds  to stem the spread of the crisis today will
probably be disappointed, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  “An ECB intervention might be forced later this year, but
we do not see this happening any time soon,” Biagio Lapolla and
 Harvinder Sian , rate strategists at RBS in London, wrote today
in an investor note. “Today’s meeting is unlikely to surprise
markets to the upside,” given the likelihood of “no imminent
intervention and further market deterioration,” they wrote.  Spanish Auction  Spain  sold 3.31 billion euros of three- and four-year notes
at an auction today, compared with its maximum target of 3.5
billion euros, the country’s central bank said.  The 4.813 percent average yield on the notes due in 2014
compares with a yield of 4.291 percent paid on securities
maturing in October 2014 at an auction on July 7. Spain drew
bids for 2.14 times the securities on offer, compared with a so-
called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.29 at the previous sale. The
January 2015 debt drew bids for 2.4 times the 1.1 billion euros
of debt that were sold at an average yield of 4.984 percent.  German bonds handed investors a 3.8 percent return this
year, compared with 5.2 percent for Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds have lost 4.5
percent, while  Portugal ’s have fallen 24 percent, the indexes
show. Spanish bonds lost 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  