-- 
German Two-Year Notes Surge as Trichet Says Liquidity Operations Extended

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-04T14:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/german-two-year-notes-surge-as-trichet-says-liquidity-operations-extended.html
German two-year notes surged after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB
will offer banks more cash as the debt crisis spreads.  German 10-year bunds fluctuated as Trichet also signaled
the ECB bought  government bonds  today, as asserted by three
people with knowledge of the transactions. The ECB will lend
euro-area banks as much money as they need for six months and
extend its existing liquidity measures through the end of the
year, Trichet said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today
after holding the benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5 percent.  “The ECB says there is a need for an additional six-month
tender and the markets are reading that as a sign that the ECB
is concerned,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “This is the reason why the front
end of the German yield curve is crashing. We are going to be
living in an environment with lots of liquidity.”  The two-year yield tumbled as many as 14 basis points to
0.904 percent and was 11 basis points lower at 0.934 percent as
of 3 p.m. in  London . The intraday decline was the steepest since
the 21-basis-point move on July 12. The 1.75 percent security
maturing in June 2013 rose 0.21, or 2.1 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,419) face amount, to 101.49.  The ECB bought Irish and Portuguese debt, the people said.
Trichet subsequently said that the ECB’s governing council
wasn’t unanimous in voting for a resumption of bond buying.  The 10-year bund yield reversed an initial surge after
Trichet announced the liquidity measures, sliding six basis
points to 2.35 percent, near yesterday’s 10-month low.  Not Unanimous  The rebound by bunds was due to Trichet’s comment on the
vote not being unanimous, according to  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh.  “Investors are uncertain of the extent of buying,
particularly given differences of opinion within the council,”
he said. “It is too early to expect a sustained fall in Italian
and Spanish yields.”  The central bank held its main rate today, as predicted by
all 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “I wouldn’t be surprised that before the end of this
teleconference you would see something on the market,” Trichet
said when asked about bond purchases.  The central bank’s press office in Frankfurt didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the Irish and
Portuguese purchases.  Irish, Portuguese Yields  The yield on the Irish 10-year bond fell 13 basis points to
10.50 percent, while the two-year note yield plunged 28 basis
points to 14.15 percent.  The Portuguese two-year yield slid 73 basis points to 14.57
percent.  Spanish 10-year yields fell three basis points to 6.23
percent, while yields on Italian debt of similar maturity stayed
higher at 6.14 percent.  Rates are still “accommodative” and inflation risks
“remain on the upside,” Trichet also said.  Trichet also indicated the ECB is reluctant to shelve
further rate increases, even as investors reduced bets on the
ECB adding to its two rate moves in 2011. Euribor futures rose,
pushing the implied yield on the contract expiring in June 2012
down 21 basis points to 1.37 percent.  German bonds handed investors a 3.8 percent return this
year, compared with 5.2 percent for Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds have lost 4.5
percent, while  Portugal ’s have fallen 24 percent, the indexes
show. Spanish bonds lost 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 