-- 
German Factory Orders Unexpectedly Increased in June on Investment Goods

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-04T10:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/german-factory-orders-unexpectedly-rise.html
Factory orders in Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, unexpectedly rose for a third month in June,
boosted by investment goods such as machines.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 1.8 percent from May, when they rose a revised 1.5
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement
today. Economists forecast a drop of 0.5 percent, according to
the median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the
year, orders rose 9.5 percent, when adjusted for work days.  German business confidence remains at a near-record high
and the Bundesbank, which predicts the economy will expand 3.1
percent in 2011, says the outlook remains “favorable.” At the
same time, manufacturing growth slowed from Europe to the U.S.
and  China  last month, adding to signs that the global recovery
is faltering amid debt crises on both sides of the Atlantic.  “Today’s new order numbers should put at least some oil on
troubled waters,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “At least the German industrial engine is
not yet running out of fuel.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.4234 at 12:45 p.m. in Frankfurt, down 0.6 percent on the day.  ‘Positive’ Prospects  The ministry said orders had been boosted by big-ticket
items over the past months. It revised May’s increase from a
previously reported 1.8 percent.  Factory orders from abroad rose 13.7 percent, driven by a
16.4 percent gain from within the euro region, today’s report
showed. Orders of investment goods advanced 5 percent from May,
when they increased 2 percent, with foreign demand jumping 20.8
percent. Demand for intermediate goods fell 2.1 percent and
orders of  consumer goods  dropped 2.4 percent from May.  “An above average amount of bulk orders for investment
goods from abroad clearly contributed to the increase,” the
ministry said in the statement. Still, “strong demand impulses
are coming from the domestic side and foreign demand is just as
lively due to bulk orders. The prospects for industrial
production are overall positive.”  German exporters have relied on faster-growing markets as
governments across the 17-member euro region cut spending to
plug budget gaps to fight a worsening fiscal crisis.  Porsche AG, the German sportscar maker, said on Aug. 1 that
first-half operating profit surged 59 percent, with sales
growing the fastest in China. German rival  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  the following day reported a 66 percent gain in second-
quarter profit, beating analyst estimates.  ‘Volatile’ Orders  “Three consecutive months of expansion in industrial
orders are rare due to volatile bulk orders and we expect a
setback” in the coming months, said  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London . “The
resilience of German manufacturing is remarkable.”  The economy is showing some signs of a slowdown. Investor
confidence dropped to the lowest in 2 1/2 years in July. Growth
of German plant and machinery orders weakened in June, the VDMA
machine makers’ association said on Aug. 1.  Siemens AG (SIE) , BASF AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , three of  Germany ’s
biggest companies, reported earnings last month that missed
analyst estimates.  Reviving domestic demand may pick up some slack left by a
weaker global economy, helped by increasing employment, the
Bundesbank said in its July bulletin. German unemployment
dropped for a 25th straight month in July.  “The outlook for the global economy has definitely
worsened,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. “The recovery in the German economy should
nevertheless continue, although at a more normal pace.”  The  European Central Bank  will keep its benchmark  interest
rate  on hold when policy makers meet today, after raising
borrowing costs by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent in July, a
Bloomberg survey shows. The Frankfurt-based central bank will
release its decision at 1:45 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  