-- 
Ghana Turns to Olam, Armajaro to Help Revitalize Its Cotton Industry

-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 
2011-08-04T14:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ghana-turns-to-olam-armajaro-to-help-revitalize-its-cotton-industry.html
Ghana  is planning to increase its
annual cotton harvest at least fourfold as it turns to private
companies including Armajaro Holdings Ltd. and Olam
International Ltd. to revive the industry.  Production of the fiber during the 2011 crop harvest, which
will start in October or November, is forecast at 21,000 metric
tons, said Abdul Rahman Mohammed, president of the Ghana Cotton
Farmers Association. A year earlier, Ghana produced 5,010 tons,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Ghana, the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, saw
cotton output slump after reaching a peak of 18,940 tons in the
2000-1 harvest, according to the USDA, as soil became depleted
and investments dwindled. On March 7, the day that Ghanaian Vice
President John Mahama  announced  the plan to revive the sector,
cotton futures reached a record of $2.197 a pound.  The price has since fallen as demand slowed and traded at
$1.0303 a pound by 3:10 p.m. on the ICE Futures exchange in
 London .  Trade Minister Hannah Tetteh put last season’s figure at a
“pathetic” 3,000 tons and said March 1 the country plans to
boost annual output to 50,000 tons within three years.  The local units of London-based Armajaro and  Singapore ’s
Olam, which already buy  cocoa beans  from Ghanaian farmers, will
harvest cotton this year along with agricultural company Wienco
Ghana Ltd., said Rahman Mohammed. They took over production from
the state-owned Ghana Cotton Co., which is no longer involved in
the harvesting of the fiber, he said by phone yesterday. It
still operates three cotton gins which have the capacity to
process of 55,000 tons, he said.  The government plans to establish a cotton authority to
develop policies for the industry, Seth Osei Akotto, an
agronomist at the ministry of food and agriculture, said
yesterday in Accra. Ghana grows its cotton in the three northern
regions that border  Burkina Faso , Africa’s biggest producer.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 