-- 
Givaudan Taking Margin-Ebbing Raw-Material Battle to Plantations

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-04T09:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/givaudan-taking-margin-ebbing-raw-material-battle-to-plantations.html
Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the maker of fragrances
for Gucci Guilty and Bombshell by Victoria’s Secret, is looking
to source more ingredients directly from farmers and will create
regional production hubs in  Asia  to help combat volatility in
raw-material costs.  The company, based in Vernier,  Switzerland , could expand in
markets adjacent to its main flavors and fragrances businesses
by acquiring cosmetic-ingredients assets or bundling together
supplies directly from crop growers, Chief Executive Officer
Gilles Andrier said in an interview today.  “We could cut out the middle man in terms of the whole
supply chain from the farms to us, without owning the
plantations and turning into farmers,” said Andrier.  While the perfume-maker’s proximity to consumers means
demand holds up better during times of recession, Givaudan has
less pricing power. Only one-half of the raw-material cost
burden will be mitigated this year. By contrast, cosmetics
ingredients maker  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  is passing on the full
cost as market supplies of its products are tighter.  Givaudan tumbled the most in almost 2 1/2 years in Zurich
trading after reporting first-half earnings that missed analyst
estimates. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization dropped 28 percent to 382 million francs, also
weighed down by the strength of the Swiss currency. Analsyts
estimated 445 million francs. Sales fell 8.8 percent to 2
billion francs.  Acquisitions  Givaudan’s main rivals are  International Flavors &
Fragrances Inc. (IFF) , Firmenich International SA and  Symrise AG (SY1) , and
combined the top four companies account for 70 percent of the
market. This only leaves scope for mid-sized acquisitions in
that area -- companies with sales of 200 million francs to 400
million francs -- or a move into adjacent markets, Andrier said.  The company plans more agreements with farmers and local
distributors similar to one it has in  Laos  for a gum called
Benzoin, where it has partnered with Agroforex, a local company
which arranges gum-collection from farmers.  Expansion in Asia and  Latin America  is part of Andrier’s
strategy to generate half of sales in faster-growing emerging
markets by 2015.  Price Talks  Givaudan entered into price negotiations with customers
during the first quarter and the company should see the benefit
in the second half, Andrier said. The company is “very
confident” about the increases pushed through so far, he added.  Andrier today reiterated a mid-term forecast to maintain
industry-leading operating profit margins. He’s targeting
expansion at double the pace of the 2 percent to 3 percent
growth expected for the wider market by taking customers from
smaller rivals.  The creation of regional production hubs will give Givaudan
a cost advantage. It’s already building a 170 million-franc
flavorings complex in  Hungary , scheduled for completion by year
end, to drive sales in eastern  Europe  and  Russia . That model
could be rolled out to other areas, the CEO said.  “We will have to invest in Asia Pacific given the
extremely strong growth that we’ve seen in the past year and
that we’re anticipating in the current year,” said Andrier.
“Clearly the Hungary model is one we will be using there. In
Europe, there’s always a possibility to do that in other areas
but no plans so far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  