-- 
Glimpsing a Democratic Venezuela After Chavez: Enrique Krauze

-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 
2011-08-04T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/glimpsing-a-democratic-venezuela-after-chavez-enrique-krauze.html
Every Latin American country has
fostered, to some degree, a “Cult of the Hero,” but only
 Venezuela  has raised its founding father,  Simon Bolivar , to the
extreme of deification.  Shortly after Bolivar’s death in 1830, veneration for him
among Venezuelans became a kind of historical sacrament. The
particular ingenuity of  Hugo Chavez  was to mythically identify
his revolutionary movement with the person of Bolivar, and to
make millions of his countrymen believe that he is the
reincarnation of the great liberator who freed Latin America
from the domination of  Spain . ( Fidel Castro  had done something
similar in Cuba, appropriating the memory of the hero Jose Marti.) Embodied in Chavez, Bolivar was supposed to have
returned to free Venezuela and Latin America from Yankee
imperialism, depicted as more merciless than its Spanish
predecessor.  But Chavez has functioned not just as a “hero” and a
caudillo (the term for an authoritarian military leader), but
also as a postmodern redeemer. For years, he has appeared every
Sunday on a six-hour “reality” show called “Hello,
President!” (“Alo Presidente!”). Chavez, who doesn’t lack
histrionic skills, carries on monologues, dances, sings, recites
poetry and prose, reads letters, states his love for his people,
and inveighs against the American empire and those Venezuelans
he considers allies of the U.S. -- the “piti-yanquis” or
little Yankees. He also offers instruction on 21st-century
socialism, salutes Castro, whom he calls his spiritual father,
and recounts events from his personal biography (which in his
opinion contains and expresses the best in Venezuelan history.)  Television Governing  Above all, though, he governs, right there on the small
screen, often accompanied by members of his Cabinet. He orders
expropriations, dispatches troops and makes diplomatic decisions
or public policy. A broad sector of Venezuelan society rejects
this spectacle. But more than half of the voting public
celebrates it with religious fervor.  When Chavez was imprisoned after the unsuccessful attempted
military coup in 2002, an old working-class woman participating
in a demonstration held up a handwritten sign that read, “Give
me back my crazy guy!” A large part of the Venezuelan poor has
continued to be grateful to Chavez for his genuine commitment to
help them, which includes the “missions” (established in 2003
and run primarily with Cuban personnel) that are designed to
bypass the structure of the state to rapidly provide  health
services , food and education.  Oil Revenue  Many of these programs have failed, but Chavez has managed
to obscure these shortcomings through the near monopoly of the
media, achieved when he nationalized the major public-television
channels. He has also succeeded in concealing the waste of about
$700 billion from the coffers of Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the
state-owned  oil company  that was once a model of modernization,
surpassing even  Brazil ’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)  And he has
hidden the corruption and fiscal opacity among the Chavista
elite.  The country is passing through an unprecedented crisis. It
has the highest inflation rate on the Latin American continent,
a public debt of more than $100 billion, and a scarcity of basic
food supplies, electricity, cement and other essentials due to
massive expropriations and the inefficiency and corruption of
the new public administrators. It also suffers from rampant
criminality, the worst on the Latin American continent, with a
higher per-capita  murder rate  -- though in a much smaller
population -- than even deeply troubled  Mexico .  What can be said is that Chavez has deferred the bankruptcy
of his country (and that of Cuba, his major ally) with the oil
wealth that he has used to fund massive imports and the
enrichment of the military and political caste loyal to him.  Cancer Treatment  His intention has been to remain in power until 2030, the
year of his 76th birthday and the 200th anniversary of Bolivar’s
death. Suddenly, to the astonishment of many, Chavez has been
diagnosed with and treated for cancer.  Perhaps the greatest astonishment is his own: He has always
presented himself as a figure beyond the contingencies of
history, sheltered by the paternal and seemingly eternal
presence of Castro. The Venezuelan leader must now confront his
mortality. And he isn’t just Everyman in the face of death. He
is a force of nature, an archetypal macho, a “stallion” (as
the British supermodel  Naomi Campbell  once dubbed him), the
redeemer of the Venezuelan people.  This is particularly troubling because, within the Chavista
universe, his destiny and that of his country are one and the
same. At critical moments in his life -- his failed coup in 1992
and the 2002 attempted military overthrow -- Chavez oscillated
between euphoria and depression, omnipotence and resignation.  Weakening Grip  In both of these situations, fate came down on his side
within a matter of hours or days. But the time scale of his
illness is necessarily long and with an uncertain outcome. It is
most probable (though we don’t know what kind of cancer he has)
that the treatment in Cuba will be lengthy and severe and that -
- aside from the question of success or failure -- Chavez will
gradually weaken. And his propagandistic strengths -- the
incendiary words and marathon days -- will be progressively
harder to maintain.  He won’t be able to continue to govern via  Twitter  and he
will see himself compelled to delegate power through
constitutional procedures. If this happens, no one will be able
to compensate for the dwindling of his public personality, not
even his elder brother, Adan, who formed him in his Marxist
beliefs but who has none of the charisma. It is very likely that
before the Venezuelan presidential election in December 2012,
the government will still be in place, but Chavismo will have
split into various tribes.  Succession of Power  Such division may lead to an eruption of violence (an
endemic malady of Venezuelan history); it could also open new
opportunities for a return to full democracy, now grievously
weakened by Chavez’s almost total control over the legislature,
finances, and electoral and judicial procedures of the
Venezuelan state.  The opposition united in the  Mesa de Unidad Democratica 
(Roundtable of Democratic Unity) party has thus far shown
commendable prudence and sensitivity. It has approved Chavez’s
trips to Cuba (for an operation and for chemotherapy) and
expressed its wishes for the complete recovery of the president.
Yet fresh candidates for the presidency have appeared, among
them Maria Corina Machado, a serious, attractive and highly
competent legislator whom Chavez calls “the little bourgeois.”  Brazilian Model  To win the election, the opposition factions must maintain
their cohesion and present a responsible program to control
financial waste, with the aim of creating an economy that
combines public and private ownership and continues Chavez’s
social commitment, but along the lines of the Brazilian model,
not the Cuba one.  The central message of the opposition must be the
reconciliation of the Venezuelan family. Nothing is more
depressing than the brutal division between Chavistas and
“traitors” that has been created by the regime. With or
without Chavez in power, Venezuela in December 2012 can become
part of an often-ignored miracle of the 21st century: the
conversion of  Latin America  to democracy.  (Enrique Krauze, author of “Mexico: A Biography of Power”
and of the soon-to-be-published “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in
Latin America,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own. This article was translated from the
Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 