-- 
General Motors Falls on Lower Outlook After Second-Quarter Profit Doubled

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-08-04T20:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/gm-second-quarter-net-income-doubles-on-u-s-sales.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , 33 percent owned
by the U.S., fell 4.3 percent after saying the company may be
less profitable in the second half following earnings that
topped analysts’ estimates for the second quarter.  GM declined $1.18 to $25.99 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the lowest since the company’s $33
initial public offering price in November.  While GM reported a larger-than-projected profit, investors
are wary that such results aren’t sustainable. Earnings were
helped by building more trucks, and pricing benefited from the
limited supply of vehicles by Japanese competitors, which plan
to return to full capacity in the second half.  “Their outlook going forward is for weaker earnings,
that’s why the stock is going down,” said Darren Fabric, a
Chicago-based managing director at IPOX Capital Management LLC,
which sold the shares it acquired in the initial public offering
earlier this year. “Economic numbers are weak, and car sales
are going to be levered to that.”  Profit climbed to $2.52 billion, or $1.54 a share, from
$1.33 billion, or 85 cents, a year earlier, Detroit-based GM
said today in a statement, topping the $1.20 a share average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 19
percent to $39.4 billion, exceeding the $36.4 billion average of
eight analysts’ estimates. Net income was $2.99 billion.  ‘Solid Quarter’  “It’s a solid quarter,” Chief Finance Officer Dan Ammann
said in an interview. “We had good revenue growth and good
earnings growth. We were profitable in every region of the
world. That’s an important first for us.”  Ammann said on a conference call with reporters that GM’s
share price seems to be moving along with the stock market. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 512.76 points, or 4.3 percent,
to 11,383.68.  “Our job is to run the business and put up results,”
Ammann said. “It’s obviously a very tough market overall.”  GM said adjusted earnings before interest and taxes in the
second half may be lower than the first six months. Full-year
Ebit will “show solid improvement” from 2010, GM said.  GM’s profit rose as its U.S. sales increased 11 percent.
The Chevrolet Cruze was the top-selling car in the market in
June and the Chevy Silverado full-size pickup remained the
second-most popular vehicle, behind only  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s F-
Series line.  GM’s U.S. sales climbed to 669,065 light vehicles in the
second quarter, according to Autodata Corp., a researcher based
in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . GM gained market share after
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. lost production because
of the March earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  Truck Inventory  GM boosted profits by adding to truck inventories in the
quarter. GM has 115 days’ supply of pickups -- one of the
company’s most profitable vehicles -- compared with 67 days
worth of pickups held by rival Ford. Automakers record revenue
when vehicles are shipped to dealers.  Ammann said that building up truck inventory added about
$350 million to GM’s bottom line. If inventories grow, GM may
cut production, Ammann said.  “We’re going to watch the supply-and-demand equation very
closely,” he said on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack”
with Erik Schatzker. “The main lever that we will use should
demand weaken is that we’ll modulate production. We don’t intend
to lead with incentives.”  GM said it has normal capacity in its three full-size
pickup plants of about 780,000 units. Those plants will be able
to make about 640,000 units next year, when the automaker has
said it will idle factories to convert them for output of its
next-generation trucks.  North America  Progress  The nation’s largest automaker earned $2.25 billion in
North America before interest and taxes, up 41 percent from a
year ago. Analysts were watching GM’s North American profits
because rising costs in the first quarter undercut the
automaker’s progress in its home market.  In  Europe , GM earned $102 million before taxes and
interest. The company’s international operations unit, which
includes  China , made $573 million, and the company made $57
million in  South America .  Higher prices added $1 billion in earnings before interest
and taxes, with half of that coming in North America, Amman
said.  Car Pricing  GM kept costs in control and got much better pricing, which
is why the automaker beat earnings expectations by so much, said
 Peter Nesvold , a New York-based analyst with Jefferies & Co. For
the quarter, GM’s revenue rose 18 percent and operating income
rose 29 percent. In the first quarter, rising costs eroded the
profit from boosting sales.  “We were anticipating that pricing would be better,”
Nesvold said in a telephone interview. “It was even better than
we imagined.”  GM said the Cruze is selling for $4,200 more on average
than the Chevrolet Cobalt car that it replaced. Buyers are
paying $7,000 more for the refreshed Buick LaCrosse sedan and
$3,800 more for the Chevrolet Equinox sport-utility vehicle,
compared with 2009 average prices.  Ammann said on the conference call with reporters that GM
has raised vehicle prices three times this year for a total
increase of about $500 a vehicle, or 1.9 percent.  Reaction to GM’s earnings will depend on whether investors
think the pricing gains will continue, Nesvold said. If they
believe that the improvements are because of the temporary
inventory shortage among Japanese automakers then the market
won’t reward GM for its strong earnings.  “That will be the big debate,” Nesvold said. “Are these
pricing gains sustainable in the second half of the year?”  Treasury Stake  The U.S. Treasury Department, which holds the government
stake, planned to evaluate the earnings and the market’s
reaction before deciding whether to sell more of its investment,
a person familiar with the matter said last month. The
department wants to sell its stake for at least the IPO price of
$33 a share and would prefer to sell in the high-$30 range, a
person familiar with the matter has said.  The U.S. took a 61 percent ownership of GM as part of the
automaker’s government-led bailout and bankruptcy reorganization
in 2009. The Treasury sold shares equal to a 28 percent stake in
the IPO.  Some investors are wary of getting back in until auto sales
improve and Treasury sells some stock, said  Itay Michaeli , an
analyst with Citi Capital Markets. U.S. deliveries ran at a
seasonally adjust annual rate of more than 12 million for seven
months before slowing in May and June.  Automotive Cash  GM’s automotive operations had $33.8 billion in cash as of
June 30, from $30.6 billion at the end of the first quarter. The
automaker has reduced debt to $4.7 billion from $8.2 billion a
year earlier.  General Motors Financial Co., GM’s finance unit, helped
double the automaker’s share of U.S. sales to lease customers to
13 percent in the second quarter, from 6.5 percent a year
earlier, according to slides posted on GM’s website. Deliveries
to subprime buyers were 6.8 percent of U.S. sales in the
quarter, up from 4.9 percent.  Ford fell 79 cents, or 6.8 percent, to $10.86, at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares closed at
their lowest since July 9, 2010. Last week, Ford posted second
quarter net income of $2.4 billion, down from $2.6 billion a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  