-- 
Goldman Sachs Cuts U.S. Gas-Inventory Estimate After Heatwave

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-08-04T06:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/goldman-sachs-says-natural-gas-prices-to-remain-under-pressure-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reduced its
estimate for U.S. end-summer natural gas inventories by 1
percent after a heatwave, while forecasting prices will remain
“under pressure” as temperatures ease.  A surge in demand amid the hottest July in U.S. history
contributed to the bank revising its forecast for inventories at
the end of the Northern Hemisphere summer to 3,770 billion cubic
feet, down from an earlier outlook of 3,807, Johan Spetz and
Samantha Dart, London-based analysts at the bank, wrote in an
Aug. 3 report.  Incremental gas demand for power generation more than
doubled in July to 105 billion cubic feet from 43 billion in
June, according to the bank’s estimates. Temperatures surpassed
100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) in cities from  New York  to
Houston in June and July, diverting more gas to plants to
generate electricity for air conditioners.  Natural gas futures have dropped since the middle of July
after temperatures subsided and hydroelectricity generation
increased, reducing the need for the fuel, the report said.
Goldman said it sees a “structural oversupply” in the U.S. as
a result of shale production.  “We expect the underlying balance to remain soft in coming
months, although less so as the transient effect of strong
hydro-generation subsides,” the analysts wrote, saying they
maintained a “moderately bearish” outlook for prices.  The bank forecasts gas will average $4 per million British
thermal units for the third quarter and $4.25 per million Btu in
the October-to-December period.  Natural gas futures for delivery in September traded at
$4.09 per million Btu today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The price has dropped 10 percent since July 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  