-- 
Gold Rises to Record on Haven Demand Amid Equity Slump, Currency Turmoil

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-04T14:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/gold-rises-to-record-on-haven-demand-amid-equity-slump-currency-turmoil.html
Gold futures rose to a record
$1,684.70 an ounce as turmoil in financial markets boosted
demand for the precious metal as an investment haven.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities has dropped 12 percent
from this year’s May peak. The yen tumbled the most since 2008
versus the dollar as Japan intervened to drive down its
currency. The euro fell against the greenback as the  European
Central Bank  offered banks additional cash amid the debt crisis.
Treasury two-year note yields approached a record low.  “The geopolitical backdrop is inherently bullish for
gold,”  Matthew Zeman , a strategist at Kingsview Financial in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “As risk appetite
wanes, people have been piling into gold and Treasuries. Yields
are so low that the only alternative is gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose $12.70, or 0.8
percent, to $1,679 at 10:29 a.m. on the Comex in  New York  after
earlier climbing as much as 1.1 percent. The price reached an
all-time high for the third straight day.  Yesterday, holdings in exchange-traded products climbed 4.5
metric tons to a record 2,178.5 tons, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The amount rose for the eighth straight session.  Yesterday, the Swiss National Bank cut  interest rates  and
purchased francs to drive down the currency after a rally to a
record against the euro.  ‘Currency Wars Escalating’  “With currency wars escalating, people want to buy gold so
they don’t have to worry about surprise interventions taking
away their purchasing power,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior
strategist at MF Global Holding Ltd. in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview.  Before today, gold gained 17 percent this year. as nations
crippled with debt and sluggish economies are forced to keep
borrowing rates low.  The  Federal Reserve  has completed two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing and kept its benchmark interest rate at zero
percent to 0.25 percent to bolster the economy.  Legislation passed Aug. 2 to increase the nation’s debt
ceiling will “hasten the demise of the dollar as the world’s
reserve currency and the desire of investors to own gold”
 Michael Pento , an economist at Euro Pacific Capital, said in a
report.  “The only answer central bankers have to solve an
inflation problem is to print more money,” Pento said. He
predicted in January that gold would top $1,600 this year.  Silver futures for September delivery rose 20.7 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $41.1965 an ounce on the Comex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  