-- 
Goldman Said to Make Amends to Buyers After $1.5 Billion CMBS Deal Pulled

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-04T17:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/goldman-sachs-is-said-to-make-amends-to-buyers-after-cmbs-deal-is-pulled.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , seeking to
placate buyers and guard its reputation, is compensating
investors for losses they incurred after a $1.5 billion
commercial-mortgage bond deal was pulled last week.  The bank is paying clients that purchased the securities
and entered into contracts that protect against changes in
 interest rates  and prices for the debt, according to two people
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. The investors will be paid for
contracts that lost money between when the deal was placed and
its withdrawal five days later.  Goldman Sachs and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were forced to scuttle the
deal on July 28 after Standard & Poor’s withdrew its grades
because the rating company spotted an error in its process. The
banks already had to boost yields and restructure the
transaction, tied to loans on everything from shopping centers
to student housing, as investors pushed back on deal terms.  “The bankers have enterprise value to protect,” said
 Richard Jones , a partner in the real estate group at law firm
Dechert LLP. “Once something goes this fundamentally wrong, it
doesn’t matter who is responsible.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and Mark Costiglio of Citigroup, declined to comment.  Losses were likely “relatively small” because markets
weren’t volatile between the time the deal priced and when S&P
pulled its ratings, said Richard Parkus, a commercial-mortgage
debt analyst at Morgan Stanley.  “The issuers did the right thing by absorbing investors’
hedging losses,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  