-- 
Gold May Gain on Currency Alternative, Debt Woes, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/gold-may-gain-on-currency-alternative-debt-woes-survey-shows.html
Gold may extend gains from a record
as investors seek a protection of wealth and an alternative to
currencies, a survey found.  Thirteen of 25 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 52 percent, said bullion will rise next week.
Eight predicted lower prices and four were neutral. Gold for
December delivery was up 3 percent for this week at $1,679.50 an
ounce by 11:15 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York  after
earlier that day reaching an all-time high of $1,684.90.  Bullion reached records in euros and pounds this week as
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings warned that U.S.
downgrades were possible and as bond yields for Spain and  Italy 
climbed to euro-era records.  Japan  followed  Switzerland  in
seeking to weaken its currency, while the MSCI All-Country World
Index of stocks yesterday fell more than 10 percent from its
high in May, entering its first so-called correction in more
than a year.  “Gold is still proving its character as a store of value
in the current market environment, marked by equity markets
tumbling sharply in part and continued high risk aversion,”
Commerzbank AG analysts said in a report. If the franc and yen
lose their safe-haven appeals, “only gold would remain and the
interest in gold should increase further.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of July 29.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 216 of 374 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 13 Bearish: 8 Neutral: 4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  