-- 
Google Says Microsoft’s Offer to Join Novell Bid Was a Ploy

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-04T21:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/google-says-microsoft-offer-to-join-novell-patent-bid-was-ploy.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  countered remarks from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  about efforts to purchase assets from  Novell
Inc. (NOVL) , escalating a verbal feud over technology patents.  When Microsoft asked Google to take part in a bid for
Novell’s patents, it wanted to block the Internet-search giant
from gaining protection against the other bidding partners,
Google Chief Legal Officer David Drummond said today.  “Making sure that we would be unable to assert these
patents to defend Android -- and having us pay for the privilege
-- must have seemed like an ingenious strategy to them,”
Drummond said this afternoon on Google’s blog,  updating a
posting  he wrote yesterday. “We didn’t fall for it.”  Drummond drew flak from Microsoft yesterday, when he said
the rival company formed a coalition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Oracle
Corp. to keep the Novell patents away from Google. The remark
was part of a broad rebuke of Google’s competitors that accused
them of a “hostile, organized campaign” against Android, which
has emerged as the top operating system for smartphones.  Google’s rivals are joining forces to purchase patents to
keep them out of the  Mountain View , California-based company’s
hands and taking other steps to make it more expensive for
handset makers to use Android, he said yesterday. Drummond cited
Microsoft and Apple working together to acquire Novell’s patent
portfolio as an example of the campaign against Google.  Microsoft’s Response  Microsoft General Counsel  Brad Smith  responded yesterday by
saying Google had been asked to participate in the Novell bid.
Microsoft also released an e-mail from Google turning down the
offer.  That prompted today’s update from Drummond.  “Microsoft’s objective has been to keep from Google and
Android device-makers any patents that might be used to defend
against their attacks,” Drummond said. “A joint acquisition of
the Novell patents that gave all parties a license would have
eliminated any protection these patents could offer to Android
against attacks from Microsoft and its bidding partners.”  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, reiterated today that the company asked Google to
join the Novell partnership.  “We offered Google the opportunity to bid with us to buy
the Novell patents; they said no,” Shaw said in a series of
messages on Twitter. “Why? Because they wanted to buy something
that they could use to assert against someone else. So
partnering with others and reducing patent liability across
industry is not something they wanted to help do.”  Nortel Bid  Google, Apple and Microsoft have been ramping up spending
on patent portfolios to gain exclusive rights to a broadening
array of technology, much of it used in the fast-growing area of
smartphones. A group that includes Apple and Microsoft beat out
Google in June with a $4.5 billion bid for patents previously
owned by Nortel Networks Corp.  Oracle sued Google last year, accusing it of patent and
copyright infringement over the use of Java technology used in
Android.  Google fell $23.65 to $577.52 today on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares have declined 2.8 percent this year.
Microsoft, down 7.1 percent in 2011, dropped 98 cents to $25.94.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  