-- 
Liberty Holdings Profit Rises 19% as Insurer Retains Clients, Sales Rise

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-08-04T07:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/liberty-holdings-profit-rises-19-as-insurer-retains-clients-sales-rise.html
Liberty Holdings Ltd. (LBH) , the insurer
controlled by Standard Bank Group Ltd., said first-half profit
increased 19 percent as it boosted efforts to retain customers.  Net income rose to 1.15 billion rand ($170 million) in the
six months through June from 968 million rand a year earlier,
Johannesburg-based Liberty said in a statement today. Adjusted
earnings of 4.23 rand a share compare with the 4.24-rand median
estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The improvement in policyholder retention has been
sustained and remains ahead of targets,” the insurer said.  Liberty, which competes against Old Mutual Plc,  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM) 
and Discovery Holdings Ltd., is trying to improve service to
existing clients while cutting the cost of winning new business.
The insurer is rated as a “sell” by three out of nine
analysts, according to Bloomberg data, while SBG Securities
Ltd.’s Risto Ketola and Asheen Rabilal of Avior Research Ltd.
have recommended buying the stock.  Liberty will pay shareholders 1.82 rand a share, compared
with a year-ago payment of 1.64 rand, to reduce its capital in
lieu of a first-half dividend. The insurer changed its first-
half dividend policy to target 40 percent of the previous year’s
final dividend and a dividend cover of between 2 and 2.5 times
of underlying core operating earnings, it said.  The stock gained 1.7 percent to 74.50 rand as of 9:16 a.m.
in Johannesburg. Liberty is the second-best performing stock on
the five-member FTSE/JSE Africa Life Assurance Index after
London-based Old Mutual, having returned 2.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  