-- 
Libyan Government Tanker Enters Rebel Port of Benghazi Amid Seizure Report

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-04T15:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/libyan-government-tanker-enters-rebel-port-of-benghazi-amid-seizure-report.html
The Cartagena, an oil-products tanker
owned by  Libya ’s government, entered the rebel-held port of
Benghazi amid a report the vessel was seized by opponents of
leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  NATO forces hailed the tanker, found it wasn’t breaking an
arms embargo and it then entered the eastern port, a spokesman
for the alliance said from Naples, declining to be identified by
name in accordance with policy.  The ship was boarded by Libyan nationals on Aug. 2 with the
help of a European government, Petroleum Economist reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
operation. The 183-meter (600-foot) Cartagena last signaled its
position about 16 miles off Malta late on Aug. 2, according to
ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s quite a coup for the rebels,” said  Samuel Ciszuk , a
senior Middle East and North Africa energy analyst at research
company IHS Energy in London. “It shows rebels being regarded
as rightful representatives of Libya, as reports suggest they
appear to be doing it with the understanding of NATO.”  GNMTC, a shipping line owned by the Libyan government, said
in March one of its tankers was hijacked by an armed group
probably linked to rebels. The uprising against Qaddafi began in
February and the U.S. and allies meeting to discuss the
situation last month recognized the rebel Transitional National
Council as the nation’s sole legitimate governing authority.  Algerian Coast  Before Malta, the Cartagena was off the Algerian coast and
had been signaling the northeastern city of Annaba as its
destination, the ship-tracking data show. It last signaled that
it was 10.8 meters deep in the water, compared with a maximum
draft of 12.2 meters, the data show.  The Cartagena typically carries so-called clean cargoes,
which includes products such as diesel, gasoline and jet fuel,
according to charter fixtures compiled by Bloomberg.  The Libyan government has struggled to maintain fuel
supplies since the fighting began. The country, once  Africa ’s
third-largest crude producer, normally got four shipments of
diesel and eight gasoline cargoes a month, according to
shipbrokers surveyed by Bloomberg in June. One cargo comprises
about 34 million liters (9 million gallons), enough to fill
about 650,000 cars or fill all Libyan tanks 18 times over.  Libya’s refineries produced 5.2 million metric tons of
diesel and gasoline in 2008, according to the  International
Energy Agency , a Paris-based adviser to industrialized nations.
The plants will probably process no more than 90,000 barrels of
oil a day this summer, compared with 370,000 barrels normally,
the IEA said in a report in May.  Libyan crude production fell to 100,000 barrels a day last
month, compared with an average of 1.55 million in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  