-- 
IMF’s Lagarde Faces Probe Into Dispute

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-04T15:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/imf-s-lagarde-faces-probe-into-dispute.html
Christine Lagarde , the head of the
 International Monetary Fund , faces an investigation into claims
she mishandled a dispute involving a supporter of President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  when she served as French finance minister.  The Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, backed a prosecutor’s
recommendation to investigate Lagarde’s decision to seek
arbitration to end the 15-year-old dispute and her refusal to
appeal the arbitration decision, Gerard Palisse, a member of the
court, said today.  Palisse, in brief comments on the steps of the court
building, wouldn’t specify the reasons for the ruling. The
prosecutor of the Cour de Cassation,  France ’s top appeals court,
said in a statement the probe would focus on allegations Lagarde
was complicit in falsifying documents and misuse of state
assets.  Yves Repiquet, Lagarde’s lawyer, said in a statement she
will be cleared and that “this procedure is in no way
incompatible with her functions” as the IMF’s managing
director.  The decision comes after Lagarde, 55, took over in June as
the IMF’s first female head, replacing  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .
Her predecessor, also a former French finance minister, resigned
in May to fight charges including sexual assault and attempted
rape.  ‘Confident’  The IMF board is “confident” Lagarde “will be able to
effectively carry out her duties as managing director.” In an
e-mailed statement, the board said it had discussed the issue
before selecting her in June and said it would be inappropriate
to comment further on the pending legal case.  “This investigation has an evident advantage: it will
permanently lift the abusive suspicions raised about Mrs.
Lagarde by a small group of opposition deputies with political
aims,” her lawyer said.  Lagarde was France’s longest-serving finance minister since
the 1970s. Questions about her handling of the dispute with
 Bernard Tapie , a French investor and former Socialist minister
who endorsed Sarkozy’s presidential effort, lasted throughout
her time in office.  Tapie claimed a formerly state-owned bank mishandled the
1993 sale of sporting-goods company  Adidas AG (ADS) , which he owned,
and pursued a claim against the bank’s liquidator.  The arbitration court in 2008 awarded Tapie 45 million
euros ($64 million) in damages on top of 240 million euros for
his creditors and about 100 million euros in interest, said his
attorney, Maurice Lantourne. Lagarde refused to appeal that
decision, saying “a very large majority” of the money would
return to the state through the creditors’ claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Rhinds at 
 srhinds@bloomberg.net  