-- 
India Food Inflation Accelerates to 8.04%

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-08-04T10:12:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/india-food-inflation-quickens-to-three-week-high-of-8-04-on-onion-costs.html
India ’s food inflation accelerated to
a three-week high of 8.04 percent, a level Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said was not acceptable as the opposition
attacked the government for failing to curb costs.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including rice and lentils jumped from 7.33 percent in
the previous week ended July 16, according to the commerce
ministry. Mukherjee said in parliament in New Delhi today that
India aims to tame food inflation to 5 percent.  Higher food costs is one of the inflation drivers, Reserve
Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said this week, pointing
to the need to raise  interest rates . India’s 10-year bond yields
have climbed the most among Asian economies in 2011, partly on
investor concerns about rising prices.  “Price pressures are building up,” said Sujan Hajra,
chief economist at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in
Mumbai. “We expect more monetary tightening.” He said the
 Reserve Bank  may increase its repurchase rate by as much as half
a percentage point to 8.5 percent by December.  Ten-year bond yields in India have surged 50 basis points
since Dec. 31, Bloomberg data show. Yields on similar maturity
Chinese debt rose 5 basis points and  Japan ’s fell 10 basis
points.  The yield on the 7.8 percent India government bond due
April 2021 declined one basis point to 8.41 percent at 3 p.m. in
Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive index dropped 1.4
percent.  Repurchase Rate  Subbarao raised the central bank’s repurchase rate on July
26 for the 11th time since the start of 2010.  He also increased the Reserve Bank’s inflation forecast by
1 percentage point to 7 percent by March 31. India’s benchmark
wholesale-price index climbed 9.44 percent in June from a year
earlier and has remained above 9 percent for seven straight
months, undermining spending power in a nation where the  World
Bank  estimates more than three-quarters of the people live on
less than $2 a day.  India’s parliament has been debating rising prices for the
past two days and the opposition used the opportunity to step up
its offensive against Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition.  Mukherjee defended the government, saying policy efforts
have helped reduce food inflation from as high as 22 percent
last year.  Onion costs surged 26 percent in the week ended July 23,
today’s report showed, while milk gained 10.3 percent.  The possibility of deficient rains, higher prices offered
by the government to procure farm products and inadequate egg
and meat supplies could stoke inflation, the Reserve Bank said
last week.  Monsoon rainfall, the main source of water for India’s 235
million farmers, was 6 percent below a 50-year average between
June 1 and Aug. 2, the weather office said yesterday.  The government in June raised the prices it pays farmers
for rice and oilseeds to records to help spur planting. The
federal government sets the crop prices to assure farmers’
incomes, while selling subsidized grains and cooking oils to the
poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  