-- 
Mine Nationalization Would Kill Investment in South Africa, Chamber Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-08-04T10:41:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/mine-nationalization-would-kill-investment-in-south-africa-chamber-says.html
Demands for the nationalization of
South African mines are deterring investment and would make the
country “off limits” to investors if it was put into effect,
said Roger Baxter, chief economist with the  Chamber of Mines .  Handing mines to the government would cause capital flight
and bring down the credit rating of  Africa ’s biggest economy,
Baxter said during a debate hosted by the South African Chamber
of Commerce and Industry in Johannesburg today.  South Africa  is
the world’s biggest platinum and chrome producer.  The ruling  African National Congress ’s Youth League says
that nationalizing mines and banks would help redistribute
wealth in a country where inequality is little changed since the
end of white-minority rule 17 years ago. ANC Treasurer-General
Mathews Phosa and Minister of Public Enterprises Malusi Gigaba
have in the past week come out against nationalization.  The seizure of mines “will actually set South Africa back
hugely in terms of solving the problem” of poverty, Baxter
said. “In my view, it will kill the patient.”  An ANC-mandated research group is studying the options for
state involvement in the economy and is expected to report to
the party before the end of the year.  The Chamber of Mines is taking the debate “seriously”,
Baxter said. “It’s an important national debate which we need
to get out of the way. We are also having a certain degree of
introspection.”  Mining Assets  Mining companies in South Africa such as  Anglo American Plc (AGL) 
and Exarro Resources Plc provide coal for European and Indian
power plants. Mining assets listed on the Johannesburg stock
exchange are worth 1.9 trillion rand ($278 billion), Baxter
said.  South Africa’s unemployment rate rose to 25.7 percent in
the second quarter from 25 percent in the previous three months,
setting back government’s promise to create 5 million jobs by
2020. Gross domestic product grew 4.8 percent in the first
quarter, its biggest gain in a year.  With favorable macro-economic conditions in place, a
“youth unemployment and poverty crisis” can be righted by
opening bottlenecks in electricity supply and freight transport,
which have been restricted output, Baxter said.  “We can solve a lot of the constraints,” Baxter said.
“We can increase our manganese and iron-ore output. We can
bring more electricity into the system. If we tackle the micro
constraints, the economy’s growth potential is closer to 5 than
it is to 3.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 