-- 
ING Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates, Writes Down Greek Government Debt

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-08-04T15:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ing-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-takes-442-million-greece-writedown.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, said second-quarter profit climbed
24 percent as income from insurance countered a writedown of
Greek government debt.  Net income rose to 1.51 billion euros ($2.15 billion),
beating the average 1.21 billion-euro estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Greek sovereign debt was written down by
310 million euros, or about 36 percent of the holdings maturing
before 2020, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Flynn told
reporters in Amsterdam.  ING’s insurance unit, which it plans to sell before the end
of 2013 as a condition for gaining European Union approval for
state bailout, posted an 83 percent jump in operating profit.
The firm plans an initial public offering for its U.S. business
and another for the European and Asian parts of the unit.  “ING’s insurance division continues to perform strongly,”
Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities said
in a note. “This is a crucial factor for the company as this
business unit is refurbished and prepared for divestment.”  ING fell 3 percent to 6.62 euros as of 4:48 p.m. in
Amsterdam trading, after earlier gaining as much 6.1 percent.
That compared with a 2.1 percent drop in the 33-company Stoxx
Insurance 600 Index.  Genuine Improvement  The insurance division’s operating profit climbed to 690
million euros with the figures restated after Amsterdam-based
ING last week agreed to sell most of its Latin American
insurance operations to  Colombia ’s Grupo de Inversiones
Suramericana.  The improvement in the unit’s results is “genuine,” Chief
Executive Officer Jan Hommen told reporters on a conference call
today, adding they are “clear evidence” of the progress the
firm is making “as we prepare the U.S. and European-Asian
businesses or two separate IPOs.”  The firm will stick to its “base case” for two IPOs,
Hommen said, even as the company receives approaches for parts
of its business and market conditions remain unfavorable.  “This is not a good time to do an IPO,” Hommen said,
“All we can do is what we can control, which is putting
ourselves in a position to be ready when an opportunity presents
itself.”  ING may split its European business into several units and
“divest the healthy divisions via trade sales while the
remainder is pooled with its Asian insurance unit and prepared
for an IPO,” Salah of SNS Securities said.  Greek Writedown  ING followed the biggest lenders in France and  Germany , BNP
Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG, in writing down holdings of
Greek sovereign debt after signing the  Institute of
International Finance ’s rescue proposal last month. The plan
requires investors to take a 21 percent loss on holdings that
mature by 2020.  ING held 1.2 billion euros in Greek bonds at the end of
June, of which about 850 million euros were scheduled to mature
before 2020, Chief Risk Officer Koos Timmermans said today.
That amount was impaired to market value, leading to pretax
writedowns of 123 million euros and 187 million euros for the
insurance unit and bank respectively.  Underlying pretax profit at ING’s banking operations fell
19 percent to 1.3 billion euros. The firm set aside 370 million
euros for doubtful loans compared with 465 million euros a year
earlier and 332 million euros in the first quarter.  Bailout Conditions  ING received 10 billion euros of state aid in 2008 and
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government. The company, which paid back 7
billion euros to date, plans to repay the remainder of the aid
by May 2012, it reiterated today.  ING, which sold U.S. online bank to Capital One Financial
Corp. for $9 billion earlier this year, said plans to sell Dutch
retail lender WestlandUtrecht Bank to comply with another EU
condition for approving the bailout may be unviable.  Sale of the mortgage bank is “probably not going to work”
as new Basel III rules are deterring buyers, Hommen said, adding
that ING may go back to the EU to discuss alternatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  