-- 
Lira Tumbles as Market ‘Baffled’ by Turkey’s Shock Rate Cut; Stocks Slide

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-04T15:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/lira-tumbles-as-market-baffled-by-turkey-s-shock-rate-cut-stocks-slide.html
Turkey’s lira tumbled toward the
weakest close against the dollar in more than two years after
the central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark  interest rate  by
a half point to a record. Stocks fell the most in five months.  The lira lost as much as 2.7 percent and was down 2.4
percent at 1.7357 as of 5:37 p.m. in Istanbul. A close at that
level would be the lowest since March 2009. The  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  of shares retreated for a fifth day, losing 3.2 percent
lower to 59,325.99.  Policy makers reduced the one-week repo rate to 5.75
percent to help shield the economy from the effect of  Europe ’s
debt crisis and slowing growth in the U.S. The lira has dropped
11 percent this year, the worst performer among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, on concern the fastest growing
G-20 economy is overheating as low borrowing costs spur rising
inflation and a record current-account deficit.  “This is a complete shock to us and unbelievable,” said
Antero Atilla, an emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “They are playing with fire here and we are
certainly baffled by the cut to the policy rate.”  Emerging-market stocks fell for a third day, driving the
benchmark index down 10 percent from this year’s high, the
threshold for a correction, as concern deepened that the global
economic recovery is stalling.  While cutting the one-week rate,  Turkey ’s central bank
raised its overnight rate to 5 percent from 1.5 percent. It also
plans to sell foreign currencies to banks through auctions to
support exchange-rate liquidity, the bank said in a statement
following an emergency meeting today.  ‘Supportive Steps’  Today’s steps will “eventually be supportive of the
lira,” according to Morgan Stanley.  “Some currency weakness is not an issue for the central
bank and by raising the overnight rate they will be lowering the
volatility in money market rates and especially in foreign
exchange,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the region at
Morgan Stanley in  London , said in e-mailed comments.  The central bank has $93 billion reserves as of July 29,
according to data on the bank’s website.  Central bank chief Erdem Basci, who had encouraged a weaker
lira to reduce the current account deficit, has acted twice in
the last two weeks to strengthen the lira. The bank halted
dollar-purchase auctions and returned $590 million to banks by
cutting  reserve requirements . Basci said on July 28 that he has
tools to prevent further lira weakness.  The reduction in the repo rate to the lowest since Turkey
began inflation targeting in 2002 is designed to “reduce the
risk that growing problems in the global economy will bring
stagnation in domestic economic activity,” the bank said in its
statement.  ‘Out-of-the-Box’  “The danger with this totally out-of-the-box move is that
investors will seriously begin to question the credibility” of
the central bank, Timothy Ash, the London-based head emerging-
market strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in an
e-mailed report today. “Foreign investors’ prime concern at
present on Turkey is fears of overheating.”  Turkey’s economy grew an annual 11 percent in the first
quarter of the year, the fastest rate among the Group of 20
major economies. Inflation in July accelerated to 6.3 percent
from 6.2 percent, the statistics agency announced yesterday.  The central bank has raised reserve requirements for
lenders to help curb loans and rein in the current-account
deficit, which has doubled from a year earlier to $68.2 billion
in the 12 months through May. The  International Monetary Fund 
projects the deficit will reach 10.5 percent of gross domestic
product by year-end.  “The benchmark cut was a surprise,” said  Elisabeth Andreew , chief foreign-currency strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen. “It is strange that they do that to stimulate the
economy while we haven’t really seen any signs that it has
cooled down yet.”  The yield on two-year  government bonds  fell 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 8.47 percent, a Royal Bank
of Scotland index showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  