-- 
Italian Economic Growth Accelerated in Second Quarter Before Bond Crisis

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-05T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/italian-growth-probably-accelerated-in-second-quarter-on-exports.html
Italy ’s economic growth gained pace
in the second quarter, with the recovery of Europe’s fourth-
largest economy now threatened by the sovereign-debt crisis.  Italian gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the
first quarter, when it increased 0.1 percent, Rome-based
national statistics institute Istat said in a report today. That
matched the median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. GDP advanced 0.8 percent from a year earlier. Industrial
output unexpectedly fell 0.6 percent in June from May, when it
declined the same amount, Istat said in a separate report.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is struggling to convince
investors that Italy won’t become the next victim of  Europe ’s
sovereign crisis as Italian bond yields surge. The nation has
the region’s second-biggest debt burden after  Greece . Parliament
last month passed a 48 billion-euro ($68 billion) austerity
package to shield the country from the turmoil and balance the
budget by 2014.  The premium that investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over German equivalents reached a euro-area record 416
basis points today before declining to 399 basis points at 10:35
a.m. in Rome. Spanish 10-year bond yields fell nine basis points
to 6.20 percent as of 9:13 a.m. in  London .  Spain’s economic growth slowed in the second quarter,
adding to the government’s difficulties as it struggles with
soaring borrowing costs and the euro region’s highest
unemployment rate. GDP expanded 0.2 percent from the first
quarter, when it grew 0.3 percent, the Bank of Spain in Madrid
estimated today. From a year earlier, GDP rose 0.7 percent.  Italy’s industrial output data showed a decline in  consumer
goods , indicating exports are driving the recovery. Production
of consumer goods declined 1.1 percent in June from the previous
month, led by a 2.3 percent drop in durable goods, Istat said.  Enel Results  Enel SpA (ENEL) ’s first-half profit unexpectedly climbed as
Italy’s largest power company reported increased sales in  Latin
America , Russia and France. Net income gained 5 percent to 2.55
billion euros ($3.65 billion) in the quarter, the Rome-based
company said on Aug. 3. New generation capacity in Russia and
Iberia will help sustain earnings in months to come, Enel said.
goods, Istat said in the report.  Confidence in Italy has been further shaken by political
turmoil, with Berlusconi’s grip on power weakened by corruption
allegations against him and some of his main allies. Berlusconi
on Aug. 3 blamed turmoil in international markets for the slump
in bonds and said that markets were mispricing risk.  Growth Drive  Berlusconi and Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti yesterday
met with unions, banks and executives in  Rome  to find common
ground for efforts to boost growth and tame public finances.
Berlusconi said he believed the debt crisis won’t get worse,
while Tremonti said the government’s priority is overhauling the
tax and welfare systems.  “While in the U.S. you need one or three or four acts to
open a business, in Italy you need 70 -- between 50 and 70 to
open a new business -- and this is a great obstacle to opening
new businesses, to the growth of the country,” Giovanni Fiori,
an economics professor at Luiss University in Rome, told
Bloomberg Television’s  David Tweed  in an interview.  Berlusconi may move up the introduction of a tax overhaul,
part of the austerity package, to speed the closing of loopholes
and deductions worth 25 billion euros ($35 billion), Ansa said.
The government may also cancel as much as 15 billion euros of
spending planned for this year,  Il Sole 24 Ore  newspaper said
yesterday, citing no one.  The  Bank of Italy  expects Italian growth to continue to lag
behind the euro-area average for the next two years, Bank of
Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  said on July 13. Austerity measures
won’t be enough for Italy and other euro-region countries to
reduce debt if not accompanied by policies to boost economic
growth, the  European Central Bank ’s incoming president said.  “Business surveys over the last few months point to a
clear loss of momentum in both manufacturing and service
activity going ahead,” said  Chiara Corsa , an economist at
UniCredit Research in Milan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 