-- 
Japan Dusts Off Mr. Yen’s Toolkit as Recovery Endangered

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-08-05T12:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/japan-dusts-off-mr-yen-s-toolkit-as-post-quake-rebound-at-risk.html
Japan  escalated its campaign to
convince investors that the nation’s post-earthquake challenges
mean they shouldn’t pile into the yen as a haven from the
turmoil over U.S. and European debt.  On his third day in the job, Takehiko Nakao, vice finance
minister for international affairs, oversaw currency sales that
sent the yen down the most against the dollar since September;
it recouped some of the loss today. With Nakao’s boss Yoshihiko Noda this week referring to mid-1990s style intervention as a
useful reference, investors may need to brace for further action,
according to  Gareth Berry , a strategist at UBS AG in Singapore.  The risk is policy makers take their eye off the broader
measures more likely to bolster prospects for a rebound from an
estimated three straight quarters of economic contraction. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  and opposition lawmakers have yet to forge a
path toward passage of a reconstruction bill that would redress
the 16.9 trillion yen ($212 billion) of damage from March 11.  “Japan needs to improve its responsiveness to the
earthquake disaster -- the political situation is in a
stalemate,” said Tomo Kinoshita, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest securities company.
“Unilateral intervention has its limits.”  The yen was at 78.51 per dollar as of 12:39 p.m. in  London ,
after losing 2.3 percent yesterday. It traded as strong as 76.30
Aug. 1, nearing the postwar high of 76.25 reached in March after
the earthquake and tsunami.  Stocks Fall  The currency briefly traded weaker than 79 in the afternoon,
a jump that a government official speaking to reporters in  Tokyo 
declined to comment on. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
was down 3.7 percent today after a rout in U.S. and European
shares overnight.  Japan may have spent a record intervention amount of about
4.5 trillion yen in yesterday’s intervention, based on
projections of deposits held by financial institutions at the
Bank of Japan, according to Yuichi Takahashi, market economist
at Totan Research Co., a money-market brokerage.  “We intervened to restrain speculative and disorderly
movements -- it wasn’t targeted at a level,” Noda told
reporters in Tokyo today, adding that officials will continue to
take “appropriate” measures when necessary. “We must closely
watch the currency market, but with the big drops in the Dow,
I’d like to closely monitor the stock market today as well.”  Surprise Move  The move was a surprise because it preceded today’s U.S.
unemployment report, next week’s  Federal Reserve  policy meeting
and  Standard & Poor’s  decision whether to cut the AAA American
sovereign-debt grade -- all of which pose risks for the  currency
market , Masafumi Yamamoto, chief currency strategist in Tokyo at
 Barclays Capital , wrote in a note. The timing “suggests that
the MOF intends to take action repeatedly,” he wrote.  Nakao, 55, took the role made famous by Eisuke Sakakibara
this week and the personnel change may augur a shift in approach
toward yen sales, according to Berry at UBS. Sakakibara, who was
vice finance minister from 1997 to 1999, became known as Mr. Yen
for his attempts to influence the foreign-exchange market. Nakao
replaced  Rintaro Tamaki , who is moving to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.  Six-Year Hiatus  Hiroshi Watanabe brought an end to a record tally of
interventions when he took the job in 2004, ushering a six-year
hiatus that ended in September 2010. That month, officials
implemented a single bout of sales to counter speculation that
incoming Prime Minister Kan was less likely to embrace
intervention than his main rival.  Japan acted again March 17 in a coordinated move with the
Group of Seven, then stayed out of the market,  finance ministry 
data show.  “Events could unfold quite differently this time,” Berry
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. After Noda commented on
measures taken in 1995 earlier this week, which involved
sometimes-daily interventions, “investors should probably brace
themselves for more of the same,” he wrote.  Responding to a lawmaker who discussed the effectiveness of
a series of efforts -- including intervention and  Bank of Japan 
monetary easing -- to weaken the yen in 1995, Noda said Aug. 3
that that example of a coordinated approach serves as a useful
reference for the challenges the country faces today.  Corporate leaders advocated a sustained effort to halt the
yen’s gains, which threaten to undermine exporters’ earnings and
force manufacturers to move factory jobs abroad.  ‘Extremely Damaging’  “The current  exchange rate  is at a level that has an
extremely damaging effect on the Japanese economy -- I welcome
today’s intervention, but the resulting exchange rate won’t be
at an acceptable level post-intervention,” Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. President Osamu Masuko said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. “The yen will continue to be strong, and
we ask for appropriate measures to be taken quickly.”  Andre Hoffmann, president for L’Occitane’s Asia Pacific
business, said the strong yen benefits the company because its
earnings are in euros. Japan accounts for about a quarter of its
global sales.  “We’re still growing our business in Japan,” he said in
an interview. In the longer term, an appreciating yen “is a
very unhealthy situation,” he said.  BOJ Steps  The Bank of Japan added 10 trillion yen of monetary
stimulus measures yesterday, including a 5 trillion yen
expansion of an asset-purchase fund that’s mainly government
debt, and a similar widening of a program aimed at encouraging
banks to lend. Together with a 5 trillion yen injection mounted
in March, the BOJ’s steps still add up to less than the Fed’s
$300 billion in asset purchases known as QE2.  Even as he unveiled the measures, BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  reiterated his warnings against more radical measures
favored by some lawmakers. Any move by the central bank to
directly underwrite  government spending  would be “extremely
inappropriate,” he told reporters. Shirakawa has previously
warned against a reemergence of asset bubbles, which last
afflicted Japan in the late 1980s, and said that direct debt
underwriting could cause inflation to climb.  “The BOJ’s ultimate intention is at all times is to
prevent an inflationary overshoot and asset price bubble -- and
that condemns them to permanent deflation,” said  Richard Jerram ,
chief economist at Bank of  Singapore  who has analyzed Asian
economies for two decades.  Lingering Deflation  Japanese consumer prices have yet to post sustained gains
after deflation took hold in the late 1990s in the aftermath of
the 1990 stock-market bubble bursting and 1998 banking crisis.  The country’s immediate challenge is restoring growth after
the March 11 disaster that left more than 20,000 people dead or
missing, shuttered factories and devastated towns in the
northeast. Kan has implemented two supplementary budgets
totaling 6 trillion yen to contend with spending needs including
emergency housing for the displaced. A third package may come in
at 10 trillion yen, ruling party officials have said.  Opposition lawmakers have demanded that Kan resign before
considering the reconstruction bill, blaming him for showing
insufficient leadership after the quake. Kan has declined to
specify a departure date.  The government is postponing the compiling of next year’s
budget by a month to focus on reconstruction efforts, Noda told
reporters in Tokyo today. The finance ministry usually accepts
spending requests from other agencies in August.  Economists are counting on the rebuilding to turn the
economy around in the second half of the year. Gross domestic
product contracted at a 2.6 percent annual pace in the second
quarter, a government report may show Aug. 15, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Today’s monetary easing and intervention are just like
morphine,”  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and a former Bank of Japan official said yesterday. “They
provide temporary effects but they don’t solve the essential
problems of Japan’s economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  