-- 
Japan Follows Switzerland in Acting to Weaken Currency to Protect Exports

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-08-04T10:07:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/japan-follows-switzerland-in-intervening-to-stem-currency-s-appreciation.html
Japan followed Switzerland in seeking
to stem appreciating exchange rates that threatened to damage
export competitiveness, selling the yen and pledging to inject
10 trillion yen ($126 billion) in funds to the economy.  Japan acted alone in the market, while officials were in
touch with other nations, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters today. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  followed up with monetary
stimulus that totaled double the amount pledged days after the
March 11 earthquake. The yen weakened to 80 per dollar for the
first time since July 12 at 10:58 a.m. in  London .  Today’s moves reflect deepening concern of a U.S. return to
recession that might force the  Federal Reserve  into another
round of asset purchases and a widening in Europe’s debt crisis,
with a sell-off in Spanish and Italian debt. The concerns have
prompted investors to seek havens in the currencies of Japan and
Switzerland, which both enjoy current-account surpluses, and
those of emerging markets with faster growth rates.  “What you’re seeing now is policy makers responding
because it’s beginning to hurt their overall economic prospects,
particularly in the case of Japan, where the economy is pretty
vulnerable after the March earthquake,” said  Richard Jerram ,
chief economist at Bank of  Singapore  who has analyzed Asian
economies for two decades.  Gain in Stocks  Japan’s stocks rose, with the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average advancing 0.2 percent to 9,659.18. Against the euro, the
yen lost 3.2 percent to 113.90, still stronger than the Japanese
currency’s two-month average.  Finance officials from the Group of Seven nations held a
conference call yesterday to discuss the European debt crisis
and the U.S. political stalemate over raising the borrowing
ceiling, according to a G-7 official. The person spoke on
condition of anonymity.  Switzerland yesterday unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and
pledged to boost the supply of the franc in money markets. The
nation’s exchange rate has soared 23 percent in the past six
months against the dollar. Turkey’s central bank today said it
will sell dollars to banks via auctions when it sees necessary
to support foreign exchange liquidity in the domestic market.  Profit Forecasts  The decision by Japan followed gains in the yen that saw it
approaching a postwar high against the dollar. The current level
is still about 4 percent stronger than the 82.59 average
exporters used in profit forecasts in a Bank of Japan survey
released last month. Toyota Motor Corp. sees a yen stronger than
80 as a brake on growth.  “Though it is minimal, any positive moves are welcome,”
Minoru Mitsuda, executive officer at  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , said in
reference to today’s intervention. “All companies were waiting
for some kind of action from the government.”  Mazda, which exports about 80 percent of its cars, is
basing the yen-to-dollar rate at 83 yen to the dollar, and 113
yen for the euro.  The BOJ, which brought forward its scheduled statement by a
day following a shortened policy meeting, expanded an asset-
purchase fund that includes  government bonds , real-estate
investment trusts and corporate debt to 15 trillion yen from 10
trillion yen. It also boosted a program aimed at encouraging
banks to lend by 5 trillion yen, bringing it to 35 trillion yen.  ‘Downside Risks’  The central bank needs to “pay more attention to downside
risks” as global uncertainties have prompted the yen’s
strengthening, Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters in
 Tokyo  today after the decision.  The dollar’s tumble, along with  Europe ’s debt concerns,
have spurred an influx of capital to emerging markets that
threatens to destabilize their financial markets and economies.
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has labeled the tensions
“currency wars.” Latin American finance officials plan to
gather this month to discuss ways to protect their currencies
and economies from the turmoil in the U.S. and Europe.  Today’s step is the third time Japan intervened after six
years of a hands-off approach ended in September 2010. The BOJ,
at the behest of the Ministry of Finance, sold 692.5 billion yen
($8.7 billion) in March, when it led a coordinated effort with
the Group of Seven to counter a jump in the yen on speculation
insurers would repatriate foreign cash after the quake.  ‘Very Tough’  “The yen’s level now is still a very tough level for
exporters,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities  Japan  Ltd. in Tokyo. “Intervention today doesn’t
eliminate these problems.”  The dollar touched its weakest level since 1995 last week,
according to the Fed’s Trade-Weighted Broad Dollar index,
undermined by evidence of a deteriorating American economy.  A government report tomorrow may show the  unemployment rate 
was 9.2 percent in July, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, up from 8.8 percent in March. U.S. gross
domestic product expanded at an annual rate of 1.3 percent last
quarter, from a near-stall of 0.4 percent in January to March.  The  dollar’s status  as the world’s reserve currency
“appears to be slipping,” an advisory panel to the Treasury
Department said yesterday. The Treasury Borrowing Advisory
Committee, which  includes  representatives from firms ranging
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to Pacific Investment Management
Co., said the outperformance of haven currencies and those from
emerging nations has aided in  the debasement of the dollar’s
reserve status, a release by the Treasury showed.  Japan’s Challenges  In Europe, policy makers have failed to contain a crisis
that’s required a second bailout of  Greece . Spanish and Italian
10-year government bond yields reached euro-area record levels
this week on concern that increasing debt-servicing costs and
stunted growth may wipe out the benefits of fiscal tightening.  Japan’s challenges have been compounded by the earthquake
and tsunami that wreaked 16.9 trillion yen of damage, according
to a government estimate, and left the economy shrinking for an
estimated three straight quarters through June.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has implemented two supplementary
budgets totaling 6 trillion yen to contend with spending needs
including emergency housing for the displaced. A third package
may come in at 10 trillion yen, ruling party officials have
said.  ‘Bold Action’  The appreciation in the yen is hurting Japanese
pharmaceutical companies, and the currency on its own doesn’t
warrant strengthening,  Yasuchika Hasegawa , head of the Japan
Association of Corporate Executives, told reporters in Singapore
yesterday. “We, as an industry, are in a very tough
situation,” said Hasegawa, who is president of Osaka-based
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.,  Asia ’s largest drugmaker.  “Ongoing one-sided moves would hurt Japan’s economy at a
time when everyone is working hard to rebuild the nation from
the earthquake,” Noda said at a press conference in Tokyo
today. Asked whether intervention can be effective, he said “we
need to take bold action against disorderly and speculative
movements.”  The finance chief declined to comment when asked if
authorities would keep selling the yen. In the weeks following
the September intervention, the currency returned to previous
levels. After the coordinated March 17 move, it still
appreciated 2.4 percent the following month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  