-- 
Japan Exporters Seek More Aid After ‘Too Late’ Yen Intervention

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-08-05T00:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/japan-exporters-seek-more-aid-after-too-late-yen-intervention.html
Japanese exporters called for more
action to weaken a near-record high yen even after government
intervention prompted the currency’s biggest drop since March.  “The  exchange rate  is at a level that has an extremely
damaging effect on the Japanese economy,” Osamu Masuko,
president of Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) , said yesterday
by e-mail. He said he welcomed the intervention, ’’but the
resulting exchange rate still isn’t acceptable.’’  The yen yesterday touched 80 to the dollar for the first
time since July 12 after the government sold the currency and
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  added to monetary stimulus measures. That
still may not be enough for exporters including Mitsubishi,
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , whose overseas earnings have
been crimped by the currency’s jump of about 8.6 percent in a
year.  “It’s like scratching your foot without taking your shoe
off -- it’s not enough at all,” said Atsushi Horiba, president
at Kyoto-based  Horiba Ltd. (6856) , the world’s biggest maker of devices
to measure automobile emissions. The government is “too slow
and it should have responded much earlier.”  The yen fell 0.4 percent to 79.19 per dollar at 6:53 a.m.
in Tokyo, after tumbling 2.3 percent yesterday. That was the
biggest decline since March 18, when the Group of Seven nations
jointly sold the currency following a jump to a postwar record
high of 76.25 per dollar. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
plunged 4 percent as of 9:08 a.m. in Tokyo, after climbing 0.2
percent yesterday, the first advance in three days.  Japan unilaterally sold the yen and the Bank of Japan
expanded its asset-purchase fund to 15 trillion yen from 10
trillion yen to arrest a currency surge caused by investors
seeking safe havens amid U.S. and European debt concerns. The
Swiss central bank also unexpectedly cut  interest rates  this
week to stem gains in the franc.  Companies Waiting  “I believe all companies were waiting for some kind of
action from the government,” said Minoru Mitsuda, executive
officer at  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the nation’s second-largest auto
exporter. Though the government’s actions are “minimal, any
positive moves are welcome.”  Mitsuda said he had “no idea” what impact the
intervention would have on the yen in the longer term because a
mix of different political and economic factors had caused the
yen to strengthen. Mazda, which exports about 80 percent of its
cars, based its fiscal-year forecasts on an average exchange
rate of 83 yen to the dollar, and 113 yen for the euro.  The government should have acted sooner and done more as
companies are also struggling to handle cuts in electricity
following the March 11 earthquake, said Hiromasa Yonekura,
chairman of Nippon Keidanren, Japan’s main business lobby, and
Sumitomo Chemical Co.  “The intervention came too late,” he said. “Important
relief measures that won’t accelerate deflation are still
necessary.”  Toyota Profits  Toyota, the nation’s biggest carmaker, has said that every
one yen gain against the dollar cuts operating profit by 34
billion yen according to its current full-year outlook, which is
based on 80 yen to the dollar. Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor
Co. also expected the same exchange rate.  The strength of the Japanese currency is making it
difficult for Toyota to compete with South Korean rival  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , which also benefits from lower labor costs, Senior
Managing Director Takahiko Ijichi said Aug. 2.  Toyota will “continue to observe the  currency markets 
carefully,” Keisuke Kirimoto, a spokesman for the Toyota City-
based company, said by phone.  Overseas Production  The automaker has already moved domestic production to
areas of Japan with lower wages to help cut costs. It has
pledged to keep output at home to 3 million vehicles a year. The
automaker built 43 percent of its vehicles in Japan last year.
Nissan and Honda have cut their reliance on domestic plants to
less than 30 percent, reducing the effect of the stronger yen on
their earnings.  The intervention may help stop more companies moving
production overseas, Tadashi Okamura, chairman of the Japanese
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, told reporters in  Tokyo . The
move was timely and would help stabilize the Japanese economy
and markets, he said.  “I think it’s a good thing for Japanese industry as a
whole,” Sony Executive Deputy President  Kazuo Hirai  said.  The weakness of the U.S. and European economies means that
the Japanese currency is unlikely to climb above 90 to the
dollar for at least four years, even with more intervention,
said Yoshiaki Kawano, a Tokyo-based analyst for IHS Automotive.  “For Japanese exporters, it will be difficult for them to
maintain their current level of domestic production,” he said.
“They will need to continue to restructure and cut costs to
cope with the currency situation.”  The strong yen cut Nissan’s operating profit by 55 billion
yen in the first quarter.  Japan ’s second-largest carmaker would
have posted a 20 percent gain in profit in the period if not for
the currency, Corporate Vice President Joji Tagawa said July 27.  Nissan and Honda couldn’t be reached for comment yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in 東京 at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  