-- 
Japan’s Change of Energy Chiefs Is Criticized as Mere Reshuffle

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-04T11:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/japan-s-change-of-energy-chiefs-is-criticized-as-mere-reshuffle.html
Japan’s decision to remove three
officials in charge of  energy policy  isn’t enough to tackle
failures that contributed to the Fukushima nuclear disaster,
said a former Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry official.  Cabinet minister  Banri Kaieda , who heads the ministry known
as METI, said today he’ll dismiss its top bureaucrat and the
heads of agencies in charge of nuclear oversight and energy
policy, as part of “sweeping” changes.  “The removal of the officials is cosmetic,” Hiroyuki Kishi, a professor at the Graduate School of Media Design at
 Keio University  and a former METI official, said by phone. “The
officials being removed were due to leave the ministry as part
of regular reshuffles this summer,” Kishi said.  The disaster at Fukushima capped decades of faked safety
reports and fatal accidents in  Japan ’s atomic industry with the
regulator in a conflict of interest as it was under the control
of METI, which had a mandate to promote nuclear power. That
conflict has been highlighted in the last week by revelations
the regulator urged utilities to influence public opinion in
favor of nuclear energy.  “To account for the huge mess in Fukushima, they should
fire all the director generals in the ministry or dismantle it
entirely,” said Kishi.  The officials being dismissed are METI Vice-Minister Kazuo Matsunaga, 59, the director general of the Agency for Natural
Resources and Energy, Tetsuhiro Hosono, 58, and the director
general of the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, Nobuaki
Terasaka, 58.  New Personnel  Matsunaga will be replaced by Kenyu Adachi, 52, the
director general of the Economic and Industrial Policy Bureau,
the ministry announced today in a statement. Hosono will be
replaced by Ichiro Takahara, 54, the director general of Small
and Medium Enterprise Agency, while Hiroyuki Fukano, 54, the
director general of Commerce and Distribution Policy Group, was
appointed for the chief of NISA, according to the personnel
proposal, which will be endorsed at a cabinet meeting tomorrow.  “This is not a regular reshuffle,” Kaieda said in a
meeting with reporters this afternoon. “I asked these three
people to step back with heartbreaking grief because we need to
move forward as a new METI by refreshing personnel.”  Kaieda said he will resign as METI minister after filing
official appointment and mapping out a blueprint of the new METI.
The appointment will be officially given on Aug. 12, the
statement said.  Emitting Radiation  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant has been
emitting radiation since an earthquake and tsunami on March 11
knocked out power and cooling, causing three reactor meltdowns
and hydrogen explosions.  The accident is rated at the highest level on a severity
scale, or the same as the Chernobyl disaster in the former
 Soviet Union  in 1986.  Tokyo Electric ignored warnings about the tsunami risks
that caused the crisis at Fukushima, according to Tatsuya Ito,
who represented Fukushima prefecture in the national parliament
from 1991 to 2003.  Chubu Electric Power Co., one of the country’s regional
electricity monopolies, said on July 29 the nuclear regulator
asked the utility to prepare questions favoring atomic power for
a public hearing in 2007.  Kyushu Electric  Kyushu Electric Power Co. earlier said it asked staffers at
affiliates to send e-mails supporting the restart of reactors to
an internet-broadcast show run by METI on plant safety.  An official at NISA asked Kyushu Electric, Shikoku Electric
Power Co. and Tohoku Electric Power Co. to send employees to
symposium on nuclear power to influence public opinion,  Kyodo
News  reported this week.  An independent panel may be set up as early as today to
investigate the alleged attempts to sway opinion by the
regulator and Japan’s power companies, Kaieda said.  “We will cooperate with the investigation when
requested,” Takumi Koyamada, a NISA spokesman, said by phone.
He declined to comment on any personnel changes.  NISA, which lists one of its codes of conduct as
“neutrality and justice,” will be separated from METI to give
it more independence, the government said last month.  “They need to step up oversight of Japan’s nuclear
industry,” Tokyo-based independent political analyst Hirotada
Asakawa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  