-- 
Japan to Fire Top Energy Officials After Fukushima Nuclear Plant Disaster

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-04T02:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/japan-to-fire-top-energy-officials-after-fukushima-nuclear-plant-disaster.html
Japan ’s government plans to fire
three top officials in charge of  energy policy  as part of
sweeping changes in the bureaucracy after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, Trade and Industry Minister  Banri Kaieda  said.  Personnel including the vice minister of the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry, the director general of the Agency
for Natural Resources and Energy and the head of the country’s
nuclear regulator will be removed from their posts, Kaieda said
at a press briefing in Tokyo today.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, a body that’s
supposed to police the industry, is under the control of
bureaucrats in the Trade and Industry Ministry, which promotes
atomic power. Their close links hampered a quick response to the
disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, the government said
in June.  “To renew the ministry, there will be sweeping personnel
changes,” Kaieda said. He declined to comment on reports he
will resign after the changes. Further details will be announced
later, he said.  The removal of Vice-Minister Kazuo Matsunaga, the director
general of the energy agency, Tetsuhiro Hosono and Nobuaki
Terasaka, the director general of NISA, was earlier reported by
the Asahi newspaper.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima station has been
emitting radiation since an earthquake and tsunami on March 11
knocked out power and cooling, causing three reactor meltdowns
and hydrogen explosions.  The accident is rated at the highest level on a severity
scale, the same as the Chernobyl disaster in the former  Soviet
Union  in 1986.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  