-- 
Japan’s Industry Minister Kaieda to Step Down After Nuclear Plant Disaster

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-04T16:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/japan-s-industry-minister-to-step-down-after-nuclear-disaster.html
Japan ’s industry minister,  Banri Kaieda , said he will resign after replacing three officials in
charge of energy policy and outlining a new structure for the
ministry following the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  The new structure will separate the Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency from the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry,
addressing the conflict inherent in the dual roles of promoting
and regulating the nuclear industry.  That conflict has been highlighted in the last week by
revelations the regulator urged utilities to influence public
opinion in favor of nuclear energy. The disaster at Fukushima
capped decades of faked safety reports and fatal accidents in
Japan’s atomic industry.  Kaieda said in a meeting with reporters yesterday that the
dismissal of the ministry’s top bureaucrat and the heads of
agencies in charge of nuclear oversight and  energy policy  are
part of “sweeping” changes.  The outgoing officials are Kazuo Matsunaga, 59, the
ministry’s vice minister; Tetsuhiro Hosono, 58, director general
of the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy; and Nobuaki Terasaka, 58, the director general of the Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency.  Leadership Shuffle  The leadership change isn’t enough to tackle failures that
contributed to the Fukushima disaster, according to a former
industry ministry official.  “To account for the huge mess in Fukushima, they should
fire all the director generals in the ministry, or dismantle it
entirely,” said Hiroyuki Kishi, now a professor at the Graduate
School of Media Design at  Keio University . He described the move
as “cosmetic,” saying the bureaucrats were due to leave the
ministry as part of a regular reshuffle.  The new appointments will be made from within the ministry.
Kenyu Adachi, 52, director general of the Economic and
Industrial Policy Bureau, will replace Matsunaga. Hosono will be
replaced by Ichiro Takahara, 54, director general of the Small
and Medium Enterprise Agency, while Hiroyuki Fukano, 54, the
director general of Commerce and Distribution Policy Group, will
be appointed chief of the Nuclear Industrial Safety Agency, or
NISA.  NISA, which lists one of its codes of conduct as
“neutrality and justice,” will be separated from METI to give
it more independence, the government said last month.  Kaieda said he will step down sometime after the
appointments become official, which the ministry said would be
Aug. 12, and after an outline for the new ministry structure is
in place.  Emitting Radiation  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant has been
emitting radiation since an earthquake and tsunami on March 11
knocked out power and cooling, causing three reactor meltdowns
and hydrogen explosions.  The accident is rated at the highest level on a severity
scale, the same as the Chernobyl disaster in the former  Soviet
Union  in 1986.  Tokyo Electric ignored warnings about the tsunami risks
that caused the crisis at Fukushima, according to Tatsuya Ito,
who represented Fukushima prefecture in the national parliament
from 1991 to 2003.  Chubu Electric Power Co., one of the country’s regional
electricity monopolies, said on July 29 the nuclear regulator
asked the utility to prepare questions favoring atomic power for
a public hearing in 2007.  Kyushu Electric  Kyushu Electric Power Co. earlier said it asked staffers at
affiliates to send e-mails supporting the restart of reactors to
an internet-broadcast show run by METI on plant safety.  A NISA official asked Kyushu Electric, Shikoku Electric
Power Co. and Tohoku Electric Power Co. to send employees to a
symposium on nuclear power to influence public opinion,  Kyodo
News  reported this week.  An independent panel may be set up to investigate the
alleged attempts to sway opinion by the regulator and Japan’s
power companies, Kaieda said.  “We will cooperate with the investigation when
requested,” said Takumi Koyamada, a NISA spokesman reached by
telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  