-- 
Bateman Switches Bodies With Slacker; Kesey’s Acid Trip: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-04T02:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/jason-bateman-swaps-bodies-with-slacker-kesey-s-acid-trip-rick-warner.html
After boozing all night, best friends
Dave and Mitch stop by an Atlanta wishing fountain and bemoan
their lives.  Dave, a married workaholic lawyer with three kids, envies
Mitch’s carefree existence as a single slacker and womanizer.
Mitch, a failed actor who acts like he’s living in a college
dorm, covets Dave’s success and family.  The next morning, their idle talk turns into reality when
they each wake up in the other guy’s body.  Too many bath and bedroom jokes end up spoiling “ The
Change-Up ,” a retread with a few new twists and likable
performances by  Jason Bateman  and  Ryan Reynolds .  Mitch (Reynolds) must negotiate a crucial merger for Dave’s
law firm, learn to change diapers and control himself around
Dave’s beautiful wife (Leslie Mann) and a sexy office assistant
Sabrina (Olivia Wilde).  Dave (Bateman) fills Mitch’s role in a soft-core porn film,
entertains his buddy’s wild, extremely pregnant sex kitten
Tatiana (Mircea Monroe) and deals with Mitch’s oft-married dad
(Alan Arkin), who wants his son to attend his upcoming wedding.  Unsurprisingly, things don’t go smoothly in this comedy
directed by David Dobkin (“Wedding Crashers”) and co-written
by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore (“The Hangover”). That is, until
the pat ending that seems transplanted from another movie.  “The Change-Up,” from  Universal Pictures , opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Magic Trip’  In 1964, novelist Ken Kesey and a group of friends known as
the Merry Pranksters took a cross-country, psychedelic bus trip
from  California  to the World’s Fair in New York.  They filmed the experience for a movie that was never
finished. Now filmmakers Alex Gibney and Alison Ellwood have
used the long-forgotten footage to make “ Magic Trip ,” a
nostalgic documentary about an event that became a
counterculture legend.  Almost nothing interesting happens in the film, unless you
count amphetamine-fueled Neal Cassady babbling incoherently
behind the steering wheel of the rainbow-painted bus, the
Pranksters pretending to campaign for  Barry Goldwater  in  Arizona 
or swimming at a blacks-only beach in  New Orleans .  The most entertaining thing about the Pranksters was their
nicknames: Generally Famished, Mal Function, Stark Naked and
Gretchen Fetchen, among them.  Back then, they all aspired to a higher consciousness. In
retrospect, the trip looks like a big inside joke.  “Magic Trip,” from  Magnolia Pictures , opens tomorrow in
New York and  San Francisco . Rating: **  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 