-- 
Jefferson County Bankruptcy Filing May Not Block Future Access to Credit

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-04T11:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/jefferson-county-bankruptcy-filing-may-not-block-credit-access-in-future.html
Jefferson County, Alabama, officials
shouldn’t worry that a bankruptcy filing will damage their
ability to borrow money in the future, said lawyers who guided
other municipalities through two of the biggest court-supervised
restructurings. The markets will forget, they said.  Fear that a municipality would be shut out of the bond
market after leaving court protection “is just a bunch of
hoopla,” said lawyer  Marc Levinson , who won court approval July
28 for a plan to end the bankruptcy of Vallejo, California,
about 25 miles northeast of  San Francisco . The city saved tens
of millions of dollars by cutting retiree benefits and slashing
by two-thirds the interest rate paid to its lender.  “Markets have no memory; they are forward-looking, not
backward-looking,” said  Bruce Bennett , lead lawyer for Orange
County, California, when it filed the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history in 1994. “If a municipality
effectively restructures and emerges from Chapter 9 with a
strong balance sheet, it should have the same access to the
credit markets as any entity having similar credit
characteristics.”  Jefferson County commissioners postponed until today a
decision on whether to file a Chapter 9 petition in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  as Alabama Governor Robert Bentley and local
officials negotiate with creditors including bondholders and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The commission is scheduled to meet today
in Birmingham at 2 p.m.  Another meeting is scheduled for Aug. 9 and interviews with
three commissioners yesterday left open the possibility that a
vote may again be delayed.  Sewer-System Debt  On Aug. 2, commission President David Carrington said there
are probably “30 sticking points” in talks with creditors over
restructuring $3.1 billion of sewer-system debt. The county has
asked bondholders to forgive $1.3 billion of the debt, while
creditors have offered to write off $1 billion.  Since 2008, municipalities have responded to falling tax
revenue and burgeoning debt by laying off a record number of
workers and slashing services, rather than using Chapter 9 of
the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , said Jeff Esser, executive director of
the Government Finance Officers Association in  Chicago .  Bankruptcy wasn’t considered in most cases because of
concern that a filing “would have a significant and permanent
effect on a municipality’s ability to go out and borrow money,”
Esser said in an interview.  Jefferson County officials said they share that fear.  “Access to the credit markets in the future is absolutely
one of the major concerns that one must address in contemplating
bankruptcy,” Jefferson County Commissioner Jimmie Stephens said
in an e-mail. Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said through an
aide, Walter Mitchell, that she agreed with Stephens.  ‘No Memory’  Such concerns aren’t justified, said Bennett, of Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP in  Los Angeles . He currently represents the Los
Angeles Dodgers Major League Baseball team, which sought Chapter
11 protection in June. Bennett and Levinson aren’t involved in
the Jefferson County negotiations.  Companies that successfully reorganize in Chapter 11
bankruptcy maintain access to credit markets at essentially the
same  interest rates  as before filing, Bennett said. The same
should be true for municipalities, and any difference in credit
terms would be “nominal,” he said.  Since it left bankruptcy, Orange County has issued more
than $2 billion in debt, county spokesman Howard Sutter said in
an e-mail.  “Cities are more wary of the credit markets than they need
to be,” said attorney R. Dale Ginter, who represented retired
Vallejo workers in the city’s bankruptcy case. “Yesterday’s
loss was yesterday’s loss and today’s profit is today’s
profit.”  Chapter 9  Chapter 9 gives municipalities more power over their
creditors, including bondholders, than companies enjoy under
Chapter 11. Creditors can’t force a city to sell its assets or
file a competing reorganization plan. In addition, because the
10th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution limits federal authority
over states, U.S. bankruptcy judges wield little power over a
bankrupt municipality.  “Basically, all a judge can do is throw you out of
court,” Levinson, who is with Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
LLP in  Sacramento ,  California , said in a phone interview.  Those advantages haven’t been enough to persuade civic
leaders to opt for Chapter 9. Since November 1981, fewer than 40
local governments have sought to restructure in bankruptcy,
according to court records.  Most of the more than 200 Chapter 9 cases filed since then
involved special tax districts, or entities such as hospitals
that were funded with state-issued bonds. In the same period,
companies filed more than 20,000 Chapter 11 cases.  Slowing Economy  James E. Spiotto, a bankruptcy attorney with Chapman &
Cutler LLP in Chicago, wasn’t as sanguine about the risks of a
bankruptcy filing given concerns that the  U.S. economy  is
slowing.  Municipalities that enter bankruptcy may be shut out of the
 bond market  or face more onerous borrowing terms than public
agencies that haven’t gone through a court-supervised
restructuring, he said.  “You’ve got to be careful about diving into a swimming
pool with no water,” Spiotto said in a phone interview. “The
current market is not the time to test the principle.”  Bankruptcy “is something that has never crossed my mind,”
said Gary Leubbers, who has worked for more than 20 years as a
top executive for various cities, including Redlands,
California. During that time, he has laid off dozens of
employees, including police officers and firefighters, because
of budget cuts.  Backlash Feared  Public-service professionals and the elected officials who
hire them assume their municipalities would be shut out of the
bond market for years should they file for bankruptcy, Leubbers
said. Elected officials also fear a backlash from voters, he
said. One Vallejo council member who voted for bankruptcy lost a
re-election bid in the middle of the case.  “I see so many drastic actions taken and bankruptcy is
never one of them,” said Leubbers, now the city manager of
Sunnyvale, California, a town of 140,000 people in the heart of
Silicon Valley that cut its budget without resorting to layoffs
or furloughs.  Jefferson County, with its seat in Birmingham, defaulted on
sewer bonds in 2008 after the financial crisis pushed up the
cost of the floating-rate debt and triggered an early repayment
clause it couldn’t afford. The county,  Alabama ’s largest, has
put employees on leave, closed courthouses and canceled road
repairs after a court struck down a wage-and-business tax it
relied on for revenue.  Commissioner Convicted  Former Commissioner  Larry Langford  was convicted of
accepting bribes in connection with the sewer financing, and two
associates pleaded guilty in the scheme.  Two former bankers at New York-based JPMorgan are fighting
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit that they made
$8 million in undisclosed payments to friends of commissioners
to secure a role in the deals. JPMorgan, the second-biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets, separately agreed to a $722 million settlement
with the SEC.  Jefferson County is insisting on a “holistic solution,”
commission President Carrington said this week, which would
restructure the debt and solve a cash crunch in its general fund
after the Alabama Supreme Court in March struck down the wage
tax that generated about $75 million annually.  Lawmakers’ Rejection  State lawmakers in June refused to give the county more
taxing power after the court ruling, forcing 500 employees to be
put on leave.  Yesterday, a $250,000 block of Jefferson County sewer
auction-rate securities traded between dealers for 41.35 cents
on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The settlement being discussed as of Aug. 2 would resolve
lawsuits brought by the county, bondholders and debt insures
against one another, said John Young, the court-appointed
receiver who took over management of the sewer system.  The accord also envisions a significant state role, he
said. Lawmakers would need to create an independent sewer
authority and pledge the state’s “moral obligation” to back
the debt, he said. Governor Bentley, a Republican, would have to
call a special session of the Legislature and lobby lawmakers to
pass a settlement package.  Stigma Minimized  “A properly structured bankruptcy that successfully brings
the county out of bankruptcy quickly can minimize any stigma
associated with a Chapter 9 filing,”  David Perry , Alabama’s
finance director, said in an e-mail. Should the case last for
years because of legal battles, the effects “would be
devastating,” he said.  Commissioner Brown said earlier this week that the county
was preparing a counteroffer to the creditors. Commissioners
hadn’t made the offer as of last night, according to local
officials.  “We don’t know what we’re going to do,” Commissioner Joe
Knight said late yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’re
going to go into executive session and we’re going to get
updated by our lawyers and go from there.”  Yesterday, the Birmingham News reported the commissioners
proposed raising the amount of sewer-rate increases the
municipality is willing to impose, citing people familiar with
the talks who it didn’t name.  County officials previously offered to raise rates 7.8
percent annually for three years and 3 percent a year for the
next two to help make payments on the debt. Creditors wanted 8
percent for five consecutive years.  The county plans to offer 8 percent annually for three
years and “near” 3 percent a year after that and to demand
additional concessions from creditors, the newspaper reported.  “The question is, has the damage been done already,”
Carrington said this week. “If we accept these concessions and
settle, it has been strongly suggested by certain creditors that
we will have a stain anyway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  