-- 
Jefferson County Says Negotiations Hold Back Vote on Bankruptcy

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-08-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/jefferson-county-will-delay-possible-ch-9-vote-to-next-week-amid-talks.html
Officials in Jefferson County,
 Alabama , will keep negotiating with creditors over a $3.1
billion sewer-debt crisis, as the governor said a deal to avert
the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history was “within
striking distance.”  The state’s most populous county and its creditors extended
an agreed standstill yesterday for the second time in a week.
The bankruptcy decision was postponed until Aug. 12, county
Commission President David Carrington said yesterday in
Birmingham. Governor Robert Bentley asked for the delay,
Carrington said.  “I think there are more concessions to be had from the
creditors,”   David Perry , Alabama’s finance chief, said
yesterday in a telephone interview, without elaborating.  “The governor would not have asked the commission to give
the negotiations more time if he didn’t think negotiations could
be successful,” Perry said. “The gap is narrowing
substantially.”  Justin Perras , a spokesman for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
county’s biggest creditor, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on Perry’s view.  The county’s options include seeking Chapter 9 bankruptcy
protection, accepting last week’s settlement offer from
creditors, or making a counteroffer. A vote on bankruptcy or a
settlement was on the county commission’s agenda for yesterday’s
meeting. Several county officials said the creditors’ last offer
would push sewer rates too high for too long, and might block
needed growth.  ‘Minor Adjustments’  Jimmie Stephens, the commission’s finance chairman, said
after a closed-door meeting yesterday that the two sides were
closer and that the county would send some “minor adjustments”
to creditors.  “We are in a good position to have a deal,” he said.  In a letter to commissioners, Bentley said his preference
is “for a negotiated settlement that protects the interests of
both the county and the state, but I will support a properly
structured bankruptcy if a satisfactory agreement cannot be
reached by the end of next week.”  “Based on the progress that you have made in recent weeks,
I believe that the county and the state are within striking
distance of a negotiated settlement that includes substantial
concessions from the creditors and is fair to sewer
ratepayers,” the governor said.  Sewer Rate Increases  The county had proposed raising rates 7.8 percent annually
for three years, followed by 3 percent increases in the next two
to help make payments. Creditors wanted 8 percent annually for
five years, Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said last week.  Protesters began gathering two hours before the
midafternoon meeting. Joe Minter, 68, who said he is retired and
a lifelong county resident, wore a sign reading, “Bankruptcy is
the Answer.”  “This is the kind of clown activity that has been going on
for four years now,” said Keith Mims, of Birmingham’s
Titusville neighborhood. “Even with a negotiated settlement,
they can’t service the debt and they know it. What’s good for
the people is to bankrupt this mess and move on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham, Alabama, at
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  