-- 
Jets Release Wide Receiver Jerricho Cotchery After Seven Seasons With Team

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/jets-release-wide-receiver-jerricho-cotchery-after-seven-seasons-with-team.html
The  New York Jets  have almost
completed the makeover of their receiving corps, which won’t
include Jerricho Cotchery or Braylon Edwards this season.  The Jets released Cotchery, who led the National Football
League team in catches and receiving yardage from 2007-09.
Edwards signed with the  San Francisco 49ers  as a free agent.  The moves came four days after the Jets signed free-agent
receiver Plaxico Burress and a week after  New York  re-signed
wideout  Santonio Holmes .  “You hate to see great people leave,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan 
told reporters yesterday when asked about Cotchery’s release.
“I wish him well and I’m sure he’s going to have many more
years left playing.”  Cotchery had offseason back surgery and started training
camp on the Physically Unable to Perform list.  “It was a surprise,” Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  said
of Cotchery’s release. “That is somebody that I really look up
to, still do. One of the best teammates I’ve ever had.”  Cotchery, 29, was a fourth-round draft pick of the Jets in
2004 and took over as a starter two years later. He had a
career-high 1,130 yards receiving in 2007 and was the team’s
leading wideout for three straight years.  He was slowed last season by a herniated disk in his back
and finished fifth on the team with 41 catches for 433 yards
while making five starts.  “I’ve been here a long time, so I’ve seen some things take
place where guys don’t get to finish their careers here,”
Cotchery told reporters.  Edwards, 28, had 88 receptions for 1,445 yards and 11
touchdowns in his two seasons with the Jets. He was traded by
the  Cleveland Browns  to New York in October 2009.  One-Year Deal  Edwards signed a one-year contract with San Francisco, the
49ers said yesterday in a news release.  Ryan told reporters he had nothing to report on the Jets’
possible interest in Derrick Mason, a two-time Pro Bowl
selection who’s topped 1,000 yards receiving in eight of his 14
seasons with Tennessee and Baltimore.  The 37-year-old Mason had 61 catches for 802 yards and
seven touchdowns for Baltimore last season. The Ravens cut him
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  