-- 
Kenya Three-Month Borrowing Costs Rise to Near Nine-Year High on Inflation

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-08-04T15:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/kenya-three-month-borrowing-costs-rise-to-near-nine-year-high-on-inflation.html
Kenya ’s three-month borrowing costs
rose to within one basis point of a nine-year high as demand
exceeded was more than triple the offer, with investors seeking
higher yields after inflation climbed for a ninth month in July.  The yield on the 91-day Treasury bills increased to 9.015
percent at today’s sale from 9.010 percent on July 28, the
Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed
statement. The yield reached 9.016 percent on June 9, the
highest since May 2002, as price growth soared on rising food
and fuel costs. The bank issued 4.03 billion shillings ($44
million) of the debt after investors bid for 5.01 billion
shillings of the 2 billion shillings offered.  “The yields are expected to edge upward as inflationary
pressure bears on returns, with investors looking to cushion
against negative return on their investments,” Peter Mwirigi,
chief dealer at Nairobi-based Sterling Investment Bank Ltd.,
said by phone before the auction.  Kenya’s central bank last week unexpectedly kept its key
lending rate unchanged at 6.25 percent, failing to stem currency
weakness and raising concern among investors it is moving too
slowly to contain rising consumer prices. The halt followed
increases in March and May totaling half a percentage point. It
also raised mandatory commercial bank reserve requirements by
the same margin.  Kenya’s shilling depreciated to the weakest on record today
as food and oil importers increased demand for dollars to pay
for goods amid a famine in the Horn of  Africa  and power cuts in
Kenya. Inflation accelerated to more than triple the targeted
rate of 5 percent in July, reaching 15.5 percent.  The central bank imposed additional measures for the use of
its discount window as it seeks to tighten monetary policy, amid
concern that “commercial banks were using it as a permanent
supply of liquidity,” it said on July 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  