-- 
Knight Eliminates 6% of Staff Amid ‘Deterioration’ in Market

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-08-04T18:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/knight-eliminates-6-of-staff-amid-deterioration-in-market-1-.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  eliminated
about 6 percent of its staff, or approximately 88 people,
reducing sales and trading positions in equities and fixed
income after trading business slowed.  The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based securities firm
eliminated or moved institutional equities employees in  Hong
Kong , and will handle trading in Asian equities through the U.S.
and  London , according to a statement today. There were no cuts
in Asian fixed-income and foreign exchange. Jobs were reduced in
research, technology, operations and other support roles.  “It’s not surprising when you look at the volume picture
we’ve been dealing with in the last several months in the U.S.
and other developed markets,” Justin Schack, managing director
in charge of market structure analysis at Rosenblatt Securities
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It’s a reaction to lower
activity levels in the market.”  U.S. equities volume averaged 7.5 billion shares in the
first half of this year, down 21 percent from 9.5 billion shares
in the same period last year and 31 percent from 10.8 billion in
January through June of 2009.  ‘Prolonged Deterioration’  “For the past two and a half years, aside from a few brief
periods, we’ve witnessed a prolonged deterioration in market
conditions,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas M. Joyce said in the statement today. “In response, we focused the
cuts on businesses and regions in which the competitive dynamics
have shifted or the barriers simply proved too great.”  The reductions will reduce annual operating expenses by
about $40 million to $50 million, Knight said. As of June 30,
the company had 1,465 full-time employees.  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG)  reduced its staff by about
100 last month because of lower institutional equity trading
volume in the U.S. and  Europe , Chief Financial Officer Steven Vigliotti said today in a conference call, according to a
transcript.  The New York-based agency brokerage, which executes orders
for customers and doesn’t engage in proprietary trading, has
expanded into providing research directly to customers in the
last year to give clients more reason to trade through the firm.
Customers also typically pay more per share in commissions when
they use research from a firm or bank.  Wall Street  Layoffs  Weak trading revenue at banks this year will likely lead to
layoffs on Wall Street, analysts including  Meredith Whitney  and
Nomura Holdings Inc.’s  Glenn Schorr  have said. U.S. banks may
accelerate announced job cuts after eliminating 11,400 positions
in the first five months of the year, a 21 percent increase over
2010,  John Challenger , chief executive officer of Challenger,
Gray & Christmas Inc., said in June.  Job cuts at financial firms are climbing after falling to a
14-year low of about 24,000 announced last year, according to
data compiled by the Chicago-based company that advises
companies on workplace reductions. This year’s reduction “might
very well” be more than double 2010’s number, Challenger said.  “There are more public companies in the securities
business than 10 or 20 years ago, so there’s more of a reaction
to short-term trends and a need to rationalize your cost base
because you have shareholders and analysts anticipating what
your next quarter’s profit will be,” Schack said.  Firms will often lay off people to reduce expenses and hire
more employees when business improves, he said.  “The trick is not to cut into the bone, so that when
things rebound you’re able to capitalize on it,” Schack said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  