-- 
Kraft Foods Chief Rosenfeld Says More Acquisitions Possible After Spinoff

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-04T20:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/kraft-foods-to-spin-off-north-american-grocery-business-retain-snack-unit.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s plan to spin off
its North American grocery unit will provide the snack-foods
business more flexibility to acquire or divest brands, Chief
Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld said in an interview.  The grocery entity, with about $16 billion in revenue, will
include the U.S. beverages, cheese, convenient meals and grocery
units and some other food items, Northfield, Illinois-based
Kraft said today in a statement. A snacks company, built from
the European and developing markets units and the North American
snacks and candy businesses, will have $32 billion in sales.  Rosenfeld said today that the split is the “next logical
step” in the company’s transformation since she took over in
2006. The move will help Kraft push snack products such as
Cadbury chocolates and Oreo cookies into emerging markets while
the slower-growing, higher-margin grocery business -- which will
keep the Oscar Mayer meats and Maxwell House coffee brands --
expands in the U.S. and returns cash to shareholders.  “We are very focused right now on the creation of two
world-class companies,” Rosenfeld said in the telephone
interview, adding that the plan couldn’t happen unless both
units were strong. “There can be a great deal of value unlocked
in the creation of these two companies.”  Kraft, the world’s second-biggest food company, fell 52
cents, or 1.5 percent, to $33.78 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 7.2 percent
this year.  No Offers  Rosenfeld said the company hasn’t received offers to buy
either unit and doesn’t need to sell brands to make the plan
work. The units alone can more easily pursue acquisition and
divestiture opportunities, Rosenfeld said. She declined to say
what role she will take after the spinoff.  “My focus right now is as remaining the CEO and chairman
of Kraft Foods and delivering our 2011 and 2012 commitments,”
she said. “I’m not going anywhere, and I look forward to
playing a leadership role when this transaction closes.”  The tax-free spinoff of the grocery business may be
completed by the end of next year, Kraft said. Rosenfeld said
she expected no problems getting approval from the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service.  Kraft, which bought Cadbury Plc in 2010 for about 13.6
billion pounds ($22.2 billion), said it has “built a global
snacking platform and a North American grocery business that now
differ in their future strategic priorities, growth profiles and
operational focus.”  Buffett Approval  Warren Buffett , whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is Kraft’s
biggest shareholder with a 6 percent stake, had previously cut
his holding in Kraft after the company bought Cadbury and sold
its pizza brands, criticizing the moves as “dumb.”  Buffett said he’s “fine” with Kraft’s spinoff, CNBC
reported today, citing an interview. Buffett didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment Bloomberg e-mailed today to his
assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Rosenfeld considered such a spinoff in 2007 and determined
the snacks business wasn’t large enough to stand alone at the
time, according to a person familiar with her thinking. In early
2010, weeks after the Cadbury acquisition, she took up the idea
again and decided this year that the business had the necessary
scale and international presence to justify a spinoff, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
were private.  Cutting Costs  Inside Kraft, some executives thought the company was
spending too much money to market and advertise its slower
growing grocery business, said another person familiar with the
matter. Separating grocery would allow it to be run on a cash-
flow basis and operate more like H.J. Heinz Co.,  Campbell Soup
Co. (CPB)  and  Kellogg Co. (K) , with a focus on cutting costs.  “Given the different investment priorities and growth
trajectories of the two businesses, it makes a lot of sense to
separate them,”  Alexia Howard , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said today in a note. “The
strategic rationale for such a move is strong.”  Kraft follows other consumer-products companies that have
split in the past year.  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , the maker of Ball Park
hot dogs and Douwe Egberts coffee, decided to split in two in
January after failing to agree to takeover offers from suitors.
 Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) , the maker of Jim Beam bourbon and Titleist
golf balls, in December said it would become three companies.  Falling in Line  “This falls in line with other consumer-products companies
that have split to better leverage their opportunities,” Erin
Lash, an analyst with  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said today in
a telephone interview. “It’s interesting for Kraft investors
and with the tax-free spinoff they will get the benefit of both
companies.”  Lash estimated that the snack business would be valued at a
multiple of 13 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, while the grocery business would
be valued at about 8 times Ebitda.  Rosenfeld said that while she didn’t expect a change in the
combined long-term growth rates for the two companies, she did
expect those rates to be rebalanced. Key to the strategy is that
the two units no longer have to compete for money to invest in
marketing and distribution, she said on a conference call with
analysts after the announcement.  “This is the best way to stage our businesses for long-
term success, the best way for shareholders to value each
business and the best way to ensure a bright future for our
people around the world,” Rosenfeld said.  Profit Forecast  Separately, Kraft said net income rose 4.2 percent to $976
million, or 55 cents a share, from $937 million, or 53 cents a
year earlier. Revenue climbed 13 percent to $13.9 billion, the
company said in a statement.  Operating profit per share this year will be $2.20 to $2.25
a share, up from a previous forecast for as much as $2.20, Kraft
said.  Kraft said its financial advisers are  Centerview Partners ,
Evercore Partners and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The company is
“targeting capital structures to maintain investment-grade
ratings with access to commercial paper for each new entity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  