-- 
Navy Weighs $8 Billion Contract With Textron, Boeing for Ospreys

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-04T18:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/navy-weighs-8-billion-contract-for-ospreys.html
The Navy is considering buying
another 122 V-22 Ospreys from  Textron Inc. (TXT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  for
about $8 billion.  The proposed contract, in its early stages, would supply
the aircraft to the Marine Corps and Air Force through 2017 --
renewing a current deal for five more years.  Textron of Providence,  Rhode Island , and Chicago-based
Boeing are in the last year of a four-year, $10.9 billion
contract for 174 aircraft. Textron’s Bell Helicopter unit and
Boeing have submitted a new request for proposals, officials
said. The Navy declined to speculate on the potential value. At
the current basic “flyaway” cost of $65 million apiece, the
new contract could approach $8 billion.  “We have asked for a proposal,” said Navy Assistant
Secretary for Acquisition Sean Stackley said in an interview.
“We are just at that point.”  Stackley said the Navy wants a multiyear contract
arrangement.  “I have had discussions with them to outline what a multi-
year would look like,” he said. We want to get to a multiyear,
we think it’s important to get the savings. We are at the very
front end.”  Pentagon weapons buyer  Ashton Carter , whom President  Barack Obama  is nominating to the No. 2 Defense Department post, has
listed increased use of multi-year contracts as a key tool for
driving down procurement costs.  In this case, the Navy and contractor must develop reliable
data allowing the service to certify to senior Pentagon
officials a five-year block buy can save at least 10 percent
over annual batch purchases.  On Time, Under Budget  Signing a multi-year contract also virtually guarantees
those aircraft can’t be canceled because the military would face
steep termination costs.  Bell-Boeing V-22 executive director John Rader, in a
statement, confirmed the companies have submitted a proposal.  “The Bell-Boeing V-22 program is presently on time and
under budget in successfully executing its first multi-year
contract,” he said.  Stackley said the intent is to validate savings so that, by
next April or May, “we can go forward with certification
after” the fiscal 2013 budget is submitted.  A contract potentially could be signed in December 2012,
said Renee Hatcher, a spokeswoman for the Naval Air Systems
Command.  The additional purchases would complete the Marine Corps
and  Air Force  plan to field 410 V-22. The Navy has a requirement
for a separate 48 that might be purchased after 2018, she said.  ‘Looks Good’  Marine Corps Deputy Commandant for Aviation Lieutenant
General  Terry Robling  in an interview said “it looks good.
Bell-Boeing says they can achieve the 10 percent that is
required and a little bit more than that.”  Congress through December has approved spending $35 billion
on the $53.2 billion program.  The program was approved for full-production in September
2005 after four years of additional development to demonstrate
the aircraft overcame a host of deficiencies, including problems
with its design, safety and reliability uncovered after two
crashes in 2000 killed 23 Marines.  The Osprey has been deployed in Iraq and  Afghanistan . One
plane ferried Osama bin Laden’s body to the U.S. Navy aircraft
carrier USS Carl Vinson after he was killed in a U.S. raid May 2
in  Pakistan .  The House Appropriations Committee in June said the
aircraft’s overall performance “has laid to rest all doubts”
about its combat effectiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at  at
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 