-- 
BNY Mellon Broke New York Law, Misled Investors on Mortgages, State Claims

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-08-05T21:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/new-york-ag-to-intervene-in-bofa-mortgage-bond-deal-lawyer-says.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
violated state law in its role representing investors in
mortgage securities created by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
Countrywide Financial unit, the New York Attorney General said.  BNY Mellon should pay penalties and restitution to
investors, Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said yesterday in
a court filing involving Bank of America’s proposed $8.5 billion
mortgage-bond settlement. Schneiderman, who said he has
“potential claims” against Bank of America, called the
settlement unfair to investors and asked a judge to reject it.  “The proposed cash payment is far less than the massive
losses investors have faced and will continue to face,”
Schneiderman said in the filing in state court in Manhattan.  Under the proposed deal, which requires court approval,
Bank of America would pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims from
investors who wanted the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank to
buy back loans that were packaged into bonds. The agreement was
reached with 22 institutional investors and BNY Mellon, which
acts as the trustee for the mortgage-securitization trusts. The
deal would apply to other investors in the trusts.  BNY Mellon’s conduct as trustee violated the state’s Martin
Act by misleading investors, Schneiderman said in court papers
filed yesterday. The bank engaged in “repeated fraud and
illegality,” Schneiderman said. New York’s Martin Act allows
the attorney general to file civil lawsuits and criminal charges
in securities-fraud cases.  ‘Heightened Duty’  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  also intends to
intervene in the Bank of America case, Ian McConnel, a deputy
attorney general at the office, said at a court hearing today
about the agreement. Delaware public pension funds may be
investors in the Countrywide bonds and some of the trusts in the
settlement were established under Delaware law, McConnel said in
an interview after the hearing.  Schneiderman claims New York-based BNY Mellon was aware of
“loan documentation deficiencies,” such as Countrywide’s
improper assignments and transfers of notes needed for
foreclosures. That knowledge triggered a “heightened duty” to
bondholders, he said.  Countrywide’s failure to transfer complete mortgage loan
documentation to the trusts hampered the ability of the trusts
to foreclose on delinquent mortgages, impairing the value of the
securities backed by the mortgages, Schneiderman said.  “These circumstances apparently triggered widespread
fraud,” Schneiderman said, including Bank of America’s
“fabrication of missing documentation.”  BNY Mellon spokesman Ron Gruendl, said in an e-mail that
the bank “fulfilled in all respects” its responsibilities as
trustee.  ‘Outrageous, Baseless’  “The allegations by the  New York  Attorney General are
outrageous, baseless, unsupported by fact and law, and we will
fight them if necessary in court,” he said. “The AG’s action
is misguided and fails to comprehend the role of the trustee and
the benefit the settlement would provide to investors.”  Bank of America and Countrywide separately face liability
for “persistent illegality” in breaching contractual promises
about the quality of loans, as well as failing to provide
complete mortgage files, Schneiderman said in court papers.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment.  The attorney general’s action “raises significant doubt”
that the $8.5 billion settlement will move forward as proposed,
JMP Securities said in a research note.  ‘Limited Role’  BNY Mellon previously has argued that mortgage-bond
trustees’ responsibilities to investors aren’t as extensive as
sometimes claimed.  Asked about a February lawsuit by investors who had been
unable to get it to sue Countrywide after being presented with
evidence of loans being of lesser quality than represented by
than lender, Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, said then that
the trustee has “a limited role that is distinct from the
seller and the servicer and contractually limited by the pooling
and servicing agreements.”  That case, by anonymous investors behind a series of
limited liability companies named Walnut Place, included BNY
Mellon as a nominal defendant.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  