-- 
NWR Falls Most Since May as Global Slowdown May Hurt Profit

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-08-04T15:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/new-world-resources-extends-retreat-tumbles-most-in-two-months.html
New World Resources Plc declined the
most in at least three months on concern the global economy may
slow, cutting demand for commodities and threatening profit at
the biggest Czech producer of coking coal.  NWR tumbled 6.1 percent to 201 koruna at its 4:24 p.m. end
of trading in Prague, the biggest one-day drop and the lowest
closing price since at least May 9. The  Czech Republic ’s PX
equity index retreated 2.2 percent.  Mining companies led declines in European stocks and oil
tumbled for a fifth day on concern the slowing U.S. economy will
dent the global recovery. European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet said the ECB resumed bond purchases and will
offer banks more cash to stop the region’s debt crisis from
engulfing Italy and Spain and hurting the economy.  “In addition to the debt woes of European Union countries,
stocks are hit by recent macroeconomic data that signaled a
major slowdown in the American growth,”  Josef Nemy , an analyst
at Komercni Banka AS in Prague, wrote in an e-mail today.
“Fears start to emerge that the world’s largest economy may be
heading into another recession. That would trigger a drop in
commodity prices and NWR’s future profits.”  Stocks kept losses from  London  to  New York  even after a
U.S. report showed jobless claims fell 1,000 last week to
400,000, the fewest in almost four months. Data earlier this
week showed a slowdown in U.S. manufacturing and a drop in
 consumer spending .  ‘Major Exposure’  NWR supplies coal to customers including the Czech unit of
 ArcelorMittal. (MT)  The world’s largest steelmaker today dropped for
a sixth day to its lowest in more than two years, sliding 5.4
percent in Amsterdam. Basic-resources stocks led the global
sell-off in equities today, sending the MSCI All-Country World
Index down more than 10 percent from this year’s peak in May,
surpassing the threshold for a correction.  “The worsening outlook for global economic growth impacts
mainly the cyclical industries, which has in the past weeks been
very well demonstrated by the stocks of steel companies,” Marek Hatlapatka, an analyst at Cyrrus brokerage based in Brno, Czech
Republic, said in an e-mail today. “NWR with its major exposure
to the  steel industry  can’t avoid this development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  