-- 
No Air-Bag Waiver for $1.1 Million Pagani Car

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-08-04T18:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/no-air-bag-waiver-for-1-1-million-pagani-car.html
Pagani Automobili SpA, the Italian
supercar maker, will have to install advanced air bags in its
$1.1 million  Huayra  gull-wing coupe after being denied a
hardship exemption from the U.S. auto-safety regulator.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,
which said earlier this year it would stop giving waivers to an
11-year-old air bag safety regulation, denied Pagani’s exemption
request in a Federal Register  notice  posted today.  U.S. regulation requires cars sold in the U.S. have so-
called advanced air bags that have sensors to adjust deployment
force based on occupants’ heights and weights.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) 
and Lamborghini Holding SpA are among the limited-production
companies that have won exemptions over the past five years on
financial-hardship grounds.  Pagani, which said in February it hopes to sell five cars
in the U.S. next year, said in a U.S. regulatory filing a denial
of the air bag petition would cost it 3.2 million euros ($4.5
million) in net income from 2011 to 2014 because it wouldn’t
sell vehicles in the U.S. until 2015 without a waiver.  “Although Pagani has realized profits in recent years, the
company asserted that immediate compliance with the advanced
air-bag requirements will cause substantial economic hardship,”
NHTSA said in today’s notice. “Pagani stated that the company
only operates on the cash on hand without lines of credit or
debt financing, and its small profit margin is necessary to
guard it from market fluctuations.”  A spokesman for Pagani didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment sent after regular business hours.  The company estimated in the filing that developing an
advanced air-bag program would cost it 4 million euros.  Tesla’s exemption is for its Roadster, for which production
will end this year. The luxury electric-vehicle maker, based in
Pal Alto,  California , has said its Model S sedans, which it
plans to sell next year, will comply with U.S. air-bag rules.
Lamborghini’s last exemption expired in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  