-- 
Nokia Siemens May Trim 1,500 Jobs From Motorola Purchase

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-08-04T16:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/nokia-siemens-says-cutting-1-500-jobs-from-motorola-purchase.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the
telecommunications equipment joint venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE) , plans to cut as many as 1,500 positions from assets
acquired from Motorola Solutions Inc., a spokesman said.  The reductions amount to about 22 percent of the 6,900
workers added when Nokia Siemens bought the Motorola units in
April to add business with customers including Verizon Wireless,
Sprint Nextel Corp., KDDI and  China  Mobile.  Nokia Siemens said in July that it wants to improve its
competitiveness “as a standalone entity” and ended talks about
a possible stake sale to private-equity investors. The Espoo,
Finland-based joint venture, which has been unprofitable for all
but one quarter since it started in April 2007, added workers in
locations including Arlington Heights,  Illinois , and Swindon,
England as well as China,  Russia  and  India  when it took on the
Motorola unit.  “The parents still have a barely breakeven business on
their hands, and there’s more work to be done on the Nokia
Siemens side too,” said Sami Sarkamies, a Helsinki-based
analyst at Nordea Bank. “I’d expect a more comprehensive
profitability improvement plan including job cuts in the coming
weeks or months, especially if they intend to target an IPO in a
few years.”  The job cuts were already public “in some places but not
others,” Ben Hunt, a Nokia Siemens spokesman, said in a phone
interview. The schedule will vary by location, he said.  Phone Standards  Nokia Siemens paid $975 million for the assets, which
include wireless technologies based on the CDMA standard used by
 Verizon Wireless  and Sprint Nextel as well as some Asian
carriers. The price dropped from $1.2 billion as the acquisition
took close to a year because of approval difficulties in China.  The wireless business at Nokia Siemens is rooted in the GSM
standards used by most carriers outside the U.S. and east  Asia .
Motorola also sold GSM systems as well as gear based on CDMA,
which is used by some North American and east Asian carriers,
and so-called fourth-generation technologies LTE and WiMAX.
Nokia Siemens already supplies LTE, which has become the
dominant fourth-generation technology.  The company will also transfer as many as 1,200 former
Motorola employees internally as it reorganizes assets including
the acquired GSM and WiMAX networks businesses, Hunt said. Nokia
Siemens had about 73,000 employees worldwide at the end of the
second quarter.  A consultation process with employees in Swindon began on
July 25 with the aim of cutting 150 jobs by the end of June
2012, Hunt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  