-- 
NYC’s Goldsmith Leaves as Deputy Mayor, Replaced By Holloway

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-04T22:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/nyc-s-goldsmith-leaves-as-deputy-mayor-replaced-by-holloway-1-.html
New York City Deputy Mayor Stephen Goldsmith, the former Indianapolis mayor who joined Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s administration last year, resigned to pursue
a job financing infrastructure development.  Caswell Holloway, 37, the city’s Environmental Protection
commissioner since January 2010, will replace Goldsmith as
deputy mayor for operations, Bloomberg’s office said today in a
news release. Goldsmith, 64, said his departure date is
uncertain.  Goldsmith became a Bloomberg deputy in June 2010. During
his tenure he established programs to share vehicles and
information technology and other services among city agencies,
initiatives that Bloomberg said would save the city $500 million
by 2013. Goldsmith came under criticism from City Council
members who blamed him after a post-Christmas blizzard left some
streets unplowed for a week.  “It was a great job, a great opportunity,” Goldsmith said
as he left  City Hall  for the day. Any suggestion that the mayor
asked him to leave because of the administration’s admitted
failures in responding to the snowstorm “would be untrue,” he
said.  Several private firms have approached him with potentially
lucrative job possibilities setting up financing deals for
infrastructure, he said.  “I can’t negotiate while I’m here as a city official,” he
said.  Managing Rates, Waste  Holloway, as commissioner of the Department of
Environmental Protection, has focused on holding down planned
water-rate increases, and programs to capture rainwater and
reduce sewer overflows. He also ended 15-year-old labor disputes
that had hampered city operations, the mayor’s office said in
today’s news release.  Before becoming commissioner, he supervised the
administration’s report on the health effects of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attack on the World Trade Center and led
negotiations on federal health legislation signed into law by
President  Barack Obama , the mayor’s office said. He also played
a lead role in creating the city’s plan to manage solid waste.  A graduate of  Harvard University  and the  University of
Chicago Law School , Holloway previously served as chief of staff
to Deputy Mayor for Operations Edward Skyler and as a special
adviser to Bloomberg.  Goldsmith’s Record  Holloway’s salary as deputy mayor will be $213,000, up from
$205,000 as environmental commissioner, said  Marc LaVorgna , a
spokesman for the mayor.  Goldsmith was mayor of Indianapolis from 1992 to 1999. It
was then the 12th-largest U.S. city, with a  population  of about
780,000. He developed a reputation for cutting costs by
privatizing some city services.  New York , the largest U.S. city
by population, has 8.2 million residents, according to the  U.S.
Census .  Goldsmith was director of Harvard University’s Innovations
in American Government program last year when Bloomberg
appointed him, describing him as “a superstar in every
respect.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  