-- 
NYSE Glitch Halts Derivatives Trading, Updates

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-04T16:24:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/nyse-says-fault-halted-some-derivatives-trades-equity-index-price-updates.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said a computer
malfunction suspended derivatives trading on its Liffe market
and halted price updates on its European stock indexes for
almost an hour as equities plunged the most in 15 months.  Derivatives trading resumed at 6:10 p.m. in Paris and
gauges in Paris, Brussels, Lisbon and Amsterdam were suspended
from 4:28 p.m. to 5:20 p.m., NYSE Euronext said on its website
today. Trading in individual equities was unaffected. The Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index tumbled 3.4 percent to 243.3, the biggest drop
since May 7, 2010, amid concern the global economy is weakening.  “For the system to be down today is a total disaster,”
said Lex Van Dam, a London-based  fund manager  at Hampstead
Capital LLP, which oversees $500 million. “This is a really
scary market. It’s so busy and for people not to be able to get
out of their positions or hedge on today of all days is really
terrible.”  NYSE Euronext matches equity trades on its Universal
Trading Platform while  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , with which it’s
seeking to merge, uses its Xetra technology and is developing a
new system for all its markets. The two exchanges have said they
will seek to save more than 51 million euros ($72 million) by
having common trading and clearing infrastructure and combining
networks. They haven’t said whose systems they will use after
the takeover is completed.  Euribor Futures  The Liffe system that went down today halted trading in
short-term interest rate derivatives including Euribor futures
and contracts based on FTSE indexes. Contracts that passed their
settlement time will be settled at 6:30 p.m. Paris time, the
exchange said.  Today’s fault was the sixth in less than two months for
NYSE Euronext. The company’s equity indexes in  France ,  Belgium ,
 Portugal  and the Netherlands didn’t update for almost two hours
on July 29 and 3 1/2 hours on July 12.  That followed a June 27 glitch that stopped trading in CAC
40 stocks for more than 45 minutes and two incidents the
previous week that delayed the start of trading by an hour in
Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Luxembourg and Lisbon and halted
transactions in the largest Dutch and Belgian stocks.  NYSE Euronext, formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007,
has cited improving computer systems as a goal of its
combination with Deutsche Boerse, first announced in February.
The transaction will give  Deutsche Boerse  60 percent of the
combined entity, while NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  will run the organization.  Italy’s FTSE MIB Index also stopped updating today,
according to Borsa Italiana, which is owned by London Stock
Exchange Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  