-- 
Hoarding Gold Beats Charts Over 25 Years: Technical Analysis

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hoarding-gold-beats-charts-over-25-years-technical-analysis.html
A buy-and-hold strategy for gold made
investors more money during the past quarter century than any
 technical analysis  tool.  While ichimoku chart, moving average oscillator,
directional movement indicator and variable moving average
techniques as much as doubled profits since August 1986, holding
onto bullion would have boosted investors’ money more than
fourfold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The returns
from buying the metal and using 22 other individual strategies
that use chart patterns don’t account for trading costs.  Gold rose to a record $1,681.65 an ounce yesterday and is
set for an 11th straight annual gain, the longest winning streak
since at least 1920. Central banks are expanding their  gold
reserves  for the first time in a generation, joining billionaire
investors including  John Paulson  in accumulating the metal.
While a buy-and-hold technique does well in bull markets,
technical traders can make money when prices rise and fall.  “Increasingly investors are buying gold as a buy-and-hold
rather than a buy-and-trade,” said Jeffrey Nichols,  New York- 
based senior economic adviser to Rosland Capital LLC. “Gold has
been in a long-term bull market for many years and I think it
will remain in a long-term bull market for at least several more
years. There are technical tools that traders will use for
trading and sometimes they work and sometimes they don’t.”  Chart Patterns  While holding bullion would have made money in all of the
past 11 quarters, more and more people may be turning to charts
to help them trade. The  Society of Technical Analysts  said its
membership jumped 60 percent since June 2002. In technical
analysis, investors and analysts study charts of trading
patterns and prices to predict changes in an asset or security.  Using ichimoku charts, developed by Goichi Hosoda in the
late 1930s before he released the findings in the 1960s,
returned the most for copper and platinum in the past 25 years,
the data show. Wheat gave the biggest profits using a moving
average oscillator, while crude oil and silver fared best when
using a buy-and-hold strategy.  Gold surged more than sixfold since the end of 2000,
beating the 9.3 percent gain in the MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities and a 78 percent return on Treasuries, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Debt woes in  Europe  and
the U.S. and concern over slower growth helped push the metal to
all-time highs in euros and pounds this week. Bullion traded at
$1,679.80 an ounce by 3:18 p.m. in London yesterday.  ‘Peculiar’ Gold  Paulson & Co. is the largest shareholder in the SPDR Gold
Trust, the biggest exchange-traded product backed by gold, with
a stake now valued at $5 billion.  Warren Buffett , with a net
worth of $50 billion, says the metal has no utility.  “They take it out of the ground in  South Africa , ship it
to the  Federal Reserve , where they put it back in the ground,”
Buffett said in answer to a question about commodities on April
30 at Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska .
“If you were watching from Mars you might think it’s a little
peculiar.”  The buy-and-hold strategy hasn’t always been the best for
gold. The ichimoku method, which uses a cloud and lines based on
median prices to provide what some investors refer to as a
“chart at a glance,” returned the most profit since August
2007, the data show. The Williams %R momentum indicator was the
best tool in the five years through 1992.  Investors holding gold make money when prices are rising.
Still, using technical analysis allows traders to profit from
dips in a bull market or when an asset fluctuates, said  Axel Rudolph , a technical strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .
Those studying charts tend to use a combination of indicators
and levels to form both short- and long-term forecasts,
increasing the chance of making a more informed trade, he said.  Technical Charts  “The advantage of technical charts compared to buy-and-
hold is that you can get out in periods when the market
underperforms, and even for gold there is seasonality, so with
technical analysis you can fine tune it all,” Rudolph said.
“The more different technical tools you use which all give you
the same picture, then the higher the probability is that you’re
going to be right.”  While nearly all techniques have default settings designed
for a range of assets, users can make adjustments to suit
different markets and trends and potentially make more money. A
relative strength index typically uses key high and low levels
of 70 and 30 derived from averaging gains or losses over 14
days, though traders can widen or narrow the gap depending on
the strength of the market, for example.  Gold will reach $1,938 in 2012, according to the median in
a survey last month of the four most-accurate precious-metals
forecasters tracked by Bloomberg over the past two years.  “There are more retail investors coming into the market”
for a protection of wealth, said Nichols, who is also managing
director of American Precious Metals Advisors. “Retail
investors tend to hold onto these investments for a longer
period of time.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  