-- 
Obama Sets Up Board and New Steps to Prevent Mass Atrocities

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-08-04T16:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/obama-sets-up-board-and-new-steps-to-prevent-mass-atrocities-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
creating a government board that will help create an early
warning system to prevent mass atrocities and genocide.  The goal is to set up a system to pick up “early warning
signs” so that working with allies the U.S. can act more
quickly to head off or end mass killings, the president said in
a statement.  “Sixty-six years since the Holocaust and 17 years after
Rwanda, the U.S. still lacks a comprehensive policy framework
and a corresponding interagency mechanism for preventing and
responding to mass atrocities and genocide,” Obama’s
declaration said.  “This has left us ill-prepared to engage early,
proactively, and decisively to prevent threats from evolving
into large-scale civilian atrocities.”  The board includes representatives of the departments of
State, Treasury, Defense, Justice and Homeland Security among
others, according to the statement.  In a separate document, the president directed the
government bar U.S. entry of persons “who organize or
participate in  war crimes , crimes against humanity, and serious
violations of human rights”  This would ensure that the nation doesn’t become a “safe
haven for human rights violators or those responsible for other
atrocities,” the White House statement said.  Directives to tighten procedures come amid mass violence in
such regions as  Ivory Coast ,  Libya  and  Sudan . “Preventing mass
atrocities and genocide is a core national security interest and
a core moral responsibility of the U.S.,” Obama’s declaration
said.  The Atrocities Prevention Board must be established within
120 days after officials take a 100-day inventory, led by
National Security Adviser Tom Donilon, of the economic,
diplomatic and other tools to prevent atrocities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  