-- 
Obama Tells Donors Debt Debate Shows Stakes in 2012 Election

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-04T17:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/obama-celebrates-50th-birthday-at-chicago-campaign-fundraiser.html
President  Barack Obama  told
supporters at a hometown fundraiser last night that the debt
ceiling debate in Washington “sets the stage” for the 2012
election.  “This episode was just a severe example of what has been
going on for quite some time, and it’s part of what led me to
run for president,” he told about 100 donors at a dinner on the
eve of his 50th birthday at a Chicago concert hall. The events
of the past two weeks, he said, illustrate “not only how tough
it’s going to be, but exactly what’s at stake.”  He addressed the dinner guests and approximately 2,400
other contributors at a separate event earlier one day after he
signed a measure raising the federal debt ceiling and trimming
the nation’s long-term deficit. Obama sought to persuade his
backers that his strategy in the budget fight is the right one.  “We have made a legitimate down payment on deficit
reduction in a way that’s actually responsible, that is not
going to dismantle the social safety net,” Obama said.
Republicans, he said, are “single-minded in their focus” to
shrink government by cutting federal spending.  Obama called the last two weeks in  Washington  leading up to
the Aug. 2 final passage of the debt-ceiling bill
“extraordinary.” He added, “It’s not the kind of
extraordinary the American people are looking for.”  Discontent  Some Democratic Party activists are expressing
disappointment in the deal Obama struck with Republicans to
avert a government default on its obligations. That may
complicate Obama’s attempts to recreate the enthusiasm
supporters brought to his 2008 campaign.  “Liberals are disgruntled. I can see them playing a little
harder to get when it comes to writing checks,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the Washington-based Rothenberg Political
Report. “He’s going to raise the same amount of money that he
would have anyway. It will just be a more uncomfortable process
for Obama fundraisers.”  The drawn-out stalemate over how to trim the deficit by as
much as $2.4 trillion over 10 years also forced Obama to cancel
10 planned fundraisers while he stayed in Washington.  Still, Obama raised more than $86 million in the quarter
ending June 30, eclipsing the combined haul of the 2012
Republican field.  Impact of Economy  Obama also is putting renewed emphasis on economic growth
at campaign and official events. At the dinner for high-dollar
donors following his concert hall remarks, Obama said the
bruising battle over the debt ceiling and deficit reduction was
“part of what led me to run for president.”  The jobless rate will remain at 9.2 percent in July when
the Labor Department releases the figure tomorrow, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
administration and private economists forecast the rate will be
above 8 percent on Election Day in 2012.  Obama told the larger audience that he ran for the White
House in 2008 to make sure the economy wasn’t “just for those
at the very top but that we have broad-based and shared
prosperity, from the machinist on the line to the CEO in the
boardroom.”  Obama’s re-election chances hinge on  job creation , said
Rothenberg.  “If jobs aren’t coming back and if the economy looks
weaker not stronger, there’s nothing to sell,” Rothenberg said.
“If we didn’t see a dramatic increase in jobs but the American
public felt optimistic, that would be good enough. The problem
is, there’s a direct relationship between the public mood and
the shape of the economy and prospects of the economy.”  Stocks Fall  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index S&P 500 fell 2.6 percent to
1,227.34 at 1:12 p.m. in New York, a 10 percent drop from its
April 29 peak and weakest level in nine months, while two-year
Treasury yields plunged to a record low amid concern the economy
is weakening.  Yields on 10-year notes dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 2.50 percent at 12:21 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. U.S. 30-year bond
yields dropped 12 basis points to 3.78 percent and two-year note
yields fell five basis points to 0.28 percent, after touching a
record low 0.2645 percent.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus cited
Obama’s fundraising to criticize the president’s performance.  “The fundraiser in chief is back in Chicago doing the
thing that he’s really good at and that’s raising money to save
his job,” Priebus said in a statement. “This president, while
he’s in love with the sound of his own voice, he’s not in love
with following through on his promises.”  Hudson, Hancock  The festivities featured performances by  Chicago  natives,
singer Jennifer Hudson and jazz pianist Herbie Hancock, and were
held at the Aragon Entertainment Center, a Spanish-style concert
hall on the city’s North Side that can accommodate up to 4,500
people. Ticket prices ranged from $50 to the legal maximum limit
of $35,800.  The money will go to the Obama Victory Fund 2012, a joint
Obama campaign and  Democratic National Committee  fund, according
to an Obama campaign official. Obama’s campaign can accept
$5,000 of each $35,800 contribution.  Obama’s adopted home has been a steady source of political
and financial support. In the 2008 campaign,  Illinois  was second
only to  California  for the total number of Obama “bundlers,”
the teams of people who solicit money from wide circles of
donors, according to the Washington-based  Center for Responsive
Politics . There were 97 from California, 86 from Illinois and 82
from New York.  The campaign was also test-driving a new media strategy:
For the first time the president used technology created by
 Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , a computer software product and technology
development company, to speak with supporters at more than 1,100
organizing meetings across the country simultaneously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  