-- 
Octopus Investments Plans $196 Million Solar Fund for Business

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-08-04T15:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/octopus-investments-plans-196-million-solar-fund-for-business.html
Octopus Investments Ltd. , a London-
based investor in renewable energy, plans to open a 120 million-
pound ($196 million) fund in the U.K. to finance rooftop solar
panels on business properties.  The fund, financed by retail investors, will be ready by
Dec. 31, Nick Boyle, chief executive officer of Octopus’s
 Lightsource Renewable Energy  unit, said today by telephone. As
many as six companies may benefit from the fund by fitting the
solar panels, he said.  The U.K. has already promoted residential solar projects.
Centrica Plc’s British Gas unit, EON AG and Solar Century
Holdings Ltd. are among companies that have offered free rooftop
installations to households to benefit from state incentives
that ensure premium rates for renewable electricity. The U.K.
reduced rates for large solar projects in a fast-track review
this year to focus available funds on smaller rooftop projects.  “The government wants to focus on a larger number of
smaller installations, so a larger number of individuals
benefit, and that’s where we’re focusing,” Boyle said.  Each installation funded by Octopus will have a capacity of
as much as 50 kilowatts, and the total power output from all the
projects will be as much as 40 megawatts, the company said in an
e-mail. There are 1,000 kilowatts in a megawatt.  Octopus has invested about 100 million pounds in U.K. solar
projects so far, Managing Director Paul Latham said by telephone
last month. It connected 11 projects totaling 30 megawatts of
capacity before an Aug. 1 government deadline, allowing them to
qualify for the large-project premium rates before the tariffs
were cut by as much as 71 percent. Octopus is now the U.K.’s
largest solar investor, it said in a July 28 statement.  Freetricity Deal  Freetricity Plc , a London-based clean-energy company, is
one of the candidates for the funding, Freetricity said in a
statement yesterday.  “We want businesses to see solar as a genuine alternative
to traditional energy,”  Paul Williams , CEO of Freetricity, said
yesterday by telephone. Lightsource and Octopus may complete a
deal with Freetricity as early as this month, and installations
may begin in October, Boyle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  