-- 
Ohio’s Kasich Readies for Spending Cuts If Faltering Economy Clips Revenue

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ohio-s-kasich-prepares-for-cuts-if-balky-economy-pinches-revenue.html
Ohio Governor  John Kasich  stands
ready to cut state spending if revenue slows as the economy
sputters following what the former congressman called the
“chaos” surrounding the debt-ceiling debate in  Washington .  Kasich, 59, a first-term Republican, has told his budget
director to monitor revenue collections so any emerging deficit
can be averted, he said yesterday in a telephone interview. The
seventh most-populous state passed a two-year budget in June
that closed an $8 billion deficit.  “We have to watch this, and I don’t want to get ourselves
in a position of where we whistle past the graveyard and find
ourselves in a hole,” Kasich said from Columbus. “Any sort of
reductions are not pleasant, but we’re not going to go back in
the hole.”  Ohio ’s preparations may be followed by other states,
according to Brian Sigritz, director of state fiscal studies at
the  National Association of State Budget Officers . While he said
he hasn’t heard other governors expressing concern that spending
cuts may be needed this year, the condition of the economy and
the effects of federal aid reductions worry policy makers. Most
states including Ohio began fiscal 2012 last month.  “Depending on what happens with the national economy, you
could potentially be looking at more midyear spending cuts for
states,” Sigritz said by telephone from Washington.  Previous Cuts  Twenty-three states took such steps in fiscal 2011, down
from 39 in 2010 and 43 in 2009, Sigritz said. Combined state
revenue in 2012 is projected to trail 2008 levels by $24
billion, or 3.6 percent, he said.  The “chaos” surrounding the deal passed by Congress and
signed by President Barack Obama this week to avoid a U.S.
default on its debts unsettled the public and companies, Kasich
said. That is contributing, combined with the faltering economy,
to pressure against business investment and hiring, he said.  “Thank God we didn’t default, but I think people are not
satisfied with this agreement,” said Kasich, a former head of
the Budget Committee in the  House of Representatives  who helped
craft a balanced federal spending plan in 1997. “I’m very
concerned about Washington, their inability to solve problems.”  Ohio’s revenue last month was on target, Kasich said. Yet
he remains concerned that collections may weaken.  “You look at things and if you have to, you trim along the
way,” he said. “I’m not saying we will, but I’m also saying I
don’t walk us past a real serious problem only to face it later
in the fiscal year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  