-- 
Money Market Rates Fall Below Zero as Treasury Bills Retain Haven Demand

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-04T19:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/money-market-rates-fall-below-zero-as-treasury-bills-retain-haven-demand.html
Money market rates, which surged
during the debate to raise the federal borrowing cap, dropped
below zero percent as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis bolstered
U.S. government securities’ appeal as the world’s safest assets.  Demand for short-term government debt instruments is rising
as Treasury bills are expected to remain in short supply after
the U.S. signaled yesterday it won’t increase sales of the
securities even following lawmakers’ agreement to raise the debt
ceiling. Interest also was stoked when Bank of New York Mellon,
the world’s largest custodial bank, said it will begin charging
clients for “extraordinarily high” cash deposits.  “We are back at square one in terms of where we were two,
three or four weeks ago, before the debt-limit debate
escalated,” Jerome Schneider, head the short-term strategies
and money markets desk at  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview.
“Market participants remain vigilant of the risks coming from
Europe. And as investors adjust their credit appetite, the
opportunity set of other short-term money market assets to own
will become increasingly limited.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
today the ECB has resumed bond purchases and will offer banks
more cash to stop the region’s sovereign-debt crisis from
engulfing Italy and  Spain .  One-Month Rates  One-month Treasury bill rates traded at zero percent today
after earlier falling to negative 0.0102 percent. They closed
yesterday at 0.0051 percent yesterday and reached 0.1825 percent
on July 29, the highest since February 2009.  Overnight general-collateral Treasury repurchase-agreement
rates averaged 0.07 percent through 2:50 p.m.  New York  time,
according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker,
unchanged from yesterday. That was down from 0.32 percent on
Aug. 1.  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill Aug. 2 to raise the
 U.S. debt  limit by at least $2.1 trillion, averting by hours a
first-ever U.S. default. Investors still speculated the nation’s
credit rating may be cut. Yields on Italian and Spanish bonds
climbed to records this week as investors sought a refuge from
Europe’s debt turmoil, boosting demand for Treasuries.  “There has been a confluence of factors this week that
have been really bullish for front-end rates, starting with the
passage of the debt-ceiling increase that took Treasury default
risk off the table,” said Brian Smedley, a strategist in New
York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an interview.
“Investors have started to move back into  money market funds ,
and fund managers are also putting cash to work that was on the
sidelines.”  ‘Excess Amounts’  Bank of New York Mellon’s announcement that it will begin
charging clients a 13 basis point fee for “excess amounts of
cash” helped accelerate the repricing of short-term U.S.
government securities, Smedley said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The bank, in an Aug. 2 note to clients, said its deposits
are surging as “investors en-masse de-risk and become highly
liquid.” As markets stabilize and cash levels drop, “it is
likely this fee will no longer be necessary,” the bank said in
an e-mailed statement.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 3 percent, and
Treasury two-year yields fell to a record low amid concern the
economy is weakening. The yen slid the most since 2008 against
the dollar after  Japan  sold the currency to weaken it.  Swiss Central Bank  Yesterday, the  Swiss National Bank  unexpectedly cut
 interest rates  and said it will increase the supply of francs to
money markets to curb the “massively overvalued” franc,
pushing the currency, typically purchased as a haven, down from
a record 76.10 centimes per dollar.  The balance in the Treasury’s Supplemental Financing
Program, known as SFP, declined to zero in July, the department
 said yesterday  as it outlined details of next week’s quarterly
refunding auctions.  ‘At this time, Treasury does not plan to resume auctions of
bills under the SFP in the near term,” the announcement said,
adding that the department retains the “flexibility” to
increase the SFP size in the future.  The Treasury had sold SFP bills on behalf of the  Federal
Reserve  as part of the central bank’s efforts to prop up the
financial system. The department began in February gradually
allowing its $200 billion worth of 56-day SFP bills to diminish
as they matured to help avoid exceeding the U.S. debt limit.  Default Risks Ebb  Short-term bill and repo rates will also soften further as
the risks associated with a U.S. debt default have ebbed,
Pimco’s Schneider said. Rates had soared at the start of the
week as investors were wary of longer-term U.S. debt while the
risk of default remained.  The average rate for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.12 percent yesterday, down from 0.16
percent the day before. The rate had fallen to as low as 0.06
percent from July 12 through July 26, the least this year. That
compares with the central bank’s target rate for overnight loans
between banks of zero to 0.25 percent. The rate opened at 0.12
percent today.  Treasury bills as a percentage of the government’s total
debt portfolio have fallen to 16 percent as of June 30, down
from as high as about 35 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008,
and an average of 24 percent from 2000 through 2007, the
Treasury showed in a chart on page 13 of its discussion material
released yesterday with refunding documents.  “Bills will still be relatively scarce, given how stiff
the liquidity requirements are around the world that everyone
faces now,” said  Lou Crandall , the chief economist at
Wrightson, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based unit of ICAP that
specializes in U.S. government finance research. “High-quality
short-term assets are generally in short supply. The fed
effective rate will likely fall back to single digits by the end
of the week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  