-- 
ONGC Plans Nuclear Plants in India, Starts Uranium Exploration

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-08-04T07:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ongc-plans-nuclear-plants-in-india-starts-uranium-exploration.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, plans to invest in nuclear plants in
the country and has started mining for uranium to counter
declining crude production.  The company is in talks with Nuclear Power Corp. of India,
the state-owned monopoly, on a potential partnership, ONGC
Chairman A.K. Hazarika said by telephone from  New Delhi  today.  “It’s very much a demand story and we would want to be
helping meet most of India’s energy demand,” Hazarika said.
“We are looking to get into related businesses for our next
phase of growth.”  ONGC’s domestic production of crude oil and natural gas has
declined as fields that are more than three decades old run out
of reserves.  Asia ’s third-biggest economy reaffirmed plans to
boost nuclear power generation about 13-fold by 2030 to bridge
an energy shortfall after conducting a safety review that was
triggered by  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster.  “Given India’s power demand and ONGC’s own declining oil
production, nuclear is an opportunity,” said  Alok Deshpande , a
Mumbai-based analyst at Elara Securities Ltd., which has an
“accumulate” rating on ONGC shares. “Rewards may only start
coming in the long term because the process of setting up
nuclear plants is long and very highly regulated.”  ONGC may buy stakes in Nuclear Power’s projects and hasn’t
decided if it will invest in existing stations or planned ones,
Hazarika said.  Shares Decline  ONGC fell 0.4 percent to 276 rupees at 12:51 p.m. in Mumbai
trading. The stock has dropped 14 percent this year compared
with a 13 percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest crude oil refiner,
will invest 9.61 billion rupees ($216 million) in a plant being
built with Nuclear Power, former oil minister Murli Deora said
Nov. 18. National Aluminium Co. will form a venture with Nuclear
Power to set up a 1,400 megawatt station in Gujarat state,
Chairman B.L. Bagra said May 2.  ONGC hasn’t ascertained the size of its planned investment,
Hazarika said, declining to say when a decision would be taken.
The company had about 190 billion rupees of cash as of June 30,
he said.  “Money will not be a problem,” the chairman said. “The
important thing is to be able to grow. We are generally looking
to get into all kinds of clean energy businesses.”  Uranium Mining  The state-run company has started mining for uranium in the
Cauvery area in the south Indian state of  Tamil Nadu  in
partnership with Uranium Corp. of India and plans to explore in
Andhra Pradesh state, he said.  ONGC approved a plan to build a 102 megawatt wind farm in
Rajasthan state, the company said in July last year. The
government may ask the company to work on the nation’s first
offshore wind project, Renewable Energy Ministry Secretary
Deepak Gupta said Feb. 17.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  reviewed safety measures at
the nation’s atomic projects before deciding India wouldn’t
waver from its planned nuclear expansion. Countries from  Germany 
to  China  to Japan said they would review or scale back their
programs after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami triggered
radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima station,
the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in the former  Soviet
Union  in 1986.  Nuclear Power currently has 20 reactors that can generate
4,780 megawatts, or 2.7 percent of India’s total installed
capacity of 176,990 megawatts as of June 30. The country plans
to increase its nuclear capacity to 60 gigawatts by 2030,
according to the Planning Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  