-- 
Monsanto to Sell Biotech Sweet Corn for U.S. Consumers

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-08-04T18:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/monsanto-to-introduce-engineered-sweet-corn-in-u-s-this-year.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest
vegetable seed maker, said it will begin selling genetically
modified sweet corn in the U.S. this year, the first product it
has developed for the consumer market.  The sweet corn seeds are engineered to kill insects living
above and below ground and to tolerate applications of the
company’s Roundup herbicide, Consuelo Madere, Monsanto vice
president for vegetables, told reporters at company headquarters
in St. Louis today. They will be introduced to growers serving
the U.S. fresh corn market starting in the autumn, she said.  Monsanto previously sold only engineered crops that are
processed into sugars and oils, used as  animal feed  or made into
fibers. The new seeds will initially target the 250,000-acre
market for fresh corn in the eastern U.S., Madere said. Monsanto
is in discussions with companies that would can or freeze the
corn, she said.  Monsanto will compete with pest-killing sweet corn seeds
that  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  of Switzerland has sold for more than a decade,
she said.  Sweet corn is a much smaller market than the market for
grain corn, which is forecast to be planted on 90.7 million
acres this year, according to U.S. Agriculture Department data.  Monsanto currently sells squash that has been engineered to
resist viruses, a product that came with its 2005 acquisition of
Seminis.  Developing biotech vegetables costs about $100 million and
requires a decade to reach the market, Madere said. Monsanto
spends more than 95 percent of its vegetable research on
conventional breeding in 23 crops, she said. Conventional-
breeding projects include tomatoes that taste better and resist
viruses, sweeter melons, crisper romaine lettuce and blight-
resistant peppers, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in  St. Louis  at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  