-- 
Ontario Pressures McGraw-Hill as Teachers’ Pension Needs Rise

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-08-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ontario-teachers-pressures-mcgraw-hill-as-pension-fund-searches-for-yield.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. may be forced to
sell its education business, and some of the pressure is coming
from Canadian teachers seeking to bolster their pension.  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  disclosed on Aug. 1 that
it’s working with hedge fund Jana Partners to press New York-
based McGraw-Hill for changes that would boost the share price.
The company’s units, which include Standard & Poor’s and J.D.
Power & Associates, are worth about a third more when separated
than they are under the roof of 123-year-old McGraw Hill, said
William Bird, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets.  The move into public shareholder activism is an unusual
step for Ontario Teachers’, and highlights the need for pension
plans to invest more aggressively to meet rising liabilities.
Teachers’, which in the past has shunned high-profile activist
investments in favor of deals with investors suchs as Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista  to buy stakes in companies and build
them up, has to pay two retirees for every three teachers still
working, compared with 20 workers for every two retirees in
1970.  “It’s unusual that they’re out there in this way trying to
influence what management does,” said  Steven Kaplan , a
professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
“They’re taking the strategy from private equity to the hedge
funds.”  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for Teachers’, declined to
comment on McGraw-Hill beyond the government filing.  Education Drag  McGraw-Hill, founded in 1888 by Chief Executive Officer
Terry McGraw’s great-grandfather, James H. McGraw, has struggled
to regain its 2007 stock-price peak of $71.96. Investors would
benefit if the company were to separate its education business,
whose growth has stalled, from more profitable financial-
information units, said  Ed Atorino , an analyst at Benchmark Co.
in  New York .  “The education business is clearly holding it back,”
Atorino said in a telephone interview. “That would be a logical
division of McGraw-Hill that  Wall Street  has been talking to
Terry McGraw about for years.”  Teachers’ and Jana’s combined stake, at 5.2 percent, may
not be enough to dictate the publisher’s strategy, Atorino also
said.  Aside from its education and bond-rating businesses,
McGraw-Hill’s financial division sells the S&P indexes, equity
research and products for valuation and risk strategies and
quantitative analysis. J.D. Power & Associates is a marketing
information services company. In 2009, the company agreed to
sell BusinessWeek magazine to Bloomberg LP, the owner of
Bloomberg News.  Breakup Value  Other units include Platts, which provides energy and
commodities information, Aviation Week, with publications on
airlines, aerospace and defense, and McGraw-Hill Construction, a
specialty publisher for builders and architects. McGraw-Hill
Broadcasting owns local television channels in  California ,
 Colorado  and  Indiana .  The units are worth about $50 a share, 21 percent above the
closing price of $41.41 on Aug. 1, Atorino said. Bird at Lazard
Capital Markets put the breakup value at about $55 a share, 33
percent more, in a note Aug. 1. The value could climb to $70 if
McGraw-Hill buys back stock and sells businesses at a premium,
he said.  McGraw-Hill rose 22 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $44.65 at 4
p.m. yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock gained 7.3 percent on Aug. 2 after Jana and Teachers’ made
their filing. It has gained 23 percent this year.  Relationship Investing  Teachers’, which managed C$107.5 billion ($112 billion) as
of the end of 2010, owns a stake in McGraw-Hill equaling about
2.9 percent of the shares outstanding, according to the filing.
The pension owns some shares directly and some through a
separate account managed by Jana, the filing said.  The relationship investing unit, part of Teachers’ public
equities business, is managed by William Royan, a former
executive at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. who joined Teachers’ in 2008.  Royan and Jana’s Barry Rosenstein are scheduled to meet
with McGraw-Hill Chairman Terry McGraw next week to discuss
their ideas for the publisher, two people familiar with the
matter said.  Teachers’ has pursued a strategy of direct investing for
almost two decades, pressing to maximize returns in areas such
as private equity and real estate. Doing its own investing helps
Teachers’ avoid fees that private-equity managers charge,
typically 2 percent annually and 20 percent of profits, a
structure known as “2 and 20.”  Funding Shortfall  The pension does make investments in, and pay the requisite
fees to, a small number of private-equity and  hedge funds  that
have expertise it can’t easily replicate in-house, including
media specialist Providence Equity Partners Inc. and technology
investor  Silver Lake Partners , as well as Jana, which works on
activist deals like McGraw-Hill.  The need for higher returns is more than academic for
Teachers’, where liabilities are growing faster than assets.
That’s because the ratio of working members to retirees dropped
to 1.5 to 1 in 2010, from 10 to 1 in 1970. Benefit payments
exceeded contributions by $1.8 billion last year, according to
the pension’s annual report, which is posted on its website.  Teachers’ on July 6 said the government and the teachers’
federation approved a plan to address a C$17.2 billion
shortfall, which includes a contribution rate increase and
smaller cost-of-living increases for some pensioners.  Turning Sour  Ontario Teachers’ relationship investing division was an
early backer of low-cost carrier  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , and
energy and resources companies including Sherritt International
Corp., OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and Nexen Inc. The
team has established a history of working cooperatively with
management, according to Teachers’ website.  The fund invested in Brazilian mining company MMX Mineracao
e Metalicos SA in 2006, and worked with management and provided
capital to help build a logistics company, LLX Logistica SA,
which has traded publicly since mid-2008.  In 2008 Teachers’ joined investors led by Corsair Capital
LLC in the $7 billion recapitalization of Cleveland-based bank
National City Corp. Later that year, Ohio’s largest bank was
sold to PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  Last year, what began as a cordial relationship turned sour
with Toronto-based  Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI)  Royan and Wayne Kozun,
who oversees all of the pension’s public equities investments,
resigned from Maple Leaf Foods’ board of directors and sold its
stake in the firm, after Teachers’ publicly opposed a so-called
poison pill provision that the company sought to put in place.  Poison Pill  Teachers’, through Royan’s relationship investing group, is
currently part of a group of banks and pensions that’s offering
to buy Toronto Stock Exchange owner TMX Group Inc.  Teachers’ said in April it had a 14 percent return on its
investments in 2010, the best performance in the fund’s history
according to Leech. The pension manages the benefits of 178,000
teachers at secondary and elementary schools in the province,
the country’s most populous, as well as 117,000 pensioners.  While it dates to 1917, it was made an independent entity
in 1990. Since then, the pension has moved toward making most of
its investments directly and about 60 percent of its private-
equity deals are managed in-house instead of through third-party
funds. Building that expertise has given Teachers’ confidence to
expand its horizons, especially as returns become more
important,  University of Chicago ’s Kaplan said.  “They pick funds that are very good, and they have their
own people to analyze deals,” he said. “It’s very consistent
with private equity. The economic motivation is the same.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  