-- 
Moody’s Reaffirms Top Ratings of Issuers Tied to U.S.

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-04T17:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/moody-s-reaffirms-top-ratings-of-localities-tied-to-u-s-credit.html
(Corrects Fitch outlook on U.S. in fourth paragraph.)  Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed
its top ratings for five states, including Maryland and  South
Carolina , and 303 municipal credits that were at risk of being
downgraded along with the federal government.  The ratings company assigned a negative outlook to the
states, municipalities, special districts and nonprofits that
depend the most on the federal government for revenue and
employment. Moody’s took the same action for U.S. debt and
assigned a negative outlook Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama  signed into law a plan to raise the national debt limit
and cut spending over 10 years.  “In order to have a stable outlook, an issuer will need to
have credit quality that could be expected to remain higher than
that of the U.S. government in the event that the sovereign were
downgraded,” Moody’s said in a statement.  Fitch Ratings  also affirmed its top rating for the federal
government, with a stable outlook. Moody’s said the outlook was
negative, warning that a faltering economy and political battles
over debt-reduction measures would jeopardize the grade.  Maryland, South Carolina, New Mexico, Tennessee and
Virginia, which account for $24 billion of general-obligation
and related debt, were the states that had their top ratings
confirmed and outlook revised. The states rely on the federal
government for grants, contracts and employment, Moody’s said.  University of Washington   Other issuers affected include the University of Washington
in Seattle and Montgomery County, Maryland, which issued debt
this week.  Ten other top-rated states were exempted from scrutiny
because they are less dependent on  Washington , according to
Moody’s.  In an earlier statement, Moody’s confirmed Aaa ratings for
7,000 top-rated municipal credits and financial institutions
backed by the federal government:  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac , the
 Federal Home Loan Banks  and the Federal Farm Credit Banks. The
ratings agency said the municipals had about $130 billion in
municipal debt.  The company rates 15 states Aaa. It also gives top marks to
440 local governments, 100 state housing-bond programs, and 43
higher-education and nonprofit institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  