-- 
Hooters Casino Hotel Owner Wins Approval to Use Cash During Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-04T22:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hooters-casino-hotel-owner-wins-approval-to-use-cash-during-bankruptcy.html
The owner of  Hooters Casino Hotel  on
the  Las Vegas Strip  won court permission to keep operating in
bankruptcy using cash it holds that is claimed as collateral by
the company’s biggest creditor.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell in Las Vegas gave
the company, 155 East Tropicana LLC, temporary permission to
keep using the cash to operate the casino while it tries to
reorganize. Markell said he was skeptical about whether the
company should take time and resources to fight with the
creditor, Canpartners Realty Holding Co. IV LLC, in court over
an interest rate dispute because the casino appeared in such
deep financial trouble.  “Either you give up the keys pretty quickly, or you get a
consensual plan or you come up with some new value,” Markell
said in court, outlining what he said appeared to be the
company’s options.  The casino owners filed bankruptcy Aug. 1, blaming a drop
in visitors to  Las Vegas  since the recession. The company tried
unsuccessfully to negotiate a deal with Canpartners before the
bankruptcy, East Tropicana said in court documents. To stop
Canpartners from foreclosing on the Hooters Casino, the owner
filed bankruptcy, it said in court documents.  The casino owner is not affiliated with the owner of the
Hooters’ trademark, HI Limited Partnership, according to court
papers.  Owed $177 Million  Canpartners had objected to the use of the cash, accusing
the company of moving $9 million to a new bank account to avoid
collateral controls imposed by a loan agreement. Canpartners
said in court papers the casino company owes it about $177
million.  Canpartners paid $28 million for 98.4 percent of the
second-lien senior notes issued by the casino owner in 2005,
East Tropicana said in court papers. Canpartners got a
“significant discount” on the notes, which hold a face value
of $127.5 million, East Tropicana said in court papers filed
Aug. 1. Canpartners also holds a $14.5 million first-lien loan
owed by the company.  The case is In re 155 East Tropicana LLC, 11-22216,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  