-- 
OPEC to Cut Exports as Global Demand Slows, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-04T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/opec-to-cut-exports-as-global-demand-slows-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will cut shipments by 0.7 percent as
consumption gains among OPEC nations and slows in other parts of
the world, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Exports will drop to 22.78 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to Aug. 20, the Halifax, England-based researcher
said today in a report. That compares with 22.93 million barrels
in the month to July 23. The data excludes  Ecuador  and Angola.
It’s the first reduction reported by Oil Movements since the
four weeks to July 16.  Demand among refiners in  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia 
typically slides during the third quarter as they perform
routine maintenance work before boosting output in the winter.
Manufacturing indexes in each of the three region fell in July
as the global recovery lost momentum.  “We’re seeing lower demand heading into the refinery
maintenance season,” Roy Mason, Oil Movements’ founder, said by
telephone. “The other part of the seasonal decline is that this
is peak season for domestic demand in the Gulf. The overall
message remains that crude demand looks relatively weak both
east and west.”  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will decline by 1.1 percent to 17.48
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Aug. 20, according to
Oil Movements estimates.  Crude on board tankers will average 472.87 million barrels
in the four week period, down 1.7 percent from 481.08 million in
the period to July 23, the researcher said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization will meet next on Dec.
14 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  