-- 
Mortgage-Bond Yields Tumble, Signaling Loan Rates Nearing Record

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-04T19:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/mortgage-bond-yields-tumble-signaling-home-loan-rates-nearing-record-lows.html
Yields on Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
mortgage securities that guide U.S. home-loan rates fell to the
lowest in almost nine months, signaling borrowing costs to
purchase and refinance houses may reach new lows.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate bonds
dropped 0.18 percentage point to 3.45 percent as of 3:05 p.m. in
New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields
tumbled to the lowest level since Nov. 10, generally tracking
drops in Treasuries, as concern the economy is slowing and
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis will spread drove investors to  U.S. debt .  The average rate on a typical 30-year home loan slumped to
4.39 percent in the week ended today, nearing the record low of
4.17 percent set in November, according to a Freddie Mac survey
compiled before the additional gains in the bonds. Falling rates
should in the short term help depress yields relative to
Treasuries on agency mortgage securities trading the closest to
face value, even though they may create wider spreads over time,
according to Nomura Securities International Inc. analysts.  The mortgage bonds’ relative performance over the longer
term may be “weak because of paydowns from the Fed’s portfolio,
but there are several short-term positive factors that exist,”
the New York-based analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi wrote yesterday
in a note, referring to the home-loan securities bought by the
 Federal Reserve  in 2009 and 2010 to support the economy.  Home Lending  Yields on agency mortgage bonds are now guiding rates on
almost all new U.S. home lending following the collapse of the
non-agency market in 2007 and a retreat by banks. The $5.3
trillion market includes securities guaranteed by government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the bonds of
government-insured loans backed by federal agency Ginnie Mae.  Lower borrowing costs have done little to boost home sales
as banks keep lending standards tight, the unemployment rate
sticks above 9 percent and a glut of foreclosed properties drag
down prices. Sales of previously owned homes declined in June to
a seven-month low, the National Association of Realtors said
last month. Home values in 20 U.S. cities dropped 4.5 percent in
the year ended in May, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  About 22.7 percent of homeowners with mortgages were
underwater in the first quarter, meaning they owe more than
their properties are worth, according to CoreLogic Inc., a
company that compiles mortgage market data and analytics.  Refinancing Applications  Depressed home prices and tougher standards have left
refinancing applications 45 percent below last year’s high and
72 percent off 2003’s record, according to Mortgage Bankers
Association data released yesterday. Further drops in rates may
stoke refinancing further by pushing new loan costs below the
levels in effect as borrowers qualified under stricter
guidelines in recent years. Refinance applications have climbed
about 50 percent from this year’s low in February.  Limited application volumes also mean that lender
competition isn’t easing as  interest rates  drop, a difference
from last year, when mortgage companies raised the rates they
offer to consumers relative to bond yields to suppress demand
for their services and keep their workloads manageable.  “This means that lower 10-year rates are translating into
lower  mortgage rates  in this rally faster than last time
around,” Bank of America Corp. analysts  Chris Flanagan  and
Vipul Jain wrote today in a report. “Therefore, we will most
likely reach record lows in 30-year mortgage rates that we saw
last year at a higher level” of 10-year Treasury yields.  ‘Underhedged’  Items that may help yields on mortgage bonds narrow
relative to Treasuries in the short term include loan servicers
being “underhedged” as the projected lives of their contracts
shorten and needing to add debt, and the increasing appeal of
“carry trades” to banks and real estate investment trusts amid
speculation the Fed will hold its target for short-term
borrowing costs at as low as zero for longer, according to the
Nomura analysts.  Carry trades involve using money borrowed in short-term
markets to invest in longer-term, higher yielding debt.  The difference between yields on the  Fannie Mae  current-
coupon securities, which most influence loan rates because they
trade closest to par, and 10-year Treasuries narrowed about 0.02
percentage point today to 0.98 percentage point, Bloomberg data
show.  The spread climbed to a two-year high of 1.04 percentage
point two day ago, amid concern that a default by or downgrade
of the U.S. government could roil the repurchase-agreement
financing markets used by mortgage-bond investors or lead to
forced sales of securities.  Projected Lives  As rates decline, the projected lives of mortgage bonds and
loan-servicing contracts fall, partly because potential
homeowner refinancing increases. Servicers and investors who own
the securities then have portfolios with shorter-than-expected
durations, which may prompt them to buy longer-dated Treasuries,
mortgage bonds or interest-rate swaps. Those purchases may send
yields on mortgage securities even lower.  As refinancing increases, the repayment of loans in
securities held by the Fed also rises, with borrowers taking out
new debt that gets placed into bonds trading in the market,
boosting the supply available to investors. The Fed now  holds 
about $900 billion of home-loan securities, after buying $1.25
trillion through March 2010 in a bid to support the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  