-- 
Lloyds Banking Slips to Loss on Irish Bad Loans, Redress for Mis-Selling

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-08-04T15:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/lloyds-banking-reports-3-78-billion-first-half-loss-on-its-loan-insurance.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, reported a first-half net loss after
Irish bad loan provisions increased, funding costs rose and the
lender set aside 3.2 billion pounds ($5.2 billion) to compensate
insurance customers.  The net loss was 2.31 billion pounds compared with a profit
of 596 million pounds in the first half of last year, the
London-based bank said in a statement today. That missed the
median loss of 2.2 billion pounds estimated by nine analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  Lloyds, 41 percent-government owned, said its net interest
margin, the difference between what it earns on loans and its
funding cost, shrank to 2.07 percent from 2.12 percent in the
same period of 2010. The shares slumped to the lowest in more
than two years.  “We’ve been seeing the effect on the margin of repaying
the relatively inexpensive government and central bank funding
and replacing that with more sustainable long-term funding for
the group,” Finance Director Tim Tookey said in a call with
journalists today.  Lloyds’s funding costs are rising as Chief Executive
Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 47, weans the bank off low-
interest government loans and onto costlier wholesale funding.
In June, the bank announced it was cutting 15,000 jobs to help
reduce costs by 1.5 billion pounds, in addition to the 27,000
roles slashed since its acquisition of HBOS Plc in 2008.  ‘Further Vulnerability’  The bank’s stock dropped 10 percent to 34.99 pence at the
close of London trading, its lowest since March 2009 and the
worst performance in the 46-member Bloomberg 500 Banks Index.
Barclays Plc dropped by 7.8 percent to 196 pence, its lowest
since April 2009 and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell by
6.1 percent, the lowest price since December 2009.  “Revenues are little bit better than expected,” said
Cormac Leech, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in London,
who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “The good news is offset
by higher-than-expected loan losses. Loan losses were
substantially worse than expected.”  Lloyds said another 11 percent of its 27.6 billion-pound
Irish loan book became impaired in the first six months and that
“further vulnerability exists.” The bank now has about 17.7
billion pounds of impaired Irish loans, 64 percent of its
overall holdings. Lloyds took a charge of 1.78 billion pounds in
the period.  A U.K.-based credit team has been established “to manage
the wind down of the Irish book; however the Irish market is
extremely illiquid with limited opportunities for disposals in
the short term,” Lloyds said in the statement.  Impairment Trends  There is no “material change” in impairment trends and
the bank is “comfortable” with its level of provisioning,
Horta-Osorio said during a meeting with analysts.  The overall impairment charge of 5.42 billion pounds for
the first half was about 580 million pounds more than forecast
by Credit Suisse AG analysts including Carla Antunes-Silva.  Lloyds sold 1.8 billion pounds of commercial real estate in
the first half and expects “further significant” sales in the
next six months, following divestments of 4 billion pounds for
all of 2010. The bank “remains cautious” on the outlook for
the market except for prime properties and those in central
 London .  British banks are compensating customers improperly sold
personal-loan insurance, which covers payments on credit cards
and mortgages in case of illness or unemployment. Clients who
bought the insurance rarely compared prices or terms and
sometimes were not covered by their policies.  Asset Sales  Barclays has set aside 1 billion pounds to cover claims,
while Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said it will earmark 850
million pounds on top of an existing 100 million-pound
provision.  Lloyds shares have fallen 42 percent since April when the
government-appointed  Independent Commission on Banking 
recommended the bank sell substantially more assets than the
planned sale of 632 branches. The commission issues its final
report on Sept. 12. Lloyds said today that the sale remains “on
track.”  Taxpayers are sitting on a 10.7 billion pound notional loss
on their 20.3 billion pound investment in Lloyds. The
government’s breakeven price, excluding fees received, is 73.6
pence a share. The bank’s shares are the worst-performing
British bank stock this year.  Loan-to-Deposit  “I have some concerns about the trajectory of the retail
net interest margin which declined substantially on the back of
increased wholesale funding costs,” said Joseph Dickerson, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in London. “It
remains to be seen their ability to pass on increases in funding
costs to customers in the current, competitive environment.”  The bank’s loan-to-deposit ratio improved to 144 percent
from 154 percent, indicating it lends 144 pence for every pound
of deposits it receives. It was 176 percent at the end of June
2009, and Horta-Osorio plans to reduce it to 130 percent.  Lloyds’s acquisition of HBOS in a government-brokered deal
as it neared collapse three years ago, forced it to accept the
taxpayer-funded bailout.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said this week it would eliminate 30,000
posts by the end of 2013, while Barclays Plc said it planned to
cut 3,000 employees in 2011 as revenue in  Europe  and the U.S.
slowed. Credit Suisse Group,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
have also announced job cuts in the past month.  The Financial Services Authority, the U.K. markets
regulator, has asked lenders to publish holdings of Belgian debt
amid concern the sovereign debt crisis is spreading. Lloyds
today said it had 405 million pounds of exposure to the country,
about 87 million pounds of which was in direct holdings of
government debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  