-- 
PennyMac Projects Tripling of Mortgage Lending as Soured-Loan Firms Expand

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-04T14:37:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/pennymac-projects-tripling-of-mortgage-lending-as-soured-loan-firms-expand.html
PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust (PMT) ,
headed by former Countrywide Financial Corp. President Stanford Kurland, said that it expects to triple its originations of
mortgages through other lenders this quarter.  The company’s correspondent lending volumes doubled last
quarter to more than $50 million, Kurland said today in a
statement reporting his Calabasas, California-based real estate
investment trust’s earnings. In July, the lending was almost $50
million and the REIT is “targeting” fourth-quarter production
reaching $200 million a month, Kurland said.  PennyMac, whose executives once helped run the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, is among firms dealing in soured home loans
seeking to expand in lending. Carrington Mortgage Services LLC
said this week it acquired assets from American Home Equity
Corp. Caliber Funding LLC, a lender  backed  by private-equity
firm  Lone Star Funds , said in June it hired Brian Simon from
Freedom Mortgage Corp. as its chief executive officer. Simon
said he would help Caliber “accelerate its growth strategy.”  “We see an increasing need for new market
intermediaries,” Kurland said in the PennyMac statement.  His company’s opportunities stem in part from decisions by
“large financial institutions” to “deemphasize their conduit
activities” and from a potential drop later this year in the
size of mortgages that government-backed  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  can guarantee, he said.  Bank of America  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which bought Countrywide in 2008,
said last month that changing capital rules were pushing it to
take on fewer new contracts to oversee outstanding debt, a key
part of the correspondent mortgage business in which closed
loans are bought from the initial lenders and usually resold.  “We’re taking a very close look at the types of activities
we’re originating and servicing, so on the front end, you’ll see
actions where we look to scale back,”  Bruce Thompson , the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank’s chief financial officer,
said during a July 19 conference call.  Bank of America, which in October joined JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in ending the wholesale mortgage lending in which it funded
debt arranged by brokers,  originated  $40.4 billion of first
mortgages last quarter, down 29 percent from the first quarter.  Wells Fargo & Co ., Bank of America and JPMorgan are the top
U.S. home lenders, according to industry newsletter National
Mortgage News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 