-- 
Perry Courting Presidential Run Calls Iowans While Wooing Donors

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-04T17:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/perry-courting-presidential-run-calls-iowans.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , weighing a
campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, spent 20
minutes last month talking with  Iowa  retiree Joanie Scotter
about jobs, border security and President  Barack Obama .  “I agreed with everything he said,” Scotter, a regional
director of the National Federation of Republican Women who has
worked in Iowa politics since 1998, said by telephone.  The chat with Scotter is one of many calls made by Perry,
61, to voters, politicians and media figures in Iowa,  New
Hampshire  and South Carolina, states where the first votes of
the 2012 presidential campaign will be cast. His effort signals
he intends to run, according to Jim Henson, head of the  Texas 
Politics Project at the University of Texas in Austin.  “He’s already a candidate, but making a formal
announcement raises expectations and creates all kinds of
limitations,” Henson said in an interview.  The longest-serving U.S. governor, who plans to host a
Christian prayer rally Aug. 6 in Houston, has been building
political alliances while avoiding direct attacks from potential
rivals and raising money unfettered by federal limits since May
27, when he said publicly that he would “think about” a
presidential bid. Mark Miner, a Perry spokesman, said no
decision has been made.  Winning Strategy  “The overarching strategic question for Perry is how do
you do well enough in Iowa and New Hampshire to get to  South
Carolina  in good enough shape” to win that state’s early
primary, said Bill Lacy, who managed former U.S. Senator Fred Thompson’s 2008 presidential campaign. That bid foundered after
the “Law and Order” actor from Tennessee waited until
September 2007 to become a declared candidate.  “History says you can’t grossly underperform in New
Hampshire and Iowa” and expect to do well in South Carolina,
said Lacy, now director of the Robert J. Dole Institute of
Politics at the University of  Kansas  in Lawrence.  Less than two weeks after Perry opened the door to a run,
key political aides including Rob Johnson, who managed his 2010
re-election bid, and New Hampshire-based David Carney quit
Republican  Newt Gingrich ’s presidential campaign. Both now work
for Perry.  While gathering his forces, Perry has courted potential
financial backers, traveling to  New York  and  California  in June,
and hosting dinners in Austin. A July 28 event in the Texas
capital brought in about 50 business executives from at least a
half-dozen states, said Henry Barbour, a Republican National
Committee member who has encouraged Perry to run. Barbour is a
nephew of Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , who in April
decided against seeking the White House.  No-Limit Texas  Texas doesn’t limit political contributions, leaving Perry
to plan such events as an Aug. 9 Austin fundraiser that Robert
Miller, a lawyer and lobbyist at  Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell
LLP  in Houston, said seeks as much as $100,000 from top donors.
While federal law forbids Perry from using any of that money for
a presidential exploratory committee or an actual run, he can
use it to begin hiring staff and consultants who later could
move to a presidential campaign team.  Texans for Rick Perry, his state campaign committee, had a
balance of $2.1 million at the end of June, according to the
most recent report to the Texas Ethics Commission. If Perry
becomes a declared candidate, federal rules that limit
individuals to giving $2,500 for primary races and $2,500 for
general elections would kick in.  ‘Topping Off’  “It’s restocking the coffers before he goes national,”
said  Bill Miller , a lobbyist and founder of  HillCo Partners LLC 
in Austin, which works for Republicans and Democrats. “It’s
like topping off the tank before a big trip.”  Perry will need a minimum of $40 million to compete in the
presidential primaries, Robert Miller said. His state campaigns
have raised more than $100 million since 2001.  “Texas is the wild west of campaign money,” said Craig McDonald, president of  Texans for Public Justice , an Austin
group that tracks political donations. “He hasn’t even created
an exploratory committee because he doesn’t need one. He’s using
money from his Texas campaign to support his politicking.”  Along with fundraising freedom, Perry’s delay in deciding
whether to run allows him to stand back from the campaign fray
and nurture alliances that may help him later. His June 14 New
York trip, speaking at a $1,000-a-plate dinner in  Manhattan ,
helped raise money for the local  Republican Party .  Getting ‘the Buzz’  “He’s getting all of the buzz anyway without announcing,”
said Henson at the  University of Texas , citing polls that show
Perry would be a prime contender in the Republican race.  Most of the surveys have been led by former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , who formally entered the race on June 2.  For Perry, declaring a bid for the nomination late this
month would let him “burst on the scene just when a new school
year is beginning for most families and many Republicans will be
tiring of the other candidates,” Larry Sabato, director of the
University of Virginia’s Center for Politics in Charlottesville,
said by e-mail.  Perry’s potential strength upon entering the race would be
his base of support in the South, analysts say. “I’d be
astonished if Rick Perry didn’t roll through the Southern
primaries,” said David Woodard, a former consultant to  Jim DeMint , South Carolina’s junior senator. “He has the swagger,
he has the ties to the region and he’s got a million
conservative Christians who are all upset about gay marriage.”  Thompson’s Fatal Delay  Getting into the campaign months after other candidates
bombed in 2008 for  Tennessee ’s Thompson, who hoped a solid
showing in the Iowa caucus would establish him as the favored
Southern candidate, said Lacy, the former campaign manager.
Instead, former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  won the January
caucus with 34 percent and Thompson was third at 13 percent.  Perry hasn’t been hurt by not announcing or participating
in an Aug. 13 straw poll in Ames, Iowa, that is a traditional
gauge of campaign strength, said Dennis Goldford, a political
science professor at Drake University in  Des Moines . “He will
be untested after the straw poll and sometimes it’s better to be
untested than being tested and found wanting,” he said.  Craig Schoenfeld, Iowa executive director of Americans for
Perry, said he collected e-mail addresses from 30 of 80 people
who attended a gathering July 27 in Low Moor. They want to learn
more about Perry, said Schoenfeld, whose group formed to
encourage his entry into the contest.  “When I can walk out of there with a third of the room
interested in Rick Perry, who hasn’t even announced, when some
of the other candidates have literally been living in Iowa for
months, that’s very encouraging,” Schoenfeld said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 