-- 
Philadelphia Offers $214.8 Million of Tax-Backed Transit Debt: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/philadelphia-offers-214-8-million-of-tax-backed-transit-debt-muni-credit.html
Philadelphia’s public transportation
system, which serves 1 million commuters each weekday, plans to
sell $214.8 million of bonds today secured by federal grants.  The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority is
borrowing against gasoline-tax revenue it gets from the  Federal
Transit Administration . Such debt, called capital grant receipts
bonds, may be at risk if Congress doesn’t reauthorize money for
the Highway Trust Fund, which faces insolvency because of
declining fuel taxes.  Standard & Poor’s  last month rated the
debt A+, its fifth-highest grade.  Repayment won’t be a risk, said Tom McFadden, assistant
treasurer of the authority, because the amount of federal money
received that’s dedicated to the bonds is five times more than
debt-service costs and the securities have a  reserve fund .  “We’ve got the coverage ratio of over 5-to-1,” McFadden
said in a telephone interview. “Even if there is a cut going
forward in transportation, we think that we have a substantial
cushion there to cover anything.”  The authority has reached its capacity to borrow using debt
backed by state funds, which now totals $315 million
outstanding. It doesn’t borrow against fare revenue, so is
turning to capital-grant bonds for new rail cars and
rehabilitation projects.  “This is really the only source we have at this point for
new acquisitions,” McFadden said.  Chicago Bonds  Capital-grant bonds sold by the Chicago Transit Authority
last year rated A and maturing in June 2028 yielded 4.93 percent
at the most recent trade July 14, 133 basis points more than
top-rated bonds of the same maturity, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The difference has narrowed since June 17, when it was 168
basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Investors said mass-transit systems are less at risk from
funding cuts in Congress because they tend to provide essential
services to metropolitan areas. The  Federal Aviation
Administration  is losing $28.6 million in taxes each day after
Congress failed to renew its funding because of disagreements
over rural airports.  “Because this is a national program affecting large
transportation districts, as opposed to the FAA debate over
small regional airports, I think this carries a little more
weight,” said Howard Cure, director of municipal research for
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which has $2.8 billion in
assets, referring to the Philadelphia transit offering.  The mass-transit deal comes as top-rated 10-year tax-exempt
yields fell to the lowest of 2011 yesterday at 2.5 percent. U.S.
10-year Treasury yields hovered near their lowest since November
of 2.6 percent on reports economic activity is slowing.  Looking for Yield  Investors said the Philadelphia transit debt would be well
received because buyers are looking for more yield than top-
rated bonds provide, and issuance is low at $125.2 billion year-
to-date, about half that sold during the same period in 2010.  “The market’s pretty thirsty right now for yield,”
Michael Pietronico, chief executive officer of Miller Tabak
Asset Management in  New York , who manages $560 million of
assets, said in a telephone interview. “Should the deal stay
uninsured and priced appropriately based on the credit strength,
it could be very well received.”  The authority will consider whether to insure the bonds
when they are priced, McFadden said. The sale includes serial
maturities from 2012 through 2029, according to the offering
document.  Duane McAllister, who oversees more than $2 billion in tax-
exempts as a portfolio manager at M&I Investment Management in
 Milwaukee , said early indications showed the bonds priced to
yield about 90 basis points more than top-rated securities.  “It may be tighter than that in the early years -- plus 75
to 85 -- and then roughly plus 90 across the rest,” he said.  Following is a description of pending sales of municipal
debt:  PUERTO RICO PUBLIC BUILDINGS AUTHORITY will sell $225
million in government-facilities revenue bonds as soon as this
week. The federally taxable bonds will repay a line of credit
from the Government Development Bank, pay interest on other
bonds and help with construction costs for various buildings.
Ramirez & Co. Inc. will lead underwriters in the sale. (Added
Aug. 4)  VIRGINIA  COLLEGE BUILDING AUTHORITY, which sells debt for
infrastructure projects at Virginia state universities, plans to
issue $274.9 million of bonds as soon as today through
competitive bid. The state-appropriation-backed credit is rated
Aa1, the second-highest grade from Moody’s Investors Service,
and one grade below Virginia’s Aaa rating. The authority is on
review for downgrade as Moody’s placed the state on review July
19. (Added Aug. 1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  