-- 
Pimco Lured by Best Industrial Bond Returns Since 2008: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-05T03:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/pimco-lured-by-best-industrial-bond-returns-since-2008-australia-credit.html
Bonds sold by Australian companies
outside the financial industry are returning the most since 2008
as buyers seek a haven from sovereign debt crises in Europe and
the U.S.  The nation’s 200 biggest listed companies have doubled
cash piles in the past two years, led by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
Telstra Corp. and Wesfarmers Ltd., while Australia’s economy
is forecast to grow faster than the U.S. and euro region, 
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s attracting 
Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s biggest
bond fund, as the global economic recovery loses momentum and 
ratings firms threaten to downgrade the U.S., Japan and  Spain .  “Industrial corporates are the new flight-to-quality
asset,” said  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of investment
management at Pimco. “Many companies in Australia and globally
haven’t been willing to invest nor hire as they are not seeing
compelling growth opportunities; as a result, their balance
sheets have de-levered and their cash balances have grown.”  Bonds sold by Telstra,  Australia ’s largest phone company,
Woolworths Ltd., its biggest retailer and other non-financial
corporates returned 1.8 percent in July including reinvested
interest, the most since November 2008, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Australian Industrial Index shows. Industrial debt has
returned 7.9 percent in Australia year-to-date, versus gains of
8.3 percent in the U.S. and 6.6 percent globally, Merrill Lynch
data show. Yield premiums on the Australian debt have narrowed
in 2011, while spreads widened on comparable U.S. and global
securities.  Woolworths, Telstra  The spread to the swap rate on Sydney-based Woolworths’
6.75 percent securities due March 2016 has narrowed 17 basis
points to 88 basis points since the bonds were sold in March,
Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd. prices show.  The yield on Telstra’s A$500 million ($532 million) of 7.25
percent securities due November 2012 fell to 4.98 percent today,
the lowest since March 2010, according to ANZ Bank prices.  Australian company bonds are drawing investors even as
Credit Suisse Group AG warns that corporate earnings may miss
forecasts amid signs of faltering domestic growth and a global
slowdown.  Australia’s economy will expand at a below-trend pace in
the next year due to restrictive monetary conditions, Credit
Suisse equity analysts wrote in a July 26 report.  Consensus earnings forecasts for 2011 and 2012 are
“optimistic and set for further significant downgrades,” they
said. “We maintain a preference for defensives and industrials
given the weak growth outlook.”  Retail Sales  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its forecast for 2011
economic growth today and raised the outlook for inflation.
Growth this year will average 2 percent, accelerating to 4.5
percent in 2012, the central bank said in its quarterly monetary
policy statement.  Consumer prices will rise 3.5 percent in the year through
to the final quarter of 2011, from a previous prediction of 3.25
percent, it said.  The RBA held the overnight cash rate at 4.75 percent on
Aug. 2 to gauge slowdowns in the U.S. and  China ,  Europe ’s debt
crisis and domestic household restraint.  Retail sales unexpectedly declined in June for a second
straight month as spending at department stores dropped by the
most since April 2010. Lending to companies decreased 0.7
percent in June for the third straight month, the biggest
decline since September, the central bank said July 29.  Yields Plunge  Yields on Australian government bonds of all maturities
fell below the overnight cash rate on Aug. 3 for the first time
since 2009. The benchmark 10-year bond yield fell 20 basis
points to 4.53 percent today at 12:50 p.m. in Sydney, the lowest
since April 2009, or 214 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries.  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0489 as of 12:52 p.m. in
Sydney, and has advanced 15 percent against the greenback in the
past 12 months.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, following a 0.4 percent pace in the prior
period, the worst six months since the recovery began in June
2009, Commerce Department figures showed July 29.  Italian and Spanish 10-year yields rose to euro-era records
versus German bunds this week, on concern slowing growth will
hamper efforts to tame the nations’ debt loads. Economists
expect the euro region to grow 2 percent in 2011 and 1.7 percent
next year, Bloomberg surveys show.  Markets Tumble  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index had its biggest drop since
2009 yesterday and markets tumbled in  Asia  today amid speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will resort to more stimulus measures. The
 European Central Bank  made more cash available to banks
to keep the region’s debt crisis from spreading.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts Australia’s gross
government borrowings will reach 22 percent of the economy in
2015, giving it the smallest debt burden among developed nations
after Estonia’s 5.2 percent. Obligation in the U.S., where
President  Barack Obama  signed a bill to raise the national debt-
limit on Aug. 2, will swell to 109 percent of gross domestic
product, the IMF data show.  “The Australian sovereign balance sheet clearly remains
one of the cleanest in the world, but some high quality
corporates remain a pretty close second,” said Mead of  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco.  Sovereign Risk  Credit-default swaps on the Australian sovereign cost 61.6
basis points, compared with 54.9 basis points for  U.S. debt ,
89.8 for  Japan  and 95.5 for China, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Contracts insuring the debt of Melbourne-based BHP, the
world’s biggest mining company, last traded at 79.4 basis
points, CMA prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
on 25 of the nation’s biggest companies has averaged 111 basis
points this year, according to CMA prices. The gauge jumped 16
basis points to 139 as of 10:28 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show, on course for its highest close since July 1
last year and its biggest one-day gain since May 19, 2010.  The fundamental value of the index is about 90 basis
points, considering the economic outlooks for Asia, Australia
and the member companies’ creditworthiness, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Gus Medeiros and Colin Tan wrote in a second-half
outlook last month.  ‘Constructive View’  “We maintain a constructive view on the Australian iTraxx
driven by Australia’s overall benign economic outlook, monetary
and fiscal policy flexibility and the underlying strength of the
index constituents,” they said.  Industrial debt in Australia is beating the nation’s
government bonds, which gained 7.3 percent in 2011 and are the
best-performing sovereign debt after New Zealand among 20-
developed markets tracked by Merrill Lynch.  Spreads on the Australian Industrial Index narrowed 8 basis
points to 205 basis points this year, compared with a one basis-
point widening on comparable debt in the U.S. to 145. Bonds in
the global industrial index widened 4 basis point to 141.  About $548 billion of bonds issued by Australian companies
will mature by the end of 2015, according to Standard & Poor’s.
Ninety-nine percent is investment-grade and 80 percent is owed
by financial companies, led by the nation’s four biggest banks.  Companies outside the finance industry accounted for 6
percent of a record A$64.3 billion of bonds sold in Australia in
the first half, compared with about 50 percent of $529.9 billion
of investment-grade U.S. offerings, Bloomberg data show.  Non-financial corporate debt offers “a diversification
away from the banks, which suffer from regulatory issues and
weakness in the growth of credit,” said  John Sorrell , head of
credit at Tyndall  Investment Management  Australia Ltd. in
Sydney, which manages about A$14 billion of fixed-income assets.
“The earning seasons could be grim but overall the industrials
are not highly leveraged and have strong credit fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 