-- 
Portugal’s New Austerity Fails to Bring Down Borrowing Costs: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-08-05T10:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/portugal-s-new-austerity-fails-to-bring-down-borrowing-costs-euro-credit.html
Two months into the job, Portugal’s
Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is deepening the budgetary
pain without feeling any gain.  Swept to office June 5 on the back of a 78 billion-euro
($110 billion) rescue sought by his predecessor, Passos Coelho
has announced a tax charge and spending cuts together worth more
than 1 percent of gross domestic product to ensure he meets the
targets set out in the aid package. All he’s got in return are
higher borrowing costs as contagion spreads to Italy and  Spain .  “There was and there will be a contagion effect,” Andre Pinheiro, who helps oversee 100 million euros of assets at Orey
Financial SA in Lisbon, said in a telephone interview. “Our
recovery depends on their recovery, and our yields won’t decline
if they don’t recover.”  The first review of Portugal’s aid program began this week
as the sovereign debt crisis shifted to Italy and Spain, driving
yields on 10-year bonds to euro-era records. With the third- and
fourth-biggest economies in the common currency now shouldering
yields closer to 7 percent than  Germany ’s 2.30 percent, Coelho’s
bid to show he’s serious about taming Portugal’s deficit has yet
to impress investors.  “The government’s making an effort at budget consolidation
but it’s not possible to assess the program using the yields of
the secondary market,” Amilcar Morais Pires, chief financial
officer of  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s biggest bank by
market value, told reporters in Lisbon on Aug. 1.  ECB Bond-Buying  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield fell 5 basis points today to
11.252 percent as the European Central Bank bought Portuguese
and Irish  government bonds  for the second straight day, two
people with knowledge of the transactions said today. The yield
reached a euro-era record of 13.441 on July 11. The two-year
bond yield slid 99 basis points today to 13.813 percent. The
spread means there is more perceived risk in lending to Portugal
for two years than for a decade.  The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds was 891 basis
points today. That’s up from 511 basis points on April 6, when
then Prime Minister Jose Socrates sought outside help, making
Portugal the third euro country to need an international rescue
after  Greece  and Ireland. On June 6, the day after Passos Coelho
defeated Socrates to take power, it was 670 basis points.  The government has fought back, saying that it aims to beat
some of the targets set out in its European Union-International
Monetary Fund bailout program.  Element of Surprise  “We’ll do everything so that our return to the market will
be even faster” than the two years envisaged, Passos Coelho
said on June 16. “We will have to be very diligent in meeting
the agreement that was signed with the EU and the IMF. But we
will also have to surprise.”  Two weeks later, the prime minister announced that he was
planning a one-time income-tax surcharge this year equal to 50
percent of the Christmas supplements all workers receive. The
yuletide payment is the equivalent of one month’s salary.  The measure represents an additional annual tax rate of 3.5
percent, according to Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar, who expects
to raise a total of 1 billion euros this year and next with the
seasonal surcharge on salaries, pensions and capital gains.  The government says it needs the tax charge and spending
cuts, worth about 2 billion euros in all, to meet this year’s
deficit targets. Analysts such as Pinheiro of Orey Financial say
there’s a need to focus on growth besides just raising taxes.  ‘Lack of Growth’  “It seems we’re correcting the deficit more on the revenue
side,” Pinheiro said. “Structurally we continue to have high
spending. We are also being penalized by the rating agencies for
the lack of growth forecast for this year and next.”  Portugal’s credit rating was cut to below investment grade
by Moody’s Investors Service last month, after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the country’s creditworthiness twice in a week in March
to one notch above junk status.  Fitch Ratings  said July 28 that
it expects to resolve its rating watch negative on Portugal in
the fourth quarter.  Portugal’s economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent
a year over the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest rates. The
government expects the economy to contract 2.3 percent this year
and 1.7 percent in 2012.  Portugal had the fourth-biggest  budget deficit  in the euro
region last year at 9.1 percent of GDP. The bailout sets goals
for a deficit of 5.9 percent this year, 4.5 percent in 2012 and
3 percent in 2013.  “It’s very important for this government to be more
ambitious than the aid  program ,” Gaspar said on July 14.  By the end of the year the government aims to sell state-
held stakes in companies including EDP-Energias de  Portugal  SA,
the biggest electricity provider, and REN-Redes Energeticas
Nacionais SA, the national power grid operator.  High-Speed Rail  It’s put on hold a high-speed railway project from Lisbon
to  Madrid , and plans to sell state-owned airline TAP SGPS SA and
one of broadcaster RTP’s television channels. The government is
meanwhile freezing public workers’ salaries, lowering pensions
and raising value-added tax rates.  There are signs the measures are bearing some success. The
first-half central government deficit narrowed 27 percent from a
year earlier, while all of Portugal’s lenders passed the
European Banking Authority’s stress tests last month.  Passos Coelho still has the public on his side. His  Social
Democrats  had 42 percent support, up from the 39 percent it took
at the election, a July 20 poll for Jornal de Negocios newspaper
showed. The main opposition Socialists had 24 percent, down from
28 percent.  Portugal’s borrowing costs eased at an Aug. 3 auction of
750 million euros of three-month bills. The securities due in
November were issued at an average yield of 4.967 percent after
4.982 percent at a July 20 auction.  Trichet’s Verdict  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet , in a
July 7 interview with Portugal’s TVI, said that the government’s
measures show the country is “ahead of the curve.”  That didn’t stop Moody’s from cutting Portugal to junk two
days earlier on concern it will need to follow Greece and seek a
second bailout.  “We have not seen all the debt restructurings that we’re
expecting,” Otto Waser, chief investment officer of R&A
Research & Asset Management AG, said in a July 25 interview with
Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.” “We have
seen a small restructuring for Greece. It’s not quite clear on
the timing, but Portugal and Ireland are candidates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  