-- 
Pound Climbs Versus Euro on Haven Demand as ECB Cranks Up Bank Liquidity

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m i l y   B l e w e t t
-- 
2011-08-04T15:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/pound-snaps-two-day-gain-versus-dollar-before-central-bank-rate-decision.html
The pound advanced against the euro,
reaching the strongest level in two months, after European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB will
offer banks more cash amid concern the debt crisis is spreading.  U.K. gilts rose. Sterling snapped a two-day advance versus
the dollar as the  Bank of England  kept its main  interest rate  at
a record low to support economic growth. The ECB will lend euro-
area banks as much money as they need for six months and extend
its existing liquidity measures through the end of the year,
Trichet said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today after the
central bank held its main refinancing rate at 1.50 percent.  “Trichet’s more dovish tone helped to strengthen the pound
further against the euro,” said  Neil Jones , the head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 London . “The pound is deemed a safe haven as the outlook for
the euro area worsens.”  Sterling appreciated 0.5 percent to 86.75 pence per euro as
of 4:23 p.m. in London, after reaching 86.55 pence, its
strongest level since May 27. The pound fell 0.6 percent to
$1.6332. The British currency reached $1.6476 on Aug. 1, the
most since June 1.  Bank of England policy makers left the benchmark rate
unchanged at 0.5 percent, in line with the forecast of all 55
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Bank of England kept its
bond-purchase program, known as quantitative easing, on hold at
200 billion pounds ($327 billion).  ‘Business as Usual’  “As expected, this is business as usual and a non-event
for the market,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Inflation has
still been too high for speculation of further QE this month. I
expect this to change by the end of the year on the expectation
that inflation will slow.”  Sterling strengthened against the dollar yesterday as a
report showed U.K. services growth unexpectedly accelerated.  A gauge based on a survey of services companies rose to
55.4 from 53.9 in June, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said. That compared with a
median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey of a
decline to 53.2.  A manufacturing index fell to the lowest in two years last
month and a retail-sales gauge dropped to a 13-month low.
Services growth quickened, though the recovery will be
“choppy,” according to Markit Economics.  Income Data  Take-home pay growth at Britain’s largest listed companies
slowed in July from a 28-month high, led by the services
industry, VocaLink Ltd. said today.  Incomes after tax and other deductions climbed 2.9 percent
in the three months through July from a year earlier, the group
said in a statement in London today. That compares with 3.3
percent in the quarter through June, when the result was boosted
by a tax change. Wage growth at service companies slowed to 2.9
percent from 3.4 percent.  Sterling has fallen 7.9 percent in the last 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  U.K. government bonds rose, with the 10-year yield falling
to a record low. The 10-year gilt advanced for a seventh
straight day, its longest run of daily gains since March 2010.  The 10-year yield fell seven basis points to 2.68 percent
after reaching 2.67 percent. The 3.75 percent security due
September 2020 gained 0.54, or 5.4 pounds per 1,000 pound face
amount, to 108.615. The two-year gilt yield fell three basis
points to 0.60 percent.  Gilts have handed investors 6.3 percent this year, compared
with 3.8 percent for German bunds and 5.2 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Blewett in London at 
 eblewett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  