-- 
Rajat Gupta, SEC Agree to Drop Galleon-Related Suit, Administrative Action

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-05T14:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/rajat-gupta-sec-agree-to-drop-galleon-related-suit-administrative-action.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission agreed to drop an administrative action against
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta , and he
pledged to withdraw a lawsuit claiming the regulatory proceeding
violated his constitutional rights.  The SEC started the proceeding in Washington on March 1,
contending Gupta passed inside information to Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also on the board.  Gupta sued in U.S. District Court in Manhattan on March 18,
claiming the agency violated his rights by pursuing an
administrative action rather than a lawsuit. Gupta would have
more procedural protections in court, including the right to a
 jury trial  and the use of federal rules of evidence.  In an agreement with Gupta filed in court yesterday, the
SEC pledged to file any lawsuit over the same matter in federal
court in  Manhattan , where it would be heard by U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, who was assigned Gupta’s lawsuit.  “The staff is fully committed to the case and will proceed
as appropriate,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-
mail. The SEC didn’t say it would file a new lawsuit.  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lawyer, said in a statement that
Gupta’s lawsuit against the SEC “has achieved all of the relief
he sought.”  Naftalis and Nester both declined to say whether they
expect the SEC to file a new suit against Gupta.  Administrative Suit  In the administrative proceeding, the SEC claimed Gupta
gave Rajaratnam information about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5
billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about quarterly earnings of Goldman Sachs
and Procter & Gamble.  Rakoff ruled last month that Gupta, who hasn’t been charged
criminally, could argue that the agency intentionally singled
him out for unfair treatment in retaliation for claiming his
innocence. The judge said that all 28 of the SEC’s other
lawsuits related to the Galleon insider-trading case are in
federal court.  “We have the unusual case where there is already a well-
developed public record of Gupta being treated substantially
disparately from 28 essentially identical defendants, with not
even a hint from the SEC, even in their instant papers, as to
why this should be so,” Rakoff wrote in a July 11 opinion.  Rajaratnam was found guilty of 14 criminal counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud on May 11. He is awaiting
sentencing.  The SEC administrative proceeding is In the Matter of Rajat K. Gupta, 3-14279, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
( Washington ). The court case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-01900, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 