-- 
Rand Heads for Two-Week Low to Dollar, Slips Versus Euro on Global Growth

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-04T09:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/rand-heads-for-two-week-low-to-dollar-slips-versus-euro-on-global-growth.html
The rand headed for a two-week low
against the dollar and slipped for a third day against the euro
as concern that the global economy is slowing damped demand for
the currencies of commodity exporters including  South Africa .  The rand depreciated as much as 1.1 percent to 6.8153 per
dollar and traded at 6.7984 as of 10:37 a.m. in Johannesburg. It
slipped 0.5 percent to 9.6922 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks fell, driving the benchmark index to
its biggest three-day loss in 13 months, after U.S. reports this
week on manufacturing, spending and the services industries
fueled concern the world’s biggest economy is faltering. Spanish
and Italian bonds are near record highs on concern slowing
growth will worsen the euro-region’s debt crisis. South Africa’s
stock index dropped to a more than four-month low.  “The key point is that the concerns over the global
economy and the ongoing problems in  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy ,
 Greece  and  Spain  have not disappeared,” John Cairns and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in a research note. “The risk of a rand
blowout remains in play.”  The one-month implied volatility of the rand versus the
euro rose to 15.25 percent today, from 15.20 percent yesterday,
indicating investors see wider price swings in coming weeks. The
gauge increased in each of the past five trading days.  Yen, Franc  South Africa’s currency strengthened the most since March
19 against the yen and advanced for a second day against the
Swiss franc.  Japan  sold the yen and expanded monetary stimulus a
day after Switzerland cut  interest rates  and weakened its
currency, underscoring concern global growth is stalling.  “It’s all about central banks and inflationary
intervention this morning,” Tradition Analytics researchers led
by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research
note. Intervention by the Japanese and Swiss central banks is
“also by definition supportive of the dollar and euro, which
have been in free fall against these two currencies in recent
weeks.”  The rand climbed as much as 3.3 percent to 11.7805 yen. It
strengthened 0.7 percent to 8.7264 francs.  Bonds gained for a fifth day, dragging yield to the lowest
in eight months. The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 4 cents
to 122.31 rand, reducing the yield two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.114 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  