-- 
Treasuries Rally to Overwhelm Japan, Swiss Interventions: Chart of the Day

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-04T08:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/treasuries-rally-to-overwhelm-japan-swiss-interventions-chart-of-the-day.html
Japan  and Switzerland’s efforts to
weaken their currencies against the dollar may fail as a
slowdown in the world’s largest economy drives investors to sell
the greenback, said Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the dollar as it slid 25
percent versus the franc and 11 percent against the yen over the
12 months to the end of July. Japan today sold the yen to weaken
it for the third time since September. The chart also shows
Treasury two-year yields tumbling to a record 0.308 percent
yesterday, prompting investors to seek better returns. The U.S.
economy posted the weakest expansion in the six months through
June since the recovery began two years earlier.  “Officials in Japan and Switzerland won’t be able to cap
gains in their currencies with the  U.S. dollar  declining amid a
weak economy and the risk of further monetary easing,” said
 Richard Grace , Sydney-based chief currency strategist and head
of international economics at Commonwealth Bank. “U.S. yields
are unattractively low, real rates are negative, the current
account deficit is wide and the sovereign rating is at risk. The
U.S. dollar is declining for good reason.”  The dollar rose 3.7 percent to 79.93 yen as of 9:08 a.m. in
 London  as Finance Minster Yoshihiko Noda said Japan intervened
in foreign-exchange markets to sell its currency. It touched
76.30 yen on Aug. 1, near the 76.25 yen post-war record on March
17. The franc had its biggest two-day drop since Jan. 5 after
the  Swiss National Bank  cut interest rates yesterday and
increased the supply of francs to money markets. It slid to
77.91 centimes after rising to a record 76.10 yesterday.  Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc., which
together oversee almost $5 trillion, say the  U.S. economy  is
stalling and the  Federal Reserve  is preparing measures to
counter the slowdown, after the central bank completed $600
billion of bond purchases in June, a policy known as
quantitative easing. Moody’s Investors Service this week said
the U.S. is at risk of a downgrade on its  credit rating .  The franc and the yen are regarded as havens as Switzerland
and Japan run current-account surpluses, the broadest measure of
trade, meaning they don’t need to rely on foreign capital to
balance the books. The U.S. runs a current-account deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  