-- 
Treasuries Snap Rally on Concern Decline in Yield Will Cut Demand for Debt

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-04T06:06:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/treasury-yield-seven-basis-points-from-eight-month-low-before-jobs-report.html
Treasuries snapped a rally on
speculation the  U.S. economy  isn’t slowing enough to justify
keeping two-year yields at the record low set yesterday.  Yields on the notes slid as far as 0.3081, meaning they
offered an  interest rate  of negative 3.29 percentage points
after accounting for inflation. The so-called real yield for
benchmark 10-year debt fell to negative 1.05 percent yesterday.
Both figures are the lowest since 2008. Bond bears say the U.S.
government’s decision this week to lift the debt ceiling and
avert a default removes a barrier to economic growth.  “Treasury yields are going up in the coming months,” said
Andy Cossor, the Hong Kong-based chief market strategist at  DZ
Bank  AG, Germany’s fifth-largest lender. “With the uncertainty
linked to the debt ceiling out of the way, the U.S. economy can
return to a more encouraging growth profile in the second half
of the year.”  Two-year notes yielded 0.34 percent as of 6:51 a.m. in
 London , little changed from yesterday in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.375 percent security
maturing in July 2013 traded at 100 2/32.  Benchmark 10-year notes yielded 2.63 percent, versus the
eight-month low of 2.55 percent touched yesterday. The rate will
climb to 3.52 percent by year-end, according to a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings. DZ Bank predicts 3.8
percent.  Japanese Bonds  Japanese bonds were little changed to yield 1.015 percent.
The rate was as low as 0.995 percent, the least since November.  Yields slid as the government sold its currency and the
Bank of  Japan  expanded its asset-purchase fund to 15 trillion
yen ($189 billion) from 10 trillion yen. The central bank ended
its meeting a day early after authorities intervened in  currency
markets  to stem the yen’s advance, which is threatening to curb
economic growth. The board kept its benchmark interest rate near
zero.  Treasuries have outperformed an index of bonds around the
world as investors sought the relative safety of America’s debt
amid signs growth is slowing. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Treasury Master index returned 3.87 percent in the past three
months, versus 2.53 percent for the Global Broad Market Index.  “There’s more to go” for the U.S. bond rally, said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $77.9 billion as
Tokyo-based chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest bank. “The U.S. is in
slowdown mode.” Shimomura said he bought Treasuries at the
start of the week.  Job Reports  U.S. government reports today and tomorrow will show the
nation isn’t creating enough jobs to reduce the  unemployment
rate , economists said.  Initial claims for  unemployment insurance  rose to 405,000
last week from 398,000 the previous period, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department report today.
The same department will say tomorrow that the jobless rate held
at 9.2 percent in July, another survey showed.  President  Barack Obama  signed a debt-limit compromise on
Aug. 2 that prevented a U.S. default on the day the Treasury had
warned the nation’s borrowing authority would expire, ending a
debate over federal spending.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for U.S. economic
growth in the third quarter by a percentage point to 1.5
percent, partly because of a slowdown in  consumer spending ,
chief U.S. economist  Michael Feroli  wrote in a note yesterday.  Treasury 30-year yields declined below 3.80 percent
yesterday for the first time since October as a report showed
service industries expanded in July at the slowest pace since
February 2010.  “I’m the most worried I’ve been for a while, although I
certainly think market pessimism is completely over the top,”
 Adam Carr , senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd.,
part of the world’s largest interdealer broker, wrote in a
report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  