-- 
Treasuries Rise as Faltering U.S. Recovery Boosts Bets on More Stimulus

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-04T11:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/treasuries-rise-as-faltering-u-s-recovery-boosts-bets-on-more-stimulus.html
Treasuries rose on speculation the
U.S. may fall into recession and prompt the  Federal Reserve  to
inject additional monetary stimulus, or a third round of so-
called quantitative easing, to boost the economy.  Yields on two-year notes stayed within two basis points of
a record low, while benchmark 10-year debt yields were five
basis points from the least since November. Reports due today
and tomorrow may show initial U.S. jobless claims rose last week
and the economy isn’t creating enough jobs to reduce the
 unemployment rate , which probably stayed above 9 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys. Five- and 30-year U.S. debt also
rose as stocks slid in Europe and Asia.  “With the focus very much still on growth, we still think
Treasuries could rally as the market prices in rates staying
lower for longer,” said Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in London. “There’s even talk of QE3. The
recent data out of the U.S. hasn’t been great, and tomorrow’s
payrolls will be a big data point that the market will be
watching.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell three basis points to
2.59 percent at 7:25 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent securities maturing in May
2021 added 8/32, or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 104 18/32.  Two-year note yields fell one basis point to 0.32 percent,
near yesterday’s 0.3081 percent record low. Yields on five-year
securities fell three basis points to 1.23 percent, while 30-
year debt yielded 3.87 percent, a drop of three basis points.  Jobless Claims  There’s a 50 percent chance that the U.S. will experience
another recession, Harvard University economics professor  Martin Feldstein , a member of the Business Cycle Dating Committee, said
on Aug. 2. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks fell for a seventh
day, losing as much as 1.1 percent.  “The market is still pretty much risk-averse and you can
see that in the sell-off in stocks and demand in top-rated
 government bonds ,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in London. “In the U.S.,
there’s genuine concern on the country’s long-term
fundamentals.”  Initial claims for  unemployment insurance  rose to 405,000
last week from 398,000 the previous period, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the Labor Department report today. The
same department will say tomorrow that the jobless rate held at
9.2 percent in July, another survey showed.  Payrolls climbed by 85,000 workers in July after an 18,000
increase the previous month which was the smallest this year,
according to the median forecast of 86 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a Labor Department report tomorrow.  ‘Slowdown Mode’  Treasuries have outperformed an index of bonds around the
world as investors sought the relative safety of America’s debt
amid signs growth is slowing. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Treasury Master index returned 3.9 percent in the past three
months, versus 2.5 percent for the Global Broad Market Index.  “There’s more to go” for the U.S. bond rally, said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $77.9 billion as
Tokyo-based chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest bank. “The U.S. is in
slowdown mode.” Shimomura said he bought Treasuries at the
start of the week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for U.S. economic
growth in the third quarter by a percentage point to 1.5
percent, partly because of a slowdown in  consumer spending ,
chief U.S. economist  Michael Feroli  wrote in a note yesterday.  Debt Deal  Treasury 30-year yields declined below 3.80 percent
yesterday for the first time since October as a report showed
service industries expanded in July at the slowest pace since
February 2010.  “I’m the most worried I’ve been for a while, although I
certainly think market pessimism is completely over the top,”
 Adam Carr , senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd.,
part of the world’s largest interdealer broker, wrote in a
report today.  President  Barack Obama  signed a debt-limit compromise on
Aug. 2 that prevented a U.S. default on the day the Treasury had
warned the nation’s borrowing authority would expire, ending a
debate over federal spending.  An amount of $90.794 billion of U.S. Treasury bills are due
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  