-- 
U.S. Two-Year Yield Drops to Record as Slow Economy May Prompt Fed Action

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-04T21:03:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/treasuries-remain-higher-as-initial-jobless-claims-signal-slowing-economy.html
Treasury two-year note yields tumbled
to a record low on growing concern that a weakening U.S. economy
and spreading debt problems in  Europe  will prompt the  Federal
Reserve  to take additional steps to bolster growth.  Rates on Treasury bills fell to zero as the  European
Central Bank  signaled it resumed bond purchases and offered
banks more cash to stop the debt crisis from engulfing Italy and
 Spain . A government report showed jobless claims remained at an
elevated level before a report tomorrow forecast to show the
economy isn’t creating enough jobs to cut the unemployment rate
amid speculation the Fed may consider a third round of debt
buying, known as quantitative easing. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 4.8 percent, its biggest one-day drop since 2009.  “The Fed is stuck between a rock and a hard place,” said
Michael Pond, co-head of  interest-rate  strategy in New York at
Barclays Plc, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“They recognize growth has slowed, but they may be hesitant to
do much more given the risk of pushing inflation and inflation
expectations higher than they already have.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, to 2.40 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 rose 1 30/32, or $19.38 per
$1,000 face amount, to 106 8/32.  Yields Fall  U.S. 30-year bond yields dropped 23 basis points to 3.67
percent and two-year note yields fell eight basis points to 0.26
percent, after touching a record low 0.2527 percent. The yields
on 10-year notes fell to within 2.15 percentage points of two-
year securities, the narrowest since November.  Two-year notes broke its earlier record and rates on bills
declined after the Bank of  New York  informed institutional
clients it would charge at least a 13 basis point annual rate on
deposits.  “If you have a cash balance, now you would rather go and
buy Treasury bonds at zero percent,” said Christopher Bury, co-
head of fixed-income rates at Jefferies & Co., one of the 20
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “If not you have to go
out the curve to extend duration. Net-net it’s a positive for
Treasuries.”  Cash Bills  A $20 billion auction of 10-day cash management bills today
drew a yield of 0.000 percent. Investors bid for 5.07 times the
amount of bills on offer.  Rates on Treasury six-month bills due Aug. 11 dropped to
0.005 percent. The rate rose to 0.26 percent on July 29, the
highest since they were issued in February, on concern Congress
wouldn’t raise the debt limit by the Aug. 2 deadline.  One-month bill rates touched negative 0.0051 percent, the
lowest since July 19 when it traded at the same level. Rates on
three-month bills traded at 0.005 percent.  “Investors who have been holding cash are starting to put
that into the front end of the curve,” Pond of Barclays said.  Treasuries have outperformed an index of bonds around the
world as investors sought the relative safety of America’s debt
amid signs growth is slowing. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Treasury Master index returned 3.9 percent in the past three
months, versus 2.5 percent for the Global Broad Market Index.  The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, which the
Fed uses to help determine interest-rate targets, increased to
3.23 percent on Aug. 1, the highest since December when it
touched 3.28 percent.  Central Banking  The ECB action follows the unexpected interest rate cut by
 Switzerland ’s central bank and  Japan ’s foreign exchange market
intervention to address economic distress from a weak dollar.
Fed policy makers meet Aug. 9.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled today that the
ECB has resumed bond purchases.  “I wouldn’t be surprised that before the end of this
teleconference you would see something on the market,” Trichet
said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today after the ECB kept
its benchmark interest rate at 1.5 percent. “It is an ongoing
program.”  “Europe has surpassed the U.S. as the global risk story,”
said  Ethan Harris , head of developed-markets economic research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . Even with
the Treasury market as a weakened safe haven market, it still
gets the safe-haven money.”  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 1,000 in the
week ended July 30 to 400,000, the fewest in almost four months,
the Labor Department said today in  Washington . Economists
forecast 405,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The four-week average also declined to
the lowest level since April.  Jobs Numbers  “The claims numbers are a bit frustrating; it lands right
on the line,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “What we are
seeing in the markets is a negative sentiment ahead of Friday’s
nonfarm payrolls. There’s lot of pessimism built into the
market.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for U.S. economic
growth in the third quarter by a percentage point to 1.5
percent, partly because of a slowdown in  consumer spending ,
chief U.S. economist  Michael Feroli  wrote in a note yesterday.  A Labor Department report tomorrow is forecast to show U.S.
employers added 85,000 jobs in July, according to the median
forecast of 88 economists in a separate survey, compared with
18,000 the previous month. That compares with an average monthly
increase of 126,000 from January through June. The  unemployment
rate  remained at 9.2 percent, according to the median forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  