-- 
U.S. Yields Evoke Eisenhower Era as Growth Stalls

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-04T20:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/treasury-yields-evoke-eisenhower-era-on-concern-global-economy-is-stalling.html
Treasury bond yields are plunging to
levels seen in the 1950s on concern the two-year recovery in the
world’s largest economy is stalling.  Yields on benchmark 10-year U.S. notes are about 4.3
percentage points below the average over the past 49 years and
almost where they were when President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  began
his administration in 1953. The yield, which dropped to 2.40
percent today in New York, reached a record low of 2.04 percent
in December 2008 during the global financial crisis.  Investors are piling into Treasuries after the  European
Central Bank  resumed bond purchases and made more cash available
to banks to keep the region’s debt crisis from spreading and the
Japanese and Swiss central banks sought to protect their
economies against declines in the dollar and euro. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index had its biggest drop since 2009 and markets
worldwide have tumbled since a July 29 report showing gross
domestic product climbed less than an earlier estimate in the
second quarter renewed speculation the  Federal Reserve  will have
to resort to more stimulus measures to avert another recession.  “It’s a clear cut panic,” said Colin Robertson, the
managing director of fixed-income in  Chicago  at Northern Trust
Corp., which oversees $300 billion. “Along with European debt
concerns, market participants are focusing on the perceived much
higher likelihood of a double-dip recession in the U.S.”  Bill Auction  Yields on 10-year notes dropped 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 2.41 percent at 4:38 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 rose 1 28/32, or $18.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 106 6/32.  Two-year note yields fell eight basis points to a record
low of 0.25 percent. The yields on 10-year notes fell to within
2.16 percentage points of two-year securities, the narrowest
since November.  “There’s this fear of stall speed,” said Mohamed El- Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment officer at the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television yesterday. “If a plane’s not going fast
enough, it ends up by coming down.”  Rates on one-month bills traded at negative 0.005 percent
and the Treasury sold $20 billion of 10-day cash management
bills at zero percent as investors were willing to lend the
government money for free in exchange for the promise of getting
back their principal.  Stocks Stumble  “It’s signaling a flight to safety,” said  Ethan Harris ,
head of developed-markets economic research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York, on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “Even with the Treasury
market as a weakened safe-haven market, it still gets the safe
haven money.”  The  S&P 500  fell 4.8 percent, dropping more than 10 percent
drop from its April 29 peak. The MSCI All-Country World Index
slid 4.3 percent. Oil plunged 6.2 percent to $86.27 a barrel as
all 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index declined. Gold
futures retreated from a record.  “It’s a general fear environment,” George Strickland, a
managing director at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg
Investment Management Inc., which oversees about $84 billion,
said in a phone interview.  The U.S. faces a 50 percent chance of a return to
recession, said  Martin Feldstein , a Harvard University professor
and a member of the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the
National Bureau of Economic Research, said Aug. 2 on Bloomberg
Television.  Eisenhower Era  The 10-year yield remained below 3 percent from the third
quarter of 1953 through the second quarter of 1956, and dipped
below that level again in 1958 as Eisenhower grappled with an
economy that fell into a 10-month recession in 1953, an eight-
month contraction in 1957 and another 10-month slowdown in 1960.  Bond yields began a 20-year climb after the end of the last
Eisenhower recession in 1961, reaching a peak at 15.8 percent in
1981 as Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  raised the central bank’s
target rate for overnight loans between banks to 20 percent to
contain surging inflation.  Signs of an economic slowdown have emerged as the federal
government begins moving to rein in deficits. President  Barack Obama  signed legislation on Aug. 2 that threatens automatic
spending cuts to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years. The compromise defers decisions on the
nation’s finances to a bipartisan panel of lawmakers and may
reduce government deficits only modestly while slowing economic
growth.  Payroll Report  “If there’s a 50-50 chance of recession risk, then you
have to think there’s a 50-50 risk of deflation, then yields
should be even lower than today,” said  Chris Low , chief
economist at FTN Financial in  New York .  Payrolls climbed by 85,000 workers after an 18,000 increase
in June that was the smallest this year, according to the median
forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a
Labor Department report Aug. 5. The jobless rate held at 9.2
percent after rising in each of the previous three months.  The unraveling economy and unemployment higher than 9
percent may spur Fed officials to consider steps to shore up the
recovery when they meet at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming  in August. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first signaled the central bank may
undertake additional bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing, or QE2, at the Economic Policy Symposium a year ago.  QE3 Speculation  “The Fed’s hurdle for QE3 is lower at this point than it
was at the end of June at their last meeting,” Tom Higgins,
global macro strategist in  Boston  at Standish Mellon Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $85 billion in fixed-income
assets, said in a telephone interview. “That we can go into a
recession and come out into a recovery in normal business cycle
fashion is less likely, and the reason is that the Fed has fewer
tools to address the downturn and Congress is currently
tightening fiscal policy.”  Interest-rate futures signal traders are pushing back
expectations for when the Fed raises its target for overnight
loans between banks to 2013. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
has kept its target rate for overnight loans in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ECB purchases of Irish and Portuguese bonds haven’t stamped
out investor concern on the 21-month crisis spreading to Italy
and Spain, whose yields soared to euro-era highs this week.
European officials are trying to put a firewall around  Europe ’s
third and fourth-largest economies to avoid them being forced
into seeking external aid.  ‘Inkling of Growth’  The yen dropped by the most since October 2008 against the
dollar after  Japan  sold its currency to stem gains that threaten
the nation’s economic recovery. The Swiss central bank
unexpectedly cut interest rates yesterday and said it will
increase the supply of francs to money markets to curb the
“massively overvalued” currency.  Investors have snapped up the yen and the franc as signs
emerge that the global economy is slowing, said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York.  “To a great extent this is all a function of weak dollar
policy and also a function of slowing U.S. fundamentals,”
Schlossberg said in a telephone interview. “The market needs to
perceive that the U.S. has an inkling of growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  