-- 
Trichet’s Bond Firepower Faces Test as ECB Purchases Fail to Stem Turmoil

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-08-05T08:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/trichet-s-bond-firepower-faces-test-as-ecb-purchases-fail-to-stem-turmoil.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet may be forced to step up his fight against the
sovereign debt crisis after a resumption of bond purchases
yesterday failed to halt a rout in Italy and  Spain .  Over opposition from  Germany ’s Bundesbank, Trichet
yesterday sent the ECB back into bond markets as yields on
Italian and Spanish yields soared, threatening the ability of
the euro region’s third- and fourth-largest economies to borrow.
As the sell-off continued, traders said the ECB purchased only
Irish and Portuguese securities, suggesting the central bank is
reluctant to put up the funds needed to tame a crisis it says
governments are responsible for fixing.  “The ECB is being dragged unwillingly back to the table,
having tried originally to palm off responsibility for
restructuring the euro zone to governments,” said  Peter Dixon ,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “If the ECB is
serious about playing its part in holding the euro zone
together, then it’s going to have to spend a considerable sum.”  The ECB, which ceased buying bonds four months ago, was
forced back into action after governments failed to convince
investors that a package of new measures agreed to last month
will prevent the crisis from spreading. The ECB may be hesitant
to intervene in Italian and Spanish markets, which according to
Bloomberg data have a combined 2.2 trillion euros ($3.1
trillion) worth of outstanding bonds, for fear of starting an
engagement it can’t get out of.  Merkel, Sarkozy  The ECB “would have to deploy more cash to have an impact
on the Spanish or Italian yields than in the case of small
periphery paper,” said Elwin de Groot, senior market economist
at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “Secondly, markets would
expect a certain commitment from the ECB to follow through.”  Olli Rehn, the European Union’s economic and monetary
affairs commissioner, will hold a news conference in Brussels
today at about 12:20 p.m. regarding “ongoing developments in
the euro zone,” the European Commission said in an e-mailed
statement last night. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will also discuss the crisis
today, according to a French official.  Italian 10-year bond yields, which rose 11 basis points
yesterday to 6.19 percent, jumped a further 17 basis points
today to 6.36 percent. The Spanish equivalent soared to 6.38
percent.  ‘Why Should We?’  The ECB’s reluctance to buy Italian bonds is discouraging
demand for the country’s debt, Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
said yesterday, according to Radiocor newswire. Tremonti said
Asian investors have told him that “if your central bank isn’t
buying your bonds, why should we buy them?” according to
Radiocor.  Gilles Moec, co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank
AG in London, said that by shunning Italian and Spanish debt the
ECB was putting pressure on those governments to “get their
house in order.”  “It’s showing it can buy, but only those whose governments
have made an effort,” he said.  The ECB would be willing to do more for deficit-hit
countries such as Italy and Spain if they take “concrete”
steps to stabilize their finances, Governing Council member Luc Coene told RTBF radio in Brussels today.  “Certainly the ECB is ready to make major efforts to
relieve the situation, but first the countries have to take
steps,” said Coene, who heads  Belgium ’s central bank. “It
doesn’t make sense to pour water into a bucket with a hole in
it.”  ‘More Intractable’  The ECB has succeeded in making the problem “even more
intractable,” said  David Owen , chief European economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “The contagion is
spreading. If spreads widen out significantly, I think the ECB
would have to step in.”  The ECB is fighting the debt crisis against the backdrop of
a global economic slowdown and market sell-off. More than $4.5
trillion has been wiped off equity market values worldwide since
July 26, driving the MSCI index of global shares down more than
10 percent from this year’s high. Two-year Treasury yields have
plunged to a record low.  Trichet faces opposition to bond purchases from within the
ECB’s own ranks. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann voted
against a resumption of the bond program, according to an
official familiar with the discussions. Weidmann was not the
only council member opposed to the move, the official said on
condition of anonymity.  Concerning  Yesterday’s response may have been “the best the ECB could
do because the Governing Council could not agree on a shock-and-
awe response,” said Peter Westaway, chief European economist at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “If so, this is
concerning.”  Trichet yesterday announced additional liquidity measures
to help battle the debt crisis. The ECB will offer banks an
unlimited six-month loan and it extended existing measures,
which include lending banks as much cash as they need at the
benchmark rate, through the end of the year.  Trichet reiterated the ECB’s tough stance on the need to
contain inflation even as investors scaled back bets on the
central bank adding to its two rate increases this year. The ECB
held its benchmark rate yesterday at 1.5 percent.  After launching its bond-purchase program in May last year
to help stem the Greek-led debt crisis, the ECB has this year
attempted to put the onus back on governments to solve the
problem so that it can return to its primary task of ensuring
 price stability . Political indecision has kept the ECB on the
front lines.  ‘Undisciplined Communication’  While leaders last month agreed to allow the European
Financial Stability Facility to buy debt on the secondary
market, individual parliaments must still ratify the plan.  EU Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday called on
governments to increase the size of the 440 billion-euro rescue
fund and criticized their “undisciplined communication.”
Trichet said it’s important that the fund be mandated to buy
bonds “as soon as possible.”  “With governments not voting on the EFSF buying bonds for
some time, the ECB may not have wanted to end up with a
considerable amount of Italian debt on its balance sheet,” said
Laurence Boone, chief European economist at Bank of America
Securities-Merrill Lynch in London. “Trichet is probably the
most pragmatic among European officials. In the absence of the
others, the ECB was able to react quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  