-- 
Trichet Says Monetary Policy Remains Accommodative (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-04T14:19:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/trichet-says-monetary-policy-remains-accommodative-transcript-.html
European Central Bank  President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  speaks at a news conference about the bank’s
decision to keep interest rates unchanged as economic growth
slows and the region’s debt crisis spreads to Italy and  Spain .  ECB officials meeting in  Frankfurt  today kept the benchmark
rate at 1.5 percent after lifting it by 25 basis points last
month. (This report is Trichet’s statement only. Source:
European Central Bank)  (This transcript is not a legal transcript and has been
provided by the European Central Bank via www.ecb.int. Bloomberg
LP cannot guarantee its accuracy.)  JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK:  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very
pleased to welcome you to our press conference. We will report
on the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council,
which was also attended by Commissioner Rehn. Based on its
regular economic and monetary analyses, the Governing Council
decided to keep the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged, following
the 25 basis point increase on 7 July 2011. The information that
has become available since then confirms our assessment that an
adjustment of the accommodative monetary policy stance was
warranted in the light of upside risks to price stability. While
the monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is still moderate, monetary liquidity remains
ample and may facilitate the accommodation of price pressures.
As expected, recent economic data indicate a deceleration in the
pace of economic growth in the past few months, following the
strong growth rate in the first quarter. Continued moderate
expansion is expected in the period ahead. However, uncertainty
is particularly high. For monetary policy, it is essential that
recent price developments do not give rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures. Inflation expectations in the euro area
must remain firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining
inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term.
Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to make an
ongoing contribution towards supporting economic growth and job
creation in the euro area. At the same time, short-term interest
rates remain low and financing conditions are favorable. Thus,
our monetary policy stance remains accommodative. We will
continue to monitor very closely all developments with respect
to upside risks to  price stability .  Given the renewed tensions in some financial markets in the
euro area, the Governing Council today also decided to conduct a
liquidity-providing supplementary longer-term refinancing
operation (LTRO) with a maturity of approximately six months.
The operation will be conducted as a fixed rate tender procedure
with full allotment. The rate in this operation will be fixed at
the average rate of the main refinancing operations (MROs) over
the life of the supplementary LTRO. The operation will be
announced on 9 August 2011, with allotment on 10 August 2011 and
settlement on 11 August 2011, and will mature on 1 March 2012.
The Governing Council also decided to continue conducting its
MROs as fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment for as
long as necessary, and at least until the end of the last
maintenance period of 2011 on 17 January 2012. This procedure
will also remain in use for the Eurosystem’s special-term
refinancing operations with a maturity of one maintenance
period, which will continue to be conducted for as long as
needed, and at least until the end of the last quarter of 2011.
The fixed rate in these special-term refinancing operations will
be the same as the MRO rate prevailing at the time.
Furthermore, the Governing Council has decided to conduct the
three-month LTROs to be allotted on 26 October, 30 November and
21 December 2011 as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment. The rates in these three-month operations will be
fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of the
respective LTRO.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. In the first quarter of
2011 euro area real GDP posted a strong quarter-on-quarter
increase of 0.8%. Data and survey releases for the second
quarter point towards ongoing real GDP growth, albeit, as
expected, at a slower pace. This moderation also reflects the
fact that the strong growth in the first quarter was in part due
to special factors. The underlying positive momentum of economic
growth in the euro area remains in place and continued moderate
expansion is expected in the period ahead. Euro area exports
should continue to be supported by the ongoing expansion in the
world economy. In addition, the present level of consumer and
business confidence in the euro area supports private sector
domestic demand. However, growth dynamics are currently weakened
by a number of factors contributing to uncertainty, and activity
is expected to be dampened somewhat by the ongoing process of
balance sheet adjustment in various regions and sectors.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook for the euro area remain broadly balanced in an
environment of particularly high uncertainty. On the one hand,
consumer and business confidence, together with improvements in
labor market conditions, could continue to provide support to
domestic economic activity. On the other hand, downside risks
may have intensified. They relate to the ongoing tensions in
some segments of the euro area financial markets as well as to
global developments, and the potential for these pressures to
spill over into the euro area real economy. Downside risks also
relate to further increases in energy prices, protectionist
pressures and the possibility of a disorderly correction of
global imbalances.  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.5% in July 2011, following 2.7% in June. The
relatively high inflation rates seen over the past few months
largely reflect higher energy and other commodity prices.
Looking ahead, inflation rates are likely to stay clearly above
2% over the coming months. Upward pressure on inflation, mainly
from energy and other commodity prices, is also still
discernible in the earlier stages of the production process. It
remains of paramount importance that the rise in HICP inflation
does not translate into second-round effects in price and wage-
setting behavior and lead to broad-based inflationary pressures.
Inflation expectations must remain firmly anchored in line with
the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2% over the medium term.
Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments remain
on the upside. They relate, in particular, to higher than
assumed increases in energy prices. Furthermore, there is a risk
of increases in indirect taxes and administered prices that may
be greater than currently assumed, owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation in the coming years. Finally, upside risks may
stem from stronger than expected domestic price pressures in the
euro area.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of
M3 decreased to 2.1% in June 2011, from 2.5% in May. Looking
through the recent monthly volatility, M3 growth has broadly
stabilized over recent months, after edging up until the first
quarter of 2011. The annual growth rate of loans to the private
sector declined to 2.5% in June, from 2.7% in May. Overall, the
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains moderate. At the
same time, monetary liquidity accumulated prior to the period of
financial market tensions continues to be ample, and may
facilitate the accommodation of price pressures in the euro
area.  Looking at M3 components, the annual growth rate of M1
remained unchanged at 1.2%, whereas growth in other short-term
deposits declined to 3.7%. The growth differentials continue to
reflect in part the gradual increase in the remuneration of
short-term time and savings deposits over recent months. At the
same time, the still relatively steep yield curve implies a
dampening impact on overall M3 growth, as it reduces the
attractiveness of monetary assets compared with more highly
remunerated longer-term instruments outside M3. However, this
impact is likely to be waning. On the counterpart side, the
annual growth of loans to non-financial corporations continued
to edge up, from 0.9% in May to 1.5% in June, whereas the annual
growth of loans to households hovered over recent months around
rates of slightly above 3%.  The overall size of MFI balance sheets has remained broadly
unchanged over recent months. Where it is necessary to provide
adequate scope to expand the provision of credit to the private
sector, it is essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to
the market to strengthen further their capital bases or to take
full advantage of government support measures for
recapitalization. In particular, banks that currently have
limited access to market financing urgently need to increase
their capital and their efficiency. In this respect, we welcome
the EU-wide stress-testing exercise, which was prepared by the
European Banking Authority and national supervisors, in close
cooperation with the ECB. We also welcome the commitment made by
national authorities with regard to the provision of support
facilities for banks where private sector means are
insufficient.  To sum up, based on its regular economic and monetary
analyses, the Governing Council decided to keep the key ECB
interest rates unchanged, following the 25 basis point increase
on 7 July 2011. The information that has become available since
then confirms our assessment that an adjustment of the
accommodative monetary policy stance was warranted in the light
of upside risks to price stability. A cross-check with the
signals coming from the monetary analysis indicates that while
the underlying pace of monetary expansion is still moderate,
monetary liquidity remains ample and may facilitate the
accommodation of price pressures. As expected, recent economic
data indicate a deceleration in the pace of economic growth in
the past few months, following the strong growth rate in the
first quarter. Continued moderate expansion is expected in the
period ahead. However, uncertainty is particularly high. For
monetary policy, it is essential that recent price developments
do not give rise to broad-based inflationary pressures.
Inflation expectations in the euro area must remain firmly
anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. Such anchoring is
a prerequisite for monetary policy to make an ongoing
contribution towards supporting economic growth and job creation
in the euro area. At the same time, short-term interest rates
remain low and financing conditions favorable. Thus, our
monetary policy stance remains accommodative. We will continue
to monitor very closely all developments with respect to upside
risks to price stability.  Turning to fiscal policies, the Governing Council stresses
the need for strict and timely implementation of the IMF/EU
adjustment programs in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . In
addition, it underlines the importance of the renewed commitment
of all Heads of State or Government of the euro area to adhere
strictly to the agreed fiscal targets. For several countries,
this requires announcing and implementing additional and more
frontloaded fiscal adjustment measures. Those that enjoy better
than expected economic and fiscal developments should make full
use of this room for maneuver for faster deficit and debt
reduction. The common aim should be to put public debt ratios
and public finances on a sustainable path as soon as possible.
As emphasized by the Heads of State or Government of the euro
area, the inflexible determination of all euro area countries to
fully honor their own individual sovereign signature is a
decisive element in ensuring financial stability in the euro
area as a whole.  The Governing Council also welcomes the renewed commitment
of all Member States to improve competitiveness and address
macroeconomic imbalances. Indeed, substantial and comprehensive
structural reforms need to be implemented in the countries of
the euro area in order to increase the flexibility of their
economies and their longer-term growth potential. The removal of
labor market rigidities and the implementation of measures which
enhance wage flexibility, notably the elimination of automatic
wage indexation clauses, are of key importance.
We are now at your disposal for questions.  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 