-- 
ECB Resumes Bond Buying as Trichet Offers Banks Cash to Stem Debt Crisis

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-04T16:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/trichet-signals-ecb-buying-bonds-as-it-offers-banks-cash-amid-debt-crisis.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said the ECB has resumed bond purchases and will
offer banks more cash to stop the region’s debt crisis from
engulfing  Italy  and Spain and hurting the economy.  “I wouldn’t be surprised that before the end of this
teleconference you would see something on the market,” Trichet
told reporters in Frankfurt today after the ECB kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5 percent. “We were not unanimous
but with overwhelming majority with regards to the bond
purchases.”  ECB purchases of Irish and Portuguese bonds during the
press briefing haven’t stamped out investor concern on the 21-
month crisis spreading to Italy and Spain, whose yields soared
to euro-era highs this week. European officials are trying to
put a firewall around  Europe ’s third and fourth-largest
economies to avoid them being forced into seeking external aid.  “With the ECB not daring to touch Italy and  Spain  and the
decision to buy Portugal and Ireland also not taken unanimously,
the market looks set to question the ECB’s resolve until it sees
the facts,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income
strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “To be fair, the
decision to buy Italy and Spain should not be taken light-
heartedly as it could open a bottomless pit.”  Bond Market   Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds declined, pushing the
yields as high as 6.23 percent and 6.33 percent respectively.
Irish and Portuguese bonds rose as people with knowledge of
today’s transactions said the ECB bought those securities after
being absent from the market for 18 weeks. That debt was at 10.4
percent and 11.3 percent as of 5 p.m. in London.  The euro slipped after Trichet’s comments, falling to
$1.4161 at 6:37 p.m. in  Frankfurt  from $1.4202 at the start of
the press conference.  Market fallout from the debt crisis in Europe, the
political standoff on the U.S. government’s borrowing limit and
concern about slower global growth prompted central banks around
the world to take action this week to protect their economies.  Yesterday, the Swiss central bank unexpectedly cut interest
rates and said it will take steps to stem the franc’s record-
breaking gains against the euro and the dollar. Today,  Japan 
sold yen to halt an appreciation, while  Turkey ’s central bank
reduced its key rate to a record low of 5.75 percent. The  Bank
of England  kept its key rate at 0.5 percent.  No Time to Wait  European leaders last month agreed on a second bailout
package for Greece that includes voluntary contributions from
private-sector bondholders and widens the scope of the European
rescue fund. Governments must still ratify the plan, which would
empower the European Financial Stability Facility to start
buying debt on the secondary market.  “The objective of stabilizing markets cannot wait until
parliaments have passed new legislation on the EFSF,” said Paul Mortimer-Lee, global head of market economics at BNP Paribas SA
in  London . “The benefit of the reengagement will be tempered if
the ECB only follows the ‘acupuncture’ approach to relieving
pressure on Italy and Spain by buying other markets but not
these two.”  The EFSF “should be operational in our view as soon as
possible,” Trichet said. “What we expect is that the EFSF will
be effective and efficient in its interventions, which would
permit us not to intervene to restore” the monetary policy
transmission channel.  Convincing Markets  Earlier, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  sought
more firepower for the euro region’s 440 billion-euro ($623
billion) rescue fund. “Markets remain to be convinced that we
are taking the appropriate steps to resolve the crisis,” he
told European leaders in a letter released in Brussels today.  Morgan Stanley analysts said yesterday that southern
European bank bond sales have been “very thin” for the past
two months and short-term money markets are closed to some banks
looking for funding for longer than 30 days.  We “are increasingly concerned that funding markets won’t
reopen with sufficient depth or at good enough terms for Italian
and Spanish issuers,” the analysts said.  The 23-member Governing Council decided today to extend
unlimited allotment in its refinancing operations through the
end of the year and offer banks as much money as they need in a
six-month tender, an operation the ECB last used after  Greece ’s
first bailout program was announced in May last year.  Rate Normalization  The six-month tender “aims at addressing recent market
tensions, while still leaving room for the ECB to continue its
rate normalization path in coming months,” said  Giada Giani , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. She still predicts a
quarter-point rate increase in October.  Trichet indicated the ECB is reluctant to shelve further
rate increases even as investors reduce bets on the central bank
adding to its two rate moves in 2011 and economists push back
forecasts for higher borrowing costs.  ECB rates are still “accommodative” and inflation risks
“remain on the upside,” Trichet said. “We will continue to
monitor very closely all developments,” he added, employing a
phrase policy makers have used in the past to signal a rate
increase within two to three months.  Euro-area inflation, which the ECB aims to keep just below
2 percent, slowed to 2.5 percent last month from 2.7 percent in
June, driven by a sharp drop in Italy’s rate. The ECB forecasts
annual consumer-price gains to average 2.6 percent this year.  Trichet acknowledged a “particularly high” level of
uncertainty about the economic outlook. While “continued
moderate expansion is expected” in the coming months,
“downside risks may have intensified,” he said.  Wait and See  European services and manufacturing growth weakened in July
to the slowest pace since the euro region emerged from recession
two years ago. The ECB in June revised down its 2012 growth
forecast to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent.  “Weaker economic growth, the intensifying sovereign-debt
crisis, and better than expected inflation numbers suggest that
the case for the ECB to move into ‘wait-and-see mode’ has
strengthened,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN
Amro NV in Amsterdam, who before today’s press conference had
forecast the ECB to raise interest rates again in October.  “We expect the central bank to keep interest rates on hold
for the rest of the year before a resumption of rate hikes in
July of next year,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  