-- 
Rio Tinto First-Half Profit Trails Estimates as Costs Rise

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-08-04T17:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/rio-tinto-first-half-profit-jumps-30-to-record.html
Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest
mining company, reported first-half profit that missed analyst
estimates as costs and currency gains in  Australia  and  Canada 
hurt earnings. The shares fell the most in more than 13 months.  Underlying profit rose 35 percent to $7.8 billion, below
the $8.3 billion mean estimate of nine analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income climbed 30 percent to $7.6 billion in the
six months ended June 30, from $5.8 billion a year earlier, the
London-based company said today in a statement. Rio expanded its
share buyback by $2 billion to $7 billion.  Global mining companies are battling rising wages, raw
material and energy bills as well as currency gains in producing
countries that drive up their costs. Foreign exchange movements
cut underlying earnings in the first-half by $810 million, Rio
said today. Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliott forecast further
increases in expenses.  “Market expectations missed the impact of rising input
costs on Rio’s performance,”  Charles Kernot , a London-based
analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd., said today in an e-mailed
note. “The strong Australian dollar and Canadian dollar
particularly have adversely impacted operating costs. High
energy costs, fixed costs at low output Australian mines and
various other input cost pressures have squeezed margins.”  Rio fell 5.4 percent to 3,796.5 pence, the biggest one-day
slump since June 29, 2010 and the lowest close since Oct 5. The
FTSE 350 Mining Index slipped 5.8 percent.  ‘Mild Disappointment’  Rio declared an interim dividend of 54 cents, up 20 percent
from a year earlier. The payout for the second half will be
“closely reviewed” in February, Elliott said today. The
company’s own average estimate of underlying profit from 18
analysts was for $8.03 billion.  The expanded share buyback will be completed by the end of
the first quarter of 2012. When the plan was announced in
February, Rio said it intended to complete it by the end of next
year.  Profit was “a mild disappointment, missing consensus,”
Liberum Capital Ltd. said in an e-mailed note. The increase in
the buyback “will likely be taken as a small positive, but is
far from aggressive,” Liberum said.  Compared with the first half of 2010, the  U.S. dollar 
weakened by an average 16 percent against the Australian dollar
and by five percent against the Canadian dollar, Rio said. The
company records many of its costs in the currencies of the
countries where it operates, while sales are priced in dollars.  Cost Pressures  Higher energy costs cut earnings by $95 million, increases
in input costs decreased income by $384 million and severe
weather in Australia during the period also drove up expenses
and trimmed $245 million off earnings, Rio said.  “We are facing, I think, a series of higher-than-inflation
sector pressures in the mining sector that are following apace
with the high commodity prices,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said today on a call with reporters from  London .  Higher costs associated with project expansions cut
earnings by $353 million while other production-related expenses
including maintenance and additional labor reduced earnings by
$182 million, Rio said. Because of gains in the Australian
dollar, the cost of existing iron ore and alumina expansion
projects has increased $2.4 billion, the company said.  “We’ve obviously seen much higher labor settlements and
salary increases than local inflation in most places,” Elliot
said on a call today with reporters.  Critical  Raw Materials   “Looking forward, we should expect to see continued
inflation in production costs and in input prices, in
particularly labor cost in locations such as Australia and in
Canada and certain critical raw materials,” he later told
analysts on a webcast from Sydney.  Even so, Albanese has presided over an almost fivefold
increase in profit since the first half of 2009 as raw-material
prices advanced. That’s allowed Rio to slash debt and boost
spending on expansions and cash returns to holders.  Iron ore 
provided almost two-thirds of Rio’s 2010 earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  The price of the ore, a key steelmaking ingredient, may
average $170 a metric ton in 2011, up from $122 a ton last year,
according to Morgan Stanley. The price of copper on the London
Metal Exchange averaged $9,403 a metric ton during the half, up
from $7,161 a ton a year earlier. Aluminum averaged $2,573 a
ton, compared with $2,162.  ‘Elevated Volatilities’  “Although volumes were lower than 2010 first half, we were
able to take advantage of higher prices for our products,”
Albanese said in the statement. “Our view remains that our
markets will continue to experience higher-than-average growth,
but they will be characterized by elevated volatility and scope
for discontinuities.”  In February, Rio announced the share buyback and a 40
percent increase in its dividend as 2010 net income tripled to
$14.3 billion. Rio didn’t pay an interim dividend in 2009 and
instead pursued a $15.2 billion rights offer as it grappled with
almost $40 billion in debt after taking over Alcan Inc. in 2007.  Rio is the world’s second-largest mining company by sales,
trailing  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   Brazil ’s Vale SA is the third-
largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  