-- 
Roaste.com Matches Java Sellers With Buyers Shunning Starbucks

-- B y   N i c k   L e i b e r
-- 
2011-08-04T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/roaste-com-matches-java-sellers-with-buyers-shunning-starbucks.html
Three years ago, Frank Lanzkron-
Tamarazo traded a 15-year career as a cantor singing prayers in
a synagogue for roasting beans at Chazzano Coffee Roasters, a
company he started after a friend suggested he follow his
passion.  While his Ferndale, Michigan-based roastery and cafe have
steadily gained traction, Lanzkron-Tamarazo wanted to expand
beyond his local market without diminishing the time he had for
roasting exotic varietals. He mulled franchising then realized
he needed to establish a national brand first.  To boost his profile among coffee cognoscenti, he began
selling on the website  Roaste.com . The specialty marketplace has
some 2,200 coffees from more than 100 vendors and expects an
additional 150 roasters by yearend, Bloomberg Businessweek
 reports  in its Aug. 8 issue. Lanzkron-Tamarazo says online sales
have quadrupled since he first started selling on Roaste in
2008, accounting for about $36,000 a year, roughly 5 percent of
Chazzano’s revenue.  “I’m not getting the same prices that I get from someone
walking in off the street or even with my own website, but the
exposure is worth more than I can quantify,” he says.  Three-year-old Boston-based Roaste Inc. (pronounced ROAST-
ee) was unveiled with an expanded site in April and surpassed
the 10,000 customer mark in July.  ‘Buttery Mouth Feel’  Founders Scott Lush, 43, and Eyal Rosen, 40, say a goal of
the redesign was to increase the site’s sense of community.
Users can now write reviews and gossip with fellow coffee lovers
on blogs; one contributor praises an espresso blend for its
“buttery mouth feel,” while another sounds off on an Ethiopian
organic for its “unpleasant smoky bergamot” flavor.  Lush and Rosen, who discovered a shared love of coffee
while working for Paris-based telecommunications-equipment
supplier Alcatel-Lucent SA eight years ago, started the company
in their Boston homes. They say they expect to triple revenue,
to $3 million, next year. Although the seven-employee company,
which has raised $1 million from angel investors, isn’t yet
profitable, Lush aims to get an additional $5 million in
financing by December.  “Starbucks raised expectations for gourmet coffee but
hasn’t given people a place to go after they’ve had their
thousandth pumpkin-spice, half-caf latte,” says Lush. “There
needs to be a destination website for gourmet coffee.”  $6 Billion Market  Will java snobs, accustomed to buying from their local
coffee shop, place enough online orders to please the bean
counters at the roasters? Ric Rhinehart, executive director of
the  Long Beach , California-based  Specialty Coffee Association of
America , says he thinks so.  While home consumption jumped during the recession, he
says, it dropped last year as people returned to favorite cafes.
He estimates the 3,000 independent roasters account for about $6
billion of the approximately $37 billion U.S. retail coffee
market, though many are having trouble getting financing and
have been hurt by rising prices for beans. Rhinehart says early
online coffee marketplaces simply supplied offices with standard
brews.  “Roaste’s got a little more evolved business model and a
little tighter focus on who they want to sell to,” he says.
“They want to sell to an informed consumer.”  Roaste keeps up to half the retail price of coffee sold on
the site, roasters say, a figure Lush declined to confirm. When
an order comes in, the site sends the vendor an e-mail with the
customer’s address. Most then roast the beans within hours and
drop the package in the mail the same day. They get prepaid
postage labels from Roaste, which also handles returns.  “Like, Brainless’  “It’s very convenient for me -- like, brainless,” says
Tracy Swanson, who oversees marketing for  Avion Coffee  in
Hayden,  Idaho . Swanson is using Roaste to expand her $200,000
wholesale business into online retail and says her sales on the
site have doubled annually since she signed up in 2008.  Although Roaste still accounts for a small part of most
roasters’ sales, Lush says he can help change the economics of
the roasting business.  Small coffee roasters “were slammed the past 20 years by
Starbucks, Caribou,  Seattle ’s Best, and other megabrands,” he
says.  Lush aims to help little guys fight back by letting them
reach a much larger clientele. And he claims his focus on coffee
connoisseurs gives Roaste an advantage over rivals such as
Seattle-based Amazon.com, Inc., which says it has more than
tripled its coffee business since 2008.  Gary Strawn believes Lush’s strategy is working. Strawn
operates a 13-acre farm in Kona,  Hawaii , and sells about 5
percent of his crop on Roaste. “I’m a farmer -- that’s my
primary job. My second job is trying to sell the coffee, and I’m
not nearly as good at that,” he says. “It’s great to go
through someone like Roaste, because that’s what they do full-
time.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nick Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  or.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rocks at   drocks1@bloomberg.net . 