-- 
Troika Dialog Said to Hire Former UralSib Strategist Weafer

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-04T14:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/troika-dialog-said-to-hire-former-uralsib-strategist-weafer-1-.html
Chris Weafer , the former chief
strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, has been hired
by brokerage Troika Dialog, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Weafer, who was head of research at Troika in the late
1990s, is returning to Russia’s oldest investment bank, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the move hasn’t
been made public. He will join as chief strategist to replace
 Kingsmill Bond , who left in March to join Citigroup Inc., the
people said.  Rated Russia’s top equity strategist by Thomson Extel in
2007, Weafer has been working as head of Russia research and
chief strategist at ING Groep NV in Moscow since June. He was
appointed chief strategist at UralSib in 2007 after a stint with
 Alfa Bank , Russia’s largest non-state lender, according to a
 biography  on UralSib’s website.  Maria Zhog, a spokeswoman for Troika, declined to comment
when contacted on her mobile phone. Weafer did not return phone
calls or e-mails seeking to confirm the move. Niall Carton, head
of  investment banking  at ING, was on holiday and could not be
reached for comment. Svetlana Saitova, a Moscow-based
spokeswoman for the bank, declined to immediately comment when
contacted by phone.  Troika, which is being acquired by Rusisa’s largest lender,
OAO Sberbank, today said it had recruited James Corrigan from
VTB Capital for an investment banking role. On Aug. 2, the bank
said it had hired Olga Klimov from UBS AG in  New York  as its new
global head of equity sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  