-- 
RSA’s Simon Lee to Replace Haste as Chief Executive Officer

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-04T16:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/rsa-s-simon-lee-to-replace-haste-as-chief-executive-officer-1-.html
RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  said Chief
Executive Officer Andy Haste will step down, a year after the
failure of his attempt to create Britain’s biggest non-life
insurer with a 5 billion-pound ($8 billion) takeover.  Haste, 49, will be replaced at the end of this year by
international head Simon Lee, 50, the London-based insurer said
today in a statement. RSA didn’t give a reason for Haste’s exit.  Since taking over in 2003, Haste has cut jobs, sold units
and focused on writing fewer policies to revive profit after the
insurer logged five consecutive years of losses between 2000 and
2005 due to surging asbestos claims in the U.S. After making
more than 40 acquisitions, Haste last year tried to buy Aviva
Plc’s U.K. non-life unit, an offer the target rejected.  “He’s turned around the business and left it in terrific
shape,” said  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool-based analyst at
Shore Capital Plc with a “buy” rating on the stock. “But he
wanted to punch much bigger. He’s a very ambitious guy.”  Haste said the Aviva tie-up would allow RSA to cut costs
and achieve  capital gains . After Aviva CEO Andrew Moss rejected
the offer, RSA, which would have funded the purchase with a
rights offering, didn’t make another bid. Haste also considered
making a $1 billion bid for  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
non-life division in  Latin America  in 2009, according to the
Sunday Telegraph. No formal offer was ever made public.  ‘Still Young’  “I’ve had eight-and-a-half great years here and it’s been
a real privilege to lead the team here,” Haste said on a call
with reporters today. “Genuinely, I have no set plans at the
moment. I’ll take my time to think about what to do next. I’m
still young, still energetic, still passionate about business.”  Haste declined to comment on any future career plans,
saying he wouldn’t rule anything out.  “Andy Haste could run any financial services company in
 Europe ,” Flanagan said. “He’s a great company doctor.”  Lee joined RSA as head of its international unit eight
years ago, and has since expanded the division to be the
insurer’s biggest unit by revenue after making acquisitions in
Ireland and Scandinavia. Before RSA, Lee spent 17 years at
NatWest, part of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Lee’s salary will be raised to 800,000 pounds following his
promotion, RSA said in the statement. His bonus and other
compensation will remain unchanged.  RSA’s pretax profit rose 25 percent to 376 million pounds
in the six months to June 30, the insurer said in a separate
statement. That beat the 322-million-pound median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The stock sank 5.3 percent to 118.1 pence in  London , the
lowest in more than a year, giving the firm a market value of
about 4.2 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  