-- 
Russia Leaves Interest Rates Unchanged for Third Month on Slower Inflation

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l y o n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-08-04T15:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/russia-leaves-interest-rates-unchanged-for-third-month-on-slower-inflation.html
Russia  left interest rates unchanged
for a third month as July inflation fell faster than economists
expected and weakening global growth threatens to damp demand
for the country’s oil and gas exports.  Bank Rossii held its refinancing rate at 8.25 percent after
increases in February and April, the Moscow-based central bank
said today in a  statement . All 21 economists in a Bloomberg
survey predicted the decision. The overnight auction-based
repurchase rate was held at 5.5 percent and the overnight
deposit rate at 3.5 percent, matching economists’ expectations.  “This decision was made based on an evaluation of
inflationary risks and risks to the stability of economic
growth, including those from continued uncertainty on the
economic situation abroad,” the bank said in the statement.  Falling food costs are helping to ease inflation, which the
bank expects to keep within its 7 percent target for the year,
the slowest since the fall of the  Soviet Union  in 1991. External
shocks such as the worsening debt crisis in Europe, slower-than-
expected U.S. growth and tighter monetary policy in countries
including  China  are bolstering arguments to leave borrowing
costs unchanged.  Inflation Recedes  Consumer prices rose 9 percent from a year earlier in July,
compared with 9.4 percent the previous month, the bank said.
That’s less than the 9.2 percent median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Full-year inflation may be
near the lower end of the government’s 6.5 percent to 7.5
percent forecast, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told
reporters July 21.  “If the situation with consumer prices continues unchanged
in August, the central bank may decide to lower the refinancing
rate as soon as September,” Natalia Orlova, chief economist at
 Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said today by telephone. “The current
inflation level of 9 percent from a year earlier shows that
price growth in Russia really has started falling.”  Investors have scaled back bets for higher interest rates.
Forward-rate agreements show a likelihood of 23 basis points, or
0.23 percentage point, of rate increases in the next three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That matches
the lowest level since April 2010.  The ruble reversed earlier gains and ended 0.7 percent
weaker at 28.0801 per dollar at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow. The
Russian currency extended gains against the euro, strengthening
0.3 percent to 39.7500.  ‘Global Chaos’  “The decision is justified to a certain extent, given the
current situation on global markets, which could be summarized
as global chaos,” Aurelija Augulyte, an economist at Nordea
Bank AB in Copenhagen, wrote in a note to clients.  Currencies seen by investors as havens in times of
financial-market stress have been driven higher by U.S.
political tension over government borrowing limits and  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis.  Switzerland ’s central bank unexpectedly cut interest rates
yesterday and said it planned to increase the supply of francs
to money markets to stem gains in this year’s best performing
currency.  Central bankers in  Brazil , China and  India  raised borrowing
costs in July to tame consumer-price growth. Turkey’s central
bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate  today to support
growth. The  European Central Bank , the  Bank of England  and the
Czech central bank all voted to leave rates unchanged today.  Russia’s economic growth may accelerate in the final six
months of the year because of rising domestic demand and an
increased harvest after drought destroyed a third of last year’s
crop, said Klepach, who oversees macroeconomic forecasting.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.7 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, less than the 4.1 percent
recorded in the first, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alyona Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 