-- 
S&P, Moody’s Defend Actions in Italy Amid Prosecutor Probe

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-08-04T17:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/s-p-moody-s-defend-actions-in-italy-amid-prosecutor-probe.html
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
and Moody’s Investors Service will defend their work amid an
investigation by Italian prosecutors into the rating companies’
statements.  The probe in the southern city of Trani is “without
foundation” and the credit rating company will “strenuously
defend its work,” S&P said in an e-mail. “Moody’s takes its
responsibilities surrounding the dissemination of market
sensitive information very seriously and is cooperating with the
authorities,” the company said in a separate e-mail.  Moody’s on May 6 said in a report it was assessing
the risk of “sovereign contagion” that could affect the
banking industries of  Portugal ,  Spain ,  Italy , Ireland and the
U.K. Italy isn’t among the countries most at risk from Europe’s
spreading debt crisis and its credit outlook for 2010 remains
stable, Moody’s said the following day.  No one responded to phone calls placed to the prosecutor’s
office in Trani.  The inquiry comes as the yield premium investors demand to
hold 10-year Italian bonds over German bunds trades near a euro-
era record 392 basis points hit yesterday, amid concern the
sovereign debt crisis is spreading. Spreads are more than 200
basis points higher than at the start of the year.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is struggling to
convince investors that Italy won’t become the next victim of
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Berlusconi said he doesn’t think the
current market turmoil will get worse. Because much of Italy’s
public debt is long term, it won’t be affected by rising yields,
Berlusconi also said during a briefing in Rome today after
meeting with Italian executives and unions.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Liefgreen at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net  