-- 
SAC Capital May Have Lost $196 Million on Paper in Dendreon Stock Plunge

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-08-04T19:41:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/sac-capital-advisors-may-have-lost-196-million-on-dendreon-s-stock-plunge.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14
billion hedge fund run by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen , may have
a one-day paper loss of about $196 million from its stake in
 Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , the drugmaker that plunged the most ever after
it withdrew its 2011 revenue estimate.  SAC Capital owned 8.2 million shares of Seattle-based
Dendreon as of March 31, making it the biggest shareholder,
according to a regulatory filing. Dendreon fell 67 percent, or
$23.87, to $11.97 at 3:15 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, the largest decline since its initial public
offering in June 2000.  Chief Executive Officer Mitchell Gold said in a statement
yesterday that the company was educating doctors about prostate-
cancer drug Provenge and a decision last month by the U.S.
Medicare and Medicaid program to pay for the $93,000 treatment.
Billionaire  George Soros , who last week told clients he will be
return their money, also had a stake in Dendreon.  SAC Capital’s CR Intrinsic unit held 625,000 shares of
Dendreon as of the end of the first quarter, according to a
filing. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the Stamford,
Connecticut-based hedge fund, declined to comment.  Soros Fund Management LLC in  New York  held 4.7 million
shares as of March 31, according to filings. Citadel LLC,
Balyasny Asset Management LP, both in  Chicago , and Millennium
Management LLC, Healthcor Management LP and Visium Asset
Management in New York were among the  hedge funds  that also
owned Dendreon stock, according to filings.  Revenue Forecast  Dendreon previously estimated annual revenue of $350
million to $400 million. The company believes the market size
for Provenge is substantial, though it expects only modest
increases in sales each quarter for the remainder of the year,
Gold said in the statement.  The main stumbling block for Provenge is the lack of
knowledge about insurance coverage, he said. The Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services issued a final ruling in June
saying the $93,000 treatment is “reasonable and necessary” for
men with advanced prostate tumors resistant to hormone therapy
who have minimal or no symptoms.  The agency’s decision “will have a significant impact on
increased physician adoption,” Gold said in the statement.
“However, we believe this will take time, and for the remainder
of 2011, the launch trajectory will reflect a more gradual
adoption of Provenge as physicians gain confidence in this
positive reimbursement landscape.”  $48 Million Sales  Provenge, the first approved therapy that trains the body’s
immune system to attack cancer cells as if they were a virus,
generated $48 million last year. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expected revenue to reach $370 million this year if the company
boosts its capacity by expanding a New Jersey plant and adding
new manufacturing sites in  Los Angeles  and Atlanta.  Instead, the drugmaker will reduce its expenses and
eliminate positions to meet the lower demand for the product,
Gold said yesterday. The company didn’t specify how many jobs
would be lost.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  