-- 
Samsung, BAT, Virgin, Summit, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-04T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/samsung-electronics-bat-virgin-starfire-google-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
second-largest maker of mobile phones, is examining InterDigital
Inc.’s patent portfolio after being approached to make a bid,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Samsung is looking at the patents along with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
Google Inc. and other potential bidders, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
InterDigital, which holds patents related to mobile technologies
used to transfer information, said last month that it hired
bankers as it considers a sale.  InterDigital’s engineers invented some of the technology
for high-speed mobile phone networks now used by the world’s
biggest handset makers. The King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based
company may fetch more than $5 billion, according to analysts at
Algorithm Capital and Dougherty & Co.  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  and
other companies also are selling their patent portfolios.  Should Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung pursue a bid, it
would vie against Apple and Google to purchase all or part of a
portfolio of about 8,800 patents on inventions used in devices
ranging from the iPhone to Google’s Android-based handsets and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry. Smartphone sales are
forecast to almost double to 1.1 billion in 2015, according to
Gartner Inc., based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Samsung is involved in patent lawsuits with Apple since the
iPhone maker sued the South Korean company in April, saying the
Galaxy devices “slavishly” copied its products.  InterDigital has gained 66 percent since July 18, the day
before it disclosed plans to explore a sale.  Apple and Google are weighing possible bids, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  Jack Indekeu, a spokesman for InterDigital, declined to
comment. Adam Yates, a U.S.-based spokesman for Samsung, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  During the second quarter, Apple and Samsung became the top
two makers of smartphones. Their shipments trumped those of
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  for the first time, research firm Strategy Analytics
said last week. Apple’s iPhones accounted for 18.5 percent of
global smartphone shipments, followed by Samsung’s 17.5 percent
and Nokia’s 15.2 percent, according to the research firm.  Samsung ranks second behind Nokia in terms of overall
mobile-phone shipments.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays Capital  will “explore
and evaluate potential strategic alternatives” that may include
a sale, InterDigital said last month.  Google, whose Android operating systems runs smartphones
that compete against the iPhone, lost in a bid for Nortel’s $4.5
billion portfolio to a group that included Apple and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  InterDigital’s patents in cellular technology are “deeper
and stronger” than Nortel’s, InterDigital Chief Executive
Officer William Merritt said in April.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  BAT Seeks  Australia  Documents for Fight Against Plain Packaging  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  urged an Australian appeal
court panel to order the release of government documents to help
it fight a proposed law to remove all manufacturers’ markings
from cigarette packs.  The Dunhill maker needs to deploy the documents “in its
efforts to persuade members of parliament that the legislation
should not be passed,” Allan Myers, British American Tobacco’s
lawyer, told the three-judge panel in Melbourne yesterday. A
debate on the law is scheduled for next month, he said.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world aimed at
banning logos and color variations on cigarette packages. New
Zealand,  Canada  and the U.K. had considered the move but dropped
it out of concern it would be illegal, British American Tobacco
said. The proposal may infringe international trademark and
intellectual property laws, said the producer of Pall Mall and
Australia’s best-selling cigarette brand, Winfield.  Australia had considered plain packaging for cigarettes in
the mid 1990s and on Dec. 14, 1995, the government received a
13-page report from a commission that studied the proposal,
Myers said. The government released a summary and in 1997 it
also issued a response to a separate Senate report, he said.  The background documents that led to the government’s
decision not to go ahead with the earlier plan weren’t released
and the government says they’re privileged and must remain
confidential.  Health Minister Nicola Roxon said in April that she’s
acting in the interest of public health and has the support of
most people.  British American Tobacco “suspects that Minister Roxon
hasn’t released the legal advice because it’s likely to
demonstrate her plain packaging laws are flawed,” the company
said in a May 31 statement.  At issue is whether with the publication of its response to
the Senate report the government gave up its right to keep the
documents confidential.  The company says “if this is provided, Parliament will be
better informed,” Chief Justice Patrick Keane said today. “I’m
not sure that’s the role of the judiciary.”  Justice Garry Downes, another panel member, said he was
worried about the court taking over the role of the Freedom of
Information panel that denied British American Tobacco’s
request.  “A finding of fact is one thing, saying this document
should be made available is another,” Downes said. “We would
be making an administrative decision.”  The judges reserved a decision and both the company and the
government agreed to provide additional written submissions
before Aug. 10.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v.
Secretary, Department of Health and Ageing. VID314/2011. Federal
Court of Australia (Melbourne).  Virgin to Move Brand-Holding Unit to  Switzerland  for Tax Reasons  Virgin Group Ltd.’s IP-holding unit will move to
Switzerland in efforts to reduce the tax burden on the company,
the U.K.’s Daily Telegraph  reported .  A spokesman for Virgin told the Telegraph that the move was
part of an increased emphasis on brand development in emerging
markets.  Other parts of the Virgin empire, including  Virgin Atlantic 
and  Virgin Media , will remain in the U.K. and pay taxes there,
the Telegraph reported.  Virgin Enterprises is already advertising for staff for its
Swiss operations, according to the Telegraph.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Summit Sues Over ‘Breaking Dawn’ Photos, Video Infringement  Summit Entertainment LLC, the film company that produced
the “Twilight” series of vampire films, filed a copyright-
infringement suit related to the unauthorized release of photos
and videos from its upcoming “ Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn .”  The suit was filed in federal court in  Los Angeles  Aug. 1.
The named defendant is Daiana Santia of Posadas, Argentina.
Summit is also pursuing a criminal copyright case in Argentina
against Santia, according to a company  statement .  E! Online, an entertainment-news website,  reported  that
Summit had tried to settle the dispute with Santia “and she
isn’t budging at all.”  The images, which were distributed without authorization
via the Internet in March, “were not ready or in their proper
context,” Summit said in the statement. The Santa Monica,
California-based company asked that fans not view or pass along
the images. The first part of the film is set for release in
November.  After the unauthorized images were distributed, Summit said
in a  statement  that “their early dissemination is deeply
upsetting to the actors, the filmmakers and Summit who are
working so hard to bring these movies to fruition to you in
November 2011 and November 2012.”  When the “Twilight Saga: Eclipse” film was released at
the end of June 2010, $162 million worth of tickets were sold in
its first five days.  Summit is represented by  Christopher Theodore Varas ,  David
K. Caplan  and  Dennis L. Wilson  of  Keats McFarland & Wilson LLP 
of Beverly Hills,  California .  The case is Summit Entertainment LLC v. Daiana Santia,
2:11-cv-06310-ODW-SS, U.S. District Court,  Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Starfire Systems Sues Ex-Executives, Competitor for Infringement  Starfire Systems Inc. , a seller of specialty materials and
performance chemicals, sued a competitor for trade secret
misappropriation and trademark infringement.  The suit, filed July 28 in federal court in Syracuse,  New
York , claims that  Extreme Environment Materials Solutions LLC  of
Saratoga Springs, New York, is using proprietary secrets related
to Starfire’s polymer-to-ceramic products. EEMS is also accused
of using a domain name --  www.starfire.co  -- that infringes
Starfire’s trademarks.  Two former Starfire officials -- former President and Chief
Executive Officer Herbert Armstrong and former President and
Chief Technology Officer Walter J. Sherwood -- are also
defendants. Both are accused of violating confidentiality
agreements with Starfire and bringing trade secrets belonging to
the Schenectady, New York-based company to EEMS.  The two confidentiality agreements were assets contained in
Starfire’s bankruptcy estate and were vested in Starfire at the
end of bankruptcy proceedings, according to court papers.  Starfire claims EEMS’ CS-160 HT product is based on
specifications, composition, and a confidential manufacturing
process it developed for its own SMP-10. Other trade secrets
allegedly disclosed include information about Starfire’s
customers, according to court papers.  EEMS didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the suit. Arnold  told the Business Review  that “it’s
unfortunate Starfire feels they have to fight somebody else in
the industry that is just trying to grow the business.”  The company asked the court for an award of money damages
of “at least $10 million,” and also requested court orders to
halt EEMS’ use of Starfire’s trade secrets and a domain name
that infringes its trademarks. It also asked to be transferred
the starfire.co domain name.  Starfire is represented by  Christopher Massaroni  of  McNamee
Lochner Titus & Williams PC  of Albany, New York.  The case is Starfire Systems Inc., v. Extreme Environment
Materials Solutions LLC, 1:11-cv-00888-GLS-DRH, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of New York (Syracuse).  IP Moves  Google Says It Hired FTC Intellectual Property Expert Michel  Google Inc. (GOOG) , under investigation by the Federal Trade
Commission for its dominance of Internet searches, said it hired
Suzanne Michel, one of the commission’s top intellectual
property officials.  Michel, 49, is leaving her post as deputy director of
policy planning at the FTC, where she worked for more than 11
years on patent antitrust issues and patent policy. She will
join the company’s legal team, Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman,
said, declining to elaborate on what her responsibilities will
be.  Michel was the chief writer of a patent report the FTC
issued in March, which analyzed the evolution of the patent
system in the U.S. and made recommendations on how to improve
patent law to promote innovation. The report also made
suggestions to the courts on how to make patent remedies more
effective.  Before she joined the FTC, Michel worked in the civil
division of the U.S. Department of Justice, defending the U.S.
in patent-infringement litigation. She also served as a judicial
clerk to Judge Paul Michel on the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit.  Michel has an undergraduate degree from Northwestern
University, a doctorate in chemistry from  Yale University  and a
law degree from the University of California Berkeley Law
School.  Brinks Hofer Hires Former ITC Administrative Law Judge Charneski  Brinks Hofer Gilson & Lione hired Carl C. Charneski for its
International Trade Commission practice, the Chicago-based firm
said in a  statement .  Charneski  is a former administrative law judge at the ITC,
a federal agency that investigates and adjudicates cases
involving imports that allegedly infringe intellectual property
rights. That agency is becoming an increasingly important venue
for patent disputes in the technology industries.  He has also served as an administrative law judge for the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Social Security
Administration. Before he was an administrative law judge,
Charneski served as a trial and appellate attorney in the U.S.
Labor Department and as counsel to the Federal Mine Safety &
Health Review Commission.  Charneski has an undergraduate degree from St. Francis
College and a law degree from St. John’s University.  Cooley Adds Wilson Sonsini’s Matthew Langer to IP Practice Group  Cooley LLP hired Matthew E. Langer for its IP practice
group, the San Francisco-based firm said in a  statement .  Langer , whose area of expertise is patent-acquisition and
counseling in the life sciences, pharmaceutical, biotech and
medical device industries, joins from Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati PC of Palo Alto, California.  Before he was a lawyer he was a research scientist at
 Unilever Plc (ULVR) ’s Unilever Research unit and a staff chemist at
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s GE Corporate Research and Development. He
is a named inventor on U.S. patents assigned to the two
companies.  Langer has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Tufts
University, a doctorate in organic chemistry from Yale
University and a law degree from Fordham University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 