-- 
San Francisco Mayor Candidates Ask to Be Voters’ Second Pick in New Ballot

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-08-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/san-francisco-mayor-candidates-ask-to-be-voters-second-pick-in-new-ballot.html
Leland Yee, a candidate for  San
Francisco  mayor, worked his way through the beauty salons and
restaurants lining West Portal Avenue, asking shop owners about
their business and listening attentively to the concerns of
residents out for an afternoon manicure.  Following Yee through the southwest San Francisco
neighborhood was Vince Mahan, his 26-year-old field organizer,
who approached the merchants with a message: Consider Yee as
your first, second or third choice.  “I will not just simply ask individuals, ‘Can I be your
first choice?’ because they may have favorites,” Yee, 62, a
Democrat and California state senator, said in an interview
after the July 27 campaign stop. “This then gives me an
opportunity to ask, ‘Well, what about second choice and third
choice?’”  The approach is a departure from conventional elections,
where coming in first is what counts. Instead, voters rank their
top three choices. The winner is the candidate with a majority,
meaning at least 50 percent. A candidate who gets the most
first-choice votes without reaching a majority can still lose
the election.  The process, called  ranked-choice voting , was approved by
San Francisco voters in a 2002 referendum. It combines a
primary, a general election and a runoff to cut costs.  A candidate who gets more than half of the first-choice
votes wins outright. If no one gets a majority, the candidate
with the fewest first-place votes is eliminated. Then there’s an
instant runoff. Voters whose first choice was eliminated have
their votes counted for their second choice in a  process  that’s
repeated until someone secures a majority.  ‘Jury Still Out’  “The jury is still out on ranked-choice voting,”  Dan
Schnur , director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at
the University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles , said in a
telephone interview.  “There’s a tremendous benefit in that it encourages
candidates to reach out to a broader range of voters,” said
Schnur, a former political consultant for Republicans. “There’s
a lot of potential for confusion.”  The system puts more demand on voters “not only to learn a
new system but to become familiar with more candidates,” Schnur
said. “Some voters will adapt very well. Others will have more
trouble with it.”  The process of recalibrating votes favors candidates who
have gathered the most first-, second- and third-choice votes,
politicians said. Getting simply the most first-choice votes in
the initial count is not enough to win the election.  Oakland Case  That was the case in the Oakland mayor’s race in November.
Don Perata, a Democrat and former state Senate president pro
tem, led the first round of ballot-counting with 33.7 percent of
the vote, followed by Jean Quan, a former City Council member,
with 24.5 percent, according to  data  on Alameda County’s
website. None of the 10 candidates had a majority.  The candidate with the fewest first-place votes was
eliminated, and the votes recounted. The remaining contenders,
including Perata and Quan, picked up the second-choice votes of
the eliminated office-seeker.  After nine recounts, Quan was declared the winner with 51
percent. Quan had been the number-two choice of many voters
backing Rebecca Kaplan, who came in third. When Kaplan’s votes
were redistributed in the final round, more went to Quan than
Perata.  “The benefit of number two is because when that candidate
is eliminated, you inherit those votes,” Quan said in a
telephone interview.  In San Francisco, mayoral candidate David Chiu travels the
city with “Chiu-bacca,” a costumed mascot dressed as the Star
Wars character Chewbacca. Locals flock to snap photos with the
furry creature, who totes a red, white and blue “David Chiu
Mayor” sign.  Adjusting Strategy  Chiu, a Democrat, said he’s had to adjust his strategy to
the ranked-choice voting system by seeking second- and third-
choice votes from people who favor his rivals. So far,  35 people 
have expressed interest in running for mayor, according to the
city Elections Department.  “In a traditional campaign, every candidate is incented to
find their votes and to not think about other people’s votes,”
Chiu, president of the San Francisco  Board of Supervisors , the
equivalent of the city council, said in a July 27 interview
during a campaign stop in the city’s South of Market
neighborhood.  “I’m always asking people for number twos and number
threes, always, regardless of who their number one is,” Chiu
said.  Expanding Approach  San Francisco is among seven U.S.  cities , including
Berkeley,  California , and  Minneapolis , using ranked-choice
voting, according to  FairVote , a Takoma Park, Maryland-based,
non-profit group that supports representative government.  Five more cities, including  Memphis ,  Tennessee , and
Telluride,  Colorado , will use it this year, according to
FairVote. It’s been used in  Australia  since 1919 to elect
members of the  House of Representatives , according to FairVote.  The system creates an incentive to run a more positive
campaign and reach a broader swath of voters beyond a
candidate’s base, said Chiu, 41. It also calls for some
complicated campaign calculus, he said.  “It is far more complex and then you add to that the
complexity of the number of candidates we have in the race and
all the different permutations, it becomes this incredible,
analytical, statistical conundrum that all of our teams are
wrestling with right now,” Chiu said.  “If any consulting team tells you they have the answer,
they don’t,” he said. “We’re all trying to figure it out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 