-- 
Sappi of South Africa Heads for 14-Month Low on Unexpected Loss in Quarter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 
2011-08-04T15:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/sappi-of-south-africa-heads-for-14-month-low-on-unexpected-loss-in-quarter.html
Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s largest maker
of glossy paper, dropped the most in more than two years after
reporting an unexpected loss in the fiscal third quarter.  The shares fell 6.2 percent to 27.05 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, the biggest decline since June 2009.  Sappi reported an adjusted loss per share of $0.13 for the
three months through June, missing the average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for adjusted earnings per share
of $0.03. The company announced plans over the past year to shut
mills in  South Africa  and  Switzerland . Chief Executive Officer
Ralph Boettger said there will be more job losses next year,
contributing to further reorganization charges.  “People have expected this thing to turn around after the
amount of rationalization it’s been through, but that doesn’t
seem to be the case,” Mohamed Kharva, an analyst at Nedcor
Securities who is reviewing his “buy” recommendation on the
stock, said in an interview from  Cape Town  today.  Global economic uncertainty is causing “poor visibility,”
Boettger said in a telephone interview today. While the “pain”
related to the company’s reorganization will still be felt in
early fiscal 2012, by the middle of the fiscal year that will
“be behind us,” he said.  Job Cuts  Sappi cut about 800 jobs in the nine months through June,
Andre Oberholzer, the company’s corporate affairs manager, said
in an e-mailed response to a query. Boettger declined to specify
how many employees may still lose their positions.  Rising costs and weaker paper sales have led Helsinki-based
competitors  Stora Enso Oyj (STERV)  and UPM Kymmene Oyj to also close
mills. Sappi’s share price has slumped 20 percent this year
while  Finland ’s Stora Enso has dropped 35 percent and UPM
Kymmene has lost 37 percent.  Sappi is doing its reorganization “as quickly and cleanly
as possible,” Boettger said today. The closure of the Biberist
Mill in Switzerland, together with other cost-cutting measures,
will save the company $100 million a year toward the end of the
fourth quarter, according to Sappi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  