-- 
Global Equities Decline 10% From May High in First Correction for a Year

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-04T12:46:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/msci-all-country-world-index-enters-first-correction-in-more-than-a-year.html
A measure of global equities fell 10
percent from this year’s high in May, entering its first so-
called correction in more than a year, as concern grew that the
economic recovery is faltering.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks in developed and
emerging markets slid 1.2 percent to 320.91 at 1:45 p.m. in
London, extending the decline from the near-three-year high on
May 2 to 10.3 percent. The measure is on course for its biggest
weekly drop since May after retreating 4.5 percent over the past
four days.  U.S. reports this week showed an unexpected drop in
 consumer spending  and slower-than-forecast growth in
manufacturing. Ratings companies said they may downgrade the
debt of the world’s biggest economy even after President  Barack
Obama  signed a measure to increase the government’s debt ceiling
to prevent default. Italian and Spanish bonds have tumbled,
pushing yields to euro-era records on Aug. 2.  “Three main sources of uncertainty have weighed on risky
assets in recent weeks: the global growth slowdown, the fiscal
crisis in the  euro zone  and the discussions about the U.S. debt
ceiling,” Joost van Leenders, a strategist at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in Amsterdam, who helps oversee about $780
billion, wrote in a report. “This last issue has been solved
for now, but the other two came back with a vengeance.”  Italian Bonds  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is meeting with
executives, bankers and unions today to discuss overhauling the
nation’s economy as a surge in bond yields stoked concern the
country might be the next victim of the European debt crisis.
The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose to the highest since
November 1997 on Aug. 2.  Obama signed legislation raising the U.S. debt limit from
$14.3 trillion on Aug. 2, following months of wrangling with
Congress over budget cuts. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S., while
saying that downgrades are possible if lawmakers fail to
implement debt-reduction measures and the economy weakens.  Industrial and financial shares have been the worst
performing industry groups since the MSCI All-Country World
reached the highest level since June 2008 in May. Finmeccanica
SpA,  Italy ’s biggest arms company, has slumped 45 percent, while
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the country’s largest bank, plummeted 36 percent.  U.S. manufacturing expanded in July at the slowest pace in
two years, indicating the industry that’s been driving the
economic expansion is starting to weaken. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 50.9 last month from
55.3 in June, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said on Aug. 1.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Data from the Commerce Department on Aug. 2 showed U.S.
consumer spending unexpectedly dropped in June for the first
time in almost two years. Purchases declined 0.2 percent after a
0.1 percent gain the prior month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  