-- 
Shared Jet Sales Soar as Wealthy Fliers Avoid Airline Hassles

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 
2011-08-04T17:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/shared-jet-sales-soar-as-wealthy-fliers-avoid-commercial-airline-hassles.html
For Phillip Swan, forgoing the
headaches of flying commercial was worth $146,000 for 25 hours
of flight time on a private jet.  “We were just sick and tired of dealing with long lines
and problems with privacy going through regular security at
airports,” said Swan, chief executive officer of a Bellevue,
Washington-based company that makes disposable charcoal EZ
Grills. Now Swan, 48, skips the lines and hops aboard a private
aircraft with leather seats and grilled beef tenderloin meals.
Instead of buying the plane, Swan opted for a  jet card , which
gives him access to an 8-person Learjet for 25 hours over 275
days.  Fractional ownership of private jets and use of jet cards
is on the rise as commercial travel frustrates fliers, despite
the high cost, according to interviews with executives at the
three largest North American private aviation companies --
NetJets Inc., Flight Options LLC and Flexjet. Shared jets were
originally used by smaller and mid-sized corporations, and have
expanded to individual travelers as well.  Fractional sales increased almost  sixfold  in the first
quarter compared with a year earlier at Flight Options, while
sales of jet cards, a prepaid lease of flight time in 25-hour
segments, rose 46 percent. Fractional sales at  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s
Flexjet, which operates its jet-card program through Jet
Solutions LLC, jumped 64 percent.  $111,000 Trip  “To some people it’s worth it to avoid all the security
lines and the inconvenience because airline travel right now is
this commodity,” said Vitaly Guzhva, associate professor of
finance at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in  Daytona
Beach , Florida. “It used to be an experience and now it’s a
hassle -- for those people, convenience is more important than
value.”  Flying from  New York  to  San Francisco  on an 8-person
Learjet 45 XR would use about 14 hours or $92,000 from a one
year Flexjet 25-hour card, and also cost an additional $19,000
for fuel to total about $111,000. That compares with about
$10,000 for four first-class round-trip tickets for the same
trip later this month, according to a search on travel website
 kayak.com . First-class customers generally have access to
priority check-in and boarding, expedited baggage service and
faster security lines at some airports.  Fractional ownership and jet cards allow access to the
perks of private jets without the cost and responsibilities of
sole ownership that may include employing pilots, insuring the
plane and finding a hangar, said Jordan Hansell, chairman and
CEO of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s NetJets, which is based in
Columbus,  Ohio , and has more than 7,000 customers worldwide.  Additional Fees  Fliers who opt for partial ownership generally pay a base
price for 50 hours of flight time annually for five years, or a
one-sixteenth stake in the plane, which they can sell back after
the contract expires. The price varies based on how far the jets
can fly on one tank of gas and their size.  Flight Options’ 7-seat  Hawker 400XP  starts at  $107,500 ,
Flexjet’s 8-passenger  Learjet 45 XR  is about  $410,000  and the
12-passenger  Challenger 605 , which comes with a flight
attendant, is $1.06 million. Other costs for partial ownership
include monthly aircraft management fees, hourly flight rates
and fuel.  That means the cost for the Learjet 45 XR in addition to
the $410,000 would include a $9,120 monthly management fee and
about $3,700 for in-flight and fuel costs for each hour flown.  ‘Painless’ Travel  For travelers looking for less commitment than partial
ownership and jet access for one year, a jet card is a better
choice, according to Mike Silvestro, CEO of Cleveland-based
Flight Options, which has more than 1,300 customers. Flight
Options, NetJets and Flexjet all offer jet cards. The purchase
price for 25 flight hours ranges from $100,000 to about $300,000
depending on the type of jet, and jet-card users also have to
pay hourly flight rates for fuel.  Customers who fly private generally only have to show
identification at a check-in counter before boarding a plane.
For international flights, they’re required to go through
customs. Planes that weigh more than  12,500 pounds  must have
names of passengers and crew members vetted,  Jonathan Allen , a
spokesman for the U.S. Transportation Security Administration,
said in an e-mail. The Learjet 45 XR weighs about 14,000 pounds.  “The limo service drops you off and within 20 seconds,
you’re on the plane, and 45 seconds later you’re heading down
the taxiway, ready to take off” said Swan, the EZ Grills
executive. The level of service and ease of travel with
Flexjet’s jet card “makes the whole experience of getting from
point A to point B painless.”  Superbowl Parties  Private aviation companies are offering perks to travelers
to maintain existing customers and attract new ones. Flexjet,
based in  Dallas , provides a program that allows fractional
owners to carry over unused hours. Flight Options offers a
membership program that gives card users access to the new
 Phenom 300 jet , which can fly faster, farther and on less fuel
than most planes in its class, and NetJets hosts parties at the
Superbowl and Masters Golf Tournament.  NetJets was the first to launch a fractional ownership
program in 1987, and now has about 285,000 flights a year to
more than 170 countries, Hansell said. The majority of customers
fly for business reasons, and there is a “sizable minority”
who use the service for personal reasons, said Hansell, who
declined to provide specific numbers.  Fractional owners at Flexjet include current and former
CEOs, who fly private for corporate and leisure travel, said
Fred Reid, Flexjet’s president. For many, “business and
pleasure kind of blend,” he said.  Fewer Commercial Flights  Travelers have lost accessibility to business hubs and
favorite vacation spots as commercial airlines have cut flights
amid higher fuel prices and declining corporate travel.
Commercial departures from  Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta
International Airport , the largest airport in the world by
passenger traffic, had declined 3.2 percent in the 12 months
ended in April compared with a year earlier and departures from
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  in New York had fallen 4.1
percent. [bn:URL= http://www.transtats.bts.gov/airports.asp?pn=1&Airport=ASE&Airport_Name=Aspen , CO: Aspen Pitkin County Sardy Field&carrier=FACTS]   Aspen/Pitkin County Airport’s [] departures had dropped 13
percent through April, while departures from Orange County,
 California ’s  John Wayne Airport  had decreased 9.2 percent and
 Honolulu International Airport  had declined 9 percent.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s biggest
airline, said it expects to decrease the number of available
seats by 3 percent in the fourth quarter compared with a year
earlier, according to a conference call discussing earnings this
month.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s second-largest carrier,
plans to reduce seating by as much as 5 percent in the same
period and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  said it will trim
available seat numbers next year and close routes.  Airlines Ranked Last  Private planes can fly in and out of commercial airports as
well as about 4,800 airports in the U.S. that commercial planes
don’t have access to, said Flexjet’s Reid.  “They can go to eight cities in two days,” Reid said.  U.S. commercial airlines ranked last among 47 industries in
customer satisfaction, according to the University of Michigan’s
American Customer Satisfaction Index released in June. On
average, 21.5 percent of major commercial carriers’ flights were
delayed this year through May, according to the U.S.  Department
of Transportation .  “It doesn’t matter if you are a CEO, CFO, you have to go
through the same regimen,” said Bijan Vasigh, professor of air
transportation at Embry-Riddle.  Spontaneous Vacations  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and  Nigeria  are markets
Flexjet may look to for expansion because those countries have
increasing numbers of people and companies owning private jets,
said Reid.  “When a country gets a critical mass of private jets,”
there will be more demand for fractional ownership and jet
cards, he said.  Use of private jets usually isn’t exclusive to the primary
account holders. Fractional and jet-card owners at NetJets,
Flight Options and Flexjet can share access, which allows
approved family and friends to fly without the owner.  NetJets can have a plane ready in as few as four hours for
fractional owners and for Flexjet, it’s 10 hours, the companies
said. Flight Options said it needs notice of eight hours for
fractional owners and jet-card users. Fliers may need to provide
more advance notice when trying to reserve a plane during peak
travel days, such as around holidays or major sporting events.  Swan said if a trip is short, such as to California, he’ll
still fly commercial since he doesn’t have to worry about a
layover. For longer trips to destinations like  Florida  or
 Mexico , or for spontaneous vacations, he said he’ll use his jet
card.  “You can take a last minute trip and you don’t have to
worry how you’re getting there,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson in New York at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  