-- 
Shekel Weakens to Lowest Since June, Bonds Climb on Rate Bets

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-08-04T12:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/shekel-weakens-to-lowest-since-june-bonds-climb-on-rate-bets.html
The shekel fell to the lowest level
since June and  government bonds  rose on bets interest rate
increases will slow as consumer protests against rising prices
may moderate inflationary pressure.  The shekel weakened as much as 0.9 percent against the
dollar and was 0.8 percent lower at 3.4905 at 3:07 p.m. in  Tel
Aviv , the lowest intraday level since June 16. The currency has
gained 7.9 percent in the past 12 months. The yield on the
benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020 dropped seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.91 percent, the
lowest level since January 27.  Parliament approved a law yesterday aimed at speeding up
housing starts in an effort to lower  home prices . Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz signed an order on July 31 preventing an
increase in gasoline prices. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
is planning to take steps against monopolies and cartels in the
coming weeks with the goal of increasing competition and
reducing consumer prices.  “Continued consumer protests against rising prices are
expected to curb inflationary pressures fueling  market sentiment 
that the central bank will not raise borrowing costs in the near
future,” said Dror Sachs, chief trader at First International
Bank of  Israel  Ltd. “The shekel is losing its attractiveness as
the rate differential with the U.S. may not widen in the coming
months and as concern about the  U.S. economy  and global economic
growth intensifies.”  Interest Rates   Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. spurred inflows into
Israel and other countries where borrowing costs are higher,
driving gains in currencies. The spread between two-year
interest-rate swaps in the U.S. and Israel, the cost investors
must pay to lock in borrowing costs for two years, dropped to a
five-month low narrowing to 3.04 percent, according to Bloomberg
data.  The  Bank of Israel  on Aug. 2 cut its forecasts for economic
growth to 4.8 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012 from 5.2
percent and 4.2 percent, respectively, saying debt reduction
plans in developed countries may lead to a global slowdown. The
interest rate will probably increase to an average 4.3 percent
in the last quarter of 2012, the central bank added, predicting
inflation of 3.5 percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2012.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer held the benchmark
interest rate at 3.25 percent for a second month in July after
10 increases in two years.  U.S. two-year note yields stayed within four basis points
of a record low on speculation the world’s biggest economy may
fall into recession, prompting the  Federal Reserve  to inject
further monetary stimulus.  Reports due today and tomorrow may show initial U.S.
jobless claims rose last week and the economy isn’t creating
enough jobs to reduce the  unemployment rate , which probably
stayed above 9 percent, according to Bloomberg surveys.  U.S. economic data this week showed manufacturing grew at
the weakest pace in two years, spending unexpectedly fell and
the services industries grew at the slowest pace since February
2010.  -- Editors: James Kraus, Claudia Maedler  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  