-- 
SK Telecom Second-Quarter Profit Rises on Smartphone Users, New Businesses

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-04T05:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/sk-telecom-profit-climbs-3-7-as-smartphone-sales-increase-1-.html
SK Telecom Co., South Korea’s largest
mobile-phone operator, reported a 3.7 percent increase in
second-quarter profit, helped by a higher number of smartphone
users and sales from new businesses.  Net income rose to 465.4 billion won ($439 million) in the
three months ended June 30 from a revised 448.9 billion won a
year earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a statement today.
That compares with the 480.4 billion won average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit rose
2 percent to 659.7 billion won on sales of 4 trillion won.  SK, which plans to bid for a stake in  Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. (000660) , is benefiting from the popularity of computer-like
handsets from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. amid
government pressure to cut mobile-phone rates. New businesses,
such as software for mobile devices and an online shopping mall,
also helped increase revenue, the company said.  “Revenue is growing steadily,” said Ahn Jae Min, an
analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. “They’re cutting phone rates
from September, which could have a negative impact on earnings
on a quarterly basis. Still, the volume of smartphone
subscribers is increasing, so things won’t be too bad for
them.”  The company released revised year-earlier figures as SK
began to use International Financial Reporting Standards this
year. SK rose 1.4 percent to 146,000 won at 2:17 p.m. in Seoul
trading, while the benchmark Kospi index declined 1.5 percent.  Smartphone Users  Revenue from mobile-phone usage gained 1.6 percent from a
year earlier, helped by consumers switching to devices such as
Apple’s iPhone and Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones, SK said. The
carrier, which had 7.5 million smartphone users at the end of
June, expects to exceed its target to boost the number to 10
million by the end of this year, the company said.  SK began to sell the iPhone 4 on March 16, ending the
exclusivity rival KT Corp. had for more than a year to offer
Apple’s phone in  South Korea .  South Korea had 14 million smartphone users at the end of
the second quarter, according to estimates from Park Jong Soo,
an analyst at Hanwha Securities Co. in Seoul.  SK is looking to lure more customers with faster fourth-
generation networks based on the long-term evolution, or LTE,
technology to capitalize on demand for quicker downloads of
video and games for smartphones.  The company plans to offer LTE-enabled handsets from
September, it said on June 30.  New Businesses  Sales from new businesses including mobile-phone
applications jumped 85 percent during the three-month period, SK
said. The carrier, with a plan to spend 1 trillion won on
software over three years from this year, will create a separate
company on Oct. 1 to focus on developing services including
online commerce, location searches and advertising.  Revenue growth may slow in the second half as SK plans to
cut phone rates, Choi Nam Kon, a Seoul-based analyst at Tong
Yang Securities Inc., said before today’s announcement.  The company on June 2 said it agreed with the government to
lower mobile-phone bills. The carrier plans to lower basic rates
for all of its subscribers by 1,000 won per month from September,
while offering 50 free  text messages  each month.  That may cost the company 413 billion won in operating
profit next year, according to Tong Yang Securities.  Hynix Bid  SK’s plan to bid for a stake in Hynix may also distract the
carrier from the competition in the mobile market, Choi said.  The company is conducting due diligence on the world’s
second largest maker of computer memory chips to decide whether
to make a final bid next month.  A group of nine creditors plan to sell all or part of a 15
percent stake in Hynix that it gained through a government-
initiated bailout in 2001 after an industry slump. SK on July 8
submitted a preliminary bid “to diversify” its businesses, the
company said at the time.  The disposal of the stake would also be the largest share
sale of a South Korean technology company since July 1999, when
Hynix bought a majority holding in Hyundai Microelectronics Co.
for 2.56 trillion won, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  