-- 
Sleepwalking Lady Macbeth Stumbles Along Salzburg Cliff: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-04T08:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/sleepwalking-lady-macbeth-stumbles-along-salzburg-cliff-catherine-hickley.html
Ghosts emerge from trapdoors under
the stage, knights cross swords in chain-mail armor, witches
chant around a cauldron and the forest really moves in the
 Salzburg Festival ’s new production of Verdi’s opera “Macbeth.”  This slick show by veteran German director Peter Stein,
sticks literally to the text, has sumptuous medieval costumes
(everything bar wimples), nifty stage mechanisms and frolicking
children dressed in white for spectators to say “aahh” to. It
feels mostly shallow, and tugs too flagrantly on the emotions.
The rawness and horror of Shakespeare’s tale are lost in the
richness of the production, replaced by sentimentality and show.  The audience at last night’s premiere loved it, giving
Zeljko Lucic and Tatiana Serjan the loudest cheers for their
portrayals of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth. Bravos were also
showered on conductor Riccardo Muti and the Vienna Philharmonic.  The theater is Salzburg’s Felsenreitschule, which has a
panoramic wide stage, backed by three layers of galleries
improbably carved out of the rock face behind.  Stein uses the imposing space to great melodramatic effect.
Lady Macbeth stumbles along the full length of the top gallery
in a white nightdress before she even opens her mouth to start
singing “out, damned spot” in her sleep.  Duncan’s entourage proceeds to the Macbeths for dinner (and
for the king’s death by Macbeth’s dagger) along a wide aisle
between the front seats and the orchestra pit. The feast scene
where Banquo’s ghost makes his untimely appearance takes place
at a long narrow table spanning the width of the pit. The table
becomes a catwalk for Lady Macbeth to strut her stuff as she
sings her forcedly jolly toast after Banquo spoils the party.  Witch Reduction  The biggest deviation from the composer’s instructions is
to reduce the number of witches to three (as in Shakespeare’s
original) from Verdi’s chorus of 42. The chorus instead becomes
tree spirits flitting through the shadows of Birnam Wood. (It’s
easy to imagine these trees skipping off to Dunsinane.)  The three witches are grotesque, outsize creatures with
white gowns over white, naked gnarled bodies. Their simmering
cauldron yields the spirits -- one a suit of armor, the other a
blood-soaked head and shoulders -- who warn Macbeth that his
rival Banquo will father a dynasty of kings. The parade of
future monarchs duly rises from a trapdoor under the stage.  Lucic and Serjan made a glamorous Macbeth couple. Serjan
gave one of the most moving scenes of the evening with her
sleeping confession and desperate hand-washing. She portrayed
Lady Macbeth’s torment more convincingly than her wickedness.  As Macduff, Giuseppe Filianoti sang beautifully while
weeping tragically over his dead children. Yes, they were on
stage, covered in blood and lying unfeasibly still for quite
some time. This scene was too overdone to move me.  Unfortunately, the English surtitles were translated back
from Italian verse instead of reverting to the original
Shakespeare wherever possible. In the text beamed onto the walls
of the Felsenreitschule, life is a tale told by an idiot, full
of “wind and clamor.”  If you listened carefully you might have heard some
politely subdued sound and fury from at least one native English
speaker in the audience.  Rating: **  “Macbeth” will be performed at the Felsenreitschule in
Salzburg on Aug. 6, 9, 12, 16, 19, 22 and 24. Information:
 http://www.salzburgerfestspiele.at/en   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 