-- 
Google’s Android Extends Lead in U.S. Smartphone Software Market

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-04T21:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/smartphone-market-expands-65-percent-in-second-quarter-idc-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android extended its
lead as the most widely used U.S. smartphone software last
quarter, while  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  lost
share, ComScore Inc. said.  Android’s share widened to 40.1 percent in the three months
that ended in June from 34.7 percent in the first quarter,
ComScore said in a  statement . That followed a separate report
from IDC that showed  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was the biggest seller of
smartphones worldwide last quarter, with 19.1 percent share of
shipments.  Apple and Google are vying for leadership in the market for
smartphones, which IDC says will rise 55 percent globally this
year as more consumers opt for phones that offer swift Web
surfing and access to thousands of downloadable applications.
While the iPhone is the best-selling handset, Android is more
widely used partly because it’s carried by multiple vendors.  “Google Android continued to gain ground in the smartphone
market,” Reston, Virginia-based ComScore said in a statement.  Apple’s iOS software overtook Research In Motion’s
BlackBerry operating system for second place, according to
ComScore. Apple’s U.S. share advanced to 26.6 percent from 25.5
percent in the prior three months, ComScore said. Research in
Motion, Microsoft and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  all lost share.  In global smartphone sales, Apple’s iPhone share rose from
13 percent a year earlier, according to IDC research, which was
also released today. Samsung Electronics Co.’s share rose to
16.3 percent. That echoed research released July 29 from
 Strategy Analytics  that said Apple and Samsung surpassed Nokia
for the first time last quarter.  The worldwide smartphone market expanded about 65 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, with 106.5 million
units shipped, IDC said.  Canalys also said on Aug. 1 that Android was the biggest
smartphone platform worldwide, with a 48 percent market share.  -- Editors:   Tom Giles , John Lear  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland , Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 