-- 
Societe Generale Suit Alleging Theft of Secrets Is Dismissed

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-04T16:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/societe-generale-suit-alleging-trade-secrets-theft-by-salesman-is-settled.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA agreed to dismiss
a suit in which it claimed a former foreign-exchange trader
misappropriated  trade secrets  before leaving the bank.  In a May 17 complaint in  Manhattan  federal court, the bank
sought an order to force the ex-employee, Karma Tenzing, to
return what it claimed was confidential material.  Tenzing “systematically sent to his home and to third
parties confidential SG trade secrets about client trades and
contacts, procedures, personal data, client identities, and
business P&L information,” the bank alleged in the complaint.  Tenzing, described by Societe Generale as a junior
salesman, offered the information to his employer-to-be,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , according to Societe Generale.  Tenzing said in a court filing that he didn’t provide a
person at  Credit Agricole  “with a customer list as SocGen
alleges.” He provided the names of two friends as references
and “a generic list of mostly hedge funds and banks which trade
widely in the industry,” he said.  “I have no intention of using the materials competitively
and am trying to return them to SocGen,” Tenzing said in the
May 23 filing.  Other documents he was accused of taking were not
confidential or he sent home for his own use, he said.  Both sides agreed to dismissal of the suit, according to
court papers filed July 7. The dismissal came after the Paris-
based bank told U.S. District Judge George Daniels May 26 that
the parties had reached “a settlement in principle” and were
completing an agreement.  Undisclosed Terms  Settlement terms weren’t disclosed.  Societe Generale is the third-largest French bank by
assets, and Credit Agricole is second. The largest is BNP
Paribas SA.  Mitchell Cohen, Tenzing’s lawyer, didn’t reply to a voice-
mail message yesterday. Andrez Carberry, a lawyer for Societe
Generale reached by telephone yesterday, declined to comment on
the dismissal of the suit. Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman for
Credit Agricole, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail
message today seeking comment on the Societe Generale
allegations.  The case is  Societe Generale v. Tenzing, 11-cv-3366, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  