-- 
Sonia Gandhi Removed From Intensive Care Unit After Surgery Outside India

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-08-06T07:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/sonia-gandhi-leaves-india-for-surgery-rahul-to-help-run-party.html
Sonia Gandhi , the latest member of
the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty to lead  India ’s ruling Congress party,
has been moved out of an intensive care unit after undergoing
surgery overseas for an undisclosed medical condition.  Gandhi, 64, was shifted from the unit 24 hours after her
surgery,  Congress  General Secretary Janardhan Dwivedi said in a
text message to reporters today. While her party has refused to
disclose where Gandhi was treated, Indian media have reported
she is in the U.S., citing unnamed Congress officials.  The operation was described by Gandhi’s surgeon as
“successful,” Dwivedi said in a separate message yesterday.
Gandhi’s son, Rahul, who has been taking on a more prominent
political role in recent months and is among four party leaders
charged with temporarily looking after Congress affairs, was at
the hospital accompanied by his sister Priyanka, Dwivedi said.  Congress has refused to disclose further details on Gandhi,
calling her condition a private matter.  The widow of assassinated former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia is the fourth member of the Nehru-Gandhi family to
lead Congress, which has dominated Indian politics since
independence from British rule in 1947. She was named the
world’s ninth-most powerful person by  Forbes magazine  last year.  The Indian Express newspaper said her ailment was diagnosed
during a  separate trip  to the U.S. earlier this year.  Dwivedi told reporters on Aug. 4 that he had been named
along with 41-year-old  Rahul Gandhi , Defense Minister A.K. Antony and Congress leader Ahmed Patel to run the party until
Gandhi returns to India in about three weeks.  Policy Role  The Italian-born Gandhi unexpectedly turned down the
position of prime minister after  leading Congress  and its allies
to victory in elections in 2004, amid concerns her ancestry
would be attacked by Hindu nationalist opponents. She instead
selected current Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to lead the
country while staying as Congress president.  As head of the country’s National Advisory Council, a body
that advises on planned legislation, Gandhi has focused on
health schemes,  job creation  and expanding the scope of
subsidized food programs for the more than 800 million Indians
who according to the  World Bank  live on less than $2 a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  