-- 
Sony’s Debut of PlayStation Vita Player in U.S., Europe to Miss Christmas

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-08-04T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/sony-s-debut-of-playstation-vita-player-in-u-s-europe-to-miss-christmas.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  plans to begin sales of
the PlayStation Vita portable player in the U.S. and  Europe  next
year, missing the key Christmas-holiday shopping season.  The product will initially launch in Japan before the end
of December, followed by introductions in the U.S. and Europe
early next year,  Kazuo Hirai , Chairman  Howard Stringer ’s top
lieutenant, told reporters in  Tokyo  today. The company had
previously said it planned a phased global rollout of the Vita
from the end of this year, without providing specifics.  The plan means Tokyo-based Sony will miss out on Christmas
shoppers in two markets where the company generated more than 40
percent of its revenue last fiscal year.  Japan ’s largest
electronics exporter is increasingly relying on its games
business as the main Bravia television operations face their
eighth straight year of losses.  “The PlayStation business is a key pillar,” Hirai said.
“The video-game industry is evolving constantly. My expectation
is for the PlayStation business to remain at the forefront of
this very dynamic industry.”  Sony also needs to be more aggressive in reducing costs,
Hirai said. The company said this week it’s preparing to
overhaul the unprofitable TV business -- plans that may include
partnerships and the reorganization of its procurement and
product development operations -- to reduce costs and become
more competitive.  The company is also facing mounting pressure after its
larger games-industry rival, Nintendo Co., said last week it
will slash prices of its latest 3-D handheld player by as much
as 40 percent starting mid-August.  No Price Cuts  Hirai said today Sony doesn’t need to lower Vita’s price
and follow competitors.  Both Sony and Nintendo are also facing increasing
competition from Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose
iPhones and iPads are gaining popularity as gaming devices, as
well as from games such as Zynga Inc.’s “FarmVille” on
Facebook Inc.’s social-networking site.  The Vita, equipped with a 5-inch display and touch pads at
the back, will be offered from $249 in the U.S., Sony said in
June. That’s $80 more than Nintendo’s 3-D portable player after
the price cut.  Sony rose 0.1 percent to close at 1,925 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement. It’s fallen 34 percent this
year, compared with the 5.6 percent drop by Japan’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 