-- 
Sony Under Pressure to Lower PlayStation Vita’s Price After Nintendo Cuts

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u ,   M a k i   S h i r a k i   a n d   K a z u y o   S a w a
-- 
2011-08-05T07:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/sony-under-pressure-to-cut-playstation-vita-price-after-nintendo.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the world’s second-
largest maker of video-game machines, shouldn’t count on
Yukinobu Takeda to stand in line for the $380 PlayStation Vita
when the portable player begins selling this year.  “PS Vita’s quite expensive,” said Takeda, 36, an event
planner in Tokyo, who owns both a PlayStation Portable and a
Nintendo Co. DS handheld machine. “I don’t think I’ll be one of
those people rushing to buy it on the release date.”  Takeda helps illustrate why pressure is building on Sony to
cut prices of its newest game machine after Nintendo slashed the
cost of its new 3-D portable player to as low as $169 and as
more gamers flock to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad to play titles
such as Rovio Mobile Oy’s “Angry Birds.”  Kazuo Hirai , Sony
Chairman  Howard Stringer ’s top lieutenant, signaled yesterday
the company won’t engage in a price war with Nintendo.  “Gamers are increasingly anticipating Sony to lower
prices, especially after the 3DS cut,” said Hideki Yasuda, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Ace Securities Co. “Sony is under major
pressure to cut the price of the Vita or risk a major failure.”  U.S. consumers will be able to lay their hands on
 PlayStation Vita , the successor for the model that went on sale
in 2004, after Christmas, starting at $249 to $299 for a 3G
version. Japanese consumers will be able to buy the Vita, which
feature an organic light-emitting diode display and touchpads at
the back, by the end of this year from 24,980 yen ($317) to
29,980 yen.  ‘Drastic Measures’  That’s pricier than Nintendo’s competing 3DS after the
world’s biggest maker of video-game machines cut the price of
its new 3-D handheld player from $249 to as low as $169.  “We have a very good product at a very affordable price,”
Hirai, president of Sony’s Consumer & Products Services group,
said. “There’s no need to lower the price just because somebody
else that happens to be in the video game industry decided they
were going to.”  Sony, which lost 38 percent of its market value this year,
fell 5 percent to close at 1,828 yen in  Tokyo , its lowest level
in more than two years. Nintendo rose 1.4 percent to 12,120 yen
in  Osaka , narrowing its loss this year to 49 percent.  Reviving demand at the games division is key for Hirai, the
front-runner to succeed Stringer as the head of Sony, as the
company faces an eighth consecutive year of losses at the main
television business and the online service recovers from its
worst hacker attack ever.  Cutting Forecasts  Last week, the maker of Bravia televisions and Walkman
music players cut its full-year profit forecast 25 percent,
citing sluggish demand for TVs. Nintendo lowered its annual
profit forecast 82 percent.  Sony, Nintendo and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , maker of the  Xbox 360 
and Kinect gaming devices, are confronting new competitors in
the gaming industry who are beginning to reshape the field.  Among them is Cupertino, California-based Apple, which
estimates it’s sold more than 200 million mobile devices capable
of downloading and playing games. Apple’s App Store offers a
choice of more than 100,000 game and entertainment applications
to users of the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch.  “The market opportunity for specialist devices is
shrinking rather than growing” because of the convergence of
activities into a single device, said Piers Harding-Rolls, a
senior analyst at a research firm IHS.  “ Angry Birds ,” a popular mobile-phone game where players
slingshot birds at pigs hiding behind barricaded wood and stone
shelters, is aiming for 100 million downloads in  China  alone.
Customers are also flocking to online games such as
“Farmville” and “Cityville” on Facebook Inc.’s social-
networking site.  Resisting Price Cuts  “The environment for portable game players has become more
difficult because of smartphones,” said Koki Shiraishi, an
analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc., who estimates shipments
of the PS Vita will be about half of the PlayStation Portable
sold during the product’s first two years.  Hirai isn’t alone in expecting Sony to resist price cuts.  “The customers Sony is targeting with its Vita are those
willing to spend a lot of money,” said  Shiro Mikoshiba , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “That’s a valid
strategy even if the volume’s low as long as it can sustain the
higher price.”  Sony is unlikely to cut prices until next year, said
Harding-Rolls, the London-based IHS analyst. The company may
sell 36 million PlayStation Vitas by 2015, short of the 46
million PSPs sold at the same stage of its life cycle, he wrote
in an e-mail.  Trailing Nintendo  “If strong titles aren’t there for Vita, there is a risk I
might have to cut my estimates,” said Kazuharu Miura, an
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, who expects Vita
sales will reach 2.5 million units by March.  Introduced in late 2004, Sony’s PlayStation Portable has
failed to catch up with the popularity of Nintendo’s DS. Sony
has sold 71.4 million PSPs worldwide as of June 30, while
Nintendo has sold 152.2 million DS players, according to the two
companies.  The U.S. video-game market, the world’s biggest, is
shrinking. Sales dropped 10 percent to $1.03 billion in June, a
second consecutive drop,  Port Washington , New York-based NPD
said last month. In  Japan , revenue fell 16 percent in the first
half of 2011 amid a lack of hit titles, Tokyo-based researcher
Enterbrain Inc. said in June.  That may put pressure on Sony to win customers like Tokyo
event planner Takeda, who plans to sit out.  “I don’t really see a reason to pay that much for another
game player,” he said. “I’m satisfied with my devices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net ;
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 