-- 
Southern Says U.S. EPA Rules to Cost as Much as $18 Billion

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-08-04T22:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/southern-says-u-s-epa-rules-to-cost-as-much-as-18-billion-1-.html
Southern Co. (SO) , the biggest U.S.
utility owner by market value, said proposed Environmental
Protection Agency rules are “misguided” and will cost the
company as much as $18 billion.  The planned regulations “are misguided in their content
and timing,” Southern Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Fanning said today in a statement.  Southern, based in Atlanta, is among energy companies that
say new rules from President Barack Obama’s EPA will force some
coal-fired power plants to close, and may lead to higher energy
costs. Electricity prices for Southern customers may increase an
additional 10 percent to 20 percent during the next 10 years,
according to the company.  The EPA regulations will “only impede the U.S. economic
recovery, reduce our ability to create jobs and add to the
economic burdens of our customers,” Fanning said.  Air, water and waste rules affecting coal-fueled electric
utilities will require $13 billion to $18 billion in capital
expenses through 2020, according to the company.  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson has said the agency’s rules
are needed to protect public health and the environment. EPA
spokesmen didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment on
Southern’s projections.  The company said the EPA actions, including a proposal to
cut mercury and other air toxics from power plants, will require
installation of pollution controls on about 12,000 megawatts of
coal-fired generation, or about 60 percent of the company’s
fleet. The rules also will contribute to the shutdown of units
with a total capacity of 4,000 megawatts.  ‘Sensible Solution’  Southern, which filed comments with the EPA today, said it
will work with the agency for a “more sensible solution.”  The company is seeking a longer time frame to comply with
the EPA’s toxic-pollutants rule. The three-year compliance
deadline is “much too short,” Fanning said.  Projects to replace generation typically take an average of
four to six years and installation of technologies to reduce
sulfur-dioxide emissions range from 40 months to 69 months,
according to the company.  Southern, which has 4.4 million customers in four states
and more than 42,000 megawatts of generating capacity, said that
it’s invested more than $8 billion in emissions-reduction
equipment since 1990, cutting smog-causing pollution by 70
percent while energy consumption has increased 40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  