-- 
Rand Heads For Its Biggest Drop in More Than a Year on Global Growth Fears

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-04T16:03:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/south-africa-s-rand-head-for-biggest-decline-in-a-year-correct-.html
The rand headed for the biggest drop
in more than a year against the dollar as stocks and commodity
prices tumbled amid signs that the global economy is slowing.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy weakened as much
as 2.6 percent to 6.9201 per dollar and traded 2.5 percent down
at 6.9152 as of 5:51 p.m. in Johannesburg, heading for the
largest decline since May 19, 2010. The rand tumbled 1.5 percent
to 9.7935 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks slumped, driving the benchmark index
to an eight-month low, and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of
raw materials dropped for a seventh day after a U.S. reports
this week on unemployment claims, manufacturing and spending
fueled concern the world’s biggest economy is faltering.
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the ECB
offered lenders more cash to stop  Europe ’s debt crisis from
engulfing  Italy  and  Spain  and hurting the economy.  “People are very worried about the global economic
recovery, and a double-dip recession is becoming a
possibility,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of strategic research at
Nedbank Capital in Johannesburg, said by phone. “Commodity
prices are falling and currencies are very volatile. The risks
are opening up.”  The one-month implied volatility of the rand versus the
euro rose 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point, today to
15.50 percent, the highest in a year, indicating investors see
wider price swings in coming weeks, according to currency
options prices monitored by Bloomberg.  Franc, Yen  “The key point is that the concerns over the global
economy and the ongoing problems in  Portugal , Ireland, Italy,
 Greece  and Spain have not disappeared,” John Cairns and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in a research note. “The risk of a rand
blowout remains in play.”  South Africa’s currency strengthened the most since March
18 against the yen.  Japan  sold the yen and expanded monetary
stimulus a day after  Switzerland  cut  interest rates  and weakened
its currency, underscoring concern global growth is stalling.  Bonds gained for a fifth day, sending the yield on 10-year
government debt to the lowest in nine months, on demand from
foreign investors attracted by a yield 5.34 percentage points
higher than U.S. Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread has narrowed from 5.57 percentage points
on July 12, the highest this year.  Foreign investors bought a net 3.4 billion rand ($492.2
million) of South African bonds yesterday, bringing purchases by
foreign investors this year to 48.5 billion rand, according to
the JSE Ltd., which runs the nation’s stock and bond exchanges.  The 6.75 securities due 2021 gained 62 cents to 92.258
rand, reducing the yield 9.7 basis points to 7.91 percent, the
lowest on a closing basis since Nov. 8. The yield has dropped 41
basis points in the past five trading days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  