-- 
Southwest Trims Growth as Fuel Cuts Profit

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-08-04T15:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/southwest-trims-growth-as-fuel-cuts-profit.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  is trimming
its growth plans through 2012 amid higher fuel costs and a
faltering economic recovery that eroded second-quarter earnings.
The shares fell the most since May 2010.  Capacity, a measure of seats and miles flown, will increase
4 percent to 5 percent this year, down from earlier plans of as
much as 6 percent. Growth will be no higher in 2012 and
“possibly slightly down,” Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly 
said today in a telephone interview.  Southwest, based in  Dallas , follows Delta Air Lines Inc. in
trimming capacity further after fuel prices increased 47 percent
during the quarter from a year earlier. Airlines scale back
growth to reduce operating costs and to tighten supply and
demand, which generally lets them boost fares.  The capacity decision “will be good in our opinion not
only for Southwest but also for the industry,”  Ray Neidl , a
Maxim Group LLC analyst, said in a note to investors. Neidl,
based in  New York , doesn’t rate the shares.  Southwest, the biggest low-fare air carrier, fell 77 cents,
or 8.1 percent, to $8.88 at 10:02 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange Composite trading, after touching $8.85, the lowest
intraday price since November 2009.  Delta, the world’s second-largest carrier, said July 27 it
would cut capacity by as much as 5 percent after the peak summer
travel season ends to further reduce costs, up from a prior plan
of 4 percent.  Record Fuel Costs  Southwest’s profit excluding one-time items dropped 44
percent to $121 million, or 15 cents a share, in the three
months through June, the airline said today in its first
earnings report since the May 2 acquisition of AirTran Holdings
Inc. The results lagged behind the average estimate of 20 cents
from 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “These aren’t the kind of earnings results that would
support growth in the airline,” Kelly said in the interview.
“Fuel is at an all-time record cost for Southwest. That renders
some of our routes obsolete, quite frankly, until the revenue
environment can adjust.”  The decision today reverses Southwest’s plan to “resume
capacity growth more aggressively by 2012, or at least by
2013,” Kelly said. “I’m not real optimistic here in the near
term. It’s very clear the economy is not recovering.”  Spending for fuel, Southwest’s biggest expense, climbed 64
percent to $1.53 billion as the price it paid per gallon
increased 32 percent to $3.30. While total revenue rose 31
percent to a record $4.14 billion, revenue from each seat flown
a mile increased 5.7 percent.  The airline is the last of the five biggest U.S. carriers
to report quarterly results. United Continental Holdings Inc.,
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  had smaller
profits than a year earlier, while American Airlines parent  AMR
Corp. (AMR)  reported a wider loss.  Including benefits from fuel hedging and charges related to
the AirTran acquisition, net income climbed 44 percent to $161
million, or 21 cents a share, from $112 million, or 15 cents, a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  