-- 
South Korea Should Raise Interest Rates, Allow Won to Strengthen, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-08-05T07:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/south-korea-should-raise-interest-rates-allow-won-to-strengthen-imf-says.html
South  Korea  should raise its
benchmark interest rate to at least 4 percent over time and
allow its currency to appreciate further to better fight
inflation, the International Monetary Fund’s staff said.  “The policy rate hikes thus far, although gradual, are
welcome, and should continue in a more decisive manner, given
the strong underlying economic momentum and lags in monetary
policy,” IMF economists wrote in an annual assessment of the
country’s economy released yesterday. “Further two-way exchange
rate flexibility would also help in the policy response to
inflation.”  The global sell-off in stocks may complicate the  Bank of
Korea ’s decision next week on whether to raise  interest rates  to
tame inflation. Deputy chiefs of South Korean agencies including
the central bank are set to meet on Aug. 7 to discuss the global
economy and the recent turmoil in world financial markets, the
 finance ministry  said today.  “Given mounting concerns about the global financial market
instability led by both U.S. and Europe-led events, it seems
difficult for the Bank of Korea to raise its  base rate  at the
August meeting,” said Oh Suk Tae, an economist at SC First Bank
Korea Ltd. in Seoul.  The Kospi stock index fell 3.7 percent to 1,943.75 today,
the lowest since March 15. The stock gauge has fallen 11 percent
in a four-day retreat, the steepest losing streak since November
2008. The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,067.35 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
1,074.49 earlier, the weakest level since June 29.  Inflation Target  Higher energy and food costs pushed  South Korea ’s inflation
to a four-month high of 4.7 percent in July, breaching the
central bank’s target limit every month this year.  “Policy interest rates need to eventually rise at the very
least to the neutral rate of 4 percent,” from the current rate
of 3.25 percent, IMF mission chief to South Korea, Subir Lall,
told reporters on a conference call yesterday. “The timing of
that is obviously not certain” and is up to bank, he said.  Raising the benchmark interest rate above neutral would
bring inflation within target and “safeguard” the central
bank’s credibility, according to the IMF report.  South Korea’s real effective exchange rate is undervalued
by about 10 percent, the report said. A stronger currency
“would help limit the pass-through of imported good prices” to
inflation figures, it said.  ‘Smoothing Operations’  In the report, dated July 14, the IMF staff said that South
Korean authorities “considered that the  exchange rate  is freely
determined in the market and that interventions are limited to
smoothing operations.” They also “ pointed to the 3.7 percent
appreciation against the  U.S. dollar  so far this year.”  The IMF recommendations were made public after Japanese and
Swiss moves over the past two days to weaken their currencies,
showing reviving tension in foreign-exchange markets as the
deteriorating U.S. economy weighs on the dollar. South Korea’s
won climbed to its strongest level in almost three years against
the dollar on July 27.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government has waged a “war” on
inflation since January through various price control measures
and the won’s appreciation. The government raised its inflation
estimate for this year to 4 percent from 3 percent in June while
cutting its growth forecast to 4.5 percent from 5 percent.  Average Inflation  The IMF, which expects an average inflation of 4.3 percent
this year and 3.6 percent in 2012, warned that administrative
measures to stabilize prices, if helpful in the short run,
“cannot substitute for macroeconomic policies.”  It forecast that the South Korean economy would grow 4.5
percent this year, “above potential,” before easing to a 4.2
percent expansion in 2012.  Capital flow volatility “is likely to remain a concern,”
according to the report, which also said that measures taken by
the government to temper it “can be more effective if supported
by appropriate monetary policy and exchange rate settings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  