-- 
Spanish Bond Yields Surge in 3.31 Billion Euro Auction of Sovereign Debt

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-04T10:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/spanish-bond-yields-surge-in-3-31-billion-euro-auction-of-sovereign-debt.html
Spain  sold 3.31 billion euros ($4.7
billion) of bonds at higher  interest rates  after the yield on
the country’s 10-year bond approached the 7 percent mark that
heralded the bailouts of Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland.  The Treasury sold 2.2 billion euros of April 2014 bonds at
an average yield of 4.813 percent, compared with 4.291 percent
when it sold similar debt on July 7, the Bank of Spain said. It
also auctioned 1.1 billion euros of January 2015 bonds to yield
4.984 percent. The Madrid-based Treasury sold about 95 percent
of the maximum 3.5 billion euros targeted in the debt offer.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond, which hit an
intraday euro-era record high of 6.46 percent on Aug. 2, fell
today before the sale and stayed lower afterward.  “The auction went better than expected,” said Cagdas Aksu,
a fixed-income analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London . “The
volumes sold are very reasonable.” Demand for the three-year
bonds was 2.14 times the amount sold, compared with 2.29 times
in July.  The Spanish benchmark bond’s yield has jumped as much as
about 70 basis points since a euro-region leaders’ summit on
July 21 failed to convince investors the spreading European debt
crisis can be halted by a so-called selective default for
Greece.  Market Reaction  Today the bond opened at 6.265 percent, falling to 6.11
percent before the auction and trading unchanged afterward as of
noon local time. Analysts said the Spanish sale was reflecting a
jittery European market.  “The yields are higher but that has to do with what’s going
on in  Europe  in general,” Aksu said. “Markets are on the
cautious side and it’s not specific to just Spain.”  Today’s sale will likely be Spain’s only bond auction this
month. The country still needs to sell about 38 billion euros in
debt by the end of the year and has completed 60 percent of its
2011 financing, less than the euro-area average of 67 percent,
according to a report by UniCredit SpA.  “It is positive to show Spain’s capacity to raise
funding,” Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  told reporters in
Madrid late yesterday, after an emergency meeting with Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to discuss the worsening
fiscal crisis.  Salgado said she doesn’t expect borrowing costs to remain
so high during the whole month and attributed the current
turmoil to thin volume because of the vacation season, the U.S.
standoff on the government’s borrowing limit and unresolved
concerns after the European summit on  Greece .  ‘Danger Zone’  The  International Monetary Fund  said on July 29 that Spain
remained in the “danger zone,” on the same day that Zapatero
announced plans to hold early elections in November, bringing
forward the date of the vote from March as Europe’s debt crisis
drove the country’s borrowing costs higher.  Zapatero announced his decision after Moody’s Investors
Service put Spain’s Aa2 rating on review for a possible cut on
July 29, citing “funding pressures.”  Moody’s said the precedent established by the Greek bailout
signaled a “clear shift” in risks for bondholders, and that one
of the main drivers of its decision is the “increased
vulnerability of the Spanish government’s finances to market
stress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White in Madrid at 
@bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  