-- 
Spanish-Language El Clasificado Balances Print Growth With Online Push

-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 
2011-08-05T21:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/spanish-language-el-clasificado-balances-print-growth-with-online-push.html
Growing up in East Los Angeles, Martha de
la Torre spoke South American-influenced Spanish, which often
elicited playground taunts from her classmates, mostly Mexican-
Americans. Midway through elementary school, she swore she’d
never speak Spanish again, except to her Ecuadorean grandmother.  Today she runs El Clasificado, the largest free, weekly Spanish-
language classified print publication in the U.S., reaching more
than 1.5 million people. It’s the flagship title of the thriving
130-employee publishing company de la Torre and her husband, Joe
Badame, started 23 years ago for Southern  California ’s Latino
population.  In June, the couple rebranded, changing their company’s name
from El Clasificado to  EC Hispanic Media  to reflect the growth
of their five online editions as well as their geographic
expansion into the agricultural heart of Central California.
With 2010 revenue of $16.3 million, the business is on track to
hit $19 million this year, de la Torre says.  “El Clasificado is a marvelous niche product,” says Peter M. Zollman, founding principal of marketing firm Advanced
Interactive Group in Altamonte Springs, Fla., which publishes
Classified Intelligence Report. “It takes a long time to win
[the Hispanic market’s] trust and loyalty, but once you have it,
you keep it.” While online sales for classifieds in the U.S.
have more than doubled to about $6 billion since 2006, Zollman
says, the overall industry has shrunk to about $15 billion, half
its 2006 total, due to the economic downturn and the collapse in
classified revenue at most daily newspapers.  Bloomberg contributor Karen E. Klein spoke recently to de la
Torre and Badame, an Italian-American who speaks even less
Spanish than his wife, about their strategy for future
expansion. Edited excerpts of their conversation follow.  Karen E. Klein: So many print publications have seen their
readership and distribution decline over the past decade. Is
that happening to El Clasificado?  Martha de la Torre: For years, we’ve been in fear of print
disappearing just like everyone else. We ended 2010 principally
a print company. Print ads account for 98 percent of our
revenues. But we’ve also moved into digital, which accounted for
about 1 percent of our revenue in 2010. Year-to-date, digital
ads have grown to about 5 percent of our total revenue.  Joe Badame: We’re not going away from print. Our print revenues
increased close to 16 percent last year and our print
circulation is up 10 percent from 2010 to 2011. The demographics
are working in our favor.  Q: The latest immigration data have shown that fewer Mexicans
are emigrating due to improved opportunities in  Mexico  and the
economic downturn in the U.S. How will that affect your success
as a Spanish-language company?  Badame: It will have a long-term effect on us, maybe five to 10
years out. But we have such a big market of Hispanics here
already; there are about 14 million in California and we’re
still at 455,000 circulation so we haven’t come close to
saturating the market. And the birth rates are much higher, so
we don’t expect it to have a huge impact immediately.  De la Torre: When we started out, I always thought El
Clasificado would stop existing around 2005. I was wrong.  Q: Have you found that your readers are migrating online?  De la Torre: Digital is attractive to a lot of Latinos who have
a little more education and income and are outside of densely
Hispanic markets.  Digital allows us to find additional niches, like the insurance
company or lawyer who will advertise online. The problem is that
our print reps are not interested in selling digital ads because
they can still sell print and it’s more lucrative. An average
digital sale might be $100 a week, where a print account will
average $500 to $1,000 a week. Online is also harder to explain
to our clients, who are very focused on print and not as
advanced technologically.  Badame: A lot of our clients don’t believe that our readers are
online. But our online traffic results for El Clasificado are
showing that we have 6 million page views a month, from 400,000
unique visitors, with 20 percent of them coming through mobile
devices.  De la Torre: I was at one of our biggest clients a year ago and
they said, “Our customers are not online.” But I started doing
keyword searches and I showed them that they are getting online
now. So we gave them a free online classified so they could try
it out. We’re putting all our efforts forward. We operate from
fear and always look to the future, continually trying to
recognize where our weaknesses could be.  Q: Both of you have financial backgrounds. How did you become
entrepreneurs?  De la Torre: We were both CPAs, we met at Arthur Young & Co. in
1983 and started dating in 1985. I specialized in banking and
the oil and gas industry and then I started getting requests to
do due diligence on Hispanic media companies. I was alarmed at
how much money was being spent on these companies that weren’t
very impressive.  So I started thinking about doing something like the PennySaver
[a free weekly classified publication] but for Latinos. I made a
business plan but I didn’t want to be an entrepreneur. I hoped
someone would come along to run the thing so I could do what I
do best, which was be a financial person.  But we started the company in 1988 after Joe raised money from
our friends and family. We got married in 1991. Joe kept his day
job to keep us afloat for all the years we didn’t take salaries.
He joined us full-time in 2000.  Badame: We hit bottom in 1992 due to the recession, and ever
since we’ve grown every year from 8 percent to 35 percent. Even
during this last recession, we were growing by 16 to 17 percent.  Q: What changes did you make?  De la Torre: One major thing is that we changed our distribution
model. My business plan was based on a bulk-mail, home-delivery
model. We stuck to that for three or four years -- until we
almost went bankrupt.  Q: Why did you stay with something that wasn’t working?  De la Torre: It took us a long time to finally get it. It was
the early ‘90s, we were in recession and it seemed like nothing
worked. It was hard to figure out what was going wrong.  My mother and father were distributing our magazines in local
Hispanic stores. So we tried putting distribution racks in about
150 small business locations, and we finally realized we were
getting better results that way because Latino shoppers go to
the market every day for fresh food. Today we have close to
22,000 locations where we drop 15 to 400 magazines each.  Badame: We started dropping magazines at a location and then
we’d sit in our car and watch what happened for a couple of
hours. We realized that with home delivery, we were giving the
magazine to people who might not want it. They might just throw
it away. When it’s sitting in a rack, only the people who want
to read it actually pick it up.  Q: What’s next for EC Hispanic Media?  De la Torre: For 2011, we’re going to do more geographical
expansion and focus on more training and hiring. We’re also
adding some new products and hope to have new online revenue to
add to the 5 percent we’re currently getting from online.  Badame: We have a short-term goal to ramp up revenues to $50
million within five years and a long-term plan to hit $100
million in the next 10 years. We can get to $50 million by 2016
if we maintain our historical [average annual] growth rate of
20.8 percent. The more experience we have, the smaller the
numbers seem to look to us. Those numbers would have been huge,
and unobtainable, to us years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  