-- 
St. Joe Plans to Invest $30 Million in Florida Projects as Losses Widen

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-08-04T22:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/st-joe-plans-to-invest-30-million-in-florida-projects-as-losses-widen.html
St. Joe Co., the largest landholder
in northern  Florida , said it will invest $30 million in three
projects as it reported a wider second-quarter loss.  The company, which has lost money in 12 of the past 13
quarters as Florida’s real estate market collapsed, said its
second-quarter loss grew to $13.3 million, or 14 cents a share,
from $8.62 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier.  The loss last quarter included legal and restructuring fees
of $9.5 million, up from $1.5 million a year earlier,
Watersound, Florida-based St. Joe said today in a statement.
Revenue rose to $25.3 million in the second quarter from $22
million a year earlier.  “Though still early in the economic and real estate
recovery, as a result of renewed interest and demand in certain
of the company’s markets,  St. Joe  plans to invest approximately
$30 million of capital over the next 12 months in its Breakfast
Point, RiverTown and VentureCrossings projects,” it said in the
statement. St. Joe also is exploring joint ventures,
acquisitions, dispositions and stock repurchases, it said.  Earnings were released after the end of regular U.S.
trading. St. Joe fell $1.11, or 6.4 percent, to $16.38 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The decline was the
biggest since July 5, the first day of trading after the company
said it was a subject of a formal inquiry by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission over accounting for property
impairments. St. Joe shares have fallen 25 percent this year.  Bruce Berkowitz , founder of Fairholme Capital Management
LLC and St. Joe’s largest shareholder, became chairman of the
company in March after criticizing the board and management for
wasteful spending.  Berkowitz is on vacation and couldn’t be reached for
comment, said Hedda Nadler, his outside spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 