-- 
St. Louis Sewer District Agrees to Pay $4.7 Billion to Reduce Overflows

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-04T20:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/st-louis-sewer-district-agrees-to-4-7-billion-overhaul-to-end-epa-suit.html
The Metropolitan  St. Louis  Sewer
District will pay as much as $4.7 billion over 23 years to
overhaul its storm water and wastewater management systems, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said.  “St. Louis, America’s gateway city, grew up alongside the
 Mississippi ,” EPA Regional Administrator Karl Brooks said in a
statement announcing the accord today. “For too long it treated
the river’s tributaries as a dumping ground for sewage.”  The agreement settles a 2007 U.S. lawsuit filed against the
fourth-largest U.S. sewer system under the federal  Clean Water
Act . From 2001 to 2005, systemic failures caused raw sewage to
back up into homes, parks, streets and playgrounds at least
7,000 times, the agency said.  Money for the remedial work will come from St. Louis rate
payers “with little or no federal assistance,” the district
said in a separate statement today. The accord is subject to a
30-day public comment period and court approval, the EPA said.  Created in 1954, the  district  is responsible for collecting
and treating wastewater and managing storm runoff for a 525-
square-mile (1,360-square-kilometer) network including all of
St. Louis and 80 percent of its encompassing county.  Pollution Controls  The agreement requires the district to install new
pollution controls, expand treatment capacity at two plants and
build three storage tunnels, each two to nine miles (3.2 to 14.5
kilometers) in length, according to the EPA.  The district will also spend at least $100 million on a
“green infrastructure program” to store and evaporate storm
water instead of letting it flow into the sewer system.  “The St. Louis sewer system -- like much of the
infrastructure in our region -- is very old and in need of
investment and upgrades,” the district said.  The case is U.S. v. Metropolitan St. Louis Sewer District,
07-cv-1120, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri 
(St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  