-- 
Woods Trails Leader Scott by Six Shots After Bridgestone Golf First Round

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-04T22:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/stewart-cink-shares-lead-at-firestone-golf-as-tiger-woods-makes-his-return.html
Tiger Woods trails by six shots after
the first round of golf’s  Bridgestone Invitational , where  Adam Scott  leads fellow Australian Jason Day by one stroke.  Woods struggled to hit fairways with his tee shots and
finished with a 2-under 68 at  Firestone Country Club  in Akron,
 Ohio , where he has won seven times. Woods’s first full round in
almost four months included three birdies and a bogey over his
final nine holes after he began with nine straight pars.  “It felt good,” Woods, 35, told the Golf Channel in a
televised interview. “I hit the ball really flush. It’s been a
while since I’ve been in this environment. I’m hitting some
proper shots again, so that’s good.”  Scott, who is using Woods’s former caddie,  Steve Williams ,
shot an 8-under 62. Day is a shot back, with American  Nick Watney  third at 5 under. Nine players, including 2009 British
Open winner  Stewart Cink , are 4 under.  Woods had a birdie from about 31 feet at No. 16 to move to
2 under after bogeying the par-4 14th hole when his second shot
-- a 9-iron from 161 yards -- landed in a bunker over the green.
He also made birdies on the 10th and 11th holes.  “The hardest part I had today was controlling my
distances,” Woods said.  Salvaging Par  The 14-time major tournament winner had to salvage pars
with his putter throughout the round. After beginning the day
with eight straight pars, Woods seemed poised to drop a stroke
on the ninth hole when he hit his tee shot into the rough on the
left side. He was unable to reach the green with his second shot
and lobbed his third 20 feet past the hole. After sinking the
putt, Woods pumped his right fist as a large gallery of
spectators applauded.  Woods, who is playing with childhood friend Bryon Bell as
his caddie after firing Williams last month, missed birdie
chances on the fourth and fifth holes, where he was unable to
get putts from 12 and nine feet to fall.  Phil Mickelson  sits at 3 under after a round that featured
four birdies and a bogey ended with eight consecutive pars. The
left-hander, who missed the 36-hole cut in last week’s
Greenbrier Classic in  West Virginia , finished his round on the
ninth hole as Woods teed off on No. 1.  Clarke Stutters  Woods, who hadn’t played a full round of tournament golf
since the  Masters Tournament  in April because of knee and ankle
injuries, was paired with British Open champion Darren Clarke of
 Northern Ireland . Clarke is tied for last place at 7 over.  The layoff hasn’t stopped Las Vegas bettors from wagering
on Woods. He began the day with 20-1 odds to win this week, tied
for fifth best in the field of 77 players, even though he hasn’t
won a title since the Australian Masters 21 months ago. He’s
been the most popular golfer at the  Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and
Sports Book , picked on more than 10 percent of tickets.  Woods’s last competitive round was May 12, when he pulled
out of the  Players Championship  after nine holes. Woods said he
made a mistake in rushing to return from injuries he originally
sustained at the Masters, the year’s first major championship,
where he tied for fourth place.  A year ago, Woods finished next to last at Firestone after
shooting 18-over par, his worst 72-hole score as a professional.  Woods has said he plans to play in next week’s  PGA
Championship  at the  Atlanta Athletic Club  after sitting out the
previous two majors -- the  U.S. Open  and  British Open  -- while
rehabilitating.  A four-time PGA Championship winner, Woods is listed as the
fifth favorite for that event at 20-1, trailing Rory McIlroy,
Mickelson,  Lee Westwood  and Luke Donald.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  