-- 
India’s Inflation Rate Is ‘Far Above the Threshold Level,’ Subbarao Says

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-05T10:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/subbarao-says-india-inflation-is-far-above-the-threshold-level-.html
India ’s inflation rate is “far above
the threshold level” and policy makers need to slow economic
growth to curb price gains, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  “In the short term you may have to sacrifice growth to
generate an environment of rapid growth and steady inflation in
the medium term,” Subbarao said in Mumbai yesterday. “Some
data show that 5 percent inflation is the threshold level, so at
9.4 percent we are far above the threshold level.”  India’s stance contrasts with Europe,  Japan  and
Switzerland, which are either adding cash into their economies
or seeking to stem appreciating exchange rates to support
expansion. Price gains in India are the highest among the BRICS
nations that include Brazil,  Russia ,  China  and  South Africa .  “The  Reserve Bank of India  has to hike rates further given
the inflation situation,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist
at Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Considering the rate
increases so far and the growing global uncertainties, it would
be hard to continue tightening aggressively though.”  Rakshit expects India’s central bank to increase borrowing
costs by half a percentage point by the end of December.  India’s 10-year bonds rose, driving yields down this week
by the most since June, as investors sought the relative safety
of government debt on increasing signs the global recovery is
faltering.  Bond Yields  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 declined
15 basis points this week, or 0.15 percentage point, to 8.31
percent as of 2:39 p.m. in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The rate was the lowest since July 25.
The yield fell 9 basis points today.  Asian stocks fell, extending a global rout, and the
region’s bonds gained, while commodities dropped for an eighth
day amid concern of slowing global economic growth.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 3.7 percent, taking its
weekly loss to 7.8 percent. That will be the steepest one-week
drop since October 2008. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index declined 2 percent to the lowest level in almost 14 months
and the rupee weakened 0.6 percent to 44.8 against the dollar
today.  The decline in stocks is a “panic reaction,” because of
the slide in global markets, R. Gopalan, secretary of economic
affairs at the  finance ministry , told reporters in  New Delhi 
today. The fundamentals of the Indian economy “remain strong”
and shares may bounce back early next week, he said.  Market Determined  India’s rupee is “essentially a market-determined
currency” and “there is no policy position in terms of
intervening to prevent the movement of the rupee,”  Reserve Bank 
Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told reporters in the southern
Indian city of Hyderabad today.  “The concern will obviously be with liquidity,” Gokarn
said. “We don’t want markets to be disrupted by constraints of
liquidity. So, clearly we are watching the situation.”  The central bank’s monetary stance will be guided by demand
pressures in the economy and commodity prices, Gokarn said.  “We saw commodity prices softened a bit in May and June.
But that trend didn’t persist and by the time we started our
July process, they had stabilized,” Gokarn said.“Now, if this
is the beginning of a softening trend, it clearly will have some
impact on our thinking in terms of our stance.”  Monetary Tightening  The Reserve Bank of India has raised its repurchase rate 11
times since the start of 2010 and last increased it by 50 basis
points on July 26 to 8 percent to damp rising living costs.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
9.44 percent in June. By comparison, consumer prices rose 6.7
percent in  Brazil , 9.4 percent in Russia, 6.4 percent in China
and 5 percent in South Africa.  The current level of inflation in India is “not
acceptable,” Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty told reporters in
Noida, near New Delhi, today.  Indian policy makers need to worry about the economic cost
only if the expansion dips below 8 percent,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , the deputy chairman of India’s Planning Commission,
said in a July 19 interview in New Delhi.  The central bank last week maintained its growth forecast
of 8 percent for the current fiscal year ending March 31, even
after citing dangers from Europe’s debt crisis to the outlook
for exports. The economy expanded 8.5 percent the previous year.  Europe ’s Stance  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
yesterday said the ECB has resumed bond purchases and will offer
banks more cash to stop the region’s debt crisis from engulfing
Italy and  Spain  and hurting the economy. The ECB kept its
benchmark rate at 1.5 percent. European officials are trying to
put a firewall around Italy and Spain on concern they will have
to follow Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking bailouts.  Japan yesterday followed Switzerland in seeking to stem
appreciating exchange rates that threatened to damage export
competitiveness, selling the yen and pledging to inject 10
trillion yen ($126 billion) in funds into the economy.  The moves also reflect deepening concern of a U.S. return
to recession that might force the  Federal Reserve  into another
round of asset purchases. U.S. gross domestic product expanded
at an annual rate of 1.3 percent last quarter, from a near-stall
of 0.4 percent in January to March.  Switzerland  Aug. 3 unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and
pledged to boost the supply of the franc in money markets to
stem a surge in the “massively overvalued” currency.  Inflation Priority  In India, the government’s priority is to reduce inflation
to “an acceptable level” of 5 percent to 6 percent because the
poor are the “hardest hit” by higher living costs, Planning
Commission’s Ahluwalia said last month.  India’s parliament has been debating rising prices this
week and the opposition stepped up their offensive against Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s coalition for failing to control
inflation, which erodes spending power in a nation where the
 World Bank  estimates more than three-quarters of the people live
on less than $2 a day.  Meanwhile, India’s central bank yesterday reconstituted its
Technical Advisory Committee on Monetary Policy by adding Rakesh Mohan, a former deputy governor at the Reserve Bank and
currently a professor at  Yale University , and Ashima Goyal, a
professor at the Mumbai-based Indira Gandhi Institute of
Development Research, according to a statement.  The committee, which meets at least once a quarter, has
been expanded to strengthen the “consultative process in
monetary policy,” the statement showed.  -- With assistance from Tushar Dhara and Anto Antony in New
Delhi and Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad. Editors: Cherian Thomas,
Arijit Ghosh  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net 
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  