-- 
Swiss Re Second-Quarter Profit Rises to $960 Million, Beating Estimates

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-08-04T11:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/swiss-re-second-quarter-profit-rises-to-960-million-beating-estimates.html
Swiss Re Ltd. and  Munich Re , the
world’s biggest reinsurers, expect rates to increase after
posting second-quarter earnings that exceeded analyst estimates.  Net income rose 18 percent to $960 million, Zurich-based
Swiss Re said today, beating the $646 million average estimate
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock rose the most in
nine months. Larger rival Munich Re reported profit of 736
million euros ($1.05 billion) compared with the 660 million-euro
average estimate of 14 analysts.  Natural disasters, including the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan , cost insurers and reinsurers about $70 billion in the
first half, according to  estimates  by Guy Carpenter & Co., the
reinsurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. While those
record claims are pushing up renewal rates for both reinsurers,
Swiss Re may be closing the gap on Munich Re, which was forced
to write down its holdings of Greek government debt.  “The renewal data are positive for both,” said  Roland Pfaender , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Commerzbank AG.
“Munich Re is burdened by Greek a government debt writedown,
which Swiss Re doesn’t have in the portfolio.”  Swiss Re rose as much as 7.1 percent, the most since Nov.
4, and was up 6.4 percent at 43.73 Swiss francs as of 11:32 a.m.
in Zurich. That made the stock the best performer on the 28-
company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index, which gained 2.2
percent. Munich Re gained 0.5 percent to 98.44 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  July Renewals  Swiss Re said market prices for property and casualty
reinsurance rose by 5 percentage points during July 1 renewals,
when most reinsurers renew contracts with customers in parts of
the U.S. market,  Australia  and  Latin America .  “The reinsurance market has started to turn, and Swiss Re
expects further improvements over the next six to 18 months,”
the company said in the statement.  Swiss Re, which is bidding to regain the AA credit rating
that  Standard & Poor’s  cut in 2009, reported losses of $105
million from U.S. tornadoes in April and May following record
catastrophe claims in the first quarter. The company is
targeting an average annual increase in earnings per share of 10
percent over the next five years.  The company is “taking advantage of a turning reinsurance
market, confirmed by again very solid renewals,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG who
has a buy rating on the stock.  Spending on claims and costs as a percentage of property
and casualty reinsurance premiums, the so-called combined ratio,
improved to 78.4 percent from 102 percent a year earlier, Swiss
Re said.  Greek Writedown  Munich Re wrote down its Greek government debt holdings to
market values as of June 30, weakening the second-quarter result
by 125 million euros. Other financial firms including  France ’s
BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG wrote down Greek debt and
are participating in a rescue plan that requires investors to
take a loss of about 21 percent on holdings that mature by 2020.  Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard, 55, in March
scrapped a share buyback and a 2.4 billion-euro profit target
for the year after the earthquake and tsunami in Japan triggered
the reinsurer’s first quarterly loss since 2003. While the
first-quarter’s natural disasters cost Munich Re about 2.7
billion euros, or almost three times the amount set aside for a
normal year, the company confirmed today that it still expects
to post a profit in 2011.  Comparing Ratios  “The claims burdens in the first quarter already had an
impact on the negotiations for treaty renewals at 1 July,” said
management board member  Torsten Jeworrek , who heads Munich Re’s
reinsurance business. “These effects should also have an
appreciable influence on the renewals at 1 January 2012.”  Spending on claims and costs as a percentage of net
premiums at Munich Re’s property and casualty reinsurance unit
improved to 99.6 percent in the quarter, compared with a
combined ratio of 103.8 percent a year ago.  “The combined ratio at Swiss Re is better than expected,”
while at Munich Re it was slightly worse than expected, said
Pfaender. Swiss Re is “more and more” closing the gap, he
said.  Swiss Re, which repaid a 3 billion-franc ($3.9 billion)
capital injection by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. at
the end of last year, said property and casualty premiums rose
almost 13 percent in the second quarter, after “strong
renewals.”  While first-half natural catastrophe losses and large
claims were about $2.59 billion, those in the second quarter
were lower “than anticipated,” Chief Financial Officer  George Quinn  said during a conference call today.  Reinsurers sell coverage to primary insurers to guard
against the cost of major claims. Large catastrophe claims can
cut into excess capital, which serves as a buffer against
unexpected losses and supports reinsurers’ credit ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  