-- 
U.S. Senate Leaders End Impasse on Three Trade Deals, Worker Aid

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-08-04T17:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/u-s-senate-leaders-end-impasse-on-three-stalled-trade-deals-worker-aid.html
U.S. Senate leaders ended an impasse
over stalled free-trade agreements, agreeing to vote after the
August recess on benefits for workers who lose their jobs
because of overseas competition, then take up the trade deals.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky pledged action
yesterday to pass the agreements with Colombia,  Panama  and South
Korea. The U.S. Trade Representative’s Office and Republican
House Speaker  John Boehner  praised the compromise, signaling all
sides concur on the process.  The Senate leaders agreed that after Congress returns to
work, lawmakers will consider “a bipartisan compromise on the
 Trade Adjustment Assistance  program, followed by passage of the
three FTAs,” Reid said in a statement on his website. Boehner
of Ohio also pledged to move ahead with trade and worker-aid
bills. Republicans had balked at the administration’s plan to
combine worker aid and the Korea trade deal into a single bill,
and that plan was dropped.  Business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
have pressed lawmakers to reach a compromise to end the
stalemate on trade deal-worker aid amid concern companies will
fall behind competitors as the nations strike deals with other
governments.  A separate South Korean free-trade agreement with the
European Union has been in place since July 1, putting U.S.
producers of autos, pharmaceuticals and scientific equipment at
a disadvantage in the Asian economy. A deal between Colombia and
 Canada  is scheduled to take effect Aug. 15.  $12 Billion  The three U.S. agreements may increase exports by $12
billion a year and boost the still-struggling  U.S. economy ,
supporters say. After Congress agreed to raise the debt ceiling
this week, the White House urged action on the trade deals as a
means to spur hiring in the U.S. amid 9.2 percent unemployment.  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of the stimulus legislation in
2009, it was expanded to include service workers such as call-
center employees. The added benefits expired in February.  The proposal from the White House, which Reid committed to
consider, would continue most of those benefits through 2013,
and provide retroactive assistance to those left out so far this
year. It’s forecast to cost $320 million in each of the next two
years.  Separate Measures  President  Barack Obama  wanted to have Congress consider the
worker-aid program as part of the  South Korea  deal, the biggest
of the three accords. With the deal between Reid and McConnell,
trade adjustment assistance will be considered separately and
before the vote on the agreements, according to the statement.  “I have long supported passage of the long-delayed FTAs,
and I know that I speak for many on my side of the aisle that we
are eager to get moving and finally pass them,” McConnell said
in the statement. “Although I do not personally support TAA, I
know there is bipartisan support for this program.”  Supporters praised the agreement, while cautioning that the
process of gaining approval could again slow the pacts, which
were completed in 2006 for  Colombia  and 2007 for South Korea and
Panama.  “We must not see any more roadblocks thrown in front of
these deals during the short legislative session that remains,”
U.S. Chamber President  Tom Donohue  said in a statement.  Hurdles Ahead  The Reid-McConnell compromise has two potential hurdles.
Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the trade
subcommittee in the Senate, has said the worker-aid measure must
pass Congress before the free-trade deals are considered;
Boehner said the trade deals will move together with the
assistance bill.  In the Senate, the worker-aid bill won’t be considered
under rules for trade agreements that limit amendments and
require a simple majority for approval. That may leave the
legislation open to revision, such as adding a measure making it
possible for companies to petition for duties on imports from
 China  to compensate for its weak currency.  “Extending Trade Adjustment Assistance is an important
step to respond to job loss caused by foreign competition,”
Senator  Sherrod Brown , an  Ohio  Democrat, said in a statement.
“But addressing unfair trade practices like Chinese currency
manipulation can prevent job loss by ensuring a level playing
field for American manufacturers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  