-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Drops to Minus 47.6 in Bloomberg Index on Economy

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-04T14:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/u-s-consumer-confidence-drops-to-minus-47-6-in-bloomberg-index-on-economy.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
dropped last week to the lowest level in more than two months,
paced by growing dissatisfaction among women and high earners.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 47.6 in the
period to July 31, the lowest since May, compared with minus
46.8 the prior week. Confidence among women fell to the lowest
level since October 2009, while Americans making more than
$100,000 a year were the most pessimistic since November 2009.  The biggest one-week drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in a year, political wrangling over raising the debt
ceiling and a stagnant job market probably weighed on consumers’
moods. The loss of confidence heightens the risk that  consumer
spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the economy, will be
slow to rebound in the second half of the year.  “The lack of momentum in the economy and the lack of
improvement in labor market conditions just continue to weigh on
consumers,” said  John Herrmann , senior-fixed income strategist
at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . What’s more, “the
debt ceiling debate was unnerving,” he said.  Another report today indicated limited improvement in the
job market. Applications for unemployment insurance payments
fell by 1,000 in the week ended July 30 to 400,000, the fewest
in four months. Economists forecast a climb to 405,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Democrats More Pessimistic  Today’s comfort report showed sentiment among Democrats
fell to the lowest level since February, while confidence among
Republicans dropped to a nine-week low. Democrats were 8 points
more pessimistic than Republicans, the biggest gap since March.  The report underscores “the impact of political
brinksmanship on already tender economic sentiment,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in  New York ,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill this week raising the
U.S. debt ceiling by at least $2.1 trillion and reducing federal
spending by $2.4 trillion or more, after party leaders spent
months wrangling over the measure.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has been minus 40 or
less, a region typically associated with recessions and their
aftermath, for 170 of the past 172 weeks. That’s “an
unprecedented period in the dumps, with every tentative breakout
attempt, to date, quickly cut short,” said Langer.  Two of the comfort index’s three subcomponents declined
last week. The measure of personal finances fell back into
negative territory after two weeks of positive readings. The
buying climate index fell to the lowest level since early June.
A backup in fuel prices may explain the deterioration.  Gasoline Prices  After reaching a three-month low of $3.54 a gallon in late
June, the average price of regular gasoline climbed to $3.71 at
the end of last week. The comfort gauge reached a nine-month low
of minus 49.4 in May after gasoline climbed to $3.99 a gallon.  The gauge of Americans’ views of the economy, which is the
difference between those with positive versus negative opinions,
rose to minus 86.5 from a more than two-year low. Even here, the
news wasn’t good. Fifty percent of respondents gave the economy
a poor rating, the worst of four categories. That’s the highest
share in more than a year.  Falling share prices may be to blame for the drop in
sentiment among those with the highest incomes. Weekly changes
in the overall comfort gauge have moved in the same direction as
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  about 80 percent of the time
since the measure’s inception in 1985, according to Langer.  Shares Drop  Stocks slumped today. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 1.7 percent to 1,238.68 at 10:36 a.m. in New York.  The outlook among those with a full-time job declined to
minus 39.3, the weakest reading since March, indicating that
even employed consumers may be hesitant to shop, today’s report
showed.  Consumer spending dropped in June for the first time in
almost two years as savings climbed, Commerce Department figures
showed earlier this week. The  U.S. economy  grew less than
forecast in the second quarter after almost stalling at the
start of the year, another report from the agency showed.  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began in December 1985,
has averaged minus 44.7 this year compared with minus 45.7 for
all of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the recession
ended, the report showed.  Less Volatile  The measure has been less volatile than other confidence
gauges, hovering this year within about 5 points of the 2011
average. In contrast, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
index of consumer sentiment dropped in July to its lowest level
in more than two years. The Conference Board’s index
unexpectedly rose in July from an eight-month low.  Smaller employment gains and lagging consumer confidence
are holding back the economic recovery, said Jenny Lin, senior
U.S. economist for  Ford Motor Co. (F)  U.S. employers in July
probably boosted payrolls at a pace that failed to reduce the
jobless rate, according to a Bloomberg News survey before a
Labor Department report tomorrow.  “The budget negotiations likely contributed to the drop in
confidence, which has cast a shadow on the modest recovery so
far,” Lin said on an Aug. 2 conference call with analysts.
“The modest labor market recovery is holding back income gains
and consumer confidence.”  The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker reported an increase
in sales in July that trailed analyst estimates.  Survey Methodology  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 U.S.
residents age 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked
for their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate. Results are combined with data from the previous three
weeks, and the percentage of negative responses is subtracted
from the share of positive views on each question, with the
results then averaged.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  Field work for the index is done by Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  