-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Aug. 4 to Oct. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-08-04T12:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-aug-4-to-oct-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment Climate anomalies attributed to the
Summer 2010 - Spring 2011 La Nina event promoted widespread
drought development and intensification across the southern tier
of the U.S. In many locations, significant deterioration occured,
with the southern Great Plains experiencing some of the worst
impacts. Apart from the relief afforded by isolated
thunderstorms, or perhaps a tropical system, drought conditions
are anticipated to persist over the south-central states through
the August-October period. During the past few weeks, a
persistent ridge of high pressure maintained hot, dry conditions
across the core drought areas of the southern Great Plains.
Heavy rain (2-3 inches) fell across portions of the central and
northeastern Gulf Coast, bringing substantial relief, while
daily wet-season thunderstorms throughout the Florida Peninsula
continued to erode entrenched drought conditions. For most of
the Southeast, substantial improvement is forecast for the
August-October 2011 season. Additional drought improvement is
anticipated across Arizona, western  New Mexico , and southern
 Colorado , due to a fairly healthy monsoon circulation across the
Southwest. However, eastern New Mexico and western  Texas  have
yet to see comparably widespread, significant rainfall, and
prospects for this area remain uncertain. Across  Hawaii , leeward
drought persistence is expected under the summer trade wind
regime, while developing drought is possible in  Alaska ’s Kenai
Peninsula region.  A persistent ridge of high pressure maintained dry conditions
and much above normal temperatures across the central U.S.,
exacerbating the widespread drought entrenched across the
southern Plains. Daily maximum temperatures in San Angelo, TX
have broken 100 degrees Fahrenheit 61 times so far in 2011 (as
of July 26th), and there have been 28 consecutive days of highs
reaching 100 degrees or more so far (as of July 29th), according
to the  National Weather Service  Office in San Angelo. Both of
these events are highly unusual. Mean temperatures for the month
of July have averaged as much as 7 degrees F above normal over
much of the Red River Valley, including much of  Oklahoma  and
portions of north-central Texas. Isolated thunderstorms across
the region have provided little to no relief under the
persistent heat and widespread dryness. Drier weather is typical
across eastern Texas northeastward through the lower  Mississippi 
Valley during August, with climatological rainfall increasing
slightly towards the beginning of autumn. Climatological
rainfall increases more substantially in early autumn across
southern and southwestern Texas. Short, medium, and extended
range forecasts, including the CPC 6-10 and 8-14 day outlooks
all indicate enhanced chances for below-median rainfall across
the southern Plains states. The CPC August outlook maintains
elevated chances of below-median rainfall for most of the
southern Great Plains and lower Mississippi Valley. The seasonal
precipitation outlook for August-October 2011 calls for equal
chances (EC) of below, near, and above-median precipitation for
this region. The Constructed Analog on Soil moisture (CAS)
outlook for the end of August and the end of October persist the
dryness across the southern Great Plains. Based on these
outlooks, continued drought persistence is likely. Forecast
confidence for the southern Plains is moderate (near the coast)
to high (well inland).  During the previous two weeks, heavy rainfall overspread
portions of the central Gulf Coast and north-central  Florida ,
with surpluses of 2 to 3 inches in most locations, but close to
double these amounts in portions of southeastern  Louisiana ,
central Mississippi, and along the extreme upper Texas coast
(AHPS precipitation analysis). The heavy rainfall substantially
boosted streamflows and ameliorated the widespread exceptional
drought (D4)conditions. However, the CPC 6-10 day and 8-14 day
outlooks favor elevated chances of below-median rainfall over
this area, while the 30-day outlook for August favors equal
chances (EC). The seasonal outlook for August-October tilts the
odds in favor of above-median precipitation for the eastern Gulf
region, primarily due to long-term precipitation trends. The
skill-masked Climate Forecast System (CFS, version 2) favors
relatively weak and mixed signals over this region. Given the
peak of the  Atlantic hurricane season  falls just before the
midpoint of the outlook period, continued drought improvement is
expected across the  Gulf Coast . Forecast confidence for the
central and northeastern Gulf Coast is moderate.  Over the past few weeks, daily thunderstorms associated with the
seabreeze-driven rainy season, as well as a brief influx of
moisture associated with a tropical wave, helped to ease the
areas of entrenched drought over the Florida Peninsula. Keetch-
Byram Drought Indices across the state remained generally
between 300 and 500, indicating a diminished risk for wildfire
spread. Additionally, no areas of exceptional drought (D4)
remain in the state. As the rainy season continues across
Florida, further drought reduction is likely. Tropical Storm
Emily is expected to pass just offshore of Florida’s east coast
shortly after the release of this Drought Outlook, and could
bring additional rainfall to the region, further easing drought
conditions. Both the CPC monthly outlook for August and the
seasonal outlook for August-October maintain enhanced chances
for above-median rainfall across much of the Florida Peninsula.
Based on these considerations, and the fact that the
climatological peak of the Atlantic hurricane season falls near
the midpoint of the August-October period, drought improvement
is maintained. Forecast confidence for the Florida Peninsula is
high.  Across the remainder of the Southeast, below-median rainfall was
observed during the previous two weeks across northern
Mississippi, most of both Alabama and  Georgia , as well as most
of the Tennessee Valley, although scattered thunderstorms
provided some local drought relief. In the Carolinas, several
weak fronts stalled across the region, accompanied by increased
coverage of showers and thunderstorms. The August-October
climatology across the interior South trends slightly drier in
the late summer, with many locations receiving only 15-20
percent of their annual rainfall during the period. The CPC
August monthly outlook does not tilt the odds in favor of above
or below median precipitation across the Southeast, with the
exception of wetter-than-median rainfall expected in southern
Florida, as noted earlier. For the August-October season, above-
median precipitation amounts are forecast over much of the
southern Atlantic region due to long-term precipitation trends,
also noted earlier, with equal chances elsewhere. Moisture from
tropical systems is also a possibility during the late summer
and early autumn months. Based on these factors, at least some
improvement is maintained for a large portion of the Southeast.
Forecast confidence for the Southeast is low to moderate.  In some parts of the Northeast, the North American Land Data
Assimilation System (NLDAS) shows current, top 1-meter soil
moisture deficits running between 25-50 mm. Stream flows
generally rank within the lowest quartile of the historical
record for this time of year. These areas of fairly recent
abnormal dryness (D0) and moderate drought (D1) are likely to
experience some improvement over the next few months from
frontal passages, organized thunderstorm clusters (MCS), and
potentially tropical systems. Forecast confidence for the
Northeast is moderate to high.  Monsoon rainfall commenced during the first half of July across
portions of the Southwest, primarily in  Arizona ,  Utah , and
Colorado. In New Mexico, however, where drought was present
across the entire state and nearly half of the state was
experiencing exceptional (D4) drought conditions through August
1st, thunderstorm activity was more sparse. In recent weeks, the
core of monsoonal moisture has been located near the Arizona-New
Mexico border in the higher terrain of the southern Rockies, and
consistently been missing eastern New Mexico and western Texas.
Extended range predictions (6-10 day and 8-14 day) favor the
continuation of monsoon rainfall along the same general path as
has been observed in the past 1-2 weeks. This also favors
suppressed thunderstorm activity across the eastern monsoon
region of eastern New Mexico and western Texas. The CPC monthly
outlook for August also supports enhanced odds of below-median
rainfall across the eastern monsoon region. Equal chances of
below, near, and above-median rainfall are indicated in the CPC
seasonal outlook for most of the Southwest. Based on these
forecasts, continued drought improvement is forecast for Arizona,
western New Mexico, and southern Colorado, but improvement is
considerably less certain across eastern New Mexico and western
Texas, where the odds seem to favor persistence of drought
conditions. Forecast confidence for the Southwest is moderate.  In Hawaii, the summer trade wind regime, which favors dryness on
the lee sides of the islands, favors persistence of the existing
drought areas in the state. Forecast confidence for Hawaii is
moderate.  Abnormal dryness has persisted across south-central Alaska for
several months. Streamflows across the Kenai Peninsula region in
particular have continued to decline. Therefore, drought
development across Alaska’s Kenai Peninsula is possible during
the upcoming three month period. Forecast confidence for Alaska
is low to moderate.  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  