-- 
U.S. Housing Market Slump Dealing Double Blow to Small-Business Borrowing

-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 
2011-08-04T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/u-s-housing-market-slump-dealing-double-blow-to-small-business-borrowing.html
Keith Sutton has been building homes
in  Cleveland  since 1991 and was selling 20 houses a year at the
top of the boom. Today he’s sitting on 50 lots he can’t get rid
of and is $3.5 million in debt, including close to $1 million
he’s already defaulted on. “I couldn’t have anticipated in 2006
that it was going to last well into 2011 and beyond,” he says.
“I thought it was going to be a blip.” Sutton has just two
workers now, down from 13 before the bust, and he hasn’t sold a
house in a year. “I’m barely hanging on,” he says.  The housing market’s persistent woes weigh doubly on small
business, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug. 8 issue.
Industries such as construction and real estate are dominated by
small companies, and many entrepreneurs borrow against their
homes to finance their businesses. That means small business,
which accounts for half of private nonfarm gross domestic
product and 65 percent of job growth, is unlikely to recover
before the housing industry rebounds. “The recent decline in
housing prices is significant enough to be a real constraint on
small business finances,” researchers at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Cleveland concluded in a  December report .  Entrepreneurs whose houses have lost value are less likely
to invest savings in their businesses, and it’s harder for them
to raise money by mortgaging their homes, says Denny Dennis,
senior research fellow at the  National Federation of Independent
Business . The group says 94 percent of small employers own their
homes, and a quarter of owners of small companies borrow against
their houses for business purposes, according to market data
provider Barlow Research Associates. The Cleveland Fed estimates
that business owners have lost $7.9 billion in available home
equity credit in the housing bust. “Their capacity to borrow is
really constrained,” Dennis says.  Not Much Lift  About one-sixth of the nation’s private employers are small
companies in housing-related industries, including homebuilders,
real estate agents, architects, and furniture suppliers, census
data show. Although the  construction industry  has often led the
way out of previous recessions, few small housing-related
companies have gotten much of a lift from the current recovery.
“This time the only growth driver, if we’re having one, is
export industries,” Dennis says.  While manufacturers and tech companies can tap into growing
markets abroad, plumbers and plasterers are bound to their local
economies. Sales at small homebuilders and specialty contractors
such as roofers and electricians have declined each year since
2007, according to data from financial software maker Sageworks.
 Home prices  ticked up in the second half of 2009, but they now
match the recession’s May 2009 low, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller Home Price Index of 20 cities.  Can’t Roll Dice  Dave Penniman, who runs a six-employee painting business in
 San Ramon , Calif., estimates that he is $125,000 underwater on
the house he bought in 2004. Having no cushion of equity in his
home makes him wary of excessive risk in his business. “You
definitely can’t take on really big jobs that you would like
to,” he says. “You just don’t want to roll the dice.”  Even at the high end of the housing market, the recovery is
halting. Late in 2008, Brian Lazarus was installing custom wood
furniture and interiors at a five-building home compound under
construction in western  Massachusetts  when the owner, a Wall
Street executive, landed on the job site in a helicopter. With
three suitcases full of cash, he paid all the contractors for
the work they had done so far and sent everyone home. “Then
they literally boarded the compound up,” Lazarus recalls. Work
resumed early this year, only to be suspended again in the
spring. Lazarus says the project manager told him: “We thought
the economy was going to pick back up, and it’s obviously not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Tozzi in New York at 
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rocks in New York at 
 drocks1@bloomberg.net  