-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as S&P 500 Posts Worst Slump Since March 2009

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-04T18:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-s-p-500-may-fall-for-eighth-day-in-nine.html
U.S. stocks plunged, driving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest nine-day decline
since the equity bull market began in March 2009, as concern the
global economy is weakening intensified.  All 10 groups in the S&P 500 slumped at least 1.8 percent,
led by losses in energy, raw-material and industrial shares.
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX)  dropped more than 4.7 percent as commodities slumped after
Japan intervened in foreign-exchange markets to weaken its
currency.  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. apparel chain, retreated 12
percent as July sales missed analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 dropped 3.2 percent to 1,219.48 at 2:37 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities fell for the
eighth time in nine days, to the lowest level on a closing basis
since Dec. 1. The more than 10 percent drop since April 29 means
the index has entered what is known as a correction. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  retreated 334.22 points, or 2.8
percent, to 11,562.22 today, erasing its 2011 gain.  “It’s unbelievable,” David Joy, Boston-based chief market
strategist at Ameriprise Financial Inc., said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $693 billion in assets. “It’s
nervousness. The emotional aspect of this is ticking higher.
It’s left everybody with this mindset that things are not good.
The situation in  Europe  is getting everyone concerned. We had
the impact of the  Japan  intervention in the  currency market . The
flight-to-quality trade is going to pick up.”  Global Stocks Tumble  Global stocks had their biggest one-day rout since March
2009. A measure of global equities fell 10 percent from this
year’s high in May, entering its first correction in more than a
year, amid concern about a recession. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of stocks in developed and emerging markets slid 3.7
percent to 312.72, falling 13 percent from its May 2 high.  Stocks tumbled from  Hong Kong  to  London  and  Sao Paulo  as
the yen dropped by the most since October 2008 against the
dollar after Japan sold its currency to stem gains that threaten
the nation’s economic recovery. The euro fell against the dollar
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
policy makers will offer banks additional cash to ease tensions
in financial markets.  Trichet indicated the ECB is reluctant to shelve further
rate hikes even as investors reduce bets on the ECB adding to
its two rate moves in 2011. While acknowledging a “particularly
high” level of uncertainty, rates are still “accommodative”
and inflation risks “remain on the upside,” he said.  ‘Gloomy’ Mood  “The mood right now is gloomy,”  Mike Ryan , the New York-
based chief investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management
Americas, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $774
billion. “The burden of proof is for better data that show the
economy is not falling into recession.”  U.S. stocks rose yesterday amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may consider another economic stimulus program to avert
a recession. The Fed finished its second round of so-called
quantitative easing, nicknamed “QE2” by investors, at the end
of June. The program helped propel a rally of as much as 28
percent in the  S&P 500  after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
foreshadowed the plan on Aug. 27.  Stock-futures maintained losses before the open of regular
trading as a report showed that initial claims for unemployment
insurance payments in the U.S. fell last week to a level that
shows limited improvement in the labor market. Employers added
85,000 workers in July, economists project a Labor Department
report to show tomorrow, failing to reduce a jobless rate that’s
holding above 9 percent.  ‘Crucial’ Report  “Tomorrow’s payroll report is crucial,” UBS’s Ryan said.
“If we see another disappointment, the stock market will have
significant downside from here.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, soared 25 percent to 29.21, the highest since
March.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custody
bank, will charge clients a 13 basis point fee for
“extraordinarily high” cash deposits. A basis point is one-
hundredth of a percent.  “We have seen a growing level of deposits on our balance
sheet from clients seeking a safe haven in light of the global
interest rate and credit environment,” the company said today
in an e-mailed statement.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth tumbled 5.5 percent as all of its 30 stocks
retreated. The Dow Jones Transportation Average of 20 stocks,
considered a proxy for the economy, slumped 3.6 percent.  Risk of Recession  “The market’s essentially pricing in a greater risk of a
recession,” New York-based Kevin Shacknofsky, who helps manage
about $6 billion for Alpine  Mutual Funds , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s the cyclical, economically sensitive parts of
the economy that are getting hurt the most.”  Energy and raw-material shares led the declines in the S&P
500, falling at least 5.1 percent. Chevron, the second-largest
U.S. oil company, slid 4.7 percent to $97.98. Alcoa, the largest
U.S. aluminum producer, sank 6.4 percent to $13.35. Freeport-
McMoRan, the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer,
retreated 6.1 percent to $47.55.  Gap decreased 12 percent to $16.99. The retailer said July
same-store sales fell 5 percent, compared with analysts’
estimates for a decline of 0.6 percent.  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  plunged 66 percent to $12.35. The drugmaker
withdrew its sales estimates for 2011 and announced job cuts
because of lower-than-expected growth in the use of prostate-
cancer treatment Provenge.  Cheapest Level  The 9.4 percent rout since July 22 dragged the S&P 500’s
valuation to 13.4 times reported earnings, the cheapest level
since April 2009, a month after the bull market began, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Laszlo Birinyi, one of the first investors to recommend
buying stocks when the bull market began, said he remains
optimistic about U.S. equities even after the biggest nine-day
slump since March 2009.  “Our view continues that we’re in a long-term bull market,
and in long-term bull markets you have downdrafts,” he said in
a Bloomberg Radio interview today. “Everything that we’ve built
our bullish case on continues to exist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  