-- 
UBS’ Berry Says Attempt to Reverse Yen Strength Trend Will Fail

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   R e y n o l d s
-- 
2011-08-04T06:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ubs-berry-says-attempt-to-reverse-yen-strength-trend-will-fail.html
Gareth Berry , a foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in  Singapore , comments on the yen after
Japanese authorities intervened in foreign-exchange markets to
weaken the currency.  The yen slumped 3 percent to 79.43 per dollar as of 7:08
a.m. in  London  from yesterday in  New York . It weakened 2.7
percent to 113.38 against the euro.  “For the third time in less than a year,  Japan  intervened
in foreign-exchange markets to sell the yen.  “In tandem, the  Bank of Japan  cut short a scheduled two-
day meeting and marginally eased monetary policy further.
Although this complements the FX intervention effort, the easing
is too timid to impact the yen materially.  “It is not yet clear whether today’s efforts are designed
to slow the yen’s gradual advance or to defend a line in the
sand. Clearly, any attempt to engineer a reversal of the yen’s
multi-year strengthening trend is likely to end in failure.  “Japanese authorities are aware of this, and so likely
have more modest ambitions. Pushing dollar-yen back to levels
that prevailed before the U.S. debt limit became an issue is
probably a reasonable short-term aim - somewhere in the region
of 79.”  On new Japanese officials:  “Two days ago Takehiko Nakao succeeded Rintaro Tamaki as
Vice Finance Minister for International Affairs, thus inheriting
operational responsibility for intervention. This change in
personnel could herald a significant departure from the recent
approaches.  “Noda has already pointed to tactics deployed in the 1995
as ‘a very useful reference’ for current thinking. That involved
an eight-month campaign of sporadic and sometimes daily
interventions, and investors should probably brace themselves
for more of the same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  