-- 
Ukraine to Boost Wheat Exports on Bigger Harvest, ProAgro Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-08-04T15:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/ukraine-to-boost-wheat-exports-on-bigger-harvest-proagro-says.html
Ukraine will increase exports of
wheat this year on a bigger harvest, even after rains reduced
the proportion of the grain suitable for milling, ProAgro said.  The country’s farmers will collect 21 million metric tons
of wheat, 25 percent more than the 16.8 million tons reaped in
2010, said Nikolay Vernitsky, director of the Kiev-based
agricultural researcher. Even with the fall in the share of the
crop of bread-making standard, exports of milling wheat in the
year from July 1 should be greater than a year earlier, he said.  “The indications on wheat quality have been not so bad so
far,” Vernitsky said today by phone from Kiev. Total wheat
shipments may be about 9 million tons, he said, without
providing a specific forecast for milling wheat.  Rains in most of the eastern European country’s regions
almost coincided with the beginning of winter-wheat harvesting
toward the end of June, Liza Malyshko, a grains analyst at Kiev-
based agriculture researcher UkrAgroConsult said today by phone.
Before the rains, agronomists and researchers had anticipated
that 60 percent of the wheat crop would be suitable for milling,
and now that figure is about 50 percent, Malyshko said.  Egypt ,
 Tunisia ,  Bangladesh  and  South Korea  are traditional buyers of
Ukrainian milling wheat, she said.  The government expects total grain exports to almost double
this year to 23 million tons, following a 20 percent increase in
the harvest, Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said July
20. The country, which imposed quotas on outbound grain
shipments from October to June following a drought last year,
replaced the restrictions with export duties from last month for
the first time in its history.  ‘Unprecedented’ Low  Ukraine’s grain exports declined last month to an
“unprecedented low” of 380,000 tons, compared with 1.5 million
tons in June, the Ukrainian Agrarian Confederation said
yesterday. Exports fell because of the imposition of taxes and
the cancelation of value added tax refunds rather than any
quality issues, Rodion Rybchynskyi, an analyst at the
Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine-based agriculture researcher APK-Inform,
said today by phone.  Reports about wheat quality from storage facilities are
“very contradictory,” ProAgro’s Vernitsky said. The facilities
are mostly stocking feed grain at the moment as farmers are
waiting for higher prices before selling milling wheat, he said,
adding that they will probably start supplying the better
quality grain in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  