-- 
UN Calls for $1 Billion Fund to Clean Ogoni Oil Spill in Nigeria

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-08-04T17:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/un-calls-for-1-billion-fund-to-clean-ogoni-oil-spill-in-nigeria.html
The  United Nations Environmental
Program  said the Nigerian government and the nation’s oil
industry should set up a $1 billion fund to clean up the
Ogoniland region after years of pollution.  The money will be required over five years to pay for what
could be “the world’s most wide-ranging and long term oil
clean-up exercise ever undertaken if contaminated drinking
water, land, creeks and important ecosystems such as mangroves
are to be brought back to full, productive health,” UNEP said
today in  statement .  UNEP today released the Environmental Assessment of
Ogoniland  report , which said the contamination of the region is
worse than previously was thought. Ogoniland covers about 1,000
square kilometers (386 square miles) in Rivers State in southern
 Nigeria .  UNEP submitted the report to Nigerian President  Goodluck
Jonathan . It said there that oilfield maintenance in the region
is “inadequate” and that Shell Petroleum Development Co. of
Nigeria is not applying required procedures “creating public
health and safety issues.”  Shell Petroleum Development is operated by  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  with partners  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Total SA (FP)  and the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp.  ‘Caused by Sabotage’  “Although we haven’t produced oil in Ogoniland since 1993,
we clean up all spills from our facilities, whatever the cause,
and restore the land to its original state,” Mutiu Sunmonu, a
managing director at Shell Petroleum Development, said today in
an e-mailed statement. “The majority of oil spills in Nigeria
are caused by sabotage, theft and illegal refining.”  Shell, which has operated in Nigeria for more than 70
years, has been criticized by the local population for
environmental pollution. The Hague-based company in 2009 agreed
to pay $15.5 million to settle U.S. lawsuits brought by
Nigerians representing Ogoni protesters, who rallied against
Shell’s actions and were killed between 1990 and 1995. The  oil
company  denied wrongdoing as part of settlement.  Shell today denied claims made by Martyn Day, a senior
partner with Leigh Day & Co. in London who is representing the
region’s Bodo community from Ogoniland, that Shell Petroleum
Development spilled an estimated 10 million gallons (238,100
barrels) of crude in the area 2008.  The joint venture acknowledged responsibility for two oil
spills in the Bodo area in 2008, which totalled 4,000 barrels of
oil combined, according to Sunmonu.  “Speculation by the plaintiffs’ lawyers as to the level of
compensation which may be payable is misguided and massively in
excess of the true position,” Sunmonu wrote in an open letter
 published  on Shell’s website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  