-- 
UN Peacekeeping Efforts Hit by Economic Distress, Arab Unrest

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-04T04:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/un-peacekeeping-efforts-hit-by-economic-distress-arab-unrest-afghan-war.html
Financial distress in the U.S. and
 Europe , the war in Afghanistan and unrest in the Arab world are
testing the capacity of the  United Nations  to deploy effective
peacekeeping missions, the departing head of blue-helmeted
operations said.  “When there is a crisis they say, ‘Sorry, we are
overstretched in Afghanistan and cannot go,’” UN Under-
Secretary-General Alain LeRoy said in an interview with
Bloomberg News. “In crises of great strategic importance, NATO
and the U.S. go. For all other kinds of crises, they are happy
to have UN peacekeepers go, and then we are scapegoated because
we cannot protect 100 percent of civilians.”  LeRoy, who is leaving office this month after three years
heading the UN’s military wing, said his department is preparing
to send cease-fire monitors to  Libya , under pressure from the
African Union to deploy peacekeepers in Somalia and organizing
two newly authorized missions in southern Sudan. This is at a
time when a near-record 125,000 soldiers, police and civilian
workers are on 16 missions.  “We always dream of a drawdown of the need for
peacekeepers,” LeRoy said. ‘But the demand is very high. In the
 Middle East , there are so many countries that are
destabilized.”  The leading troop-contributing nations -- including
Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan -- remain willing to provide the
soldiers and civilian police for new missions, LeRoy said. At
issue are funding, aviation assets and specialized forces such
as engineers. As an example, LeRoy said the UN is seeking 18
helicopters for the mission to the Darfur region of  Sudan  four
years after it was authorized by the  Security Council .  $7 Billion-a-Year  Debate over the UN’s $7 billion-a-year peacekeeping budget
focused last month on the demand of the leading troop
contributors for the first increase in 10 years in the payment
of $1,050-a-month per soldier. That compares with as much as
$500,000 spent to send a single U.S. soldier to Afghanistan for
a year.  As it approved in the peacekeeping budget, the General
Assembly added a one-time $85 million supplemental payment to
the troops, which will increase their monthly allotment by about
$83.  “They think they have already spent a lot,” LeRoy said of
the major economic powers.  The U.S. pays 27 percent of the peacekeeping budget.  The stresses concern Security Council member governments
who voted in the past month for two peacekeeping missions that
will deploy 12,100 troops in war-torn southern Sudan.  ‘Shoestring Budgets’  “We are at a critical juncture,” Ambassador Joy Ogwu of
 Nigeria , a Security Council member said. “Meeting the demands
of peacekeeping operations has stretched the limits and is
exerting enormous pressure on its operational efficiency.”  India ’s Deputy Ambassador Manjeev Singh Puri referred to
“shoestring budgets’” of peacekeeping missions.  The stresses produced division within the  Security Council ,
notably the statement of  China ’s Deputy Ambassador Wang Min that
“countries with resources and technical capacity” should
contribute them to peacekeeping missions.  Wang, whose government pays 4 percent of the peacekeeping
budget and contributes 2,014 troops, was referring to the U.S.,
 Japan  and European nations.  “They have the most capacity,” LeRoy said. “They are
helping us get equipment from others, but they are saying,
‘Please wait until we draw down significantly from Afghanistan.
Then we will have spare capacity.’”  The U.S., he said, will consider a greater contribution to
peacekeeping following the planned withdrawal from Afghanistan
in 2014. In the meantime, LeRoy said, the U.S. equips
peacekeepers from nations including  Rwanda  and provides staff
officers and air transport for UN troops.  The U.S. has 107 soldiers and police on UN missions,
compared with  Pakistan ’s 10,675, which leads all nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  