-- 
UN Council Asked to Target Eritrea With Sanctions on Mining

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-04T19:51:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/un-said-to-consider-hitting-eritrea-with-sanctions-on-mining.html
Eritrea, one of the world’s poorest
nations whose citizens earn just over a $1 a day, may face
tougher  United Nations  sanctions targeting the mining and
remittances that keep its economy afloat.  Neighboring  Ethiopia  and Djibouti are urging the 15-member
UN  Security Council  to impose sanctions on Eritrea’s mining and
outlaw a 2 percent tax on remittances, according to a diplomat
who spoke on condition of anonymity. Ethiopia and Djibouti want
one of the council’s three African members -- Gabon, Nigeria or
 South Africa  -- to introduce the measure, the diplomat said.  The latest push to punish Eritrea was triggered by a UN
report last month that said Eritrea’s government planned a
failed plot in January to disrupt the African Union summit in
 Addis Ababa  by bombing civilian and governmental targets.  Eritrea’s $2.59 billion economy depends on mineral
resources such as gold, which has drawn investment from
companies including  Canada ’s Nevsun Resources Ltd, and on money
sent from Eritreans living abroad. There is concern that further
economic sanctions may hurt more than 5 million people living in
poverty, the diplomat said.  A July 18 UN report said the tax on remittances is the
“most significant source of revenue” for the government, and
estimated the income to be “tens, possibly hundreds of millions
of dollars on an annual basis.” The government, through a joint
gold-mining venture with Vancouver-based Nevsun, has “started
to receive royalty payments worth millions of dollars,” the
report said.  Current UN Sanctions  Eritrea has been ruled by President Isaias Afeworki, a
former rebel leader, since it gained independence from Ethiopia
in 1993. The UN has already sanctioned the country in the Horn
of  Africa  for supporting al-Qaeda-linked terrorists fighting to
topple the Western-backed government of Somalia. The current
sanctions include an asset freeze and a travel ban on government
leaders.  Al-Shabaab, a Somalia-based terrorist organization that the
U.S. says has links to al-Qaeda, generates between $70 and $100
million a year in revenue from taxation and extortion in areas
under its control, according to the UN report.  Eritrea’s UN Ambassador Araya Desta said the initiative was
part of an effort to overthrow his government, with a “hidden
agenda to have a way out” to the  Red Sea  for land-locked
Ethiopia.  “What they are proposing as far as economic sanctions is
totally unacceptable and ridiculous,” Desta said in an
interview. “Eritrea has nothing to do with any of their
accusations. What they are doing is a resolution drafted by
Ethiopia to damage the economy and isolate Eritrea politically
and diplomatically.”  He said Ethiopia and Djibouti should take their issues to
the African Union Peace and Security Commission rather than the
UN Security Council.  Islamist groups including al-Shabaab and the Hisb-ul-Islam
movement, previously based in  Eritrea , have gained control of
most of southern and central  Somalia  in their bid to oust
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s UN-backed transitional
government. Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central
administration since the removal of Mohamed Siad Barre, the
former dictator, in 1991.  U.S.-backed Ethiopian troops invaded Somalia in December
2006, ousting the Islamic Courts Union government that had
briefly captured southern Somalia. The troops withdrew in
January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  