-- 
Hungary’s Swiss Noose Tightens as Currency Surge Swells Franc Loan Burden

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-08-05T07:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hungary-squeeze-deepens-as-swiss-steps-to-curb-franc-fall-short.html
Swiss efforts to weaken the franc may
not be enough to fend off threats to  Hungary ’s economy from
homeowners and local governments that borrowed in the Alpine
country’s currency.  With two-thirds of Hungarian mortgages held in francs to
escape local interest rates, the Swiss currency’s 16 percent
surge against the forint in the past month threatens to squeeze
consumers. The cost of protecting Hungary’s sovereign debt from
default rose the most in the past month among 20 emerging-market
countries tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is relying on faster
economic growth to help reduce the highest debt load among the
European Union’s eastern members. Municipal leaders have asked
for a delay in principal payments on their franc debt,
increasing risks for a country that is one step away from losing
its investment grade credit rating. Nomura International Plc
says that a 10 percent increase in the franc trims growth by 0.9
percentage point.  “The market in general will have to take a deeper look
into the Swiss-forint dynamics and how that translates into
lower growth,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, said by phone on Aug. 3. “It works
like a tightening if the debt burden is too high. It bites
Hungary very hard.”  Growth Effect  The franc has advanced 65 percent against the forint since
the end of 2007, increasing loan repayments and reducing
consumer spending capacity. The forint fell to a record 254.65
against the franc this morning and traded at 251.31 at 9:46 a.m.
in Budapest. The government forecasts economic growth of about
3.5 percent a year through 2015 after an estimated 3.1 percent
expansion this year and 1.2 percent in 2010.  Persisting franc strength would curb Hungary’s growth
potential by 0.5 percentage point, Orban’s chief of staff,
 Mihaly Varga , said on July 22. The forint that day closed at
228.61 per franc.  Hungary’s industrial-output growth, the driver of economic
expansion, fell to its lowest level since December 2009 in June
as exports slumped. Output advanced 1 percent from a year
earlier and fell 0.6 percent on the month, the statistics office
said today.  CDS Costs Surge  The cost of protecting against Hungarian non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps has surged 23 basis points
in the past month to 392.29 basis points today, the highest in
more than six months. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
The forint fell 3.3 percent against the euro, the second-worst
performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Turkish lira.  The benchmark BUX stock index plunged 12.7 percent in the
same period, its worst one-month performance since August 2009.
The losses were led by Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt., the
country’s second-largest mortgage lender, which fell 25 percent
and OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest bank, which dropped 23
percent. The BUX declined 2.8 percent to 19,510.52 as of 9:54
a.m. in Budapest, dropping for a fifth day to its lowest since
Sept. 15, 2009.  The franc remains the world’s best performer this year
after the central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and said
it will increase supplies of the currency to money markets.  ‘Unlikely to Dissipate’  Sixty percent of Hungary’s household and corporate loans
are denominated in foreign currencies, with two-thirds of that
being in Swiss francs, according to Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura. That compares with 33 percent and 20
percent in  Poland , Montalto wrote in an e-mailed note last
month.  The franc has room to strengthen further as its haven
status is “unlikely to dissipate,  Lena Komileva , global head of
Group-of-10 strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in London,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s ‘‘Bloomberg
Surveillance’’ on Aug. 3. The franc may remain the ‘‘least
ugly’’ among global currencies, according to Daragh Maher,
deputy head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole SA in  London .  ‘‘No currency do you look at and kind of go ‘well, that’s
fantastic,’"Maher said in a Bloomberg Radio interview on Aug. 2.
‘‘Maybe aside’’ from the franc.  Local Governments Struggle  An agreement between Hungary’s government and banks
operating in the country to temporarily fix exchange rates on
foreign-currency loans to help homeowners is ‘‘unlikely to have
a material, long-term positive impact on households’ ability to
service their debt,’’ Fitch Ratings said June 3.  Hungary’s local governments are also struggling to service
their 600 billion forint of franc debt and on Aug. 3 asked to
delay principal payments on some foreign-currency debt.  Delaying payment on municipal bonds ‘‘would be tantamount
to a restructuring,’’ Tim Ash, head of emerging-markets research
at RBS, said in an e-mail on Aug. 3, adding that it won’t mean
‘‘any cross-default implications to the sovereign.’’  Hungary’s credit rating may be downgraded to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , which both rate
it at their lowest investment grade with a negative outlook.
 Fitch Ratings , which rates it the same level, raised its outlook
to stable June 6, citing government plans to cut debt.  ‘War on Debt’  State borrowing fell to 77 percent of gross domestic
product in June from 81 percent last year. Orban’s government,
which has declared a ‘‘war on debt,” plans to cut spending by
as much as $4.6 billion a year by 2013.  Hungary’s central bank, which left its benchmark rate
unchanged for a sixth month on July 26, is in a “catch-22
situation,” said Simon Quijano-Evans, an economist at ING Groep
NV in London. Lower interest rates would reduce demand for
forint-denominated assets, while rate increases to strengthen
the currency would hurt consumers more, he said.  “There’s nothing anyone can really do against this,” said
Quijano-Evans. “The only thing that can really help is the
calming of global sentiment. The Swiss franc is seen as a safe
haven and there’s nothing an individual central bank can do
against that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  