-- 
Forint Rebounds From Franc Record, Stocks Retreat as OTP Falls

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-04T10:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hungary-s-forint-gains-versus-euro-rebounds-from-franc-record.html
Hungary ’s forint rebounded from its
weakest ever against the Swiss franc on intervention by
 Switzerland ’s central bank to stem the currency’s appreciation
and speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will start further
economic stimulus.  The forint appreciated as much as 1.7 percent to 243.65 per
franc and traded at 246.93 by 11:20 a.m. in Budapest after
reaching 252.974 yesterday, its record intraday low since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1993.  The Swiss central bank’s intervention caused a correction
in the forint’s exchange rate, though the step “is not enough
for a major turnaround in the trend, as the debt crisis remains
unresolved,” analysts at CIB Bank in Budapest said in an e-mail
today.  The  Swiss National Bank  unexpectedly cut interest rates
yesterday and increased the supply of francs to money markets in
an attempt to stem the surge of the “massively overvalued”
currency.  The central bank’s boosting of liquidity and potential use
of other monetary tools “may curb the enthusiasm of investors
to further inflate the franc,” analysts at Budapest-based
brokerage Equilor Zrt. wrote in a note today. Swings in the
franc’s exchange rate in coming days are likely to “put the
forint on a roller coaster,” they said.  The benchmark BUX index fell 0.1 percent to 20502.78, led
by OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, and FHB Bank Nyrt.
The selling pressure on OTP may relent “temporarily” in tandem
with the weakening of the franc, analysts at Raiffeisen Bank
Hungary said today.  A weaker forint hurts owners of homes bought with foreign-
currency loans as they pay more in local terms, and it risks
boosting bad loans at Hungarian banks. Almost two-thirds of home
mortgages are denominated in foreign currencies, most of them in
francs, according to central bank data as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  