-- 
Muni Bonds, ICE Standards, IBM Antitrust, Finra: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-08-04T12:46:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/muni-bond-rules-ice-standards-spain-tax-plan-ibm-antitrust-compliance.html
Wall Street banks setting up bond
sales for U.S. states and cities would be required to tell
public officials about potentially costly risks and conflicts of
interest in the deals under proposed rules.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations for banks that work in the tax-exempt debt market,
said yesterday that it asked the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to approve the proposed rules placing greater
disclosure requirements on bond underwriters.  The move is part of an effort to reshape regulation of the
$2.9 trillion municipal-securities market after the 2008
financial crisis. Since then, state and local taxpayers have
been stuck with billions of dollars in unexpected costs because
complex bond deals, pitched as money-savers, backfired.  The rules would require banks to disclose all “material
risks” of bond financings, including the floating-rate
securities coupled with interest-rate swaps that once
flourished. Banks also would have to disclose potential
conflicts of interest, including  incentives they have to
recommend such transactions, payments they may get from other
parties in the deal and whether banks are betting on derivative
contracts that only pay off if the borrower defaults.  The rulemaking board yesterday told financial advisers that
they may face the regulations placed on broker-dealers if they
arrange private placements of securities sometimes characterized
as bank loans, a growing niche in the public-finance market.  In addition, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
is drafting rules that would force banks that pitch interest-
rate derivative deals to also disclose details about the risks,
act in the customers’ best interests, and ensure that they have
the financial wherewithal to handle the potential impacts of
wrong-way bets.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  ICE Clear Credit Lowers Member Standard Before CFTC Rules  Intercontinental Exchange Inc., owner of the world’s
largest credit-default swaps clearinghouse, lowered its
membership standards before U.S. rules designed to expand access
to the service.  ICE Clear Credit , the clearinghouse formerly known as ICE
Trust that was re-named last month when it came under Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange
Commission oversight,  now requires  broker dealers and futures
commission merchants to have $100 million in adjusted net
capital and 5 percent of their customer funds as excess net
capital, according to its rules. Previously, $5 billion in
minimum net worth was required to be a clearing member.  The clearing member standards have pitted the largest banks
such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  against smaller
independent brokers Newedge USA LLC and  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) 
A trade group representing smaller firms has lobbied Congress
and regulators since last year for access to derivatives
clearing. The largest banks have contended that clearing members
have to be large enough to absorb losses if one of them defaults
and must have the market ability to take on swaps positions.  The CFTC has proposed that firms must have a minimum of $50
million in capital to become a member of swaps clearinghouses.
The regulator hasn’t yet completed that rule and is expected to
do so before the end of the year.  For more, click here.  Salgado Rules Out Changes to Corporate Tax Rate by Cabinet  The Spanish government doesn’t plan changes to the rate of
corporate taxes at cabinet meetings this month, Finance Minister
 Elena Salgado  said at a news conference in  Madrid  yesterday.  The nation will press on with its announced fiscal program
and will take steps to address its deficit at cabinet meetings
this month, she told reporters.  China  Considering Creating New Finance Regulator, Reuters Says  China is considering creating a ministerial-level
department to manage its state-owned banks and non-bank
financial institutions, Reuters reported yesterday, citing two
unidentified people.  The move will strengthen central government’s supervision
over the lenders, Reuters said.  Compliance Action  IBM European Antitrust Complaints Dropped by Three Companies  Three companies are dropping European Union antitrust
complaints against  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  over
its mainframe computers.  T3 Technologies Inc. and Neon Enterprise Software LLC have
or will withdraw separate complaints filed with the  European
Commission , IBM said in a regulatory filing last month.
TurboHercules SAS has also withdrawn its complaint, said Carina
Oliveri, a spokeswoman for the company in Paris.  The Commission declined to comment on the status of its
investigation into allegations IBM linked sales of its mainframe
computers to its software and that it discriminated against
competing sellers of services for the computers.  IBM, the biggest computer-services company, declined to
comment beyond its regulatory filing.  Austin, Texas-based Neon  said  in May that it settled its
legal dispute with IBM and would stop selling its zPrime
software and request customers to remove and destroy their
copies. Two calls and two e-mails to the company yesterday
weren’t immediately answered.  T3 withdrew its EU complaint in May after dropping an
appeal to a U.S. court ruling dismissing its claims against IBM,
according to IBM’s filing. T3 didn’t respond to a telephone
message and e-mail to its Tampa, Florida offices.  The Commission opened two separate investigations into
Armonk, New York-based IBM last year over possible anti-
competitive behavior that may have blocked competition for rival
mainframe software and on maintenance contracts for the systems
by “restricting or delaying access to spare parts.” EU
antitrust regulators often end investigations into companies
after complaints from rivals or customers are withdrawn.  Lloyds Banking Posts Loss on Irish Loans, Insurance Redress  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, reported a first-half net loss after Irish bad loan
provisions increased, funding costs rose and the lender set
aside 3.2 billion pounds ($5.2 billion) to compensate insurance
customers.  The net loss was 2.31 billion pounds compared with a profit
of 596 million pounds in the first half of last year, the
London-based bank said in a statement yesterday. That missed the
median loss of 2.2 billion pounds estimated by nine analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  Lloyds, 41 percent-government owned, said its net interest
margin, the difference between what it earns on loans and its
funding cost, shrank to 2.07 percent from 2.12 percent in the
same period of 2010. The shares slumped to the lowest in more
than two years.  Lloyds’s funding costs are rising as Chief Executive
Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 47, weans the bank off low-
interest government loans and onto costlier wholesale funding.
In June, the bank announced it was cutting 15,000 jobs to help
reduce costs by 1.5 billion pounds, in addition to the 27,000
roles slashed since its acquisition of HBOS Plc in 2008.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Boerse,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Face Antitrust Concerns  Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext have indicated how
they will seek to counter concerns submitted to European Union
regulators by competitors and customers over their $9 billion
merger.  The  European Commission  must decide by today whether to
open an in-depth investigation of the buyout’s ramifications,
which can last as long as 90 working days. Regulators will weigh
complaints from the firms’ biggest customers, including traders,
banks and brokers, that the combination may harm competition.  Gregor Pottmeyer, Deutsche Boerse’s chief financial
officer, last week tried to allay concerns from the  Association
for Financial Markets in Europe  that the exchanges won’t pass on
a “fair share” of about 400 million euros ($572 million) in
cost savings to customers, even as he said the exchange expects
a formal EU antitrust complaint about the deal by October.  Two “strong arguments” on how customers will benefit from
the business combination are savings from lower capital
requirements for the combined company and cross-margining to
reduce how much cash investors must post to clearinghouses to
back their trades, Pottmeyer said on a July 29 conference call.  Regulatory approval is the last hurdle for the deal that
would create the largest owner of equity and derivatives
markets.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said in
March a longer probe into the “complex deal” is likely.  A series of planned exchange tie-ups around the world have
run into regulatory problems this year.  For more, click here.  Apple, Google Data Collection Violate Law, Edaily Says  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc. violated South Korean law by
collecting location data in the Asian nation, Edaily reported,
citing the  Korea Communications Commission .  Apple was fined 3 million won, according to Edaily.  Courts  Playboy Founder’s Son-in-Law Settles SEC Inside-Trading Suit  The son-in-law of Playboy magazine founder Hugh Hefner
settled allegations of insider trading in Playboy stock,
agreeing to resolve a lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission for $168,352.  William A. Marovitz, who is married to former Playboy
Enterprises, Inc. Chief Executive Officer Christie Hefner, made
$100,952 on the trades, according to the SEC complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  Chicago .  An attorney and former Illinois state senator, Marovitz,
66, has been married to Hefner since 1995, according to the
complaint. Hefner led Chicago-based Playboy from 1988 to 2009.  “Mr. Marovitz has no comment on the complaint or the
settlement agreement,” his attorney, Jim Streicker of Chicago,
said in a telephone interview. “He lost substantial sums of
money on his investments in Playboy over the years,” he said.  While Hefner’s husband didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s
allegations, he consented to a court order barring him from
further violation of the SEC’s regulations, according to the
commission’s statement. The settlement is still subject to court
approval.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Marovitz,
11cv5259, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Ex-UBS Client Greeley Pleads Guilty to Hiding $13 Million  A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  client pleaded guilty to filing a false
U.S. tax return that concealed more than $13 million in two
Swiss accounts, according to the  Justice Department .  Robert E. Greeley admitted in federal court yesterday in
 San Francisco  that he filed a tax return in 2008 that failed to
disclose two UBS accounts set up in the names of Cayman Islands
entities.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer set Greeley’s sentencing
for Nov. 9. Greeley agreed to pay a civil penalty of $6.8
million for failing to file a Report of Foreign Bank and
Financial Accounts form.  Greeley, a resident of San Francisco, was a client of
former UBS banker Renzo Gadola, who pleaded guilty Dec. 22 in
federal court in Miami. Greeley is one of more than two dozen
former UBS clients accused of tax crimes since 2007.  The case is U.S. v. Greeley, 11-cr-374, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  Ex-Mizuho Investment Banker Charged With Insider Trading  Thomas Ammann, a former investment banker at Mizuho
International Plc, and two women were charged with insider
trading in shares of  OCE NV (OCE) , a Dutch printing-equipment maker.  Ammann and Jessica Mang were charged last week, and
Christina Weckwerth, a German national, was charged this morning
at a London court, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said
today. Ammann was charged with three counts of insider dealing,
Weckwerth two counts and Mang with one count. Ammann and
Weckwerth were also charged with money laundering, and the ex-
banker is also facing two counts of encouraging insider dealing.  The charges relate to trading in OCE shares between
February and November 2009, the FSA said. Canon Inc. agreed to
buy OCE in a 730 million-euro ($1 billion) deal in November
2009. Mizuho acted as the financial adviser to Canon, the
Japanese imaging company, in the deal, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The FSA, which hadn’t brought an insider-trading case until
2008, is currently prosecuting 13 other individuals for the
crime.  Mizuho said in a statement the FSA hasn’t alleged any
wrongdoing by the bank and no actions are being taken against
it.  The trio were released on bail and are scheduled to appear
again before a London judge on Aug. 23. A lawyer for Ammann
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Interviews/Speeches  Levitt Says Overhaul of SEC Would Cripple Investigations  Arthur Levitt, former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission chairman, said a proposal to restructure the SEC
would “emasculate” the commission. He said he believes the
reorganization “is prompted by constituent pressure, mostly by
the financial community to shut down the SEC’s efforts to
inspect and examine broker-dealers.”  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Stefanak Says Dodd-Frank Changes Hedge-Fund Industry  Curtis Stefanak, counsel at SNR Denton LLP, discusses his
view that hedge-fund managers, like billionaire George Soros,
are returning money to outside investors in an bid to avoid
changes in regulation under the Dodd-Frank law.  Stefanak spoke with Erik Schatzker and Deirdre Bolton on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Bank of America’s Krawcheck Elected to Finra Board  Bank of America’s Sallie Krawcheck and Tritaurian Capital
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Ken Norensberg will serve as
industry members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
board of governors, the brokerage regulator said in a statement.  Krawcheck, Bank of America’s president of global wealth
management, was elected to represent large firms and Rosenberg
was reelected for smaller brokerages, Finra said yesterday in a
statement announcing results of voting at its annual meeting in
 Washington . Governors on the 22-member board serve three-year
terms and may not serve more than two consecutive terms, Finra
said.  Google Says It Hires FTC Intellectual Property Expert Michel  Google Inc. (GOOG) , under investigation by the Federal Trade
Commission for its dominance of Internet searches, said it hired
Suzanne Michel, one of the commission’s top intellectual
property officials.  Michel, 49, is leaving her post as deputy director of
policy planning at the FTC, where she worked for more than 11
years on patent antitrust issues and patent policy. She will
join the company’s legal team, Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman,
said, declining to elaborate on what her responsibilities will
be.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Michel’s move.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 