-- 
Bank Austria Says 15% of Staff Dealing Only With Franc Mortgages

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-08-04T15:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/unicredit-bank-austria-first-half-profit-rises-on-eastern-europe.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  has instructed as much
as 15 percent of staff in its Austrian branches to deal
exclusively with the 9 billion-euros ($13 billion) of Swiss
franc-denominated mortgages on its books in  Austria .  While the rising rate of the franc against the euro hasn’t
yet led to higher delinquencies than for euro loans, UniCredit’s
Bank Austria AG is trying to work with its customers to reduce
loans in that currency, Chief Executive Officer Willibald Cernko
told reporters in Vienna today.  Austria, which borders Switzerland in the west, is the only
euro-area country where private households have borrowed
significantly in foreign currencies. About 27 percent of all
private household borrowing, or 38 billion euros, is franc-
denominated, mostly in mortgages, according to the  Austrian
central bank . Some 60,000 such mortgages are on the books of
Bank Austria, the country’s second-biggest, Cernko said.  “We have 10 percent to 15 percent of our branch staff
focusing only on this issue,” Cernko said. “We’re taking this
very seriously,” he said. So far, “the customers are paying,
the customers are fulfilling their obligations,” he added.
“When it comes to loan losses, there are no deviations to
normal euro loans.”  While the Austrian regulators banned franc lending to
households without franc revenue, and new business has come to a
standstill, the stock’s value in euros is continuing to
increase, because the franc is rising.  Export to East  Bank Austria and peers  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and Raiffeisen
Bank International AG, eastern  Europe ’s three biggest lenders,
exported the practice to the former communist part of Europe,
where lending in francs and euros is now widespread in countries
including Hungary, Romania, Poland and the former Yugoslavia.  Bank Austria today reported second-quarter net income rose
47 percent as it set aside less money for bad loans in eastern
Europe. Net income expanded to 299 million euros in the quarter
ended June 30, from a restated 204 million euros a year earlier,
it said in a statement. Parent UniCredit yesterday beat analyst
estimates as second-quarter quarter profit more than tripled.  Bank Austria is one of UniCredit’s most important profit
and growth contributors. It manages its business in the former
communist part of Europe, except  Poland , as well as in  Turkey , a
region where loan growth and lending margins are higher than in
Austria,  Germany  or in UniCredit’s home market  Italy .  While Bank Austria’s revenue was little changed, bad debt
provisions declined in its eastern European and its Austrian
business. The lender wrote down its Greek government bond
holdings by about 130 million euros, accounting for almost the
entire writedown of its parent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  