-- 
Munich Re Second-Quarter Net Income Beats Analyst Estimates as Taxes Fell

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-08-04T07:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/munich-re-second-quarter-net-income-beats-analyst-estimates-as-taxes-fell.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, reported a 3.8 percent increase in second-quarter
profit, beating analyst estimates as the  tax rate  fell.  Net income for the period was 736 million euros ($1.05
billion), compared with 709 million euros the year earlier, the
Munich-based reinsurer said in an e-mailed statement today. That
beat the 660 million-euro average estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Income taxes fell 62 percent because of
the loss that Munich Re reported in the first quarter.  Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard, 55, in March
scrapped a share buyback and a 2.4 billion-euro profit target
for the year after the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  triggered
the reinsurer’s first quarterly loss since 2003. While the
first-quarter’s natural disasters cost Munich Re about 2.7
billion euros, or almost three times the amount set aside for a
normal year, the company confirmed today that it still expects
to post a profit in 2011.  “The lower tax rate helped them beat estimates on net
income,” said  Philipp Haessler , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Equinet Bank AG who recommends holding the shares. “Maintaining
the profit target for now is no real surprise as that mostly
depends on the outcome of the U.S. hurricane season anyway.”  Greek Writedown  Munich Re wrote down its Greek government debt holdings to
market values as of June 30, weakening the second-quarter result
by 125 million euros. Other financial firms including  France ’s
BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG wrote down Greek debt and
are participating in a rescue plan that requires investors to
take a loss of about 21 percent on holdings that mature by 2020.  Munich Re said its estimate for a pretax loss of 1.5
billion euros from the disaster in Japan would still be
“subject to considerable uncertainties, mainly due to the
extent of the devastation and the related difficulties in claims
settlement.”  The reinsurer increased its estimate for the earthquake
that hit Christchurch,  New Zealand , in February by 261 million
euros to about 1 billion euros. Losses for the weather-related
events in  Australia  are now expected to be 110 million euros
lower than previously reserved, it added.  Tornados  The series of tornadoes that ripped through the U.S. South
and Midwest in April and May led to losses of “just over” 200
million euros in the quarter, the reinsurer said. Spending on
claims and costs as a percentage of net premiums at Munich Re’s
property and casualty reinsurance unit improved to 99.6 percent
in the quarter, compared with a combined ratio of 103.8 percent
a year ago.  Reinsurers and the primary carriers whom they help carry
risks for clients, incurred record losses of about $70 billion
from the natural disasters in the first half of the year,
according to  estimates  by Guy Carpenter & Co., the reinsurance
broker of Marsh & McLennan Cos. Of that, tornadoes and severe
weather in the U.S. cost insurers more than $14 billion, the
broker said.  “The claims burdens in the first quarter already had an
impact on the negotiations for treaty renewals at 1 July,” said
management board member Torsten Jeworrek, who heads Munich Re’s
reinsurance business, in the statement. “These effects should
also have an appreciable influence on the renewals at 1 January
2012.”  Reinsurers’ catastrophe claims usually increase in the
second half of the year with the  hurricane season  in the North
Atlantic and typhoons in the northwest Pacific. Researchers at
 Colorado State University  forecast a “well-above-average”
Atlantic June-through-November hurricane season. No major
hurricane has hit the U.S. coast so far this year.  Munich Re shares, which have a market value of about 17.7
billion euros, had declined 14 percent this year before today,
compared with a 7.9 percent drop in the Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index.  The stock gained 1.91 euros, or 2 percent, to 99.72 euros
as of 9:11 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  