-- 
Unilever Reports Highest Quarterly Price Growth Since 2009

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-04T10:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/unilever-reports-highest-quarterly-price-growth-since-2009.html
Unilever reported the highest price
growth in more than two years after introducing products such as
Magnum ice cream and Knorr jelly bouillon in new markets and
passing on surging raw-material costs.  The shares rose the most since 2009 after underlying price
growth at the world’s second-biggest maker of  consumer goods 
climbed 5.1 percent in the second quarter, the London- and
Rotterdam-based company said today. That beat the 2.6 percent
median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman, who took the helm in
2009, has accelerated the introduction of new products such as
Lipton Sun Tea and pushed items such as the jelly bouillon into
new countries, repackaging it into sachets for China. He’s also
lifted prices again after offering more promotions following the
global financial crisis in a bid to combat surging costs for
ingredients such as palm oil and sugar.  “Unilever’s first-half results are very strong,” said
Harold Thompson, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in  London , who
recommends investors buy the stock. “In what is clearly a very
difficult environment for consumer-goods businesses, this is
likely to be a top quartile performance through the results
season and represents easily the best performance since Paul
Polman was appointed as CEO.”  Total underlying sales, which exclude the effect of
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations, advanced 7.1
percent. Analysts had anticipated growth of 5.8 percent.  Share Surge  Unilever rose as much as 6.7 percent in Amsterdam trading,
the biggest intraday advance since Aug. 6, 2009. The stock was
up 5.8 percent to 23.38 euros at 12:14 a.m., bringing the
company’s market value to about 71 billion euros ($101 billion).  Unilever introduced Magnum ice cream in the U.S., Dove
deodorant in Thailand and Axe deodorants and skincare products
in  China . About 30 percent of revenue is from products launched
in the last two years, the company said.  “As well as innovating faster, we’re taking our brands
into new markets,” Huet said. The company will introduce more
than 60 projects in more than 10 markets in 2011, it estimates,
compared with 40 in 2010 and nine in 2009.  The company intends to roll out more products in the second
half and plans to devote “at least” the same sum to
advertising and promotions as the 3 billion euros spent in the
first half.  ‘Beautiful Growth’  Underlying sales in Western  Europe  rose 4.8 percent in the
second quarter, the biggest advance in at least two years,
boosted by Germany and  France .  “Western Europe as a market is a very difficult one,”
Huet said. In the second half, volume will “not be growing at
huge levels but what we need to do is make sure Europe doesn’t
dilute the beautiful growth we have seen elsewhere.” He said
growth in the first half is “unrepresentative” of underlying
trends in the region.  Net income climbed 9.8 percent to 2.2 billion euros in the
first half, higher than the 2.06 billion euros anticipated by
the average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
grew 4.1 percent to 22.8 billion euros.  Competition in Laundry  Unilever’s underlying operating margin, a measure of
profitability, fell by 20 basis points in the first half as the
company raised prices and cut advertising and promotional
spending compared with the same period last year. The median
estimate of nine analysts was for a 50 basis-point decrease. The
company said in April it expected commodity costs would amount
to between 500 and 550 basis points of revenue this year, up
from a February forecast of 400 basis points.  Danone (BN) , the world’s largest yogurt maker, last week
reported first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates as it
wrestled with higher costs for milk and plastic and as volume in
Europe declined. Nestle SA, the world’s largest maker of food,
reports earnings next week.  Polman sees the market prices for commodities
“stabilizing” for the rest of the year, he said on a
conference call today.  Unilever saw “intense” competition in its laundry
business, whose brands include Surf and Comfort. The underlying
margin at the home-care unit narrowed by 330 basis points as the
surge in commodity costs exceeded price increases.  There was a “a big margin hit in Home Care, driven we
would imagine, by competitive pressure” from U.S. rival  Procter
& Gamble Co ., analysts at Investec including  Martin Deboo  wrote
in a note to clients today.  The company expects prices to rise more in the second half,
Huet said, adding that competitors have “a lot of pricing”
room to catch up with Unilever this year.  “There’s no doubt the second half of this year will
challenge us once more,” Polman said today.  “However, we
start from a position of confidence.”  Unilever targets volume growth ahead of its markets,
“steady and sustainable” improvement in underlying operating
margin and “strong” free  cash flow .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 