-- 
Murdoch’s News Corp. Cleanup Effort Draws Fire Over Independence, Mandate

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-04T20:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/murdoch-s-cleanup-effort-draws-fire-over-committee-s-independence-mandate.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  Rupert Murdoch  told
British lawmakers he’s the “best person” to clean up the
company after a phone-hacking scandal. Fifteen days later, it
isn’t clear how he’ll accomplish that.  The committee the New York-based media company set up to
address the allegations isn’t sufficiently independent and lacks
a clear mandate to investigate wrongdoing, said corporate
governance experts and investors. News Corp., led by Murdoch,
has structured the new “management and standards committee”
around too many insiders, said  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld , a professor
at Yale University’s School of Management.  “There really should be outside investigators doing all of
this,” Sonnenfeld said in an interview. “News Corp. has a
history, obviously, of disappointing internal reviews.”  Two members were executives at News International, the unit
that included the tabloid where the hacking took place, until
they resigned to work on the committee. Though attorney Anthony Grabiner was hired as independent chairman to oversee the
committee’s work, he reports to  Joel Klein , a News Corp.
executive vice president and board member.  The Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, which
represents about 300 organizations with assets of more than $100
billion including News Corp. shares, also said the committee may
not be independent and transparent enough.  “The credibility of what comes out of News Corp.’s
committee is going to be immediately suspect if the reporting
mechanism in place isn’t truly independent,”  Seamus Finn , a
member of the ICCR’s board of directors, said in an interview.  Scandal’s Fallout  News Corp. has been dealing with fallout from the phone-
hacking scandal since July 4, when the  Guardian newspaper 
reported that News of the World had accessed the voice mail of
murdered teenager Milly Dowler. The controversy has prompted the
resignations of two executives, the shutdown of the 168-year-old
newspaper and the termination of News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound
($12.8 billion) bid to buy the 61 percent of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  that it does not already own. At least 11
people have been arrested.  Murdoch, 80, and his son James, 38, were questioned by
British lawmakers for three hours about allegations the tabloid
had hacked the phones of murder victims and paid police for
stories. James, News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer, is
likely to be called back to Parliament to defend testimony that
has been disputed by three former employees, John Whittingdale,
chairman of the Culture Committee said last week.  Committee Structure  Rupert Murdoch was asked during the hearing why he hadn’t
considered resigning.  “Because I feel that people I trusted, I’m not saying who,
I don’t know what level, have let me down and I think they
behaved disgracefully, betrayed the company and me, and it’s for
them to pay,” he said. “I think that frankly, I’m the best
person to clean this up.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp. established the management and standards
committee last month to address phone-hacking allegations at
News of the World and related issues. In a statement, the
company said the new committee’s primary duty is to work with
law enforcement authorities who are investigating the phone
hacking charges. The committee can also conduct its own internal
investigations, and will compile and implement new operating
policies and practices, News Corp. said.  The executive members of the committee include William Lewis, News International’s former general manager, and  Simon Greenberg , News International’s former corporate affairs
director. The third executive member, Jeff Palker, will remain
in his job as News Corp.’s general counsel for Europe and  Asia .  Independent?  Grabiner, 66, is a veteran commercial lawyer and member of
the U.K. Parliament’s House of Lords. He reports to Klein, the
former New York City schools chief who joined News Corp. earlier
this year. Klein, in turn, reports to Viet Dinh, an independent
member of News Corp.’s board.  Charles Elson , the director of the University of  Delaware ’s
Center for Corporate Governance, says it will be ‘‘tough” for
Grabiner to be perceived as totally independent, because he’s
reporting to Klein.  “You really want to go way outside, and have the outside
lawyers report directly to a professional committee of the
independent directors,” Elson said in an interview.  In addition, since Grabiner’s work has largely been in
commercial, rather than criminal, law, it’s unclear whether he
has the experience to lead the committee’s efforts, Sonnenfeld
said.  “No one has made the case for how Lord Grabiner has the
right skill set for this,” he said.  No Investigation  Klein, Grabiner, Dinh, Palker, Lewis and Greenberg all
declined to comment, according to Paul Durman, a spokesman at
Powerscourt, a London-based public relations firm hired by News
Corp.’s committee. He also provided a statement that the
committee is not planning to investigate, despite News Corp.’s
initial statement.  “The MSC, chaired by an independent Chairman, is not
investigating the News of the World,” the statement said.
“That has never been its mandate. The police and other
authorities are investigating the News of the World and are
trying to establish the facts. One of the MSC’s foremost roles
is to co-operate with and facilitate those investigations.”  In recent days, committee members have held regular
conversations with law enforcement authorities, addressing
requests for information by outside investigators, said a person
familiar with the matter. The committee’s leaders are in the
process of establishing staff and budget needs, said the person
who wouldn’t be identified because the details aren’t public.  Hollinger Precedent  Some companies beset by internal troubles, such as
Hollinger International Inc., have had exemplary investigations
conducted by outsiders, Elson said.  Richard Breeden , the former
head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, helped publish a
500-page report on Hollinger as part of special investigation of
the publishing company and its CEO,  Conrad Black .  “The more independent the investigation is, the greater
the likelihood that the public and regulatory authorities will
be receptive to their findings,” Elson said.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, a News
Corp. shareholder, said the company’s board needs to exert more
independence to oversee management and the phone-hacking
cleanup.  “We believe that News Corp.’s board may need to step in
and exercise their fiduciary duty and do right by
shareholders,” Patrick Hill, a spokesman for the fund, said in
an interview.  Report on Findings?  News Corp., owner of  Fox News  and the Wall Street Journal,
fell $1.05, or 6.7 percent, to $14.56 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares are little
changed this year.  News Corp.’s committee, in its current structure, may be
sufficient as a first step aimed at producing a report and then
determining if greater independence is needed, said Espen Eckbo,
director of the Center for  Corporate Governance  at Dartmouth
University’s Tuck School of Business.  “The mandate should be to get some sort of report
quickly,” Eckbo said in an interview. “The ultimate report may
be subject to some questions, and then at that point they can
step up the independence. I wouldn’t expect this to be the last
thing.”  News Corp. hasn’t yet said whether the committee will issue
any reports or findings. They are expected to outline their
plans in more detail in the coming weeks.  ---With assistance from James Nash in  Sacramento . Editors: Peter Elstrom, Rob Golum  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  