-- 
Turkish Bank Cuts Benchmark Rate to 5.75% to Support Growth

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-04T14:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/turkey-cuts-benchmark-interest-rate-to-5-75-.html
Turkey ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low to shield the
economy from the impact of the European debt crisis and slowing
growth in the U.S.  The bank lowered the one-week repo rate by a half
percentage point to 5.75 percent, according to an e-mailed
statement today after an emergency meeting of the monetary
policy committee in Ankara. It took separate steps to support
the lira, which weakened to a two-year low on the news.  Governor Erdem Basci is betting that the risks of a global
recession spilling into Turkey outweigh the challenges posed by
above-target inflation and a record current-account deficit. The
bank says critics of its low-rates policy are wrong to worry
about the economy overheating because it’s already slowing from
the 11 percent annual growth recorded in the first quarter.  “It is strange that they do that to stimulate the economy
while we haven’t really seen any signs that it has cooled down
yet,”  Elisabeth Andreew , chief analyst for currency strategy at
Nordea Markets in Copenhagen, said in an e-mail. It “makes the
market confused.”  The currency fell as much as 2.6 percent to a two-year low
of 1.7386 per dollar, and was trading at 1.73 at 5 p.m. in
Istanbul. The benchmark  stock index  dropped 2.4 percent. Yields
on two-year lira bonds fell 18 basis points to 8.47 percent.  ‘Domestic Recession’  The bank said that the rate cut aims to “reduce the risk
of a domestic recession,” as countries in the European Union,
Turkey’s main export market, struggle to curb budget deficits
and debt. Turkey’s industrial output fell in each of the four
months through May.  The $770 billion economy contracted 4.8 percent in 2009
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Officials
are bracing the country against a possible repeat of that global
shock, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who leads economic
policy, said July 13.  “They seem to be very concerned about global growth and
euro debt jitters and taking a pre-emptive approach,” said
 Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the region at  Morgan Stanley &
Co . in  London .  To protect the lira from sliding due to the lower benchmark
rate, the central bank increased its overnight borrowing rate to
5 percent from 1.5 percent, and announced that starting tomorrow
it will hold auctions to sell dollars whenever necessary. It has
foreign currency reserves of about $92 billion.  Carry Traders  The higher borrowing rate may make the lira more appealing
to so-called carry traders, who borrow foreign currencies to
invest in higher-yielding assets. The bank had slashed the rate
in November, widening the gap between the overnight borrowing
and lending rates as part of a strategy aimed at deterring
short-term capital inflows.  Today’s decision narrows the gap between the rates to four
percentage points, close to its five-year average. That will
help reduce volatility in inter-bank markets, Aksoy said. The
overnight lending rate was left at 9 percent.  A weaker lira pushes up inflation, which accelerated to 6.3
percent in July, above the 5.5 percent year-end target. On the
other hand, it helps narrow Turkey’s trade gap by making its
exports cheaper and imports more expensive. The current-account
deficit widened to $68.2 billion, or about 9 percent of economic
output, in the 12 months through May.  Basci has acted twice in the last two weeks to support the
lira, which has slid 10 percent against the dollar in three
months. On July 25 the bank halted dollar-purchase auctions and
returned $590 million to banks by cutting foreign-currency
reserve requirements.  The central bank is due to meet again for its regular
monetary policy meeting on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 