-- 
Hutchison Profit Misses First-Half Estimates After Australia Reports Loss

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-04T14:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hutchison-whampoa-profit-misses-estimates-after-australian-unit-posts-loss.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, posted first-half profit that
missed analysts’ estimates after a loss at its Australian
mobile-phone unit eroded gains from utilities and energy.  Net income increased to HK$46.3 billion ($5.9 billion), or
HK$10.86 a share, from HK$6.3 billion, or HK$1.48, a year
earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said in a statement today.
Profit missed the HK$51 billion median of five analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The setback in Australia renewed concerns about earnings at
3 Group, Hutchison’s mobile-phone division that posted its first
annual profit in 2010 after incurring $20 billion of losses in
the previous seven years. Returns from Li’s $9.5 billion
acquisition of power networks in southeast  England  and higher
 oil prices  lifted earnings, also boosted by one-time gains from
the spin off of ports assets in  Hong Kong  and  China .  The Australian unit is making “accelerated investments to
shore up network weaknesses” after customers reported dropped
calls, Frank Sixt, finance director at Hutchison, said at a
briefing today. The subsidiary will post a profit before
interest expenses in the second half, Sixt said.  Hutchison shares fell 0.9 percent to HK$90.35 at the 4 p.m.
close in Hong Kong trading, before the announcement. The stock
has gained 13 percent this year, compared with the 5 percent
decline in the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Asset Disposal  The company booked HK$47.5 billion of gains from disposing
of investments and other items in the first half, according to
the statement. Hutchison also booked a gain from the $5.5
billion initial public offering of Hutchison Port Holdings Trust
in  Singapore  in March. This was partially offset by a HK$7.1
billion writedown of some ports assets, Sixt said.  The writedown reflected a “more conservative” valuation
of Hutchison’s port assets, Sixt said.  The company plans to continue to invest and expand its
business, Li said in the statement. Li said he’s “confident”
about the company’s outlook for the second half.  3 Group, which operates 3G, or third-generation, mobile-
phone services in seven markets in Europe and  Australia , earned
HK$767 million before interest and tax in the first half,
compared with a loss of HK$998 million a year earlier.  Australia Unit  Hutchison Telecommunications (Australia) Ltd. had a loss of
A$78.2 million ($83 million) in the first half, the Sydney-based
unit reported this week, citing increased competition.  “There was weakness in Australia,” Adrian Lowe, an
analyst at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong, said before the
announcement. Hutchison’s strongest operations in the first half
were infrastructure and energy, he said.  3 Group posted its first annual profit in 2010, seven years
after starting services.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038) , the roads and
utilities arm of Hutchison, said last week that first-half
profit almost doubled to HK$3.98 billion, after completing the
5.8-billion-pound ($9.5-billion) purchase of the U.K. power
networks of Electricite de France SA in October. CKI this week
said it plans to buy  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  for 2.4
billion pounds.  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , the Calgary, Alberta-based oil producer
partly owned by Hutchison, last week said second-quarter net
earnings more than tripled on higher margins.  Hutchison, with investments in ports, telecommunications,
retail, property and energy in more than 50 countries, said it
increased revenue to HK$112.3 billion from HK$97.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  