-- 
Veolia to Leave 37 Countries as Loss Spurs Quicker Revamp

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-04T16:24:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/veolia-to-leave-37-countries-as-loss-spurs-ceo-to-quicken-revamp.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  will stop
operations in at least 37 countries as Chairman Antoine Frerot
accelerates a restructuring plan to restore profit at the
world’s largest water company.  The Paris-based utility, which supplies water to more than
100 million people worldwide, said it swung to a net loss of
67.2 million euros ($95.9 million) in the first half from a
profit of 374.2 million euros a year earlier after writedowns on
operations in Italy,  Morocco  and the U.S. Operating profit was
less than analysts expected.  “I don’t want to push back the bad news, but to face it
now,” Frerot, who is also chief executive officer, said today
at a presentation in Paris. “We are a global company, but we
don’t need to be everywhere.” The utility will operate in fewer
than 40 countries by the end of 2013, he said.  Veolia and its competitor Suez Environnement SA saw demand
for waste collection and water treatment slump in 2009 as
carmakers and steel producers closed factories to survive the
economic slowdown. Frerot, 53, who took over as chairman seven
months ago, announced a management shake-up and said the company
will sell at least 1.3 billion euros of assets this year.  The shares plunged in Paris after Frerot said it was too
early to predict the recurring level of net income that will be
the basis of dividend payments. The stock closed down 19 percent
at 11.60 euros, giving it a market capitalization of 6 billion
euros. That’s smaller than rival Suez Environnement SA, which
reported less than half the first-half revenue of Veolia.  Dividend Cut  “It will likely mean a significant decrease in the
dividend,” Eric Lopez, analyst at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit, said today.  The restructuring marks the end of the global expansion
started by Frerot’s predecessor  Henri Proglio , who’s now CEO at
Electricite de France SA. Veolia will exit the transport
business in Morocco, environmental services in  Egypt , marine
services in the U.S. and will proceed with “significant
disengagements” in southern Europe including a review of
operations in Italy, where local management has already been
replaced, executives said today.  The utility is planning to hold an investor day in early
December to announce details about which countries it will exit
and how, Frerot said today.  “Veolia is taking its problems in hand but now it has to
figure out the mid-term consequences,” Louis Boujard, a Paris-
based analyst at Aurel-BGC, said by telephone.  Veolia’s net loss was its first since the second half of
2008. The company said adjusted operating income will “decline
slightly” this year compared with a previous outlook for growth
of 4 percent to 8 percent. The utility also said it wouldn’t
reach a previous goal of increasing net income in 2011 while
keeping a cost-savings target of at least 250 million euros this
year.  The company said it would achieve a “minimum” of 150
million euros in cost-savings in 2013 and 250 million euros to
300 million euros annually by 2015 in addition to an existing
plan for 250 million euros annually. Savings of 250 million
euros a year would compensate for pressure on prices from
suppliers and the rise in costs of materials so more trimming
was needed to gain efficiency, Frerot said today.  Writedowns  Veolia said writedowns and impairments for the six months
were 838 million euros. It said it had identified an “incidence
of accounting fraud” over the years 2007 to 2010 in the U.S. at
its Marine Services business that was “not significant” and
had no impact on the latest period. The utility booked write-
downs of 476 million euros for  Italy  and 152 million euros for
TNAI energy services in the U.S.  Net financial debt fell to 14.8 billion euros from 15.2
billion euros at the end of the year. There’s no need for the
company to raise capital, Frerot said, adding that the debt is
“sustainable.”  Chief Operating Officer Denis Gasquet will lead the
company’s restructuring effort, stepping down as CEO of the
environmental services division, where he’ll be replaced by
Jerome Le Conte.  Veolia spent about 4 billion euros in 2007 and 2008 on
acquisitions including German trash-handler Sulo Group, TMT, the
waste-management unit of Italy’s Termomeccanica Ecologia and
Thermal North America Inc., bought for an enterprise value of
$788 million. The utility wrote down the value of the German and
Italian businesses in 2009 and the U.S. business in the latest
period.  In addition to supplying water, Veolia handles about 63
million tons of waste and provides public transportation in 28
countries and supplies energy in  Europe  and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 