-- 
VeriFone Cleared to Buy Hypercom in Settlement With U.S. Antitrust Agency

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-04T20:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/verifone-to-sell-hypercom-unit-to-gores-group-in-u-s-antitrust-settlement.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  reached a
settlement with the U.S.  Justice Department  that will let it
acquire rival  Hypercom Corp.  on the condition it sells
Hypercom’s U.S. point-of-sale terminal business.  An agreement with the Justice Department filed today
 specifies  that private equity firm  Gores Group LLC  will buy the
terminals business. The U.S. sued to block the $485 million deal
on concerns that combining VeriFone and Hypercom would hinder
competition in the market for the retail checkout terminals, the
Justice Department said in an e-mailed  statement .  The proposed divestment “ensures that competition will
remain in point-of-sale terminals markets,”  Christine Varney ,
head of the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, said in the
statement. The sale “will create an independent and significant
competitor in the  United States , both right now and into the
future,” she said.  Businesses use point-of-sale terminals to accept electronic
payments such as credit and debit cards.  VeriFone , based in  San
Jose ,  California , is the second-largest maker of electronic-
payment equipment. Hypercom, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, is
No. 3, according to a Justice Department filing made with the
settlement.  Together, the two companies control more than 60 percent of
the U.S. market for terminals used by the largest retailers,
according to the Justice Department. Ingenico SA, based in
 France , is the biggest maker of card-payment terminals.  The Justice Department in May blocked a proposed agreement
by VeriFone and Hypercom to sell Hypercom’s U.S. point-of-sale
business to Ingenico, saying it didn’t fix the competitive
concerns with the merger.  International Business  VeriFone will retain Hypercom’s point-of-sale equipment
business outside the U.S. The acquisition will help VeriFone
expand in the emerging market for payments made with mobile
phones by giving it a bigger international presence in retail
stores, and the opportunity to install more terminals able to
accept mobile-phone payments abroad.  VeriFone is a partner of Internet-search giant  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
which is starting a mobile-payment service based on a technology
called near field communication. The total value of mobile
payments for digital and physical goods, money transfers and
near field communication transactions  will reach  $670 billion by
2015, compared with $240 billion this year, U.K.-based
consultant Juniper Research said last month.  VeriFone’s shares declined $2.47, or 6 percent, to $38.52
at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 