-- 
Virginia Tech Lifts Security Alert Following Reports of Gunman on Campus

-- B y   L i s a   W o l f s o n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-08-04T19:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/virginia-tech-locked-down-after-summer-camp-children-say-they-saw-a-gunman.html
Virginia  Tech, the site of a 2007
massacre in which 33 people were killed, reopened the
Blacksburg, Virginia, campus following a lockdown after police
searched for a gunman.  A lockdown alert had been issued after three youths
reported seeing a man holding what appeared to be a gun at 9:09
a.m. local time. A person with a gun was later reported near the
Dietrick Hall dining center, according to a subsequent alert
issued at 9:37 a.m.  “Police have not received nor discovered additional
information about a person possibly carrying a weapon beyond
that reported this morning,” the college said on its  website  at
2:41 p.m. local time.  Law enforcement agencies including the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , Virginia State Police and several local police
departments converged on the campus to search for a gunman, and
President  Barack Obama  had been briefed on the situation.  Officers will continue to patrol university buildings and
survey the campus in marked and unmarked cars, campus police
chief Wendell Flinchum said at a news conference.  “We will continue to have a large police presence on campus
this evening,” Flinchum said.  People on campus had been advised to stay indoors when the
lockdown began. A few thousand students were likely at the
school at the time, Virginia Tech Associate Vice President Larry Hincker told reporters at an earlier news conference.  ‘On Edge’  The university, formally known as  Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University , has more than 30,000 full-time
students.  Reports of a gunman on campus hit a nerve at the college,
where in 2007 student Seung Hui Cho went on a two-hour rampage,
killing 32 people before taking his own life.  “Everybody’s just on edge because it’s something that has
happened here,” Carrie Chapon, 19, a sophomore at Virginia Tech,
said in an interview before the alert was lifted. Her sister was
a student at the time of 2007 shootings.  While police said the university could resume normal campus
activity, they asked people “to remain vigilant” and report any
suspicious activity, according to the school’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Wolfson in Boston at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  