-- 
WageWorks Cuts IPO Price Range 43% After Seeking Premium

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-08-04T15:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/wageworks-seeks-ipo-at-premium-to-employee-benefits-competitors.html
WageWorks Inc., the provider of
human-resources services for companies including  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
and Morgan Stanley, cut the price range for its initial public
offering as much as 43 percent after seeking a valuation more
than five times its peers.  The company lowered the range to $8 to $9 a share,
according to a regulatory filing. The midpoint price values
WageWorks at about 1.8 times last year’s sales, or more than an
average of about 0.5 times sales among 17 U.S.-listed human-
resources services companies with a market value of less than $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  WageWorks, whose services allow a company’s employees to
set aside pretax wages to pay for health-care and commuting
expenses, failed to obtain the valuation it was seeking after
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined seven out of the past
eight trading days through yesterday. The company also faces new
U.S. health-care laws that limit the use of flexible spending
and health savings accounts, two of WageWorks’ services.  “There’s definitely an overhang right now with health
care,” said Darren Fabric, a Chicago-based managing director at
IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees about $2.5 billion.
“There’s a lot of uncertainty long-term regarding what health
care is going to look like.”  Aetna, Automatic Data  San Mateo , California-based WageWorks, which says it
competes with U.S. health insurer  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and Automatic Data
Processing Inc., would raise about $49 million at the midpoint
of the reduced range, and be valued as a whole at about $212
million. That compares with $325 million at the original
midpoint.  Barrett Business Services Inc., TeamStaff Inc. and Fortune
Industries Inc., peers of similar size in the human-resources
industry, all still trade at lower multiples than WageWorks is
seeking.  “It may be a little richly valued, as its sales are not
growing that quickly excluding acquisitions,” Stephanie Chang,
an analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based  Renaissance Capital
LLC , said before WageWorks cut its range.  Sales at WageWorks, which has 37 Fortune 100 clients, rose
20 percent in the six months through June to $69.2 million from
a year earlier, primarily because of takeovers, the company said
in its filing. Full-year sales in 2010 were $115 million, 6
percent higher than the previous year.  Growth Strategy  WageWorks’ growth strategy includes buying smaller
operators, and the company has made four acquisitions since 2007
to add clients and services, according to its filing. Purchases
have included Creative Benefits in September 2008 and Fringe
Benefits Management Co. in November.  Customers access WageWorks benefit programs through Web-
based software, which allows the company to enhance its products
quickly, it said in its filing. This “on-demand” business
model also requires less up-front investment by customers
compared with services that require on-site software
installation, it said.  WageWorks customers offer the services to their employees
as a way to reduce taxes. Using the company’s services,
employees can opt to set aside a portion of their paychecks
before being charged income taxes, and use that money to buy
public-transportation passes or  prescription drugs .  IPO Proceeds  The company initially filed in April, joining a flood of
companies to announce plans for IPOs in the second quarter of
this year. WageWorks General Counsel Kimberly Jackson declined
to comment, citing the pre-IPO quiet period.  Proceeds from the offering will be used for working capital
and general corporate purposes, the filing showed.  Owners of WageWorks include VantagePoint Capital Partners,
Advent International Corp. and Camden Partners. All of the
shares in the offering are being sold by WageWorks.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and William Blair & Co. are leading
the offering, according to the filing. The shares are scheduled
to begin trading tomorrow on the  New York  Stock Exchange under
the symbol WAGE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 