-- 
Waters of Mars May Be Spotted on Surface in Briny Trickle, Researchers Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-08-04T18:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/waters-of-mars-may-be-spotted-on-surface-in-briny-trickle-researchers-say.html
Dark trickles on  Martian  slopes
during the planet’s warm months suggest salty water on Mars,
according to a report in the journal  Science .  Researchers noticed that images sent from a camera aboard a
U.S. orbiting craft showed stream-like features that disappeared
and reappeared according to the seasons. Because salt lowers the
temperature at which water freezes, the scientists theorized
that where temperatures were too low even during a Martian
summer to melt pure water ice, it still may be possible to thaw
ice containing salt.  “I was baffled when I first saw those features in the
images after I had run them through my algorithm,” said
 Lujendra Ojha , in a statement. He is a study author who as a
junior majoring in geophysics at the  University of Arizona ,
discovered the bands by using a change-detecting algorithm on
images from the planet. “We soon realized they were different
from slope streaks that had been observed before. These are
highly seasonal.”  The briny liquid may add another clue to help scientists
determine whether there is life on Mars, the authors wrote. The
team isn’t certain that the trickles are caused by water, though
it’s the best explanation, said  Alfred McEwen , a professor of
planetary geology at the University of  Arizona  at Tucson,
Arizona, and the study’s lead author.  Possible First  Ice has been detected  near the surface of some areas on
Mars, and if further research confirms today’s findings, this
may be the first known liquid water on Mars, the researchers
said.  The dark, narrow bands that extend down certain Martian
slopes are narrower than previously seen gullies, only about 2
feet to 15 feet wide, with lengths of up to hundreds of meters.
They aren’t in as many places as the gullies, and are rare on
the cold slopes that face the pole.  Some of the areas with the flows would be warm enough to
keep water as salty as the earth’s ocean liquid, according to
the study.  The color change isn’t because the slopes are wet, McEwen
said in the statement. Rather, the water may rearrange the
surface to change the appearance. Why the features change when
the temperature does isn’t clear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 