-- 
Wellpoint Joins Koch Help Fight Wisconsin State Senate Recalls

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-08-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/wellpoint-joins-koch-help-fight-wisconsin-state-senate-recalls.html
Republican and Democratic groups are
pouring money into Wisconsin with eight legislative recalls
scheduled this month and control of the state Senate hanging in
the balance.  The Republican State Leadership Committee, based in
Alexandria,  Virginia , has spent about $370,000 on the special
elections, while the Washington-based Democratic Legislative
Campaign Committee has spent about $250,000, according to
documents filed with the  Wisconsin Government Accountability
Board  in Madison.  Wellpoint Inc. (WLP) , an Indianapolis-based health insurer that
has been critical of the new federal health-care law, is among
the top donors to Republican organizations active in the
contests, including $450,000 to the RSLC and $250,000 to the
 Republican Governors Association .  Wellpoint gave $842,000 to the RSLC for the 2010 elections.
State officials are playing a key role in implementing -- or
fighting -- the new health law. Kristin Binns, a Wellpoint
spokeswoman, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  “Big Labor has made  Wisconsin  their Waterloo,” the RSLC
states on its Website, seeking donations to help the Republican
lawmakers facing recall elections following their support of
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker ’s legislation to take away
bargaining rights of state workers. Walker said the law was
necessary to trim spending and balance the state budget.  Republican Cash Advantage  Overall, the national groups trying to elect Republican
governors, legislators and other state officials almost doubled
Democratic fundraising, new  Internal Revenue Service  records
show.  The Republican groups reported raising $28 million between
Jan. 1 and June 30, compared with $15 million for their
Democratic counterparts. Unlike the national political parties,
these committees can accept contributions from corporate and
union treasuries, and unlimited donations from individuals.  The RSLC’s chairman,  Ed Gillespie , is a former aide to
President  George W. Bush . Gillespie worked with former Bush
political strategist  Karl Rove  in 2010 to create American
Crossroads. American Crossroads and its related organization
Crossroads GPS spent $38 million last year in support of
Republican congressional candidates. In March, Crossroads GPS
spent $750,000 in ads supporting Walker’s new anti-labor law,
according to the Center for Media and Democracy.  “Wisconsin is a huge priority,” said Carolyn Fiddler, a
DLCC spokeswoman.  Eight August Recalls  The Republican and Democratic state legislative groups are
just two of more than two dozen outside groups active in the
special elections.  The Democrats need to capture three Republican-held seats
to secure a majority in the state Senate. The first Wisconsin
recall, on July 19, saw the Democratic incumbent hold his seat.
On Aug. 9, six Republican senators who supported Walker’s labor
bill will face recalls. Two more Democratic incumbents will face
recall elections on Aug. 16.  “A lot of Republicans have looked to Wisconsin to see what
they’re getting away with and what Republicans elsewhere can get
away with without incurring too much backlash,” Fiddler said.  Among the national groups that focus on state races, the
most prolific fundraiser was the  RGA , which raised $22.2 million
in the first six months of this year. Of that sum, $1 million
came from  David Koch , the executive vice president of Wichita,
Kansas-based Koch Industries Inc. Another $500,000 was given by
 Kenneth Griffin , chief executive officer of the Chicago-based
hedge fund Citadel Investment Group LLC.  Record Fundraising  The head of the RGA, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , is mulling
a run for the White House in 2012. In a statement, the RGA said
its fundraising was a record for the first half of a year before
a presidential election, and was more than it collected in all
of 2007.  Koch also gave $1 million last year to the RGA, which
helped elect Republicans such as Walker. His anti-union
legislation had the support of the Koch-funded Americans for
Prosperity advocacy group. Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman for
Koch Industries, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Other RGA contributors included Texas businessmen Trevor Rees-Jones, who donated $257,300, and homebuilder Bob Perry, who
provided $250,000.  The Democratic Governors Association raised $11 million,
including $100,000 donations each from the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees and the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters.  AT&T and  Southern Co. (SO)   Several companies regulated by state governments
contributed to both governors’ associations, including Dallas-
based AT&T, which gave $255,000 to the Republican governors and
$150,000 to the Democratic governors; and Atlanta-based utility
Southern Co., which gave $100,000 to both.  “We’re supportive of and work constructively with the
governments in our regulated states - regardless of party - in
order to develop sound  energy policy  that protects the interest
of our customers, promotes economic development and creates
jobs,” said Valerie Hendrickson, a spokeswoman for Southern.  AT&T also gave $60,000 to the RSLC and $10,000 to the
Democratic Attorneys General Association. An AT&T spokeswoman,
Claudia Jones, declined to comment.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce contributed $125,000 to the
Republican governors and $100,000 to the Democrats.  The Democratic Attorneys General Association raised $1.6
million, including $357,650 from law firms. Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP donated $15,000 and Nix Patterson & Roach LLP,
 trial lawyers , contributed $50,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at +1-202-624-1832 or
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 