-- 
Wells Fargo Sued Over Reverse Mortgage Policies by Borrowers

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-08-05T21:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/wells-fargo-sued-by-borrowers-over-reverse-mortgage-policies.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was accused in a
group lawsuit of ignoring federal rules on reverse mortgages and
forcing homes into foreclosure instead of giving heirs a chance
to buy them.  Estates and surviving spouses have the right to purchase
properties at 95 percent of appraised value after the death of a
borrower who took out a federally insured reverse mortgage,
lawyers for a California man said in the complaint filed Aug. 3
in federal court in  San Francisco .  Wells Fargo hasn’t been notifying heirs of this right and
has been starting foreclosures if demands aren’t met for
repayment of the full mortgage balance, according to the
complaint filed by the son of a  California  homeowner. The
plaintiff, Robert Chandler, also sued the Federal National
Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae.  “Wells Fargo’s actions are not just wrong, they are
economically irrational,” Michael Ng, Chandler’s attorney, said
yesterday in a statement. “Even though elderly borrowers paid
for insurance that protects the bank against the downturn in the
housing market, Wells Fargo insists on evicting family members
from homes that will go unsold and unoccupied.”  The lawsuit, brought as a class action by Chandler on
behalf of himself and other heirs, seeks a court order stopping
foreclosures and evictions in affected homes and damages for
breach of contract.  HUD Guidelines  Wells Fargo complied with guidelines required by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, said Teri Schrettenbrunner, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based
bank.  “In April 2011, HUD changed the rules to allow the heirs
of a reverse mortgage property to purchase the home at 95
percent of the appraised value,” Schrettenbrunner said today in
an e-mail. “When the HUD rules changed, we adopted them
including providing notice to the heirs. We intend to defend our
company in this case.”  Reverse mortgages are available only to homeowners aged 62
or older. In some cases, when one spouse is younger than 62,
only the older spouse’s name will appear on the reverse-mortgage
documents.  Reverse-mortgage loans pay out a home’s equity to the
homeowner, often in installments, and are usually repaid when
the borrower dies or moves out of the house. Borrowers are
considered in arrears if they don’t keep current on property
taxes and insurance.  2005 Loan  Chandler’s mother, Rosemary, obtained a home-equity
conversion mortgage, in 2005 on a house the family owned since
the 1940s, according to the complaint. Wells Fargo started
foreclosure proceedings shortly after she died in January 2010,
Chandler’s lawyers said.  “Wells Fargo maintained that Mr. Chandler would have to
pay off the full mortgage balance, not the appraised value, if
he wished to keep the house,” according to the complaint. The
bank foreclosed and tried to sell the property.  Fannie Mae  took
possession of the home and began the eviction process in May,
Chandler’s lawyers said.  The case is Chandler v. Wells Fargo & Co., 11-cv-03831,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  