-- 
White House Said to Be Confident Geithner Will Stay at Treasury

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-08-05T15:08:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/white-house-officials-confident-geithner-to-remain-as-treasury-secretary.html
President  Barack Obama ’s senior
advisers are confident Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
will remain in his job even though he hasn’t made his intentions
public, an administration official said.  Geithner met recently with Vice President  Joe Biden  and
laid out his reasons for wanting to leave the post. Biden
outlined why it was vital that Geithner remain, said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because no
announcement has been made.  A departure by Geithner would represent another blow to an
administration that confronts a weak economy, a declining stock
market and uncertainty over how it will resolve controversy over
the deficit.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 4.8 percent
yesterday and two-year Treasury yields plunged to a record low
on signs the recovery is flagging. U.S. employers’ payrolls rose
by 117,000 workers after a 46,000 increase in June that was more
than originally estimated, according to Labor Department data
released today. The S&P index fell 0.8 percent to 1,190.26 at
11:06 a.m. in New York today, while the two-year yield rose to
0.29 percent from 0.26 percent.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said in his daily
news briefing yesterday that Geithner hasn’t made a decision
yet.  “He has said he will be here for the foreseeable future,”
Carney said, referring to previous public comments by the
Treasury secretary. “That’s what he tells us.”  Group of Seven  Geithner has been engaged in recent discussions about
events such as the Group of Seven meeting in  France  next month
and efforts to overhaul the housing-finance system, another
administration official said. Geithner hasn’t been delegating
more authority than usual or given any indications that he is
planning to leave, the official said.  Geithner, 49, previously signaled to White House officials
that he was considering leaving the administration once Obama
reached an agreement with Congress to raise the federal debt
limit. Obama signed a bill raising the debt limit on Aug. 2.  The Treasury secretary is the last remaining member of
Obama’s original economic team after the departures last year of
advisers including National Economic Council Director  Lawrence
Summers  and Office of Management and Budget Director  Peter
Orszag . Austan Goolsbee, who replaced  Christina Romer  as
chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, leaves today to
return to the University of Chicago.  In an appearance this week on ABC television’s “Good
Morning America” program, Geithner said he hadn’t made up his
mind.  ‘A Lot of Challenges’  “I haven’t made that decision yet,” Geithner said. “And,
you know, we’ve got a lot of challenges, the president’s got a
lot of challenges, and, you know, I got other pressures on me,
too. But I’ll make that decision at the right moment.”  Geithner said on June 30 that his son would be returning to
 New York  to finish high school, and that “I’m going to be
commuting for a while.” Before joining the administration in
January 2009, Geithner was president of the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York , a post that put him at the center of the
government’s response to the financial crisis of 2008.  “It’s pretty understandable why he would want to leave,”
said  Vincent Reinhart , who worked with Geithner as director of
monetary affairs for the Federal Reserve Board. “It is a meat
grinder of jobs -- both jobs -- through the hardest financial
times in anybody’s memory.”  Still, Reinhart, now a resident scholar at the  American
Enterprise Institute , said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television that he expects Geithner to stay at his post.  Public Service  “I think someone who has spent his life in public service
has got to be sensitive to the George Marshall moment when the
president of the  United States  calls you and says you really
can’t leave,” Reinhart said. “I think it would be very hard
for him to do it.”  Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, said this week he
hopes Geithner “stays on for the foreseeable future.” Because
of Republican opposition to Obama administration nominees, “I’m
not sure we’d get to a Treasury secretary confirmation,” Warner
told  MSNBC .  “If you want to vote against somebody, have at it, vote
against them,” Warner said. “But don’t leave them in this
limbo land.”  Jake Siewert, a Treasury counselor close to Geithner who
worked on issues ranging from financial markets to media
strategy, is leaving this month, he said in an e-mail yesterday.
Siewert is returning to New York, where his family lives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  