-- 
Stocks Slide Most Since ’09 as Two-Year Yield Reaches Record Low

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-04T22:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/yen-slumps-after-japan-intervenes-to-curb-rise-most-asian-stocks-advance.html
A global rout in equities drove the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its worst slump since February
2009, while two-year Treasury yields plunged to a record low
amid concern the economy is weakening. The yen pared losses,
recovering from the biggest drop versus the dollar since 2008
that was triggered by  Japan  selling its currency.  The  S&P 500  tumbled 4.8 percent to 1,200.07 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  with futures on the gauge slipping 0.2 percent as of
6:17 p.m. The S&P 500 has dropped 11 percent since July 22, the
biggest loss over the same amount of time since March 2009. The
MSCI All-Country World Index slid 4.1 percent as Brazil’s stocks
slumped to a two-year low and Switzerland’s entered a bear
market. Two-year yields declined as low as 0.25 percent. The yen
sank 4.1 percent against the dollar before trimming its loss
almost in half. Oil sank 5.8 percent to help the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of materials erase its 2011 gain.  Concern the global economy may relapse into a recession has
driven investors out of stocks and into the relative safety of
Treasuries, the Swiss franc and yen and is spurring speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will start another stimulus program. Japan’s
moves to sell the yen, which this week neared a post-World War
II record, and expand an asset-purchase fund follows efforts by
the Swiss central bank to curb the franc’s gains. The  European
Central Bank  resumed bond purchases and offered banks more cash
to stem the spread of the debt crisis.  ‘Gloomy’  “The mood right now is gloomy,” Mike Ryan, the New York-
based chief investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management
Americas, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $774
billion. “The burden of proof is for better data that show the
economy is not falling into recession. Tomorrow’s payroll report
is crucial. If we see another disappointment, the stock market
will have significant downside from here.”  Commerce Department data tomorrow may show U.S. employers
added 85,000 jobs in July, according to the median economist
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. In June, they added 18,000.  Today’s slide in the S&P 500 drove up the cost of using
options to insure against further declines by the most since
February 2007. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, jumped 35 percent to a 13-month high
of 31.66.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Hedge Fund VIP basket, meant to
track the 50 stocks most important to hedge funds, slid 6.8
percent for its worst plunge since Dec. 1, 2008, as Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc., Chemtura Corp. and
LyondellBasell Industries NV lost more than 10 percent.  The 11 percent rout since July 22 dragged the S&P 500’s
valuation to 13.2 times reported earnings, the cheapest level
since the month the bull market began in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Very Bullish’  “We’re very bullish,” Barry Knapp, chief U.S. equity
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “To be clear, we think that the stock
market represents exceptional value. The Treasury market
represents exceptionally rich levels.”  Energy and raw-material producers lost more than 6.6
percent for the biggest slumps among 10 industries in the S&P
500, all of which sank more than 3 percent. Alcoa Inc.,
Caterpillar Inc. and Bank of America Corp. slid 7 percent or
more to lead declines in all 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which plunged 512.76 points, or 4.3 percent,
to 11,383.68 in its biggest decline since Feb. 10, 2009, and
joined the S&P 500 in wiping out its 2011 advance.  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. apparel chain, sank 12 percent
after sales missed analysts’ estimates. DirecTV, the largest
U.S. satellite-television provider, tumbled 5.7 percent after
adding fewer U.S. customers than analysts estimated. Apple Inc.
sank 3.9 percent and Exxon Mobil Corp. tumbled 5 percent in its
biggest plunge since March 2009.  Not a ‘Flash Crash’  The S&P 500 moved in a 4.8 percentage-point range between
today’s intraday high and low, the widest since the 20-minute
“flash crash” on May 6, 2010, erased $862 billion from the
value of U.S. shares before prices rebounded. Today’s swing was
about triple the average range in the past four weeks. About 14
billion shares changed hands on all U.S. exchanges, the most in
14 months.  “It’s very, very, very different from the flash crash,”
said Joseph Mazzella, global head of trading at Knight Capital
Group Inc. in Jersey City, New Jersey. “There was more volume,
more volatility and a vicious window where trading got
disorderly that day. Today, relatively speaking, was an orderly
sell-off. The market opened lower and it’s been grinding lower
all day long.”  Short-Sale Curbs  Almost 850 securities triggered short-sale curbs today
after declining at least 10 percent from their closing price
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
limit bearish bets in those securities the day they’re
triggered and the next, requiring traders to execute orders at
prices higher than the best bid available in the market. The
rule went into effect on Feb. 28. In the first four weeks they
operated, only three days had more than 100 triggers, with no
day registering more than 300.  Money market rates, which surged during the debate to raise
the federal borrowing cap, dropped below zero percent as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis bolstered U.S. government
securities’ appeal as the world’s safest assets. U.S. 30-year
mortgage rates plunged to the lowest level in more than eight
months, sliding to 4.39 percent in the week ended today from
4.55 percent, according to Freddie Mac. The average 15-year
fixed-loan rate decreased to a record 3.54 percent from 3.66
percent.  Safe Havens  Demand for short-term government debt instruments is rising
as Treasury bills are expected to remain in short supply after
the U.S. signaled yesterday it won’t increase sales of the
securities even following lawmakers’ agreement to raise the debt
ceiling.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custody
bank, will charge institutional clients a fee for
“extraordinarily high” cash deposits to stem a flight of
capital into the safety of bank deposits.  “I’ve never seen this happen, not in 25 years,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Portland, Maine,
said in an interview. Other banks may follow BNY Mellon’s lead,
he said.  The S&P 500 yesterday climbed 0.5 percent to snap a seven-
day slump, recovering after the Wall Street Journal reported
that former Fed officials  Donald Kohn ,  Vincent Reinhart  and
Brian Madigan said the central bank should consider a third
round of bond purchases to help the economy.  Political ‘Firestorm’  Speculation the Fed will start a third round of
quantitative easing, or “QE3,”  is increasing after U.S. data
in the past week showed manufacturing grew at the weakest pace
in two years, spending unexpectedly fell and service industries
grew at the slowest pace since February 2010. The second round
of bond purchases ended in June.  “Given that the last QE2 program just ended, it would be
good to wait, because the impact of another program now is
questionable,”Alfred Broaddus, former president of the
Richmond Fed, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “And of course,
it would probably create something close to a firestorm of
political criticism and criticism from market observers.”  The yen weakened against 15 of 16 of its most-traded peers
and depreciating against all earlier today. Japan followed
Switzerland in seeking to stem appreciating exchange rates that
threatened to damage export competitiveness, also pledging to
inject 10 trillion yen ($126 billion) in funds to the economy.
Japan acted alone in the market, while officials were in touch
with other nations, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters today. The Bank of Japan followed up with monetary
stimulus that totaled double the amount pledged days after the
March 11 earthquake.  Franc Reverses  The franc erased earlier losses versus the euro, rallying
2.5 percent to a record after U.S. markets closed, and reversed
its decline versus the dollar. The Swiss National Bank
unexpectedly cut  interest rates  to zero yesterday and injected
francs into money markets to curb what it called the “massively
overvalued” currency.  The Japanese intervention weakened the yen during the day
to a level against the dollar not seen since July 12, whereas
the franc failed to depreciate yesterday to as little as the
previous day’s low against the euro following the SNB action.  “The market, in its own wisdom, is putting out some stuff
that’s going to help us,” James Paulsen , chief investment
strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management. “It’s
dropping mortgage rates. It’s dropping energy prices, and
finally in recent weeks the M2 money supply has just exploded to
the upside. All of which are things that could help maybe
stabilize the economy here in the second half.”  Eisenhower Era  The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield sank 22 basis points to
2.40 percent, the lowest since October, and 30-year rates
plunged 23 basis points to 3.67 percent.  Treasury bond yields are sinking to levels seen in the
1950s on concern the two-year recovery in the world’s largest
economy is stalling. Yields on benchmark 10-year U.S. notes are
more than 4 percentage points below the average over the past 49
years and almost where they were when President Dwight D.
Eisenhower began his administration in 1953. The rate, which
dropped to as low as 2.40 percent today in New York, reached a
record low of 2.04 percent in December 2008 during the global
financial crisis.  Dollar, Commodities  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, jumped 1.7 percent. The stronger
dollar weighed on commodities denominated in the U.S. currency,
dragging silver and gasoline down more than 6 percent.  The pound was 1 percent weaker against the dollar after the
 Bank of England  kept its key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent
as predicted by all 55 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 3.5 percent to the lowest
level since July 2010. Inmarsat Plc lost 19 percent in  London  as
the biggest provider of satellite services to the maritime
industry cut forecasts for its main mobile-satellite services.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of 20 of the nation’s largest stocks
tumbled 3.6 percent and extended its decline from a February
high to  21 percent, entering a bear market. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index sank 3 percent as its loss since May swelled to
more than 11 percent, or a so-called correction. Brazil’s
Bovespa sank 5.6 percent to a two-year low.  The Turkish lira dropped 2.6 percent to 57.514 U.S. cents
after the central bank reduced the benchmark interest rate to a
record low of 5.75 percent to shield the economy from the impact
of the European debt crisis and slowing growth in the U.S.  In Asian equity markets, South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  tumbled
2.3 percent, completing its biggest three-day sell-off since
November 2008. LG Chem Ltd., the nation’s biggest chemicals
maker, slid 7.5 percent on concern over petrochemical margins.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 1.7 percent, led by a 2 percent
slump in United Microelectronics Corp., after the world’s
second-largest contract maker of chips said second-quarter net
income fell 39 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
Chinese companies’ H shares retreated 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  