-- 
Yen Drops Versus Dollar, Euro After Japan Sells; Franc Trades Near Record

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-04T22:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/yen-plunges-as-japan-intervenes-in-markets-for-the-first-time-since-march.html
The yen fell against all 16 of its
most-traded counterparts after  Japan  yesterday sold its currency
to stem gains that threaten the nation’s economic recovery.  The Swiss franc was 0.4 percent from a record against the
euro as futures signaled Asian stocks will extend a global
equity rout which drove the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its
worst slump since February 2009. Gains in the dollar were
tempered before a U.S. report economists said will show the
 unemployment rate  stayed above 9 percent.  “The market is scared; equities have led the way down, and
with that the flight to quality is huge,” said Firas Askari,
head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “The BOJ
action caught the market off-guard a little bit, even though we
expected intervention. It was the timing.”  The Japanese currency fell 0.4 percent to 79.19 per dollar
at 6:53 a.m. in  Tokyo , after tumbling 2.3 percent yesterday. The
yen depreciated 0.4 percent to 111.64 per euro after declining
0.7 percent to 111.16 yesterday. The euro was little changed at
$1.4099 after dropping 1.6 percent yesterday.  Implied volatility among currencies of the Group of Seven
nations jumped 7.5 percent yesterday to reach the highest level
since March, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. Volatility
Index. The  S&P 500 Index  fell 4.8 percent.  Japan Intervention  Yesterday was the third time Japan has sold its currency
after six years of a hands-off approach that ended in September
2010. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the action was
unilateral.  The  Bank of Japan  sold 692.5 billion yen ($8.8 billion) on
March 18, when it led a coordinated effort with Group of Seven
nations to counter a jump in the yen after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. Last September, Japan unilaterally sold
2.12 trillion yen.  The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase fund to 15 trillion yen
from 10 trillion yen, according to a statement in Tokyo
yesterday. Policy makers also enlarged a credit facility by 5
trillion yen to 35 trillion yen and kept the benchmark  interest
rate  near zero.  Payrolls in the U.S. probably climbed by 85,000 workers in
July after an 18,000 increase in June that was the smallest this
year, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Labor Department report today. The
jobless rate held at 9.2 percent.  ECB Purchases  The euro is headed for a weekly drop against the dollar
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday the ECB has resumed bond purchases and will offer
banks more cash to stop the region’s sovereign-debt crisis from
engulfing Italy and  Spain . Policy makers kept the benchmark
interest rate at 1.5 percent.  The ECB, which ceased buying bonds of distressed euro-area
governments 18 weeks ago, was under pressure to re-enter markets
after Italian and Spanish yields soared to euro-era records.  The decision to provide more liquidity “is the prime
reason for the euro weakening,” said  Derek Halpenny , European
head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in  London . It “shows that the ECB is more concerned on
financial market stability,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  