-- 
Swiss Franc Falls as Hildebrand Calls Strength ‘Absurd;’ Yen Rebounds

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-05T11:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/yen-drops-versus-dollar-euro-after-japan-sells-franc-trades-near-record.html
The dollar fell, trimming weekly
gains against the euro and yen, before data that’s forecast to
support the case for low borrowing costs and show U.S. employers
failed to create enough jobs to reduce the jobless rate.  Switzerland ’s franc weakened from a record against the euro
after the  Swiss National Bank  said it won’t exclude any measures
to curb the currency’s advance. The yen strengthened against the
dollar a day after  Japan  moved to weaken it, trimming the
currency’s biggest weekly drop in four months, as tumbling
stocks stoked demand for safer assets. U.S. payrolls probably
climbed by 85,000 in July after an 18,000 increase in June that
was the smallest this year, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “Today’s report should confirm that labor market
conditions are very difficult, and that should cement
expectations for further monetary easing from the Fed,” which
would weaken the dollar, said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The very
credible threat and strong signal from the SNB is holding the
Swiss franc back.”  The dollar was 0.4 percent weaker against the euro at
$1.4152 at 7:56 a.m. in  New York , cutting its gain this week to
1.7 percent. It declined 0.5 percent to 78.54 yen, trimming its
weekly gain to 2.3 percent, which is still the most since the
week beginning April 1.  Sinking Stocks  The franc weakened 0.8 percent to 1.08505 per euro,
dropping from a record 1.07112 reached earlier. It declined 0.4
percent against the dollar to 76.69 centimes.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 1.3 percent and the MSCI
Asia Pacific index of stocks dropped 3.7 percent. Standard &
Poor’s 500 futures were little changed after the U.S. benchmark
plunged almost 5 percent yesterday.  The U.S. jobless rate is predicted to stay at 9.2 percent
after rising in each of the previous three months, according to
a Bloomberg survey of 84 economists before today’s report.  Concern the economic recovery will be cut short led U.S.
equities to their biggest slump since February 2009 yesterday.
Slowing growth puts more pressure on Federal Reserve policy
makers meeting next week to try to steer the world’s largest
economy away from another recession at a time when inflation is
also accelerating.  “The big risk to the dollar is that the Fed will present a
more dovish stance next week,” Hardman said.  Currency Volatility  Implied volatility among currencies of the Group of Seven
nations jumped to 12.73 percent, the highest level since March,
according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. Volatility Index.  The Swiss Central Bank won’t exclude any “effective
measures” to curb the advance of the franc, Hildebrand told
Neue Zuercher Zeitung in an interview.  “At some point, an overvaluation becomes absurd, and that
is already the case for the Swiss franc today,” Hildebrand was
quoted as saying. “We clearly communicated that we are willing
to take further measures if those are necessary.”  The franc is being pushed lower by “fear of the Swiss
National Bank intervening,” said  Neil Jones , the head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “There’s a real nervousness about that.”  The Swiss franc fell against 15 of 16 major peers tracked
by Bloomberg, losing most against  Norway ’s krone and the euro.
It’s still stronger against all 16 currencies this year.  German Data  “If it’s the case that the risk-off trade is not quite
what it was, the franc will get weaker,” Mizuho’s Jones said.  The euro has slumped 3.6 percent over the past three
months, the second-worst performer after the Swedish krona among
the 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, amid concern that the debt crisis may slow growth and
dim prospects for higher  interest rates  in the region.  Industrial production in  Germany  unexpectedly decreased in
June, led by declining construction output and a drop in
investment goods such as machinery. Production declined 1.1
percent from May, when it rose a revised 0.9 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.  Japan’s yen headed for five-day declines against the franc,
dollar, British pound and euro.  Yesterday was the third time Japan sold its currency to
support exporters after six years of a hands-off approach that
ended in September 2010. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said
the action was unilateral. It probably spent 4 trillion yen ($51
billion) in the operation, the Nikkei newspaper reported,
without saying where it obtained the information.  The  Bank of Japan  sold 692.5 billion yen on March 18, when
it led a coordinated effort with the G-7 to counter a jump in
the yen after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Last
September, Japan unilaterally sold 2.12 trillion yen.  “The risk-off impetus that the yen typically is subject to
is playing a part,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based
senior currency strategist at  Scotia Capital , the investment
banking unit of Bank of Nova Scotia. “Though the BOJ’s bid on
the dollar-yen is going to be a threat, there is also going to
be solid buying pressure on the yen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 