-- 
Intervention ‘Buys Time’ as Yield Gap Portends a Yen Rally: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 
2011-08-05T03:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/yen-intervention-only-buys-time-as-u-s-slows-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s third intervention in a year
may fail to halt the yen’s appreciation as the slowing U.S.
economy reduces the appeal of dollar-denominated assets.  The extra yield two-year Treasuries offer instead of
similar-maturity Japanese notes fell to 10.7 basis points
yesterday, the least since September 1992. Japan’s 10-year bond
rates slid below 1 percent for the first time in almost nine
months as the  Bank of Japan  said it will buy more government
debt through its asset-purchase fund.  Japan’s move came before U.S. data projected to show that
the world’s largest economy failed to create enough jobs to
reduce unemployment, fanning speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will join the BOJ and  Swiss National Bank  in adding to monetary
stimulus. While Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda has said Japan
would aim for “maximum effect” in any intervention, its impact
may be short-lived, according to Ayako Sera, a market strategist
at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co.  “Intervention only buys time,” said Sera, whose company
manages the equivalent of $317 billion in Tokyo. “The root
causes for the yen’s appreciation are U.S. fundamentals. Because
it’s all about pessimism now, the yen’s appreciation trend won’t
turn around until that pessimism eases.”  The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase fund, doubling the
purchase of domestic bonds to 4 trillion yen ($51 billion) and
kept its benchmark  interest rate  near zero, according to a
 statement  from the central bank yesterday. It announced the
decision a day earlier than scheduled.  Fed Meeting  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond sank as much as
four basis points to 0.985 percent today, a level not seen since
Nov. 12. That’s the lowest among the 32 bond markets worldwide
tracked by Bloomberg. Similar-maturity Treasury yields dropped
to 2.40 percent yesterday, the lowest since Oct. 12.  The Fed will hold a policy meeting on Aug. 9 when
economists expect the central bank to leave interest rates
unchanged at a range of zero to 0.25 percent. It completed the
second round of so-called quantitative easing in June, in which
it bought $600 billion of bonds to lower borrowing costs.  “We can glimpse another round of quantitative easing in
the U.S.,” said Satoshi Shimamura, head of rates and markets at
the investment-strategy department of MassMutual Life Insurance
Co. in  Tokyo . “Funds are flowing to Japan’s bonds for  risk
aversion .”  Yen Reversals  The Japanese currency slid to 80.24 per dollar yesterday,
the weakest since July 12, and traded at 78.70 as of 12:03 p.m.
in Tokyo today.  The yen has rallied to pre-intervention levels in the weeks
following the previous times Japan has stepped into markets. It
climbed to a 15-year high of 80.22 per dollar on Nov. 1 after
the country unilaterally sold its currency in September for the
first time since 2004.  Group of Seven nations jointly intervened on March 18, the
day after the yen reached a postwar record of 76.25 to the
dollar. The yen depreciated for the next three weeks until it
started a strengthening trend that took it to 76.30 on Aug. 1.  The dollar has declined against all of its 16 major peers
in the past 12 months amid concern the  U.S. economy  is losing
momentum and was in danger of losing its top credit rating.  Japan’s intervention yesterday followed an unexpected cut
in interest rates by Swiss National Bank, which pledged to boost
the supply of the franc in money markets. The nation’s currency
has soared 25 percent in the past six months against the dollar.  “The Bank of Japan strongly expects that the action taken
by the Ministry of Finance in the foreign exchange market will
contribute to stable price formation in the market,” BOJ
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said in statement yesterday.  U.S. Economy  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter after a 0.4 percent pace in
the prior period, the worst six months since the recovery began
in June 2009, Commerce Department figures showed on July 29. The
 unemployment rate  held at 9.2 percent in July after rising in
each of the previous three months, according to economists’
estimates before the Labor Department report today.  The U.S. government’s AAA  credit rating  may be lowered in
the “medium term” even after a debt-limit compromise that
prevented a default, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “The dollar has been sold because of concern over a U.S.
economic slowdown and a credit rating downgrade,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , the chief currency strategist in Tokyo at Barclays
Bank Plc. “The fact that they acted now probably means they
have an intention to continue intervention.”  BOJ Purchases  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for U.S. economic
growth in the third and fourth quarters. It also pushed back its
projection for the first increase in the Fed’s overnight lending
rate until mid-2013 from a prior forecast for the beginning of
the year, according to a report from chief U.S. economist
 Michael Feroli  on Aug. 3.  The BOJ regularly buys  government bonds  at the rate of 21.6
trillion yen a year in addition to the asset-purchase fund, it
said in a statement yesterday. It didn’t provide details of its
bond transactions in its March 14  statement  when the central
bank doubled the fund.  “The sentence is meant to emphasize that the BOJ is
implementing other policies too,” said Tetsuya Inoue, chief
researcher for financial markets at Tokyo-based Nomura Research
Institute Ltd. “The BOJ clearly wants to halt the yen’s
advance,” said Inoue, who worked for the central bank for more
than two decades before joining Nomura.  A stronger local currency reduces the earnings outlook for
Japanese exporters. It also cheapens imported goods and deepens
deflation, or a general drop in prices, which boosts the
purchasing power of the fixed payments on bonds.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 3.4 percent as of the
11 a.m. trading break in Tokyo, the biggest drop since March 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  