-- 
Hypermarcas Bonds a Buy to BTG as Brazil Retailer Yields Hit Record High

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a ,   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-04T13:58:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-04/hypermarcas-bonds-a-buy-to-btg-as-brazil-retailer-yields-hit-record-high.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA is recommending
investors buy bonds of  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) ,  Brazil ’s third-worst
performing stock this year, after the consumer company’s
borrowing costs surged to a record high.  The 28-basis point jump in yields on Hypermarcas’ 2021
bonds to 6.78 percent yesterday was unjustified given it was
driven in part by baseless speculation that the company used
inappropriate financial adjustments, according to a report from
BTG, the Brazilian bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves . The
yields gapped to 120 basis points, or 1.20 percentage point,
above comparable debt issued by Brasil Foods SA. BTG analysts
said the  yield spread  should be between 50 and 70 basis points.  While concern that second-quarter earnings may miss
estimates and sales growth will keep slowing contributed to the
drop, BTG said Hypermarcas bondholders are “getting spooked by
rumors with no real fundamental.” Shares of Brazil’s fifth-
largest consumer goods company fell as much as 9 percent
yesterday before erasing losses and climbing 1.4 percent.  “The  bond market  reacted immediately in the same
direction” as the stock, said Leonardo Kestelman, who oversees
$880 million of assets at Dinosaur Securities in  Sao Paulo .
“It’s a matter of credit, so if there’s no profit or if there’s
a balance sheet issue, ‘Let’s sell the bond, let’s sell whatever
asset is related to the company.’”  Stock Declines  Hypermarcas shares fell 1.5 percent to 10.93 reais in Sao
Paulo trading at 9:46 a.m. New York time, bringing the decline
this year to 51 percent. The yield on the 2021 bond rose 3 basis
points to 6.81 percent, extending yesterday’s slump.  The stock’s retreat this year is the third-worst
performance on the benchmark Bovespa index after airline Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA and B2W Companhia Global do
Varejo, a unit of Brazil’s biggest discount retailer Lojas
Americanas SA. In the month through yesterday, shares have
fallen 27.2 percent, almost double the 14.5 percent decline in
the Bovespa.  Before yesterday’s tumble, the bonds due in 2021 were
yielding 6.5 percent, down from 6.75 percent when they were
issued in April.  Yesterday’s declines followed worse-than-anticipated
second-quarter earnings from  Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) ,  Latin
America ’s largest cosmetics company, on slower sales growth. Sao
Paulo-based Hypermarcas, whose first-quarter net income fell 40
percent from a year earlier to 32.9 million reais ($21 million),
is scheduled to report second-quarter results on Aug. 15.  Stock Valuation  Company officials declined to comment yesterday, citing a
quiet period before earnings.  Hypermarcas, which sells foods, cosmetics and
pharmaceuticals, trades at 15.8 times 12-month forward earnings
compared with 8.9 times for the Bovespa stock index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Executive Director Gabriela Garcia said last month that after making 25 acquisitions in two
years, Hypermarcas plans to focus on consolidation.  In a July 27 report on Hypermarcas, BTG analysts said they
“think its equity underperformance is understandable (but maybe
too exaggerated).” The company’s lower sales are the result of
a change in commercial strategy and “should pick up again,”
according to the report.  Bank of America Corp. lowered its forecast yesterday for
Brazilian growth this year to 3.6 percent from 4.1 percent
previously, and for 2012 to 4.2 percent from 4.6 percent.  U.S. Data  Concern about weakening U.S. economic data and the prospect
of a recession is making high-yield corporate bonds more
vulnerable to a sell-off, Kestelman said. “Liquidity is very
thin on high-yield bonds, the market is not comfortable holding
illiquid stuff under this scenario.”  Hypermarcas is rated BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , three steps
below investment grade.  Prices on Hypermarcas bonds due in 2021 plunged to as low
as 97.2 cents on the dollar yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. At that level, “we are buyers,” the BTG
analysts wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  