-- H&T Falls as Gold Decline Strikes Pawn-Shop Profit: London Mover
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-12T10:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/h-t-falls-as-gold-decline-strikes-pawn-shop-profit-london-mover.html
H&T Group (HAT) , a U.K. pawnbroker, fell
to the lowest price since its initial public offering in 2006
after plummeting  gold prices  hurt trading and the company
reduced its payday loan offerings amid regulatory pressure.  The price of gold, which has slumped about 21 percent this
year, will contribute to pretax profit in the second half that
will be “materially below” that of the first six months, the
Sutton, England-based company said today in a statement. Pretax
earnings fell 39 percent in the first half to 4.6 million pounds
($7.1 million).  The pawnbroker is also revising its loan products as the
U.K. Office of Fair Trading tries to tighten regulation of
short-term loans at high  interest rates , on concern lenders are
targeting people with poor credit histories and failing to
clarify the full costs. The OFT referred its investigation to
the  Competition Commission  in June.  H&T fell  as much as 17 percent to 142 pence, the lowest
since May 2006, and the biggest drop among stocks on London’s
Alternative Investment Market. The shares traded at that price
at 11:37 a.m. in London, extending the  decline  this year to 49
percent and valuing H&T at 52 million pounds ($81 million).  “The volatility of gold buying will weigh on the results
as long as the gold price remains depressed,”  Andrew Watson , an
analyst at N+1 Singer Ltd, wrote in a note to investors. Watson,
who had a buy recommendation on the shares, placed his rating
under review.  Foreign Exchange  H&T has started new initiatives that will “weaken short-term profitability but with the goal of improving long-term
customer retention,” Chief Executive Officer John Nichols said
in the statement. H&T extended foreign exchange throughout the
business, started a loan store that targets the Asian community,
and is testing a buy-back service for high-end electronics.  Albemarle & Bond Holdings Plc (ABM) , a British pawnbroking
competitor, fell as much as 6.4 percent to the lowest intraday
price since April 23, and was down 4.3 percent at 139 pence. The
company said in April that fiscal-year profit would be
“materially” below analysts’ estimates because of an
accelerating decline in profit in the gold-buying unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in  London  at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  