-- Malaysia Mulls Return of Detention Without Trial After Shootings
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-08-12T07:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/malaysia-mulls-return-of-detention-without-trial-after-shootings.html
Malaysia  may restore its ability to
detain people without trial following a wave of violent gun
crime, two years after the practice was abolished to prevent
political abuses, Home Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said.  The government may designate a panel of police officers,
judges and lawyers to determine who gets detained rather than
leave the decision to the home minister as in the past, Hamidi
told the Mingguan Malaysia newspaper yesterday. The interview
was posted on Ahmad Zahid’s web site and the remarks were 
confirmed by a spokesman who was not authorized to be named.  The decision would be aimed at fulfilling Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s vow to introduce new legislation to tackle the
surge in crime, which included the July 29 slaying of  AMMB
Holdings Bhd. (AMM)  founder Hussain Ahmad Najadi. In the interview,
Hamidi said the decision in 2011 to abolish Malaysia’s 1969
Emergency Ordinance, which led to the release of 2,600 people
from detention, was partly to blame for the crime wave.  “The surge in violence is related to gangs and the drugs
trade,” P. Sundramoorthy, a professor of criminology at
Universiti Sains Malaysia, said in a phone interview today.
“The Emergency Ordinance was necessary, though we acknowledge
there were problems with it with regards to human rights and
democracy. It was an effective tool.”  The law allowed suspects to be detained for as many as two
years with the minister’s consent. Najib also scrapped the 1960
Internal Security Act, which gave police wide-ranging powers to
detain suspects indefinitely. Opposition leaders including  Anwar Ibrahim  had been held under the ISA.  Recent Shootings  Najib cited the potential for political abuses among
reasons for scrapping the laws. The same regulation remains in
neighboring  Singapore , another former British colony.  Last week saw three shootings in the northern city of
Penang, including one man killed at point-blank range at a
traffic light, according to an incidents list compiled by the
Star newspaper and confirmed by police. An unemployed man was
killed and a woman injured in Kelantan state. There was also a
shooting at the  Thai border , the list showed.  A primary school clerk was killed when a package he took
from the top of a relative’s car exploded in Kelantan yesterday,
the Star reported, citing local criminal investigations chief
Lai Yong Heng.  Najib’s coalition was returned to power in May elections by
its narrowest margin since independence from Britain in 1957.
Najib promised during his campaign to make fighting crime and
corruption a policy priority.  Voters cited crime and social problems as their biggest
concern after the  economy , according to a survey of 1,018 people
conducted in December by the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research.
The survey had a margin of error of 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  