-- Alderon Set to Sign Asia Partner for Iron Mine
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-08-12T20:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/alderon-set-to-sign-asia-partner-for-iron-mine.html
Alderon Iron Ore Corp. (ADV) , developer of
the C$1.3 billion ($1.26 billion) Kami mine in  Canada , is within
weeks of signing up a second Asian partner, Chairman Mark Morabito said.  Alderon is in “advanced” talks with Asian steelmakers and
commodity-trading companies aimed at locking in the sale of 30
percent to 40 percent of the  proposed  mine’s annual iron-ore
output, Morabito said in an interview at company headquarters in
Vancouver. A deal, valued at a minimum of C$100 million to
Alderon, may also include the sale of a stake in Kami, he said.  An agreement may be in place before October, followed
within about three months by a comprehensive debt-financing
package, Morabito said.  “The market by the end of the year will have full
visibility on how this project is being financed and who is
financing it,” he said, adding that negotiations have included
some of  Asia ’s largest steel producers that aren’t government-controlled. “What people will see is that more money is coming
in this year.”  Alderon is seeking a second partner after Hebei Iron &
Steel Group,  China ’s largest steelmaker, signed onto the Kami
project last year. Alderon’s latest talks have included
steelmakers that are about the same size as Hebei, said
Morabito, who declined to identify them because of
confidentiality agreements.  Potential Partners  It’s “likely” Alderon has held talks with many potential
partners, including large non-state-controlled steelmakers such
as Jiangsu Shagang Group Co. and Jianlong Steel Holdings Co.,
Dean Journeaux, chief executive officer of Calgary-based  New
Millennium Iron Corp. (NML) , an Alderon competitor, said Aug. 8 in a
telephone interview.  “All the Asian steelmakers -- the Chinese, the Indians,
the Japanese -- want to have captive iron-ore supplies,” said
Journeaux, adding he had no direct knowledge about Alderon’s
negotiations.  Shen Wenrong, Jiangsu Shagang’s chairman, and Zhao Xin, an
iron-ore import manager at Jianlong Steel, said last week by
phone they weren’t aware of talks between Alderon and their
companies.  ‘Strong’ Partner  Negotiations with potential partners indicate that foreign
steelmakers are still trying to lock in supplies from iron-ore
reserves in Canada, which has the world’s eighth-largest
deposits, even amid predictions of plentiful global supplies,
said Adam Low, a Toronto-based analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc.  “What Alderon has going for it is a strong existing
partner, the actual  iron-ore  resource and its proximity to a
railway,” Low, who rates the company the equivalent of a buy,
said last month in a phone interview. “They stand a very good
chance of getting another off-take deal done.”  Alderon  rose  5.6 percent to C$1.13 at the close in Toronto,
giving it a market value of C$147.1 million.  Hebei, China’s largest steelmaker, signed onto the Kami
project in April 2012, paying C$182.2 million for 20 percent of
the Canadian company and a 25 percent stake in the mine. Hebei
is obligated under the pact to buy 60 percent of Kami’s annual
output to a maximum of 4.8 million tons of the first 8 million
tons of concentrate each year, according to a statement. Hebei
also pledged to help Alderon arrange debt financing, including
from Chinese banks.  Buy Ratings  Morabito has “done a great job getting one of the world’s
largest steel companies to come and validate his project,” said
Low, whose 12-month price target on the company’s shares is
C$2.60. Low and nine other analysts have buy  ratings  on
Alderon’s shares, while two have holds and none recommend
selling.  In May,  South Korea ’s Posco and  Taiwan ’s  China Steel  Corp.
led a group that paid $1.1 billion for a 15 percent stake in
ArcelorMittal’s existing operations in the Labrador Trough.
 India ’s  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  is in a partnership with New Millennium
to develop the DSO project in the region.  Prabhat Sharma, a Tata spokesman, declined to comment on
whether India’s biggest steelmaker would be interested in
joining up with Alderon. Kim Ji Young, a Posco spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment outside of
normal business hours. Chung Le-Min, a spokesman for China
Steel, wasn’t available for comment.  Kami Project  London-based  Rio Tinto  Group, through its 59 percent stake
in Iron Ore Co. of Canada, and  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) ,
the largest U.S. iron-ore producer, are among companies already
mining in the Labrador Trough.  The Trough is a geologic formation that overlaps parts of
northern  Quebec  and the neighboring province of Newfoundland and
Labrador. Alderon’s Kami mine project is between several
existing iron-ore mines and is about 15 kilometers (9 miles)
from the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway, a common carrier
leading to export terminals at Sept.-Iles, Quebec, on the Gulf
of Saint Lawrence.  Alderon’s shares dropped 39 percent this year through Aug.
9, which was still the best performance among six other peers
identified by Daniel Greenspan, a Toronto-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd.  “Looking at the next generation of producers, we view
Alderon Iron as the lowest-risk developer in the Labrador
Trough, with the clearest path to first production,” Greenspan
said in a June 18 note to clients. His list includes Toronto-based  Champion Iron Mines Ltd. (CHM)  and  Cap-Ex Iron Ore Ltd. (CEV)   Prized Ore  Katrina Chua, a Champion spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the company’s share price or whether it has had talks with
steelmakers. Cap-Ex didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Concentrated iron ore from the Labrador Trough is prized
among steelmakers because of its low levels of impurities such
as silica, phosphorous and alumina, Low said.  Alderon also is backed by “patient, stable” shareholders
such as  St. John’s , Newfoundland-based  Altius Minerals Corp. (ALS)  and
Liberty Metals & Mining Holdings LLC, a subsidiary of Boston-based Liberty Mutual Holding Co., Low said.  “The top three -- Altius, Hebei and Liberty -- own about
60 percent of the company and they aren’t sellers,” he said.  Asian steel companies are seeking to secure long-term
supplies to cut their reliance on imports from the largest
producers such as BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto and Vale SA, Ken Hoffman, a Princeton, New Jersey-based analyst at Bloomberg
Industries, said Aug. 7 in a phone interview.  Future Deal  “China wants to get a quarter to a third of its iron ore
from non-big-three entities,” Hoffman said. “Right now,
shipments from those producers amount to less than 10 percent of
total imports.”  A deal between Alderon and another steelmaker will probably
be similar to Hebei’s arrangement, Morabito said. It may include
an agreement to sell a portion of future production, the sale of
a stake in Kami and a commitment by the partner to contribute to
construction costs, he said.  While Alderon isn’t planning to sell shares as part of the
second off-take agreement, it may borrow funds from the new
partner and repay the obligation with future iron-ore
production, Morabito said.  Alderon isn’t likely to raise money through the stock
market, Bloomberg Industries’ Hoffman said.  “Doing these types of off-take agreements is about the
only way these things can get funded these days,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  