-- America Movil Vows to Protect Credit Rating in KPN Deal
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-08-13T14:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/america-movil-vows-to-protect-credit-rating-in-kpn-deal.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  has a plan in
place to ensure its credit rating isn’t lowered because of its
offer to take control of Dutch phone company Royal  KPN (KPN)  NV, Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said in an interview.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s wireless carrier can fund the
transaction even if every single KPN shareholder accepts its
offer of 2.40 euros a share, Garcia-Moreno said yesterday. He
declined to elaborate on how America Movil would pay as much as
7.2 billion euros ($9.6 billion) without a reduction in its
 rating , which Moody’s Investors Service said it may lower.  “We’re comfortable,” Garcia-Moreno said. “We’ve always
held an interest that whatever we do doesn’t have an impact on
our ratings.”  America Movil is pursuing a majority stake in KPN, the
largest Dutch phone company of which it now owns 30 percent.
That would give America Movil a beachhead in  Europe  as it seeks
to expand beyond  Latin America , where it’s the biggest mobile-phone company. The move also threatens to unravel an 8.1
billion-euro cash-and-stock agreement by KPN to sell its German
unit, E-Plus, to  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which competes with America
Movil in Latin America.  Moody’s said yesterday the KPN offer may force it to cut
Mexico City-based America Movil’s rating at least one level from
A2, or five levels above non-investment grade.  All Scenarios  If all of The Hague-based KPN’s other investors took
America Movil’s offer and the company financed the transaction
with debt, its ratio of debt to adjusted earnings would rise as
high as 2.5, above the 1.5 threshold for an A2 rating, Moody’s
said in a statement.  “We have a plan that covers all the scenarios,” whether
only 21 percent of KPN shareholders accept the offer or all of
them do, Garcia-Moreno said. Once the company begins the tender
offer next month, it will have to be open for eight weeks under
Dutch regulations, meaning America Movil has three months from
now to prepare for various outcomes, he said.  Fitch Ratings  said last week the KPN offer puts America
Movil’s credit under “modest pressure.” It also rates the
company at five levels above junk. Standard & Poor’s rates
America Movil at A-, four levels above non-investment grade.  Garcia-Moreno declined to comment on the sale of E-Plus.  Seeking Leverage  KPN and Telefonica didn’t secure America Movil’s backing
before the E-Plus transaction was announced July 23. America
Movil Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hajj said on a July 26
conference call that the company will decide whether to support
the German deal when the terms are presented to shareholders.  Slim is moving on KPN as he seeks leverage to get a higher
price for E-Plus or to block the deal, two people familiar with
the billionaire’s plans said, asking not to be named as the
discussions are confidential. The next step may be renegotiating
the terms with Telefonica, one of the people said.  KPN would get 5 billion euros in cash and a 17.6 percent in
the entity created from the combination of E-Plus and  Telefonica
Deutschland Holding AG. (O2D)   Telefonica’s offer for E-Plus is final, spokeswoman Marisa Navas said Aug. 11. A counterbid for KPN is unlikely because of
how that might impact the Madrid-based carrier’s own debt
rating, said three people involved with discussions on the
Spanish company’s strategy. They asked not to be named because
the deliberations are private.  Telecom Italia  This isn’t the first time Slim, 73, has battled with Cesar Alierta, the 68-year-old Telefonica chief executive officer,
over European assets. Alierta thwarted the America Movil
chairman’s attempt to buy a stake in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  in 2007.
Telefonica is now the single biggest investor in  Italy ’s biggest
phone company.  Last year, Alierta failed in blocking Slim from taking a 28
percent stake in KPN. Telefonica and KPN had reached a deal for
the Spanish company to buy the stake Slim was after and combine
their German businesses, a person familiar with the matter said
at the time.  Credit-rating  companies warned Telefonica that it
could be downgraded to junk if it were to take on any more debt,
scuttling the talks, the person said.  America Movil rose less than 1 percent to 13.24 pesos at
9:35 a.m. in Mexico City. The shares have dropped 11 percent
this year through yesterday. KPN is up 0.3 percent to 2.34 in
Amsterdam. It’s risen 26 percent since the German deal’s
announcement. Telefonica  gained  0.4 percent to 10.95 euros in
 Madrid , and is up about 6 percent since July 23.  Yields on America Movil dollar bonds rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.26 percent in  New York .
They’re up 15 basis points in the past two trading days.  “ America Movil  cares about its rating,” Garcia-Moreno
said. “It has the best ratings in the telecom sector, and we
value them a lot. Our internal restriction is, whenever we do a
purchase, a big acquisition, to always look at what we have to
do so it doesn’t affect our ratings. We have 12 years of track
record and we’ve done very big transactions over time. We have
an excellent record of ratings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  