-- U.S. Stocks Gain, Treasuries Fall on Data as Yen Weakens
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-08-13T20:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/asian-futures-rise-as-yen-extends-drop-silver-holds-gain.html
U.S. stocks and the dollar rose
while Treasuries slid as retail sales data reinforced signals
the economy is expanding moderately. European shares climbed to
the highest level since May as German investor confidence topped
estimates, while gold weakened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York , erasing an earlier loss, while the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index advanced 0.6 percent. Apple Inc. rallied to the highest
since Jan. 23 after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  disclosed a
“large position” in the stock. The yield on 10-year Treasuries
rose 10 basis points to 2.72 percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar
Index added 0.5 percent and the yen fell versus all of its 16
major peers. Gold lost 1 percent, halting a four-session rally.  U.S. retail sales rose for a fourth consecutive month in
July, showing American households are regaining momentum as
employment climbs. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research’s index of investor and analyst expectations rose to 42
in August, more than the 39.9 median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is mulling
a  tax cut  for companies, the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing
unidentified government officials.  “The general tenor of economic news has been somewhat
positive and so perhaps there are some bargain hunters who are
coming into the market after some days of correction,”  John Carey , a  fund manager  at Boston-based Pioneer Investment
Management Inc., said by phone. His firm oversees $211.5
billion. “I don’t know that we’re going to have a roaring
recovery anytime soon, but the economy does seem to be
advancing, slowly but certainly advancing, and that I think has
sunk in finally.”  The  S&P 500   erased  earlier losses of as much as 0.4
percent, extending to a ninth day a trend where it reached its
lowest point before noon, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
gauge rallied an average of 0.45 percent from its morning low to
the close during the eight days through yesterday.  Financial Stocks  Hewlett-Packard Co. rose 2.1 percent after being added to
Citigroup Inc.’s focus list. Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup
jumped more than 0.7 percent after analyst Dick Bove said the
stocks would double. D.R. Horton Inc. and PulteGroup Inc.
dropped more than 1.5 percent as homebuilders slid amid rising
interest rates. U.S. Airways Group Inc. sank 13 percent after
the  Justice Department  recommended blocking a planned merger
with  American Airlines .  Apple rallied 4.8 percent, giving technology shares the
biggest gain among 10 groups in the S&P 500. Icahn said in a
Twitter post that Apple shares are extremely undervalued and the
company should conduct a large buyback. The company will unveil
a new iPhone at a Sept. 10 event, according to a person familiar
with its plans.  Fed Stimulus  The S&P 500  fell  0.1 yesterday, its fifth drop in the past
six days after closing at a record on Aug. 2, amid growing
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will pare bond purchases this
year as the economy strengthens. Fed officials have been
scrutinizing data to determine whether growth is strong enough
to curtail stimulus.  Charles Evans ,  Sandra Pianalto  and  Richard Fisher , regional
Fed presidents in Chicago, Cleveland and Dallas, said last week
that policy makers may be closer to tapering debt buying.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart , who has
backed the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, said
today that policy makers may start to slow buying at any of
their next few meetings amid “uneven performance” by the
economy.  Retail Sales  The 0.2 percent increase in U.S. retail sales last month
followed a 0.6 percent gain in June that was larger than
previously reported, according to Commerce Department figures
issued today in Washington. The median forecast of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent advance.  Treasuries dropped the most in more than a week as the
retail sales report added to speculation the economy is
strengthening enough for the Fed to reduce its bond-buying
program.  The S&P 500 will climb 8 percent to 1,825 in the next 12
months as economic growth gains momentum, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  David Kostin , the bank’s chief U.S. equity
strategist, recommends buying shares of companies that generate
most of their revenue domestically.  ‘Better Economy’  “The real issue to focus on is that rising interest rates
are a reflection of a better economy,” Kostin said in a
Bloomberg Television interview from New York. “The best
strategy right now would be here, in the U.S., from now until
the end of the year.”  The Stoxx 600 climbed for a fourth day, as two shares
advanced for every one that declined. EON SE jumped 3 percent
after Germany’s biggest utility beat analyst earnings estimates.
GAM Holding AG, the Swiss asset manager that split from Julius
Baer Group Ltd. almost four years ago, rallied 9.7 percent as
profit more than tripled.  The yen depreciated 1.3 percent to 98.16 per dollar and 1
percent per euro, the most in eight weeks. Europe’s shared
currency slipped 0.3 percent to $1.3264.  Gold futures for December delivery fell 1 percent to
$1,320.50 an ounce on the Comex in New York, after advancing 4
percent in the previous four sessions. The commodity has slumped
21 percent this year.  Crude advanced for a third day, with West Texas
Intermediate rising 0.7 percent to $106.83 a barrel, as German
investor confidence and U.S. retail sales bolstered optimism
that economic growth and energy demand will accelerate.  Europe Yields  Germany’s benchmark 10-year bund yield gained 11 basis
points to 1.81 percent. Spain’s yield spread over Germany fell
nine basis points to 269 basis points after reaching 265, the
tightest since August 2011.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds
declined, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 investment-grade companies decreasing 1 basis point
to 94.7 basis points.  High-yield (BEUH)  corporate bonds rose for a 12th
day in Europe, the longest stretch of gains since April, pushing
borrowing costs down to the lowest in more than two months.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 0.8 percent,
advancing for a fourth day in the longest rally in almost four
weeks. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index jumped 2.6 percent
to a two-month high. Russia’s Micex Index climbed 1.4 percent
and India’s Sensex gained 1.5 percent. Benchmark gauges in  South
Korea ,  Taiwan , Indonesia, Thailand and the  Philippines  increased
at least 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  