-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Rise as China Developers Gain
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-12T09:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/asia-stocks-fall-as-yen-strengthens-after-japan-gdp-data.html
Asian  stocks  outside  Japan  rose as
Chinese property developers and resources companies climbed.
Japanese shares fell after economic growth in the world’s third-largest economy slowed more than forecast.  Raw-materials suppliers  paced gains on the regional
equities index.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner,
jumped 2.4 percent in Sydney. China Resources Land Ltd., the
second-largest mainland developer traded in  Hong Kong , rose 2.3
percent amid speculation the government will relax a ban on
companies raising funds through share sales.  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ,
Japan’s No. 1 tiremaker, advanced 2.8 percent after raising its
full-year profit forecast.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific excluding Japan Index advanced 0.8
percent to 443.98 as of 6:30 p.m. in  Tokyo . Eight out of 10
groups on the gauge rose, with more than two stocks climbing for
each that dropped. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , now with
the cheapest valuation of the world’s top 10 stock markets,
added 2.4 percent to close at its highest since June 19.  “The rest of the year will be better for the Chinese
market because expectations got so low,”  Daphne Roth ,
Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN Amro Private
Bank, which oversees about $207 billion, said by telephone.
“That’s why we’re still overweight on Chinese equities and
valuations are among the cheapest. With expectations so low,
it’s quite easy for the market to outperform.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 2.1 percent, closing at
its highest level since June 4. The Hang Seng retreated 3.8
percent this year through last week, the only decline among
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg, amid concern China’s
economic growth is slowing and speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will pare U.S. bond purchases.  China Shares  Trading volume on the Shanghai Composite Index was 43
percent higher than its 30-day average. The index is valued at
8.5 times 12-month projected earnings, compared with the five-year average of 12.7 times, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.
That is the lowest among the world’s 10 leading stock markets.
The index slumped 9.6 percent this year through Aug. 9.  Investors are “increasingly willing to acknowledge China
stocks’ inexpensive valuations as the country’s macro
environment stops deteriorating,”  Michael Kurtz , head of global
equity strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in an e-mail.  Japan’s Topix index fell 0.6 percent. Japan’s economy
expanded an annualized 2.6 percent in the second quarter,
slowing from a revised 3.8 percent in the previous three months.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was
for 3.6 percent growth.  Japan Earnings  Japan’s top-listed companies doubled earnings last quarter
from a year earlier, with profit rising 103 percent and beating
analysts’ estimates by 16 percent, the most in two years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies topping estimates range
from Toyota and Sony Corp. to Shiseido Co. and Kobe Steel Ltd.  Even after falling for the past three months, the Topix is
still up 32 percent this year, retaining Japan’s position as the
world’s best-performing developed equity market. The measure has
risen amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through
reforms while the  Bank of Japan  provides record stimulus in a
bid to ignite a recovery in Asia’s second-largest economy.  “I’m relatively cautious on the stock market,”  Takuji Okubo , chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors in Tokyo, told
Bloomberg TV. “Next year there is a chance that Japan goes into
a recession, and the financial markets usually see that half a
year in advance. I would expect the stock market to be peaking
now.”  U.S. Futures  South Korea’s  Kospi index  today advanced 0.2 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1.1 percent, while New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.3 percent. Singapore’s Straits
Times Index gained 0.1 percent, and Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose
0.6 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.6
percent. The U.S. benchmark gauge dropped 0.4 percent in  New
York  on Aug. 9 after investors pulled money from exchange-traded
funds and as signs of economic recovery added to concern the Fed
will cut stimulus this year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the regional benchmark gauge
that includes Japanese shares, last week declined 1.3 percent,
snapping the longest streak of weekly gains since January. About
50 percent of member companies that have posted profits this
earnings season beat analysts’ estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  That left the benchmark regional equities gauge trading at
12.9 times estimated earnings through the end of last week,
compared with 15.3 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 13.9
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  BHP, Rio  Raw-material and energy shares paced gains across the Asia-Pacific region.  BHP Billiton  added 2.4 percent to A$36.81, while
and Rio Tinto Group rose 2.6 percent to A$61.83 in Sydney.
Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
jumped 7 percent to HK$15.22 in Hong Kong.  Bridgestone gained 2.8 percent to 3,445 yen in Tokyo. The
tiremaker raised its net-income forecast for the full year to
246 billion yen ($2.5 billion) from 235 billion.  Citizen Holdings Co. surged 17 percent to 640 yen, the most
in 37 years, after the watchmaker boosted its net-income
outlook.  Chinese developers climbed amid speculation the government
will relax a ban on companies raising funds through share sales.
 China  Resources Land rose 2.3 percent to HK$22.60. Evergrande
Real Estate Group Ltd. added 2.5 percent to HK$3.25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  