-- Broad Bowls England to Ashes Cricket Series Win Over Australia
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-13T01:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/australia-needs-288-runs-to-win-4th-cricket-test-against-england.html
Stuart Broad  took six wickets in 45
balls as England beat  Australia  by 74 runs in the fourth cricket
Test to clinch its third straight Ashes series victory.  Broad claimed all his six wickets after tea on day four at
Chester-le-Street, England, to finish with career-best match
figures of 11-121. Chasing 299 for the victory, Australia
reached 168-2 before collapsing to 224 all out yesterday.  The win put England 3-0 up in the best-of-five contest with
one game remaining, giving it three consecutive Test series
victories against Australia for the first time since 1956. The
home team had already retained the Ashes by winning the first
two matches, with the third ending in a draw.  “As players we have a real determination to win Ashes
series,” Broad said yesterday in a news conference. “There is
a group in there who have won three from three and there is a
real hunger in there that you want to achieve more.”  The final Test starts Aug. 21 at the Oval in London, with
the teams scheduled to meet in another five-match series in
Australia starting Nov. 21 in Brisbane.  The Australians have lost seven of their past eight elite
matches, having been swept 4-0 in India in March. Without a win
since beating  Sri Lanka  in January,  Michael Clarke ’s team will
drop to fifth in the  International Cricket Council ’s Test
rankings behind Pakistan unless it beats England at the Oval.  “The most difficult thing to take is that our preparation
and training has been excellent,” Clarke said. “At the moment
we are being outplayed.”  First-Innings Lead  The latest defeat came after Australia took a 32-run lead
on the first innings by posting 270 in reply to England’s 238.
Fast bowler  Ryan Harris  finished with 7-117 as England made 330
in its second innings yesterday.  Tim Bresnan ’s 45 and Graeme Swann’s unbeaten 30 helped push
England’s lead to almost 300. Ian Bell top scored with 113
before being bowled by Harris after England started the day 202
runs ahead.  Australia’s run chase began well as opening batsmen  David Warner  and  Chris Rogers  combined for 109 before the tea break.  Warner’s dismissal, caught behind off Bresnan for 71, was
the first of eight Australian wickets to fall for 56 runs as
five of the last seven batsmen failed to reach double figures.  The collapse was derided in the Australian media today.
Under the headline: “Choking: It’s Australian for cricket,”
the Sydney-based  Daily Telegraph  said on its website that
“Australia’s fragile batsmen turned the sniff of victory into
the now familiar stench of defeat.”  Runs Required  Clarke said the capitulation was “extremely
disappointing” and that the batsmen would need to improve ahead
of the return series in Australia.  “Our bowlers are doing a fantastic job but I don’t think
we are making enough runs,” said Clarke, who was bowled by
Broad for 21. “I am no different to any other batter in that
order. My job is first and foremost to score runs and I only
made 25 in this Test and that’s unacceptable.”  England captain  Alastair Cook  said Broad’s final-session
bowling burst, in which he removed six batsmen for 20 runs, had
turned the match around. The right-armer wrapped up the victory
at about 7:40 p.m. local time by having  Peter Siddle  caught.  “It was a fine spell of bowling,” Cook said. “If we lost
that session we would have been struggling. Broady knew that and
the lads knew that. He really charged in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  