-- Autism Risk May Be Raised for Children When Labor Induced
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-08-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/autism-risk-may-be-raised-for-children-when-labor-induced.html
Boys born to mothers who needed
their doctor to start or help along the birth may have a higher
risk of autism, a study found.  Boys whose mothers had labors that were induced, which
stimulates the uterus to bring on contractions, or augmented,
which increases the strength, duration and frequency of
contractions, had a 35 percent greater risk of autism then
children whose mothers didn’t need those procedures to help the
births, according to research in  JAMA Pediatrics .  The study released yesterday is the largest to examine the
potential link between birth procedures and autism and to find
that males may be more affected than females, said Simon
Gregory, the lead author. While  induced  labors help reduce
deaths among mothers and babies, more studies are needed to
better understand why these procedures may raise autism risk, he
said.  “The study shows there is an elevated risk around
augmentation and induction, however we haven’t found cause and
effect,”  Gregory , an associate professor of medicine and
medical genetics at Duke University Medical Center in Durham,
North Carolina, said in a telephone interview. “The results
don’t dictate there be any change in any clinical practices
surrounding birth. The dangers to the mothers and the infants by
not inducting or augmenting far outweigh the elevated risk for
development of autism.”  Gregory said multiple issues may contribute to the higher
autism risk such as the woman’s health, the unborn child’s
health, the reason for labor to be induced or augmented and
other drugs being used at the time of childbirth.  North Carolina Children  Researchers in the study looked at the records of all
births in  North Carolina  over eight years, matching 625,042 with
public school records that stated if the child was diagnosed
with autism.  About 1.3 percent of male children and 0.4 percent of
female children received an autism diagnosis over the study.
Among both sexes, the percentage of moms who had induced or
augmented labor was higher among kids with autism than those
without.  The study found that male children whose mothers’ labor was
induced and augmented had a higher risk of autism even after
factoring in the mother’s age and pregnancy complications. Male
children were also more at risk for autism if the mother’s labor
was either induced or augmented, while female children had an
increased risk only if their mother’s labor was augmented, the
researchers said.  Fetal Distress  The study showed that children later diagnosed with autism
more often had a birth in which they had fetal distress.  One in 50 U.S. children are diagnosed with autism or a
related disorder, according to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention. Children with autism may be unresponsive to
people, become indifferent to social activity and have
communication difficulties.  “Over the last decade or so, it has become clear that a
combination of genetic and environmental risk factors contribute
to risk for autism,” Alycia Halladay, senior director of
environmental and clinical sciences at Autism Speaks, an
advocacy organization, said in a statement. “It is important
for research to identify these risk factors so that the impact
of these factors can be prevented. This is a provocative finding
that calls for more research on the use of induction and
augmentation during labor as a potential risk factor for
autism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  