-- Deutsche Bank Said to Face Bafin Call Over Libor Rigging
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-12T15:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/bafin-said-to-finalize-first-deutsche-bank-libor-report.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may be told as soon
as this month by the German financial regulator to improve its
controls to prevent a repeat of attempts to manipulate benchmark
interest rates, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Bafin is finalizing its first report into the rigging of
Libor and similar benchmarks and will submit it to the
Frankfurt-based lender as soon as this month, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the review isn’t public.
Bafin will present its findings to Deutsche Bank management,
telling them to adhere to standards set by the regulator, the
person said.  The report is part of a broader investigation by Bafin into
allegations that traders at Deutsche Bank tried to manipulate
rates. Under its rules, Bafin cannot publish the findings or
disclose actions it takes on individual banks without the
lender’s consent. The regulator will oversee how the measures
are implemented.  The move may bring the bank closer to facing fines from
U.S., U.K. and EU regulators, who are waiting on the German
watchdog to finish their reviews.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc have paid a total of about $2.5
billion in fines for colluding to rig benchmark interest rates
for profit or to mask their true cost of borrowing.  Trader Oversight  Bafin is in the final stages of reviewing the report,
compiled by the Bundesbank,  Germany ’s central bank, on whether
Deutsche Bank’s systems and controls failed to prevent traders
from trying to manipulate rates to benefit their own trades, the
person said. The Bundesbank investigators looked at who at the
bank had oversight of the traders reporting rates, whether rate
reporting procedures required two people to look at submissions,
and how transparent the processes were, according to the person.  Deutsche Bank shares gained 0.4 percent closing at 34.30
euros in  Frankfurt .  Bafin’s press office declined to comment.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment on the report. He said the bank is
cooperating with regulatory investigations and conducting its
own review into the allegations.  “As per the current status of investigations, we can say
that no current or former member of the management board had any
inappropriate involvement in the interbank offered rates matters
under review,” Streckert said. The bank “has also found that
certain employees, acting on their own initiative, engaged in
conduct that falls short of the bank’s standards, and action has
been taken accordingly.”  Bafin has also commissioned an auditor to look into
possible wrongdoing by Deutsche Bank staff and management. That
inquiry, testing findings of the lender’s own internal
investigation, is ongoing and will yield a separate report, the
person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  