-- Bankers Returning as Kiwi Diaspora Lured Home by Prospects: Jobs
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-12T23:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/bankers-returning-as-kiwi-diaspora-lured-home-by-prospects-jobs.html
David Lewis considered jobs in
 Australia  and Asia before moving back to his homeland of New
Zealand in February after more than a decade abroad.  “Things in the New Zealand economy were looking much more
positive than they’d been for a while, particularly in financial
services,” said Lewis, 34, who worked for Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch in Sydney for three years before joining
fund manager Milford Asset Management Ltd. in Auckland.
“Australia had a great period for a long time with the
resources boom, but as that started to mature, it was clear
there were challenges.”  New Zealand’s growth rate is forecast to outpace
Australia’s for the next two years, helping stem an exodus
that’s resulted in the highest proportion of its people living
overseas in the developed world after Ireland. While the return
of workers to rebuild quake-devastated Christchurch will help
ease labor shortages, the influx adds to the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand’s worries about overheating the booming housing market.  “The RBNZ will be watching migration flows to Auckland
with increasing nervousness, as the already hot housing market
needs no further demand stimulus,” said Mark Smith, senior
economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. Prices in
Auckland rose 14 percent in July from a year ago, the Real
Estate Institute said yesterday.  Permanent arrivals exceeded departures in June by the most
in more than four years, according to the statistics bureau.
Arrivals from Australia were the highest since records began in
1996, while departures were the lowest since September 2010.  Economic Momentum  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler on July 25 noted
“growing momentum” in the housing market and rapid house-price
inflation in Auckland and Christchurch. He said he expects to
keep the benchmark interest rate at a record-low 2.5 percent
through the end of the year, and that “removal of monetary
stimulus will likely be needed in the future.”  Traders are betting Wheeler will raise rates as early as
January while Australia’s move in the opposite direction. New
Zealand’s currency rose to 89.3 Australian cents on Aug. 1, the
highest since late October 2008, as investors bet the Reserve
Bank of Australia will cut borrowing costs below New Zealand’s
by the end of the year. It bought 87.5 Australian cents at 11:45
a.m. in Wellington.  Wheeler personifies the trend of returning expats. He took
his post last year after working overseas for 15 years,
including 13 years at the World Bank.  Prime Minister John Key worked abroad from 1995 to 2001 as
a senior foreign exchange manager at Merrill Lynch. As
opposition leader in 2008, Key pledged to revive the economy and
stop the exodus, recording a pre-election advertisement in an
empty 35,000-seat stadium to highlight the number of people
leaving for Australia each year.  Outflow Slows  The outflow declined to about 31,250 in the year ended June
30, from a record 39,800 in the prior 12 months.  Many of the nation’s young have been attracted to Australia
by opportunities in a country with about five times New
Zealand’s 4.4 million people and an economy 10 times larger. In
2011, there were at least 700,000 New Zealanders living
overseas, equivalent to 16 percent of the nation’s population.
That compares with about a quarter in Ireland.  Since 1973, Australia and New Zealand each have admitted
the other’s citizens to visit, live and work without the need to
apply for authority to enter. More than a quarter of New
Zealand’s university graduates in 2003 left for at least a year
before 2010, and 15 percent were still overseas at the end of
that year, according to a Labor Department  report .  Quicker Growth  New Zealand’s economy is forecast to grow 2.6 percent this
year and 2.9 percent in 2014, faster than Australia’s 2.5
percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2014, Bloomberg surveys of
economists show. Australia’s Treasurer Chris Bowen on Aug. 2 cut
the estimate for his country’s growth for the year to June 30 to
2.5 percent from 2.75 percent seen May 14.  New Zealand employers are expected to add about 94,000  jobs 
in the two years through March 2015, the central bank forecast
in June. That would be the most since 101,000 were created in
the two years ended June 2007. By contrast, Bowen forecasts
Australia’s unemployment will rise to a more than decade-high
6.25 percent.  Pete Gillespie, co-founder of Wellington brewery  Garage
Project , spent 20 years overseas, including stints at beer
makers in the U.K. and in Sydney. When planning to set up his
own business, he said he was discouraged by legal obstacles in
New South Wales, Australia’s most populous state.  “The bureaucracy was appalling and in the end we came over
here,” he said. “There was an element of lifestyle. But the
main motivation was the business opportunity.”  Companies Shifting  Companies are also recognizing opportunities to relocate to
New Zealand, where wages are 40 percent lower than Australia’s.
Melbourne-based CallActive is establishing a call center in
Wellington, the capital, where it says it can offer customers a
30 percent cost saving, according to its website. It expects to
hire as many as 200.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
in May said it would move 70 call-center jobs to Wellington.  In the year ended in June, a net 7,900 people settled in
New Zealand permanently. Annual migration may accelerate to
20,000 by early next year, exceeding earlier forecasts of 13,000
by mid-2014, the  Treasury Department  said in an Aug. 6 report.  That’s a reversal from two years ago, when as many as 4,600
people a month left for Australia in the wake of the February
2011 earthquake in Christchurch, which killed 185 people and
destroyed more than 6,000 homes. Now the NZ$40 billion ($32
billion) rebuilding of the city and the surrounding Canterbury
region is luring foreign laborers and expats.  Canterbury Boom  Employment in Canterbury rose by 16,800 in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the nation’s statistics agency said
Aug. 7. The second-quarter jobless rate in Canterbury was 4.4
percent compared with 6.4 percent nationwide.  “Canterbury was the initial source of growth but it takes
time for that to convert into jobs,” said  Craig Ebert , senior
economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “We would
be surprised if we didn’t see more generalized jobs growth
nationally over the next 12 to 18 months.”  New Zealand is also proving more attractive for bankers.
Vacancies listed in banking, finance and life insurance rose 10
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to
Trade Me Ltd., the nation’s most-visited jobs website.  Trading on the kiwi exchange in the six months through June
surged 56 percent from a year earlier, buoyed by the initial
public offerings of companies such as state-owned Mighty River
Power Ltd.  IPO Boost  Recent listings “are important for momentum in the
industry and for putting New Zealand on the map more for
international investors,” said Milford’s Lewis, who helps
manage an income fund of bonds and high yielding stocks.  The benchmark  NZX-50 (NZSE50FG)  index has gained 11 percent this year,
the best performer in Asia ex-Japan and beating the S&P/ASX 200
index’s 9.9 percent gain.  “In terms of investment banking, the teams over here are
busier than they are in Australia,” said Patrick Nugent,
resourcing manager at Debbie Graham and Consultants Ltd., a
Auckland-based recruitment firm that specializes in financial
services. “The feeling in Australia is that the economy is
softening.”  For those seeking regional roles, New Zealand is not an
option.  Sue Trinh , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Hong Kong, moved from Wellington to Sydney seven years
ago and transferred to Asia in 2010. She said she has no plans
to ever settle in New Zealand again, citing brighter job and
lifestyle prospects in Sydney.  “Financially, the opportunities are far greater that they
are in New Zealand,” she said. “Home for me is Sydney now. I
can’t see myself going back to New Zealand to settle down.”  Employment Outlook  Diane Grayson shifted to Wellington from her hometown of
Sunderland in the U.K. with her husband in November, not wanting
her two young children to grow up in a region of high
unemployment. Now the general manager of the Wellington unit of
 Regus Plc (RGU) , the world’s largest operator of serviced offices,
Grayson asked for an overseas position after five years working
for the company in the U.K.  “Regus offered Australia straight away, there were plenty
of positions there and I could have got there much faster but I
held out for New Zealand,” she said, encouraged by experiences
enjoyed by two relatives who moved there in the early 1980s.
“That was top of our list.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  