-- Barcelona Prepares Move for Chelsea’s Luiz, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-08-12T10:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/barcelona-prepares-move-for-chelsea-s-luiz-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Luiz Linked  Barcelona will make a final offer for Chelsea defender
 David Luiz  this week as the Brazilian plans to meet with new
Blues manager  Jose Mourinho  to discuss his future,  the Daily
Mirror said.   The Spanish club had its first offer rejected last week,
the newspaper said. The defender will meet with his coach today,
and Chelsea isn’t planning to sell him during the current
transfer window, the Mirror said.  Agger Move?  Daniel Agger ’s agents have said the Liverpool defender is
open to a move to Barcelona,  the Daily Mail said.   The Spanish team made a 15 million-pound ($23.2 million)
bid for Liverpool’s vice-captain, who coach  Brendan Rodgers  says
will stay with the Reds, the newspaper said. A bid from
Barcelona depends on the offer for Chelsea’s Luiz, the Mail
said.  Back-up Plan  Chelsea will continue to try to sign  Manchester United 
forward  Wayne Rooney  but is preparing a bid for Anzhi
Makhachkala striker Samuel Eto’o,  the Daily Express said.   The west London club is ready to bid 28 million pounds for
the United player, the newspaper said. Mourinho in the last two
days has made enquiries about Eto’o, whose Russian club may sell
him for 5 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Rooney didn’t play in yesterday’s 2-0 Community Shield
victory over Wigan, and has been training with United’s
reserves, the Express said.  No Apologies  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  won’t apologize to teammates
or supporters after requesting a transfer from the Reds,  the
Mirror said.   The team has refused to sell the player, with Arsenal
bidding 40 million pounds for the 26-year-old. He says he had a
gentleman’s agreement with Liverpool that he could leave if the
club failed to make the  Champions League , the newspaper said.  Arsenal is trying to set up talks with Liverpool after
making Suarez its main target this transfer window as manager
Arsene Wenger believes that the Reds may be forced to sell the
unhappy player, the newspaper said.  Arsenal Signing?  Wenger is close to signing Bayern Munich defensive
midfielder Luiz Gustavo before the start of the Premier League
season next weekend, the Daily Telegraph said.  Arsenal will pay 14 million pounds for the Brazilian, who
is frustrated at not being a first-team regular with the German
and European champion, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  