-- Blackstone Said to Acquire GE Apartments for $2.7 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-08-12T21:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/blackstone-said-to-acquire-ge-apartments-for-2-7-billion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest
manager of private-equity real estate funds, agreed to buy 80
U.S. apartment properties from  General Electric Co. (GE)  for about
$2.7 billion, a person with knowledge of the deal said.  The firm is acquiring the properties from the
conglomerate’s  GE Capital  unit, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the transaction isn’t public. GE has
been paring its real estate holdings as part of a strategy to
shrink its finance division.  The deal represents one of the largest investments by
Blackstone in apartments in the U.S., where surging rental
demand has sent  vacancies  to the lowest level in a decade,
according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)  In residential real estate, New York-based Blackstone has focused on buying single-family homes to
rent, spending more than $5 billion to acquire more than 30,000
U.S. houses in the aftermath of the foreclosure crisis.  The firm’s latest purchase comes as apartment stocks, one
of the best performers during the recovery in commercial real
estate since the credit crisis, have fallen from their highs.
The Bloomberg Apartment Real Estate Investment Trust Index has
declined 1.4 percent during the past 12 months, compared with a
gain of 9.6 percent for the broader Bloomberg REIT Index and a
23 percent return for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after the
reinvestment of dividends.  Blackstone had been in talks in 2011 to buy all or parts of
Archstone, the U.S. apartment landlord that ultimately was sold
by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to  Equity Residential (EQR)  and
 AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)   Carlyle Purchases  Carlyle Group LP, the second-largest private-equity firm by
assets, has been one of the most active buyout companies in the
apartment market. As of March, Washington-based Carlyle had
invested in about 50 multifamily projects in the past two years,
spending about $2.5 billion to bet on rising residential rents.  Blackstone is stepping up wagers on apartments as it sells
its biggest hotel, office and retail holdings. The company has
filed for initial public offerings of its Brixmor Property Group
shopping center unit and Extended Stay America hotel chain. It
hired bankers for an IPO of Hilton Worldwide Inc. and possible
IPO or sale of its La Quinta limited-service hotels, people with
knowledge of the plans have said.  Blackstone is the largest owner of hotel rooms in the
country, and the second-biggest owner of office buildings,
according to National Real Estate Investor. The firm also is a
major holder of industrial and retail assets.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, and
Patrick Brennan, a GE Capital spokesman, declined to comment.
The deal was reported earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  