-- Blackstone Gets $1 Billion From Fidelity for Mutual Fund
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-08-12T22:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/blackstone-gets-1-billion-from-fidelity-for-mutual-fund.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the money-management firm seeking to attract more individual investors,
raised almost $1 billion from  Fidelity Investments  for its
mutual fund that will invest in  hedge funds , Fidelity said.  Fidelity, based in  Boston , is offering the Blackstone
Alternative Multi-Manager Fund as part of its Portfolio Advisory
Service, which manages money on behalf of wealthy clients.
Blackstone has an exclusive agreement with Fidelity for an
undisclosed period covering individual investors, and can offer
the fund of funds to its institutional clients, according to a
person briefed on the deal, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Blackstone, based in New York, joins peers Carlyle Group LP
and KKR & Co. in starting offerings that can be marketed to
individuals as the leveraged-buyout industry seeks to broaden
its client base. The firm, which oversaw $229.6 billion in
assets as of the end of the second quarter, said in June it was
planning a mutual fund aimed at smaller investors.  “In the three years we have been planning for this product
launch, we have built a very solid relationship with Fidelity,”
Tom Hill, chief executive officer of Blackstone Alternative
Asset Management, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Like Blackstone, Fidelity is a leader in the asset-management industry and has a history of providing great value
to its clients,” said Hill, who declined to comment beyond the
statement.  The fund has an annual expense ratio of 3.25 percent, which
includes a management fee of 1.95 percent, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Alternatives Allocation  Money managers with allocations from Blackstone are Two
Sigma Advisers LLC, Cerberus Sub-Advisory I LLC, Credit Suisse
Hedging-Griffo Servicos Internacionais SA, HealthCor Management
LP, Caspian Capital LP, Boussard & Gavaudan Asset Management LP,
Wellington Management Co., Good Hill Partners LP, BTG Pactual
Asset Management U.S., Chatham Asset Management LLC and Nephila
Capital Ltd., according to a  fund filing  last month.  Fidelity managed about $104 billion through its portfolio
advisory service as of June 30, said Nicole Goodnow, a
spokeswoman. Fidelity has discretion over the management of the
accounts, which require a minimum investment of $50,000, and the
allocation to alternatives is typically 3 percent to 5 percent,
she said.  The Blackstone partnership is the second such
multistrategy, multimanager alternative mutual fund offered
through Fidelity’s managed-account program, which last year
started investing in the $989 million Arden Alternative
Strategies Fund.  The Fidelity program charges clients an annual advisory fee
ranging from 0.25 percent to 1.7 percent of “eligible assets
invested,” according to the firm’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  