-- Brazil Delays Bullet Train in Wake of Bus Protests
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-08-12T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/brazil-delays-bullet-train-in-wake-of-bus-protests.html
President  Dilma Rousseff  is delaying
the auction of a proposed high-speed passenger train that would
link Brazil’s two biggest cities in the wake of street protests
over the government’s inability to deliver basic services.  The auction, which was originally scheduled for next month,
was delayed for at least a year to give potential investors more
time to prepare a bid, Transportation Minister Cesar Borges told
reporters in Brasilia today. He didn’t provide a new date,
saying only that it could take place after next year’s
presidential election.  Millions of Brazilians took to the streets in June to
protest an increase in bus fares that become a rallying cry for
frustration with the quality of health care, education and urban
transport in Latin America’s biggest economy. Even as Brazil
spends 30 billion reais ($13.1 billion) on stadiums and related
projects to host the 2014  World Cup , families are saddled with
some of the world’s highest transportation costs and  inflation 
of over 4.5 percent since 2010.  “This is one of those pharaonic projects that has no basis
in reality,”  Adriano Pires , the head of the Brazilian Center
for Infrastructure, a consulting firm in Rio de Janeiro, said in
a phone interview. “Delaying the auction is synonymous with
killing it. Following the protests, the government doesn’t have
the courage to go forward with such an unpopular project.”  Auction Delays  A bullet train connecting Rio de Janeiro and  Sao Paulo  was
 conceived  during the 1964-1985 military dictatorship, when there
was a proliferation of mega-projects including a 13-kilometer
bridge and a highway cutting through the Amazon rain forest.  Former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  and his then
cabinet chief Rousseff dusted off the project during the global
financial crisis, saying the train could be operational by the
time Rio hosts the 2016 Olympics.  Since then, the auction has been delayed several times due
to a lack of investor interest while the proposed budget has
more than doubled to its current 36 billion reais. That’s about
equal to what the federal government planned to spend on
education this year.  Borges today said the deadline for the train to begin
service is 2020.  The government insists that the demand for the project is
strong. Currently there is no rail link between Sao Paulo and
Rio, meaning the more than 17.5 million residents of the two
cities have to either travel more than five hours by coach or
face frequent delays at the cities’ over-crowded airports.  The bullet train would cut travel time between the two
cities to about 90 minutes.  Companies including  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , France’s  Alstom
SA (ALO)  and Spain’s state-owned rail company Renfe had expressed
interest in the project, Borges said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  