-- BTG’s Lower Bonuses Portend More Bank Cuts on M&A Decline
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-08-12T20:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/btg-s-lower-bonuses-portend-more-bank-cuts-on-m-a-decline.html
Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
investment bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , is cutting
bonuses amid sliding revenue and the slowest market for mergers
and acquisitions in six years.  Provisions for bonuses, which are paid to all employees of
the Sao Paulo-based bank, fell 31 percent to 426 million reais
($188 million) in the first half of 2013 from a year earlier,
the company said in a statement last week. They dropped 45
percent in the second quarter from the first.  BTG,  Brazil ’s biggest M&A adviser, predicted in January
that merger volume would surge as much as 40 percent this year.
Instead, takeovers through July plunged to the lowest level
since 2007 as the outlook for economic growth worsened. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and Barclays Plc have responded with
staff reductions in Brazil, and more lenders may follow BTG in
lowering bonuses, according to Renata Fabrini, a partner at
executive-search firm Fesa.  “When one bank starts to pay less, the others tend to
follow, because they aren’t afraid anymore of losing executives
to the competition,” Fabrini said in an interview from  Sao
Paulo .  BTG’s  revenue  fell 17 percent in the first half to 2.7
billion reais. The revenue figure BTG uses to calculate bonuses
declined 46 percent from the first quarter to the second, when
the bank lost 106 million reais on proprietary trading and 149
million reais on real estate investments, according to last
week’s statement.  Revenue Link  BTG’s bonuses, which get paid in a lump sum at the start of
the year, are “highly correlated to revenue,” Fabrini said.  The company declined to comment on bonuses. Shares rose 1.8
percent to 28.55 reais at 5:06 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Investment-banking fees industrywide in Brazil dropped 13
percent this year through July from a year earlier, to $506
million, the lowest since 2009, according to London-based
research company Dealogic. At BTG, investment-banking revenue in
Brazil fell 39 percent to $70 million, the data show.  Business slowed amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve
would trim its $85 billion monthly bond-buying program and as
 Eike Batista ’s commodities empire collapsed, contributing to a
decline in Brazilian shares and M&A volume. The benchmark
 Ibovespa (IBOV)  index has lost 18 percent since the start of 2013.  “Higher volatility in the markets is reducing returns for
Brazilian corporate and investment banks, and they’re increasing
the focus on cost reduction and efficiency,” said Ricardo
Amatto, a partner at headhunter firm Amrop Panelli Motta Cabrera
in Sao Paulo.  ROE Decline  BTG’s annualized return on equity, a gauge of
profitability, fell to 17 percent in the first half from almost
31 percent last year.  The firm’s revenue from investment banking rose 56 percent
to 279 million reais in the first half of 2013 even with the
slowdown in Brazil, as international acquisitions completed
since last year added to the total. The bank concluded its
takeover of Bolsa y Renta SA,  Colombia ’s biggest brokerage by
trading volume, in December, and acquired Celfin Capital SA,
 Chile ’s biggest brokerage, in November.  BTG held on to its top ranking among M&A advisers in the
first half of 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bank
ceded the No. 1 position on Brazil  investment-banking  fees to
Itau BBA through July, the wholesale arm of Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, according to Dealogic. Sao Paulo-based Itau, the
biggest Latin American bank by market value, generated $81
million of fees, up 8 percent, Dealogic said.  Credit Suisse Group AG ranked third with $60 million, and
Banco Bradesco BBI SA was fourth, with $51 million. Officials at
the banks declined to comment on bonuses.  Bonus Gap  U.S. and European banks have been shrinking bonuses since
the 2008 financial crisis and were paying less to executives
than their local competitors in Brazil, Fesa’s Fabrini said.
That gap may narrow this year because U.S. banking profits are
rising, she said, adding that it’s “too early to say.”  Even with the drop in bonus expenses, BTG’s cost-to-income
ratio, which measures total revenue and operating expenses, was
50 percent last quarter, still above the 40 percent average for
the past two years,  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG, said in a report. BTG’s management has said several “cost-optimization initiatives are under way following its recent
acquisitions,” according to Pierry.  ‘Value Destruction’  BTG eliminated about 60 people from Celfin last November,
leaving the firm it acquired with about 600 employees, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said at the time.  The “value destruction” in  emerging markets  and the
“flight to quality” from international investors will probably
keep bonuses falling at Brazilian banks, according to Amatto at
Amrop.  That’s what BTG is preparing for, Esteves, the bank’s chief
executive officer, said on a conference call last week with
analysts.  “We reduced our risk exposure in general,” Esteves, 45,
said. “We increased our liquidity to confront a more difficult
environment, to be prepared for opportunities that appear in
moments of crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  