-- Bumi Resources Gets $150 Million Loan Extension Post Downgrade
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-08-12T10:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/bumi-resources-gets-150-million-loan-extension-post-downgrade.html
PT Bumi Resources,  Indonesia ’s
largest coal exporter, has extended the maturity of a $150
million loan just weeks after its credit rating was cut on
refinancing concerns, a person familiar with the matter said.  Credit Suisse Group AG, the arranging bank, and about 10 to
12 other lenders, mainly private investors, rolled over their
pledges from the original three-year facility for a further 15
months, the person said, asking not to be identified because
details are private. The initial transaction, signed in August
2010, paid interest of 11 percent more than the London interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extension comes after Bumi Resources, which is part
owned by Bumi Plc, last month had its debt rating cut to Caa1
from B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, seven levels below
investment grade. The Jakarta-based company said at the time it
had an August deadline to refinance the $150 million loan and
had another some $350 million of bank debt at unit  PT Bumi
Resources (BUMI)  Minerals which matures in September.  Dileep Srivastasa, a Jakarta-based director of Bumi
Resources, wasn’t immediately available for comment on the loan
extension when called twice and didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail today.  Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term corporate  credit
rating  on Bumi Resources to CCC from B- on Aug. 5 to “reflect
our view of the company’s weakening liquidity and growing
challenges in refinancing its debt maturities over the next six
months.”  Refinancing Difficult  “Bumi’s capital structure is unsustainable unless the
company restructures or reduces its debt through asset sales,”
S&P said in a statement. Refinancing of Bumi Resources Minerals’
debt “will be difficult without any tangible progress on Bumi’s
proposal to sell its stake in BRM.”  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  has long been at the heart of a battle for control
between co-founders Nathaniel Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old British banking dynasty, and the Bakries. The stock plunged
69 percent last year as Rothschild and the Bakries each made
rival proposals to unwind the $3 billion deal that brought them
together in 2011.  The London-listed entity last month agreed to sell its 29.2
percent stake in Bumi Resources to the Bakrie Group, as part of
a two-step plan to separate from one of Indonesia’s wealthiest
families. Bumi Chairman Samin Tan agreed to buy the Bakries’
23.8 percent holding in Bumi Plc for $223 million.  The agreement to extend the maturity of the $150 million
facility was signed on Aug. 7, the person said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in Hong Kong at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  