-- California Set to Borrow Less as Economy Brightens
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/california-set-to-borrow-less-as-economy-brightens.html
California ’s sale this week of $5.5
billion of notes is putting it on pace for the least short-term
borrowing in five years as the outlook for the world’s ninth-largest economy brightens.  The rebound from the U.S. recession that ended in 2009 is
propelling bonds of the most-populous state. Investors demanded
as little as 0.36 percentage point of extra yield this month to
own 10-year California debt instead of top-rated municipal
securities, close to the smallest  gap  since 2008, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, with maturities of
nine and 10 months, will draw buyers seeking a haven, said
Daniel Solender, director of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey . The shortest-dated city and state
obligations are beating longer ones this year amid  Detroit ’s
record bankruptcy and bets a growing national economy will lead
the  Federal Reserve  to curtail its bond buying.  “The RANs could be a spot where people place their money
in the short-term for some security,” said Solender, whose
company oversees $17.3 billion of local debt.  Weaning Process  California is weaning itself from short-term loans as it is
on the brink of its best  credit rating  since 2001. Democratic
Governor  Jerry Brown , 75, forecast an $817 million surplus this
year, the first in nearly a decade, marking a turnaround after
the state groaned under more than $100 billion of cumulative
deficits since 2007. Moody’s Investors Service grades the state
A1, four steps below the top. It hasn’t been higher since 2001.  A strengthening housing market is buoying the state’s
economy. California’s unemployment rate  dropped  to 8.5 percent
in June, the lowest since October 2008, according to the state
Economic Development Department. It still eclipsed the national
average of 7.6 percent that month.  Treasurer Bill Lockyer is offering the notes to cover
annual cash-flow needs. The issue starts Aug. 14 with sales to
individual investors. Yields will be set Aug. 15 after
institutional buyers such as mutual funds place orders,
according to an e-mail from  Tom Dresslar , spokesman for Lockyer.  No Plans  The treasurer has no plans for another note sale in the
fiscal year through June 30, said Bill Ainsworth, a spokesman.
If that holds true, California will issue less of the debt than
in any year since 2009, when it also borrowed $5.5 billion,
according to data from the treasurer’s office. In 2007,
California sold $1.5 billion, the smallest amount in at least a
decade.  A year ago, the state of about 38 million people sold $10
billion in notes. The offer included a portion maturing in June
that yielded 0.43 percent, or 0.17 percentage point above
benchmark  one-year debt , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Top-rated munis maturing in a year yielded 0.37 percent on Aug. 9,
up from about 0.26 percent a year ago.  The shortest-dated debt is the only part of the $3.7
trillion municipal market that has earned investors money this
year,  Standard & Poor’s  data show. The segment has returned 0.4
percent, compared with losses of at least 0.3 percent for longer
maturities. The entire market is down 3.8 percent in 2013, on
pace for the first losing year since 2008.  In the Golden State, the budget progress -- coming four
years after officials issued $2.6 billion in IOUs to cover bills
-- may make the notes the safest California bet in years, said
Michael E. Johnson, managing director at Gurtin Fixed Income
Management LLC in Solana Beach, California. The firm handles $4
billion in munis.  Yield Calculus  Yet Gurtin may pass on the sale because the fiscal
improvement may make the  interest rate  less attractive.  “It is unlikely that the yields will meet our
thresholds,” he said.  California debt has benefitted from demand for tax-exempt
income after voters in November boosted income-tax rates on
state residents earning $250,000 or more. They also raised the
state’s sales tax, already the highest in the U.S. The increases
may generate as much as $6 billion a year,  according to the 
Legislative Analyst’s Office.  Fitch Ratings  raised California’s grade last week after
lawmakers passed a $96.3 billion budget in June that
incorporated Brown’s more conservative revenue forecasts and set
aside a $1.1 billion reserve. The A grade, the sixth-best level,
is the highest for California since 2009.  Year’s Biggest  In January, S&P boosted California for the first time since
2006, giving it an A rating, sixth-highest.  “We’re in a much better cash-flow position thanks to the
work of the legislature, the governor and voters in the past
year or so,” Dresslar said by telephone.  California’s sale this week is poised to be the year’s
biggest short-term municipal borrowing. Fitch gives the notes
its second-highest grade for short-term debt. S&P gives them its
highest grade.  In the long-term muni market this week, issuers including 
 Connecticut  are selling about $5.7 billion.   In  Michigan , issuers led by a school district west of
Detroit plan to sell $28 million of debt this week, after at
least three municipalities in the state put off deals following
the Motor City’s historic bankruptcy.  Yields on benchmark 10-year munis are close to the lowest
in a month. At  2.88 percent , the interest rate compares with
about  2.58 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 112 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
their federal counterparts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  