-- California Lets Grade-Schoolers Decide Gender Identity
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/california-allows-schoolkids-to-decide-sexual-identity.html
In five years as the principal and
only teacher in central  California ’s tiny Blake School District,
Dawn Carver hasn’t had a student born as a boy who identified as
a girl, or vice versa, she said.  If that happens, starting Jan. 1, Carver and other Golden
State school administrators will have to assign the pupil to
bathrooms and sports teams based on his or her gender identity,
not biological sex. Governor Jerry Brown yesterday signed a bill
making California the first in the U.S. to create a law on
transgender students’ rights from elementary school on.  Carver, whose main educational facility is a one-room
schoolhouse in Woody, a ranching town about 150 miles (240
kilometers) north of Los Angeles, said she’d have no problem
accommodating a boy who identifies as a girl or vice versa.  “We have private bathrooms,” she said by telephone. “We
have eight students. We all play on the same sports teams. It
would not be an issue.”  In  Los Angeles , more than 670,000 students in the nation’s
second-largest school district have been able to choose
restrooms and teams based on gender identity since 2005, said
Judy Chiasson, the Los Angeles Unified School District’s program
coordinator for human relations, diversity and equity.  About 0.5 percent of the city’s 153,000 high-schoolers, or
about 763, self-identified as transgender in the 2011 Youth Risk
Behavior Surveillance System survey by the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Chiasson said by telephone.  Few Ask  Far fewer students have asked for opposite-gender
accommodations under the district policy, Chiasson said. She
said she’s unaware of parental complaints about children sharing
facilities with transgender students, although principals can
deal with those without informing district administrators.  “We’re accommodating our students,” Chiasson said.
“They’re now raising their hands to say, ‘Yes, I’m here,’
instead of hiding.”  Transgender children are those who are born as one sex, yet
behave and maintain an appearance consistent with the other sex.
The expansion of California’s nondiscrimination  laws  to include
transgender minors applies to all  6.2 million  in the state’s
public schools, the nation’s largest enrollment.  Massachusetts ,  Connecticut ,  Washington  and Colorado have
set policies on such students without new laws, according to
Equality California, the state’s largest gay-rights group.  ‘Important Victory’  “The governor’s signature represents an important victory,
not just for my bill, but for a whole movement for the rights of
transgender people,” Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, a San Francisco
Democrat who wrote the measure, said in a statement. “We had
children testify in the Assembly and Senate that this law will
mean they no longer must hide who they are, nor be treated as
someone other than who they are.”  The bill makes no provision for parents who object to
having their children share lavatories or locker rooms with
students who are the opposite sex biologically. Schools may make
accommodations in individual cases, Carlos Alcala, a spokesman
for Ammiano, said by telephone.  Benjamin Lopez, legislative advocate for the Traditional
Values Coalition, which opposed the bill, predicted those
parents will go to court.  “Lawsuits will abound over the privacy rights of students
who do not wish to share private quarters with people who act,
dress or are in the process of changing to the opposite
gender,” Lopez said by telephone. “The ramifications of this
bill are unknown. We have now devolved into the realm of the
unknown, the unthinkable and the absurd.”  PTA Support  The California State PTA supported the bill because the
parent-teacher group is committed to fighting discrimination,
said Kathy Moffat, its legislative director.  “What will happen down the line, we’re not sure,” Moffat
said by telephone.  The bill’s mandates apply to all schools that receive state
funds or with students who receive state aid. In 2011, Brown
signed a measure making California the first in the U.S. to
require schools to highlight the history and achievements of
lesbians and homosexuals in civic lessons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  