-- Canadian Dollar Declines After Failing to Breach Moving Average
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-12T21:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/canada-dollar-gains-on-most-peers-before-u-s-retail-sales-data.html
Canada ’s dollar declined for the
first time in three days after it failed to breach a key
technical level, a move that might have signaled gains beyond a
one-week high it reached last week, spurring speculation the
currency’s run of strength is at an end.  The currency hasn’t closed below its 100-day moving average
against its U.S. counterpart, a momentum indicator some traders
see as a potential turning point, since July 29. The loonie, as
the currency is nicknamed, slipped as the U.S. dollar climbed
against all 16 most-traded peers before data tomorrow that may
show American retail sales gained, supporting a slowing of
stimulus in Canada’s biggest trade partner.  “Even if you look back over the past year, it’s only
breached the 100-day moving average on two or three different
occasions and not been able to hold it at all,” said Adrian Miller, director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities
LLC in New York. “I don’t think there’s a lot of conviction for
a stronger loonie against the dollar because of the fundamentals
that seem to be trailing the U.S. market.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0307 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after gaining earlier to
C$1.0281. Its 100-day moving average is C$1.0279. It touched
C$1.0276 on Aug. 9, the strongest level since Aug. 1. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.02 U.S. cents.  The loonie strengthened over the past five weeks from a 21-month low of C$1.0609 it reached on July 5.  Bonds Fall  The nation’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell for
the first time in four days, pushing yields up six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.53 percent. The 1.5 percent debt
maturing in June 2023 dropped 46 cents to C$91.08.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.2
percent to $106.21 per barrel, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks declined 0.1 percent.  The loonie rose versus 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as a Bloomberg survey forecast a report tomorrow
will show U.S. retail sales rose 0.3 percent in July, bolstering
global economic prospects. It would be the fourth straight
monthly increase.  “They’re our major trading partner and, to the extent the
U.S. economy has been lackluster over the past few years, that’s
been one of the reasons the Canadian dollar has underperformed
some of its peers, such as the Australian dollar,” said David Watt, chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holding Plc.
“The Canadian dollar should have a little more traction against
other currencies even if it doesn’t keep pace with the U.S.
dollar.”  The loonie rose 0.5 percent to 94.29 Canadian cents per
Aussie dollar after losing 2.3 percent last week, the most since
October.  Fed Bets  Canada unexpectedly lost jobs in July, with employment
dropping by 39,400 positions, the government reported last week.  The U.S. dollar gained amid bets the Federal Reserve will
slow its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases as soon as next
month as the world’s biggest economy improves. Central-bank
asset purchases tend to weaken a currency. The Fed has used the
program to push borrowing costs lower and spur economic growth.  Wagers on stronger global growth were bolstered by
forecasts that the euro-area economy probably edged back to
growth last quarter for the first time since 2011 when it
reports gross domestic product data Aug. 14.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation region expanded 0.2
percent in the three months through June after shrinking for the
previous six quarters, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News  survey .  “We are therefore getting into the phase that we are going
to see better growth in the U.S., and where we’re going to have
better growth from the euro zone, albeit from a very low
level,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International, by phone from  London . “It seems the global
growth outlook toward the end of the year is starting to look
better, and off the back of that is the conclusion investors are
making that commodities could do well on the back of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  