-- Cantor, Fired Trader Sue Over Alleged Blackmail Threat
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-08-12T02:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/cantor-fired-trader-sue-over-alleged-blackmail-threat.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP accused a fired
Singapore-based derivatives trader of making a blackmail threat
in an exchange of lawsuits between the brokerage and its former
employee over his dismissal.  Gavin White, the former trader, sued in Singapore’s High
Court for wrongful dismissal, claiming unspecified damages.
Cantor, the New York-based independent broker-dealer,
countersued for a repayment of a loan and a return of a portion
of his wages. A closed hearing is scheduled for Aug. 15.  White, who had refused a 20 percent pay cut proposal in
October, had said he might complain about alleged breaches by
the brokerage in  Australia , Cantor’s Singapore unit said in its
counterclaim. Cantor denied there had been any breaches and said
it had a right to fire him for gross misconduct. White
threatened to damage the firm’s reputation which amounted to a
threat of blackmail, the brokerage said.  “Mr. White strenuously denies that he made any such threat
as alleged by Cantor,” his lawyer Pradeep Pillai said in a
phone interview today. “He is eager to have his name cleared of
the allegation of gross misconduct.”  In addition to denying having made the statements
attributed to him, White said that any comments he made in
October meetings to discuss his pay with his supervisor weren’t
supposed to be used against him. Cantor breached a three-year
employment contract by firing him in November, he said in the
complaint.  Robert Hubbell, a spokesman for Cantor, declined to comment
on the litigation.  High Salaries  Cantor proposed to cut White’s pay in October because his
division was underperforming and the brokerage couldn’t sustain
the “extremely high salaries” on the team, the firm said in
court papers.  White was paid S$580,000 ($461,000) a year at Cantor.
Cantor is seeking the return of S$297,576.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Cantor’s credit rating to
junk in October, citing “stubbornly high” compensation
expenses and its expansion which has failed to sufficiently
boost profit. Cantor said in November it  disagreed  with Moody’s
conclusion as its financial performance had improved.  White joined Cantor in November 2011 as head of contracts
for difference in  Singapore . A contract for difference is a
financial derivative that allows traders to take advantage of
price differences in the underlying instruments.  He had previously been head of foreign exchange and
contracts for difference trading Asia at MF Global Singapore Pte
and started work with an Australian firm in June, according to
court papers.  Cantor, run by Howard Lutnick, has sought to diversify
revenue sources aside from its inter-dealer brokerage franchise.  The case is Gavin Charles White v Cantor Fitzgerald
(Singapore) Capital Markets Ltd. S139/2013. Singapore High
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  