-- China’s Overnight Money Rate Rebounds From Two-Month Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-12T03:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/china-s-overnight-money-rate-rebounds-from-two-month-low.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped, adding to last week’s biggest decline in a month, on
speculation the central bank will guide interbank rates lower.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand today for sales of
91-day bills planned for this week, said a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions. It also asked lenders to
submit orders for 28-day  repurchase agreements  and seven- and
14-day reverse-repurchase contracts, the trader said.  Interest-rate swaps  have fallen this month, while the PBOC cut yields on
reverse repos last week by 40 basis points.  “Upcoming open-market operation rates will further guide
repo and IRS rates,” said Becky Liu, a senior rates strategist
at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . “The PBOC has recently
changed its approach; they’ve been conducting reverse repos at
different rates, unlike what’s been seen during the first and
fourth quarters when they kept these rates unchanged.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.65 percent as of 10:55 a.m. in  Shanghai , according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate slid 68 basis points last week.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was
unchanged at 3.88 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It fell 11 basis points this month.  China’s central bank added 20 billion  yuan  ($3.3 billion)
to the financial system in the week ended Aug. 9 and 136 billion
yuan in the prior week,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The
PBOC issued seven-day reverse-repurchase contracts at 4 percent
on Aug. 6, and 14-day reverse repos at 4.1 percent on Aug. 8,
both 40 basis points lower than at the previous week’s auctions.  The yield on the 3.38 percent government bonds due May 2023
rose two basis points to 3.88 percent, the highest since June 20,
according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  