-- Chipotle May Allow Some Antibiotic-Treated Beef
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-08-13T20:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/chipotle-to-allow-some-antibiotic-treated-beef.html
After years of touting naturally
raised meat,  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  is considering changing
its standards to allow beef treated with antibiotics into its
restaurants amid a supply shortage.  The burrito seller is evaluating using meat from cattle
treated with antibiotics because of an illness, which currently
isn’t permitted to be sold in its restaurants, Chris Arnold, a
spokesman for Denver-based Chipotle, said in an e-mail. The
company still wouldn’t use beef from animals that had been given
antibiotics to prevent disease and promote weight gain, he said.  “Many experts, including some of our ranchers, believe
that animals should be allowed to be treated if they are ill and
remain in the herd,” Co-Chief Executive Officer Steve Ells said
today in an e-mailed statement. “We are certainly willing to
consider this change, but we are continuing to evaluate what’s
best for our customers, our suppliers and the animals.”  The possible change in Chipotle’s practices comes as U.S.
beef production is projected to plunge to a 21-year low next
year, threatening higher  costs  and making it tougher for the
restaurant chain to get enough meat to fill customers’ burritos.  While Arnold said the motivation for the potential change
wouldn’t be to increase its supply of steak, Chipotle hasn’t
been able to get enough naturally raised beef to meet customer
demand. This year, about 80 percent to 85 percent of the beef
sold at Chipotle’s more than 1,500 stores has been naturally
raised, compared with almost 100 percent last year, Arnold said.  “Every year we need 20 to 25 percent more of everything
than we did the year before, and the beef supply isn’t keeping
up as well,” he said.  New Suppliers  For that reason, Chipotle is trying to find new cattle
suppliers and also is considering using different cuts of meat
for its steak and barbacoa shredded beef burritos, he said. The
chain also sells naturally raised grilled steak in rice bowls
and salads at its new Asian-themed store, ShopHouse.  If Chipotle allows sick animals treated with antibiotics to
remain in its supply chain, it will increase the amount of beef
available to the company, said John Nalivka, a former U.S.
Department of Agriculture economist and president of commodity
researcher Sterling Marketing Inc. in  Vale ,  Oregon .  “That opens up their supply quite a bit,” he said.
Chipotle will be able to buy cattle outside the USDA’s  Never
Ever 3  program, which says cattle may never be given
antibiotics, growth promotants or fed anything with animal
byproducts.  “That’s really the piece that will add the greatest supply
if you take that stipulation away,” said Nalivka, who says
supply is dwindling.  Some Chipotle diners may be worried if the company decides
to sell beef treated with antibiotics, said Bryan Elliott, an
analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc.  Customer Concern  “There would seem to be a risk that a portion of their
customer base would be concerned about this,” he said. “And a
portion of that portion could be very upset.”  Ells, who founded Chipotle two decades ago, in 1999 began
buying naturally raised pork to start the chain’s Food With
Integrity program, according to the company’s website. In 2009,
Ells spoke to the  U.S. Congress  to support a bill designed to
limit antibiotic use in farm animals. Chipotle, which doesn’t
spend much money on marketing relative to other dining chains,
has created short films to educate Americans about industrial
farming and hosted festivals with organic snacks and local food
and drink purveyors.  Antibiotic Overuse  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has recently stepped
in to reduce the use of antibiotics in farming to ensure that
drugs used to treat illnesses such as pneumonia and skin
infections remain effective. Last year, the agency said farmers
must have a prescription to get antibiotics for their livestock
and the drugs can only be given when medically necessary.  Chipotle’s focus on selling idealism and naturally raised
fare has largely paid off. Its  shares  increased 39 percent in
the past 12 months, compared with a 21 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Chipotle rose 0.8 percent to
$406.34 at the close in  New York .  While the chain expands --  sales  have more than doubled to
$2.73 billion during the four years up to 2012 -- it’s had
trouble getting enough naturally raised food.  “We’ve had real challenges from a supply standpoint with
our meats, steak in particular,” Ells said during a conference
call on July 18. “There’s a different supply and demand formula
that’s going on right now. The supply just seems to be tight
right now.”  Production Decline  That’s because cattle ranchers haven’t yet recovered from
last year’s drought that made it more expensive for farmers to
feed animals. Production in the U.S. will decline 5.5 percent in
2014, retreating for the fourth straight year, according to USDA
data. The herd on July 1 was the smallest for that date since at
least 1973, according to the average of four analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fred Wacker, owner of Cross Four Ranch in Miles City,
 Montana , and a beef supplier to Chipotle and  Whole Foods Market
Inc. (WFM) , says sick cattle that are given antibiotics are taken out
of the naturally raised program at his farm. He wouldn’t do
anything differently if Chipotle changes its standards.  “That doesn’t change anything for me,” he said. “We’re
on never-ever, guaranteed all natural -- I would like them to
keep on the path that they were to use all the straight natural
that they can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  