-- Christie Won’t Renominate N.J. Supreme Court Justice Hoens
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-08-12T21:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/christie-won-t-renominate-n-j-supreme-court-justice-hoens-1-.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he won’t nominate state Supreme Court Justice Helen Hoens
for a new term because he expected Democratic lawmakers to deny
tenure to the Republican jurist.  Christie appointed Faustino Fernandez-Vina, 61, who he said
is a fellow Republican, to take Hoens’s place on the bench.
Hoens, 59, who was nominated by former Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine , has served since 2006. Her term ends in October, a
month before Christie faces re-election.  Nominations to New Jersey’s highest court require Senate
confirmation. Democrats, who control both legislative houses,
have resisted Christie’s effort to reshape the bench. The Senate
Judiciary Committee refused to approve two of his Republican
nominees: Bruce Harris, who is black and openly gay; and Phillip Kwon, who would have been the first Asian justice.  “Let me be clear: Helen Hoens deserved renomination; she
deserved tenure,” Christie, 50, said today at a press briefing
in Trenton. “Given the political situation in this state at the
moment caused by the majority in the Senate, I was not in a
position to offer to her the opportunity to be renominated.”  Senate Grilling  Christie said that if he renominated Hoens, he would be
“ignoring the reality of what’s been happening for the past
three-and-a-half years.” Committee members had grilled Kwon
about his family’s liquor business and Harris on his same-sex
marriage philosophy before rejecting both.  “I was not going to let her loose to the animals,” he
said of Hoens. “I was not going to allow another person to be
subjected to the awful treatment that was given to both Phil
Kwon and  Bruce Harris .”  Hoens, in a statement, said she was saddened to leave
“this extraordinary professional calling.” Ralph Lamparello,
president of the state Bar Association, said in a statement that
Hoens didn’t “deserve to be treated as a political pawn in the
battle between the governor and the legislature over our
courts.”  New Jersey’s highest court is composed of seven members. At
the end of an initial seven-year term, the governor may nominate
a member for tenure, which allows them to serve until mandatory
retirement at 70.  Court Standoff  Christie has accused the court of legislating, rather than
ruling, on issues affecting state spending. He has cited
examples such as the Abbott v. Burke school-funding cases and
Mount Laurel affordable-housing rulings.  “Even before I officially became governor I made clear it
was my intention to reshape the court,” he said today. “It’s
my belief that the New Jersey Supreme Court has repeatedly
strayed from its purview and overstepped its role.”  Christie in 2010 denied reappointment to  John Wallace , the
court’s only black justice. That sparked a standoff with
Democrats that lasted a year and delayed hearings on Anne Murray Patterson, Christie’s Republican nominee. The governor and
Senate President Stephen Sweeney later agreed to let Patterson
replace Justice Roberto Rivera Soto, who retired in September
2011.  The court is operating with five permanent members; Chief
Justice Stuart Rabner, a Democrat; Barry Albin, a Democrat;
Jaynee Lavecchia, who Christie has characterized as an
independent and Democrats have said is a Republican; Patterson
and Hoens. Christie said the “court is being damaged” by a
group of acting judges appointed by Rabner. He likened them to
temporary helpers acting beyond New Jersey’s constitutional
process for confirmation.  Hardball Move  The governor said he made his decision not to reappoint
Hoens based on remarks made by Senator Raymond Lesniak, a
Democrat from Elizabeth who is vice-chairman of the judiciary
panel. Lesniak told the Star-Ledger on July 21 that Christie
“plays hardball” with the nominees, and Democrats should
reject Hoens as a hardball tactic of their own.  “Justice Hoens deserved to leave with her professional
reputation intact,” Christie said. “Given everything they’ve
done before and the very bold and arrogant announcement by
Senator Lesniak, I had to take them at their word. I had no
choice but to do that.”  Lesniak, reached by telephone after the governor’s remarks,
said Christie “gives me too much credit” for orchestrating the
outcome of nominations.  “It really is up to the Senate president and the other
members on the committee to make the determination,” he said.
He declined to speculate on how Fernandez-Vina will fare, saying
the committee must review his credentials.  Nominees Rejected  Lawmakers had unanimously backed Fernandez-Vina’s Superior
Court assignment, the governor said, and would have “no reason
to delay” this nomination.  “No one can question his skill, experience and
competence,” Christie said.  The Senate committee voted against Kwon after Democrats
questioned a $160,000 payment his family made to settle a U.S.
civil lawsuit over cash deposits from their liquor store. The
panel voted against Harris’s nomination after he said that while
he was an advocate of gay marriage, he would remove himself from
the issue if it came before the court.  Christie offered the names of two more justices in
December, calling the nominations of Superior Court Judge David
Bauman, a Republican, and Board of Public Utilities President
Robert Hanna, an independent, a “political compromise.” The
Senate hasn’t scheduled hearings to consider the nominations.  Fernandez-Vina was born in Cuba and was appointed to be a
judge in 2004 by former Governor James McGreevey, a Democrat. A
resident of Barrington in Camden County, he is a Rutgers Law
School graduate. The Senate unanimously voted in 2011 to give
him lifetime tenure on a lower court, Christie said.  Fernandez-Vina said he was “humbled and honored” by the
nomination. Christie said the nominee wouldn’t discuss judicial
philosophy with reporters and will make his remarks when he goes
before the Senate committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net  