-- Citigroup Warns of Restructuring on Local Debt: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-08-12T13:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/citigroup-warns-of-restructuring-on-local-debt-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s plummeting foreign
reserves are a sign to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  that the least-creditworthy borrower in  emerging markets  may decide to impose
losses on bondholders of $5.8 billion of debt.  Dollar-denominated bonds due in 2015 and sold under
Argentine legislation have risen to 17-month high of 95.86 cents
as investors switched from notes governed by  New York  law on
speculation the local debt will be insulated from holdout
creditors suing in U.S. courts. Citigroup says bondholders,
which include AllianceBernstein LP and  MFS Investment
Management , are underestimating the risk of losses after
reserves that are used for debt payments fell at the fastest
pace in more than a decade to a six-year low of $37 billion.  The probability that Argentina, which defaulted on $95
billion in 2001, will seek debt relief by either paying holders
of the local-law bonds in pesos at the official rate, offering a
smaller amount in dollars, or swapping them into notes with
longer maturities means that fair value is closer to 87.2 cents,
according to  Jeff Williams , a strategist at Citigroup. The New
York-based bank estimates the central bank’s reserves will fall
below $25 billion by the end of 2015.  “Things are moving in that direction,” Jorge Piedrahita,
chief executive officer at Torino Capital LLC, said in a
telephone interview from New York. “This is a risk investors
should definitely be considering. It’s a significant possibility
and those probabilities are increasing day by day.”  Capital Outflows  Citigroup’s Williams estimates that the likelihood
Argentina will restructure the 2015 bonds is now 37.5 percent,
according to a report to clients dated Aug. 9.  Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman for the Economy Ministry,
declined to comment on whether Argentina is considering
restructuring the local-law notes.  AllianceBernstein, MFS and  Fidelity Investments  are among
holders of the 2015 notes, according to June 30 filing data
compiled by Bloomberg.  With investors demanding an average 13 percent to hold
their dollar-denominated notes -- the highest in emerging
markets -- Argentina hasn’t sold bonds internationally since its
2001 default.  Argentina relies on its international reserves to make debt
payments, including those to bondholders that agreed to take 70
percent losses in two restructurings in 2005 and 2010.  Default Swaps  Argentina already has the highest probability of default in
the world, according to five-year credit-default swaps. The
contracts that protect holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment rose 35 basis points to 2,404 basis points at 9 a.m. in
New York, according to data compiled by CMA Ltd.  Since her re-election, Fernandez has tightened restrictions
on access to foreign currency after the nation lost $21.5
billion in capital outflows in 2011. Still, reserves have
continued to drop at the fastest pace since the default.  During its financial crisis over a decade ago,  Argentina 
converted dollar deposits and loans into pesos, a move dubbed
pesofication. In June 2012, speculation lawmakers were planning
to convert dollar-denominated contracts into pesos pushed the
yield on the bonds due 2015 to a three-year high of 21 percent.  Four months later, the northern province of Chaco repaid
its dollar-denominated bonds in pesos because the central bank
denied its request to buy foreign currency.  ‘Legal Risk’  A U.S. appeals court said Oct. 26 Argentina can’t make
payments on its overseas bonds unless it repays holdout
investors from the country’s default. The ruling pushed the
yields on New York-law bonds above those on Argentine-law debt,
which isn’t affected by the ruling, for the first time ever.
Before then, local-law bonds due 2017, known as bonars, yielded
an average 1.67 percentage points more than similar-maturity
bonds sold under New York law.  “All eyes shifted to the legal risk, but the underlying
risks of a potential restructuring on the Boden 15s and Bonar
17s has not disappeared,” Citigroup’s Williams wrote in the
report. “If anything those risks are now greater.”  Citigroup estimates by the end of 2015, the central bank’s
net reserves, which exclude dollar deposits, could fall to $12.5
billion and cover just two months of import demand.  If a restructuring were to occur today, investors could
lose half of their principal should the government decide to
repay them in pesos at the official  exchange rate , Williams
wrote. Investors would be left having to buy dollars in a
parallel market, where the peso could be as much as 53 percent
weaker than in the official market due to restructuring
concerns, he wrote. The dollar cost 5.5415 pesos in the official
market and 8.5104 pesos in the parallel market on Aug. 9.  ‘Better Jurisdiction’  The government has an incentive to stay current on its
local law bonds if it is ultimately prevented from making bond
payments on New York law bonds, according to Steffen Reichold,
an economist at Stone Harbor Investment Partners LP. The appeals
court is now deciding if Argentina must pay holdouts in full,
which the country has vowed never to do, and if third parties
should be barred from distributing payments.  “They would want to make the case that Argentina is a
better jurisdiction for bonds than the U.S. is,” Reichold,
whose firm oversees $60 billion in assets including Argentine
bonds, said in a telephone interview from New York. “They would
love to make that political statement and that investors are
better off holding local law than being subject to some
jurisdiction which delivers questionable rulings.”  For investors in Argentine  government bonds , it’s become
impossible to find a haven, according to Russ Dallen, head bond
trader at Caracas  Capital Markets  in Miami.  The push into local law bonds is “meant to make Argentina
investments immune from any adverse U.S. court ruling,” Dallen
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “At the same time,
sadly, it makes them more susceptible to the vagaries of
Argentina’s shifting needs and policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  