-- Cognizant Seen Benefiting From Hedge Strategy as Rupee Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-08-12T21:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/cognizant-seen-benefiting-from-currency-strategy-as-rupee-gains.html
Cognizant Technology Solutions
Corp. (CTSH) , which pays more than a quarter of its costs in Indian
rupees, stands to benefit from maintaining a hedge that bets on
the currency’s rise.  The rupee is forecast to strengthen about 5.7 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  by the end of 2014, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That would mean gains for Cognizant, a
provider of consulting and outsourcing, which has a forward
settlement contract bet on the currency.  Cognizant, which employs about 75 percent of its workforce
in  India , is keeping the strategy even after it led to a loss on
the hedge last quarter as the rupee dropped, President Gordon Coburn said. The current hedge has been in place for four years.
The approach allows the Teaneck, New Jersey-based company to
mitigate risk, he said.  “It’s doing what it’s supposed to do, reducing the
volatility,” Coburn said in an interview last week, after the
company reported second-quarter earnings.  While Cognizant’s second-quarter  results  topped estimates,
they included a 7-cent nonoperating loss as the rupee weakened
against the dollar. The Indian currency has dropped more than 10
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The rupee devalued very significantly, so our hedges
ended up underwater,” Coburn said. “In this case,
unfortunately, it’s taking away the upside. If it went the other
way, we’d be looking smart.”  Cognizant’s treasury department is a risk-mitigation unit
dedicated to reducing volatility, not a profit center, he said.  Operational Stability  While the bet didn’t work last quarter, the rupee’s decline
cut costs because the company pays workers in that currency,
said James Friedman, an analyst at Susquehanna International
Group in  New York .  If the rupee had gained ground against the greenback, the
winning bet would have offset rising costs, said Friedman, who
has a positive rating on Cognizant’s shares.  Hedging “is the conservative way to deliver stable
operations over time,” he said.  Cognizant, which employs 164,300 globally, had total
operating costs of $1.7 billion for the period ended June 30,
the company said. Rupee-related expenses accounted for 29
percent of that amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  