-- Connors’s Lessons From the Way Down; DiMaggios, Gronks
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-08-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/connors-s-lessons-from-the-way-down-dimaggios-gronks.html
It’s the cover that gets you: a
portrait of three brothers, arms around each other, one in a  New
York  Yankees uniform. They’re the sons of Sicilian immigrants
and the picture screams “America.”  “ The DiMaggios ” (Ecco, $25.99) is a book about America,
its dreams, its pastime -- and a family that played that pastime
with surpassing skill, grace and romance.  Joe’s story is well-known and oft-told.  Dominic is the beloved (in  Boston ) player known as “The
Little Professor” who is remembered, if at all beyond  New
England , for a career .298 batting average and for a refrain
from a popular song that bellowed: “Who’s better than his
brother Joe? Dominic DiMaggio.”  Vince (.289 in 1940, 21 homers the following season) was
the eldest ballplayer brother and doesn’t deserve to be
forgotten, as he mostly is.  Biographer Tom Clavin poses a question that books about Joe
sometimes skip: “Would  Joe DiMaggio  have ever made it to the
major leagues without the help of his brother Vince?” Maybe
not, because before Joe broke into the majors it was Vince who
broke their parents’ resistance to the sporting life.  Of Dom, it’s best to quote Ty Cobb: “Dom’s a throwback to
the kind of ballplayers we used to have.” He became a superb
center fielder, in some years the best in the  American League ,
and was one of the few men on earth consistently to win praise
from  Ted Williams .  Dom emerges in these pages, and probably in life, as the
most interesting member of the family. But of course, everyone
knows that when the DiMaggio name is mentioned, it is Joe who
comes to mind. Pity.  ‘Growing Up Gronk’  The picture on the cover of “ Growing Up Gronk ” (Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt, $25) is a family portrait altogether different
from the DiMaggios’: five guys, three of them bare-chested and
two in muscle shirts. Meet the Gronkowskis of Buffalo, New York.
The entire family is listed collectively as author of this
memoir, along with Jeff Schober.  They are, in truth, a remarkable family -- the first in
almost two decades to place three brothers in the  National
Football League , and that’s not counting the one in major-league
baseball and the other who’s still in college. The father is
Gordy Gronkowski, a onetime Syracuse lineman now known, of
course, as Papa Gronk. The one you know best is Rob, the tight
end who has been such a presence on the  New England Patriots .  The principal question posed by this volume -- What’s the
key to the brothers’ success, besides size and athleticism? --
has a simple answer: “Their father trained his boys to follow
the golden rule but to do so with a stubborn streak.” The
reader is, however, left with another question: How big is the
Gronkowskis’ fridge?  ‘The Outsider’  The picture on the cover of “ The Outsider ” (Harper,
$28.99) is, simply, Jimmy Connors, dressed like  Johnny Cash .
It’s his memoir, and it’s the story of the education, on and off
the court, of one of the premier tennis stars of all time.  That education went beyond how to take the ball on the
rise, which he learned as a child, along with the knack of
minimizing his physical motion and using his body to drive the
ball. It was more than learning how to string together
championships -- beginning with the NCAA singles as a college
freshman -- the way club pros string racquets after hours.  Broken Down  There are many lessons: How to put a marriage back together
after an affair. Why it isn’t smart to throw your racket after a
bad call or grab your crotch after winning a point. How to
handle life on what Connors calls the “down elevator.” And why
becoming mellow -- a word Connors does not like -- might not be
so bad, especially when you are what he describes as a “broken-down tennis player whose best days were so far in the distance
you’d need high-powered binoculars to catch sight of them.”  In the final pages Connors acknowledges that some fans saw
him as a “crude upstart” but he argues that the revolution he
and his generation of players fomented was worth it. He may be
right. Otherwise we’d never know the name  Jimmy Connors  or the
ferocious game he played.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Amanda
Gordon ’s  Hamptons Scene .  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 