-- Crude Rises on North Sea Disruption, Libya Port Shutdown
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-08-12T19:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/crude-declines-sixth-day-in-seven-as-japan-economy-slows.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
with Brent as North Sea production was curtailed and  Libya  shut
its biggest oil export terminal. Brent’s premium over WTI
widened for a sixth time in seven days.  Futures advanced for a second day as a compressor breakdown
at the Ula platform reduced production of Ekofisk crude, a
spokesman with  BP Plc (BP/) , the platform’s operator, said today.
Libya shut the Es Sider port after opening yesterday. WTI
slipped to $105.03 in intraday trading on reports that  Japan’s (JGDPAGDP) 
growth slowed to 2.6 percent in the second quarter.  “We’ve got supply issues in the North Sea and Libya,”
said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in
 Chicago . “The market momentum is higher. $105 is an important
support level.”  WTI for September delivery gained 14 cents to settle at
$106.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Trading
was 15 percent below the 100-day average for the time of day at
2:37 p.m.  Brent for September settlement gained 75 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $108.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 1.9 percent below
the 100-day average. The European benchmark’s  premium  to WTI
widened to $2.86 a barrel from $2.25 on Aug. 9.  Production of Ekofisk was curtailed as a “gas turbine
powering a compressor at Ula had a breakdown as of Wednesday
evening August 7,” Jan Erik Geirmo, a BP spokesman in
Stavanger, Norway, said in an e-mail today. The affected fields
were producing 8,000 barrels a day, according to estimates by
the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  ‘Pushing Higher’  “More than anything, the North Sea disruption is pushing
oil higher,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in Chicago. “On top of that, we have issues
in Libya.”  The brief opening of Es Sider allowed two tankers to berth
at the facility and they may be turned away tonight if no crude
loadings occur, the port coordinator, Captain Abu Ejela Al
Zanati, said today by phone. Six more vessels are anchored
outside the port.  Es Sider has been closed since July 28 amid protests by the
Petroleum Facilities Guard, which is pressing for better working
conditions. Interruptions at ports and other installations
across Libya lowered the country’s  oil production  to 800,000
barrels a day in July, half the level of the post-revolution
peak a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of output
from OPEC members.  Japan Growth  WTI fell in early trading as  Japan ’s  gross domestic product 
rose an annualized 2.6 percent, down from 3.8 percent the prior
quarter, the Cabinet Office said.  Second-quarter growth in Japan, the third-largest oil-consuming country, was slower than the 3.6 percent gain
predicted by 32 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. and
 China  are the top two oil users.  “Japan is clearly the headline,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “That’s probably having a
little bit of a damp on crude.”  Bijan Namdar Zanganeh pledged to raise  Iran ’s output if he
becomes the country’s oil minister. Zanganeh, a former Iranian
oil minister nominated by President Hassan Rohani to take the
post, said his “first action will be to bring the country’s oil
production capacity back to 2005” levels, according to Shana,
the oil ministry’s news website.  Iran, once the second-biggest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, after  Saudi Arabia , has
slipped to sixth place, producing 2.56 million barrels a day in
July, according to a Bloomberg survey of producers and analysts.
Its 2005 production averaged almost 4 million barrels a day.  ‘Ease Tension’  Rohani “is going to ease tension rather than raise it,”
O’Grady said. For  oil prices , “to move higher you are going to
need some kind of outside catalysts such as more geopolitical
tension.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 21.8 percent, up from 21.6 percent on Aug. 9, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 481,477
contracts as of 2:46 p.m. It totaled 690,133 contracts on Aug.
9, 5.5 percent above the three-month average. Open interest was
a record 1.93 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  