-- Curfew Imposed in Indian Jammu as Hindu-Muslim Clashes Kill Two
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-12T07:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/curfew-imposed-in-indian-jammu-as-hindu-muslim-clashes-kill-two.html
The Indian army and police enforced
a curfew in parts of the state of  Jammu and Kashmir  in an effort
to restore calm after rioting between Hindu and Muslim
communities left at least two people dead.  The state government imposed curfews in seven out of 10 of
Jammu’s districts, Deputy Inspector General of Police Shakeel
Beigh said in an interview. Security forces are patrolling
streets, while roads into  Jammu  are closed and schools and
colleges have been shut, he said. Parliament was adjourned today
as lawmakers demanded a debate on the violence.  “The situation is under control and things are starting to
return to normal,” Beigh said. “We will assess the situation
and if things continue to remain calm then we will consider
lifting the curfews today.”  Violence erupted between Hindus and Muslims after prayers
to mark the end of the holy month of Ramadan on Aug. 9 in the
district of Kishtwar. Omar Abdullah, the chief minister of Jammu
and Kashmir, appealed for calm and announced that a judicial
inquiry will be held into the clashes and said the report will
be made public.  “We will do everything that is necessary to ensure that
this trouble does not spread to other parts of the state,”
Abdullah said yesterday. “Any people responsible for the deaths
and the damage to property in Kishtwar areas will be brought to
book and the most severe punishment handed out.”  The clashes followed tensions between India and  Pakistan 
along the border in the disputed region of Kashmir after five
Indian soldiers were killed last week. Pakistan’s foreign
ministry in a statement rejected charges the nation’s military
was involved as baseless and unfounded.  Authorities prevented senior politicians from traveling to
the riot-hit area in a step described as necessary to ease
tension.  Arun Jaitley , a leader of the opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party , was denied entry to the region of Kishtwar
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  