-- Czech Economy to Exit Record-Long Slump as Politics Unravel
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-13T07:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/czech-economy-set-to-exit-record-long-slump-as-politics-unravel.html
The Czech economy probably exited
its longest recession on record in the second quarter, defying
political turmoil that’s raised the prospect of early elections.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.5 percent from the previous
three months in the April-June period, the first increase since
mid-2011, according to the median estimate of 15 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey . The Statistics Office will publish preliminary
data without a breakdown at 9 a.m. tomorrow in Prague. GDP
shrank 1.4 percent from a year earlier, the survey showed.  The $196 billion  economy  has suffered the longest
contraction since current records began in 1996 as efforts to
narrow the  budget deficit  curbed household spending, the euro
area’s debt crisis harmed export demand and ex-Prime Minister
Petr Necas’s cabinet collapsed in June. The central bank
responded by cutting the benchmark  interest rate  to what it
calls a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent last year.  “We anticipate that government consumption and restocking
were behind the growth in the second quarter, with net exports a
positive contributor as well,”  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at
Ceska Sporitelna AS, a unit of Erste Group Bank AG, said Aug. 9
by e-mail.  Czech borrowing costs have risen since allegations of
illegal spying and graft toppled Necas’s government in June. The
yield on 10-year koruna bonds was 2.23 percent yesterday,
holding 41 basis points, or 0.41 percentage point, below
comparable U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  No Confidence  The turmoil deepened last week after the interim government
of Jiri Rusnok, picked by President Milos Zeman in a snub to
lawmakers, lost a parliamentary confidence vote. The bloc of
three parties that backed the previous cabinet disintegrated and
deputies agreed to hold a vote on dissolving the lower house of
parliament, a condition for calling early elections.  While economic uncertainty will probably hinder the
economic recovery, it doesn’t materially affect the stable
outlook on the country’s A1 rating because of the country’s
favorable budget performance, Jaime Reusche, a sovereign-debt
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a report today.  “Should the authorities choose to loosen fiscal policy to
prop up economic activity, we believe that debt and deficit
metrics are unlikely to deteriorate sufficiently to undermine
fiscal policy credibility given the sovereign’s track record of
fiscal prudence,” Reusche said.  Mixed Signals  Economic data are sending mixed signals, clouding the
nation’s outlook, the central bank said in minutes from this
month’s rate-setting meeting. While  retail sales  and industrial
 output  fell more than analysts estimated in June, the trade
 surplus  widened as exports fell less than imports, statistics
office data showed.  After exhausting room for traditional  monetary easing ,
policy makers are debating whether the first koruna sales in
more than a decade are needed to bring inflation toward their 2
percent target from 1.4 percent in July.  Currency depreciation helps boost export competitiveness
while making imports more expensive, curbing deflation risks.
The koruna was little changed at 25.830 per euro late yesterday
in Prague and has lost 0.1 percent in the past three months, the
second-best result among major emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Persistent Slowdowns  Other parts of the region have struggled to shake off
slowdowns, with Russian and Estonian  GDP (CZGDPSAY)  missing economists’
forecasts in the second quarter, advancing 1.2 percent and 1.3
percent from a year earlier. Still, the euro-area economy grew
0.2 percent from the previous three months last quarter, exiting
a 1 1/2-year recession, according to a  survey  of 41 analysts.  Positive economic data from countries such as  Germany , the
 Czech Republic ’s biggest trading partner, may help boost the
koruna, Jan Cermak, an analyst at CSOB AS, a unit of KBC Groep
NV in Prague, said yesterday in a note to clients.  The currency “so far looks as if it’s neglecting the fact
that the central bank is holding its finger on the intervention
trigger,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  