-- CIBC Seeks to Sell Card Portfolio as TD Wins Aimia Deal
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-12T20:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/td-wins-aimia-aeroplan-partnership-ending-22-year-cibc-alliance.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
is in talks to sell about half its Aerogold credit-card
portfolio to  Toronto-Dominion (TD)  Bank, the lender that’s taking
over as the main card partner for  Aimia (AIM)  Inc.’s rewards program.  Toronto-Dominion, Canada’s second-largest bank by assets,
agreed to become the primary credit-card partner for Aimia’s
Aeroplan program, the companies said today in a joint statement.
The accord ends a 22-year alliance the Montreal-based loyalty-program operator had with CIBC, the country’s fifth-biggest
bank.  Canadian Imperial is in “ongoing active discussions” to
sell about 50 percent of its Aerogold portfolio, primarily
comprised of credit-card only clients, to Toronto-Dominion, CIBC
said in a statement. CIBC would retain Aerogold card accounts of
customers with broader relationships at the bank, the Toronto-based firm said. The three companies said they aim to reach a
deal by Aug. 26.  “While there are no guarantees that a deal will be
finalized, the framework for these discussions would see CIBC
retain the right to continue to issue Aerogold credit cards for
at least the next 10 years,” Kevin Dove, a Canadian Imperial
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  A sale is a “common sense approach” that should benefit
both CIBC and Toronto-Dominion,  John Aiken , a Barclays Plc
analyst in Toronto, said in a note.  ‘Fulsome Relationship’  “This should defray some of the retention costs
anticipated to be incurred by CIBC as it can focus on retaining
the customers it has a more fulsome relationship with,” Aiken
said. “For TD, it alleviates some of the risk that current
Aeroplan card holders will move to an alternative platform.”  Canadian Imperial  rose  2 percent to C$78.47 at 4:09 p.m. in
Toronto and Aimia jumped 4.1 percent to C$15.93. Toronto-Dominion fell 0.3 percent to C$86.41.  TD has increased its push into cards through acquisitions,
including its purchase of Bank of America Corp.’s Canadian
MasterCard portfolio in December 2011 and October’s agreement to
buy the $5.9 billion U.S. credit-card holdings of  Target Corp. (TGT)   Under its agreement with Aimia, TD will offer a variety of
co-branded Aeroplan Visa credit cards that offer miles for
flights and other rewards. The Toronto-based bank said it also
expects to include a card for Canadian small business owners and
U.S. residents.  ‘Solid Contribution’  Toronto-Dominion said the Aeroplan arrangement won’t have a
material impact on 2014 earnings, while making a “solid
contribution” in 2015. The bank said it doesn’t expect a
significant change in that outlook as a result of the proposed
deal.  Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at Royal Bank of Canada,
said in a note today that the Aerogold portfolio accounts for an
estimated 5 percent to 15 percent of CIBC’s annual earnings.  Canadian Imperial didn’t match Toronto-Dominion’s June
conditional agreement with Aimia by an Aug. 9 deadline, saying
the accord wasn’t valid because it failed to comply with Aimia’s
obligation under an existing arrangement. The bank said it
retains the right to pursue legal options if it doesn’t reach a
deal with Toronto-Dominion and Aimia on the portfolio sale.  Canadian Imperial’s two-decade partnership with Aimia made
the CIBC Aerogold Visa its most popular card. CIBC buys Aeroplan
miles from Aimia to give to cardholders on purchases, including
flights with Air  Canada , the country’s biggest carrier. Aimia,
which owns and manages rewards programs including Nectar in the
U.K. and  Italy , counts CIBC as its biggest partner.  Air Canada  Aeroplan began in 1984 as a promotional tool for business
travelers on Air Canada. CIBC Aerogold Visa was started in 1991,
according to Aimia. The card allows users to collect Aeroplan
points for travel on Air Canada and get goods from retailers.  CIBC has been preparing to go it alone with its own card.
CEO Gerald McCaughey, 57, said on a May 30 conference call that
the bank is spending more than C$50 million ($48.6 million) over
four quarters to create an alternative card if the Aimia
agreement isn’t renewed. Canadian Imperial also has its Aventura
Gold Visa card, which it introduced in 2003 to offer lifestyle
and travel rewards with purchases.  “CIBC is still faced with the C$50 million expenditure to
develop the new card offering, with additional marketing and
retention costs after the new cards are issued,” Barclays’s
Aiken said. “As well, the lost revenues from the potential
portfolio sale will still weigh on the bottom line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  