-- Danske to Hire Currency Traders in U.S. as Branch Plan Fails
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-08-12T08:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/danske-to-hire-currency-traders-in-u-s-as-branch-plan-fails-1-.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , which last week
gave up ambitions to open a  New York  branch, still plans to hire
bankers to expand currency trading operations to the U.S.  Denmark ’s biggest bank wants to provide foreign exchange
services in the U.S. to existing customers, Jens Peter Neergaard, Danske’s global markets head, said in an interview.
Demand for European fixed-income products, including government
and mortgage bonds, may also warrant additional hires in the New
York office, he said.  Danske fired three of its New York employees last week
after delays in its application for a U.S. banking license led
it to abandon the bid. The Copenhagen-based bank had planned to
provide money market and foreign exchange services out of the
branch. Though it won’t be able to accept deposits now, the bank
doesn’t need as much dollar funding as it did when the
application was made four years ago, Neergaard said. Danske will
seek to expand its foreign-exchange business by tapping its U.S.
broker-dealer, he said.  “It’s been a good business that we’ve built in bringing
the Nordic fixed-income products to the U.S. investors,”
Neergaard said.  Government bonds , particularly those associated
with  Europe ’s debt crisis, have offered “a tremendous recovery
trade,” he said.  Falling Yields  Yields have fallen to six-week lows, with  Spain ’s 2015 bond
declining to about 1.792 percent today, its lowest since May 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Improving economic data
and a lack of new bond issuance are driving the gains,  RBC
Capital Markets  said.  Danske  reported  a 46 percent gain in net income last
quarter after loan losses dropped and the economies of its main
markets picked up. The bank, which has navigated its way through
burst property bubbles in Ireland and Denmark, said last year it
needs to eliminate 3,000 jobs to stay competitive.  Still, the bank is expanding in areas where there’s growth.
Danske said in February it’s hiring bankers for a bond
underwriting unit as demand for corporate debt issuance grows.
So far, the bank has only offered foreign exchange services from
its Copenhagen office.  “We operate a 24-hour shift here and that has worked well
for us, but we think it’s better to have a local presence and
that is why we would like to be on the ground there,” Neergaard
said.  Danske opened its broker-dealer office in New York at the
beginning of 2010. That followed a 2004 announcement that the
bank was closing its U.S. operations because the implementation
of Basel II rules posed a threat to its business. A year later,
Danske entered the Irish market.  Shares of Danske have  risen  20 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent increase in Bloomberg’s 44-member index of
European banks. The bank traded at 114.40 kroner on Friday,
compared with a 2007 peak of 252.63 kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  