-- Deadly Irish Humor Spikes Doyle’s ‘Commitments’ Update
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-08-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/deadly-irish-humor-spikes-doyle-s-commitments-update.html
“D’yeh do the Facebook thing?” is
the opening question of “The Guts,” Roddy Doyle’s new novel.  The dilemmas of social-media relationships form the very-2013 backdrop to this update of “ The Commitments ,” Doyle’s
first book, which shot him to literary stardom in 1987. That
tale about a working-class Dublin band was made into a film in
1991 and will have its debut as a musical at  London ’s Palace
Theatre in September.  Jimmy Rabbitte, the Irish hustler who shaped the soulful
Commitments, is now 47. He’s still in Barrytown, a fictionalized
version of the north Dublin suburb of Kilbarrack, where Doyle
grew up, and still in the record business. He has strong tastes,
which make him a “music fascist” according to his family. He
has a nice house, a loving wife and four children.  None of this makes for a very dramatic read, so Doyle stirs
things up. Jimmy drops the bombshell on page 10: He needs
treatment for bowel cancer. That would be plot enough, but
there’s more.  He runs into former band mates, including the still-sexy
singer Imelda Quirke. His son Marvin’s band plays at a rock
festival. He’s learning the trumpet and has a mission to find
old Irish music. The text races along.  Jimmy was last seen in “ The Van ” in 1991. Freed from his
1980s time warp, he wrestles with iPads, smartphones and
YouTube. The novel’s going to date as fast as the technology.  Rabbitte v. Rabbit  Doyle has now written as many novels about the Rabbitte
family as John Updike did about  Rabbit Angstrom . He pares his
writing to little more than the dialogue. He hates what James Joyce called “perverted commas” and gives pages of straight
speech like a play script:  -- Will we go for a pint? To celebrate.  -- Grand. Good. Yeah.  Jimmy says “grand” all the time, even when he’s suffering
from chemotherapy. We wonder that he really thinks, but all
inner thoughts and descriptions are left off the page, as is the
meticulously detailed backstory.  Doyle is 55. This is his midlife crisis book. The key
phrase comes when he writes of a guy wanting to return to his
roots as a punk musician, like “the howling kid inside every
middle-aged man.”  It’s also Doyle’s recession book, after setting previous
works in the Irish booms of the past.  “Nostalgia’s always big in a recession,” he has one
character remark. The author loves his music as much as Rabbitte
and there are constant references to rock: the Who, the Stooges.  “Every half-decent band should have a dead guitarist,”
the musician Outspan says at the end. It’s a bittersweet
comment, because Outspan is sick with an illness likely to be
terminal.  The best thing is that Irish humor: deadpan, earnest, often
spot on. As the Commitments would put it, “deadly.”  “The Guts” is published by Jonathan Cape in the U.K. (328
pages, 12.99 pounds.) It will be published in the U.S. by Viking
in January. To preorder this book in North America, click  here .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Amanda
Gordon ’s Hampton’s Scene.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 