-- Icahn’s Fast-Track Hearing on Dell Share Buyout Delayed
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-08-12T15:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/dell-investor-icahn-seeks-fast-track-status-for-lawsuit.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  will
have to wait until Friday to ask a judge to fast-track his
lawsuit against Dell Inc. as he tries to stop the computer
maker’s buyout by founder  Michael Dell .  Judge Leo Strine Jr. of Delaware Chancery Court today was
to have heard arguments from Icahn’s attorneys for speeding up
the suit, designed to head off a planned Sept. 12 shareholder
vote on the $24.9 billion takeover. The hearing was postponed
until 12:30 p.m. on Aug. 16, Kenneth Lagowski, a court
administrator in Wilmington, said in an interview.  Billionaire Michael Dell, 48, and Silver Lake Management
LLC offered $13.65 a share for the Round Rock, Texas-based PC
maker. Icahn, 77, opposed the deal and sued the board Aug. 1
saying it failed to get the top price.  In a sweetened bid, the Dell founder agreed to pay $13.75 a
share and a special dividend of 13 cents a share, on top of a
regular 8 cents a share dividend. The total investors would get
in the transaction rose to $13.96 a share.  Dell fell 2 cents to $13.72 cents at 11:09 a.m.  New York 
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Stockholders “will suffer irreparable harm” without a
quick hearing of the case, because the buyout “is nearly
certain to be approved through an unfair vote,” while investors
will be “powerless to nominate new directors” beforehand,
Icahn contended in a brief.  ‘Imperial Status’  He called Dell directors’ actions part of “their self-granted imperial status.”  Icahn, chairman of New York-based  Icahn Enterprises
Holdings LP (IEP)  also challenged the board’s revised record date of
Aug. 13, tomorrow, allowing newer investors to vote. The company
has set its annual meeting for Oct. 17.  “The lame-duck board of Dell has been in office for over a
year” and refuses to hold a meeting to let investors choose new
directors while trying “to ram through a going-private
transaction,” Icahn contended in court papers.  David Frink , a company spokesman, said in a statement that
Dell’s board has “sought to maximize value for, and acted in
accordance with its fiduciary duties to, Dell stockholders and
will continue to do so.”  Icahn Requests  Icahn is asking the judge to bar Dell, the third-largest PC
maker, from setting a new shareholder record date; to stop
Michael Dell and his affiliates from voting any shares acquired
since Feb. 5, the day the deal was announced; to stop the
company from changing voting requirements; and to find that the
 board  breached its fiduciary duties.  The investor also asked the judge to prohibit Dell
directors from holding the special meeting “until it can be
held at the same time” as the annual meeting.  Icahn “appears” to be asking the court to order Dell to
hold the special meeting vote simultaneously with the annual
meeting, the company said in court papers. Reverting to the old
record date would exclude newer potential voters and nullify the
latest negotiated buyout agreement, the company said.  The plaintiffs are using the court as “another theater in
their public relations battle,” Dell said.  Dell E-Mail  In an e-mail last week to Dell’s 110,000 employees, Michael
Dell said he is committed to completing the buyout and using
research and development acquisitions to make the company more
competitive.  “Dell needs to transform, and we need to do it quickly,”
he wrote. “The technology landscape has fundamentally changed
since the company was founded, and success requires this
transformation.”  Shareholders have sued Dell officials in federal court in
Houston and at least 20 other Delaware suits seeking more money
are pending.  The case is High River v.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , CA8762, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  