-- Derivatives Margin Losses Could Help Save CCPs, Regulators Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-08-12T16:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/derivatives-margin-losses-could-help-save-ccps-regulators-say.html
Derivatives traders should be
prepared to lose the initial margin they post at clearinghouses
if it’s needed to prevent a financial crisis, global markets
regulators said.  The “margin is likely to constitute a very large pool of
assets which would, if it can be used, provide a high degree of
loss-absorbency” to help stabilize a central counterparty, or
CCP, the International Organization of Securities Commissions
and the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems said in a
joint report published today.  The Group of 20 nations has ordered a global overhaul of
rules governing derivatives contracts, mandating the use of CCPs
by traders. Regulators have sought tougher rules for over-the-counter derivatives since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the rescue of American International Group
Inc., two of the largest traders of credit-default swaps.  “Resolution of firms from other financial sectors has
lagged behind the progress made in relation to banks,”  Mark Carney , governor of the  Bank of England  and chairman of the
Financial Stability Board, said in an e-mailed statement. The
guidelines will “ensure that greater reliance on CCPs does not
result in a new category of too-big-to-fail institution.”  Clearinghouses such as London’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  and Eurex
Clearing AG operate as central counterparties for every buy and
sell order executed by their members, who are required to post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  Madrid-based Iosco brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information. The CPSS, which is part of the Basel,
Switzerland-based Bank of International Settlements, is made up
of central bankers from developed and emerging economies and
sets standards for payment, clearing and settlement systems.  The group today also proposed guidelines on financial
regulators’ access to data at  trade repositories , as well as a
progress report on how national supervisors are  implementing 
rules to safeguard clearinghouses against a financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  