-- Developers Rise on Speculation of Easing Policy: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-12T08:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/developers-rise-on-speculation-of-easing-policy-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese developer shares rose the
most in a month after a statement by the securities regulator
prompted speculation that the government may ease curbs on
fundraising by real estate companies.  An index tracking  property developers  listed in  Shanghai 
rose 3.1 percent, the biggest one-day gain since July 11.
 China ’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2.4 percent.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission issued a
statement after the close of markets on Aug. 9 elaborating on
conditions for allowing financing by developers, prompting
analyst including Zheshang Securities Co.’s Dai Feng and Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd.’s Alan Jin to say regulators were moving
toward easing restrictions. The Financial News newspaper,
controlled by China’s central bank, published an article today
that said the nation may adjust property financing policies.  “The ability to sell shares again will be big good news
for the property sector in the second half of the year as it
will lower borrowing costs,” said Tian Shixin, an analyst at
BOC International China Ltd. in Shanghai. “Investors are
expecting the easing to come out soon.”  A three-year campaign by Chinese authorities to rein in
 home prices  has included higher down-payment requirements and
bans on purchases of second homes in some cities. Regulators
haven’t allowed developers to raise money by selling shares in
China since 2010, according to Zheshang Securities’s Dai.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index has surged more
than 8.8 percent since the Communist Party’s Politburo said July
30 that China sought “stable and healthy” development of the
real estate market. That statement, for the first time this
year, omitted any mention of further tightening, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG and Orient Finance Holdings (H.K.) Ltd.  Share Sales  Announcements this month by developers including  China
Merchants Property Development Co. (000024)  and  Sundy Land Investment Co. (600077) 
of plans to sell shares further prompted speculation that limits
on financing would be eased.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest domestically listed
developer, rose 3.9 percent to 10.13  yuan  in Shenzhen, the
biggest gain in almost three weeks. In  Hong Kong ,  China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest state-owned developer, rose
1.7 percent to the highest level since May 10.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain McDonald at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net  