-- LDK Solar Expects a Return to Profit After EU Trade Deal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-12T01:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/ldk-solar-expects-a-return-to-profit-after-eu-trade-deal.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the Chinese solar-panel maker that’s reported eight straight quarterly losses,
expects to return to profit this year on domestic demand and as
a tariff deal promises better sales in  Europe .  The company, which is scheduled to report second-quarter
earnings on Aug. 14, started generating positive cash flows from
selling wafers used in solar cells in June, President Tong Xingxue said in an interview at his Xinyu office.  “This is the first time in two years we witnessed obvious
improvement,” he said. “The market is steadily rising and our
demand has exceeded supply. The basic barrier to Europe has been
overcome” and the domestic market is taking off, he said.  LDK’s debt rose to  $2.9 billion  as of the end of the first
quarter after a supply surplus drove a 20 percent drop in  module
prices  last year. Sales are set to improve after European Union
and Chinese negotiators struck an agreement last month to curb
EU imports of solar panels in exchange for exempting the
shipments from punitive tariffs.  “The oversupply is easing in 2013 and some top solar
manufacturers can even make profits in the second half,”  Lian Rui, an analyst at NPD Solarbuzz in Beijing, said by phone.  The solar market is becoming more diversified, with demand
seen in Japan， China ，Europe and Australia, and  emerging markets 
including Africa，the  Middle East  and  Thailand , Tong said in the
Aug. 8 interview.  “LDK will have half of its market in China，with the rest
abroad,” Tong said. He expects module prices to increase in the
second half.  LDK’s wafer production is operating at almost full capacity
of 4.5 gigawatts from about 30 percent capacity at the beginning
of the year, Tong said. The company has kept almost no inventory
for the last two quarters, he said.  LDK plans to revive production at its polysilicon plants
once prices reach at least 140  yuan  ($23) a kilogram from about
120 yuan now，Tong said.  The company also plans to develop 600 megawatts of solar
farms this year once it secures buyers, Tong said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  