-- Dollar’s 4-Week Selloff May Reverse, Citigroup’s Cochinos Says
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-12T19:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/dollar-s-4-week-selloff-may-reverse-citigroup-s-cochinos-says.html
A four-week surge in sales of
dollars by  hedge funds  and non-leveraged investors may be coming
to an end amid speculation the trend has gone too far, too fast,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Proprietary data from Citigroup on currency flows show the
intensity of the dollar-selling decreased over the past week,
Richard Cochinos, a currency strategist in New York at the
company, wrote in a client report. The level of selling over the
past month has previously been reached in large U.S.-risk events
such as the fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases at
the end of last year, he wrote.  “We’re not in a massive U.S. risk environment or having
massive real money go to  emerging markets ,” Cochinos said in an
interview. “If hedge funds and real money investors are heavily
sold, and they don’t have a huge incentive to sell much more
from here on out, then it has to be that the dollar will start
strengthening in a week or two going forward.” “Real-money
investors” are those who aren’t leveraged.  Options traders are bullishly positioned on the dollar. The
premium on options granting the right to sell the euro against
the U.S. currency relative to those allowing for purchases
increased to 0.94 percentage point today, the one-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate for the pair showed. The
figure was 0.54 percentage point on July 22, the least since
February.  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, increased 0.3 percent to 81.35 today in New
York. It was the gauge’s second day of gains after five days of
losses. It closed at 84 on July 10 after reaching 84.75 the
previous day, the highest since July 2010.  “If hedge funds shift from dollar selling to outright
dollar buying, there’s no reason in a month or two, once we get
into the fall, that you couldn’t begin to see 84 or higher again
for the Dollar Index,” Cochinos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  