-- Dollar Gains as Increase in Retail Sales Boosts Fed-Taper Bets
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l   a n d   J o e   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-13T21:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/dollar-touches-week-high-before-retail-sales-report-yen-slides.html
The dollar gained versus major peers
after retail sales rose in July for a fourth month and Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said policy
makers may start to slow asset buying as soon as September.  The yen slid the most in nine weeks against the euro after
a newspaper report said the Japanese government is weighing a
corporate-tax cut. Sweden’s krona strengthened versus the
majority its 16 most-active peers after consumer prices
unexpectedly increased. The Fed has been buying $85 billion of
Treasuries and mortgage debt each month to put downward pressure
on borrowing costs, which tends to devalue the dollar.  “Retail sales in the U.S., including revisions, were
better than expected -- just on the daily charts, momentum seems
to be turning,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York. “There’s a
chance the Fed could begin tapering in September.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index   added  0.5 percent to
1,025.61 at 5 p.m. New York time after rising 0.7 percent, the
biggest intraday gain since Aug. 1.  The greenback increased 0.3 percent to $1.3263 per euro.
The dollar climbed 1.3 percent to 98.23 yen after gaining 1.5
percent, also the most since Aug. 1.  Japan ’s currency dropped
1.1 percent to 130.28 per euro after falling 1.2 percent, the
biggest drop since June 20.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index  rose to 9.4
after touching 9.04 percent yesterday, the lowest intraday level
since May 9.  Rupee, Krona  India ’s rupee rose versus all 31 of its most-traded
counterparts after the government raised taxes on gold imports
to contain a record current-account deficit. The currency
climbed 0.1 percent to 61.2000 per dollar after earlier gaining
0.5 percent to 60.9713.  The krona gained versus the 17-nation shared currency as
 consumer prices  climbed an annual 0.1 percent in July after
declining 0.1 percent the previous month,  Statistics Sweden 
said. The krona appreciated 0.2 percent to 8.6656 per euro and
declined 0.1 percent to 6.5344 per dollar.  South Africa’s rand fell after the death of a worker at
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine, almost a year after at least 44 died
in violence at the operation. The currency weakened 1.1 percent
to 9.9962 per dollar, pushing its year-to-date loss to 15
percent, worst among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Lockhart’s View  “A decision to proceed -- whether it is in September,
October, or December -- ought to be thought of as a cautious
first step” in tapering, Lockhart, who doesn’t vote on monetary
policy this year, said in a speech in Atlanta. He cited an
“uneven performance” by the economy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress in July that any
reduction in stimulus would depend on the economy’s performance.
Half of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month said the
Fed may decide at its Sept. 17-18 policy meeting to reduce the
purchases to $65 billion a month.  “The last thing the Fed wants to do is take a bold first
step, i.e., a $25 billion cut in purchases, only to have the
economy stall and requiring a shift in direction and a step-up
in purchases,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a report.
“We could see a modest $15 billion cut with the initial focus
on Treasury purchases.”  The 0.2 percent U.S.  retail sales  increase followed a 0.6
percent gain in June that was larger than previously reported,
according to Commerce Department figures issued in  Washington .
The median  forecast  of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.3 percent advance. The measure of demand that
feeds into gross domestic product climbed by the most this year.  Japan Tax  Japanese shares rose as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe asked for
a study of lower tax rates on businesses as a counterweight to a
sales-levy increase, the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing
unidentified people in the government. Japan is considering
raising the  consumption tax  by three percentage points next year
to rein in a national debt of more than twice gross domestic
product.  Options traders have become less bullish on the yen, 25-delta risk reversals show. The premium for one-month options
granting the right to buy Japan’s currency versus the euro
relative to those allowing for sales was at 0.87 percentage
point, the least since May 23, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Year’s Worst  The yen has tumbled 9 percent this year, the second worst
performer after  Australia ’s dollar among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro advanced 5.2 percent and the  U.S. dollar  strengthened
4.5 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $27 billion, compared with $30 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $4.8 billion, the
largest share of trades at 18 percent. Options on the dollar-Chinese  yuan  rate totaled $3.4 billion, or 13 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 31 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day.
Dollar-yuan options trading was 44 percent more than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  