-- Dufner’s Emotionless Showing Leads to First Major Golf Title
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/dufner-s-emotionless-showing-leads-to-first-major-golf-title.html
Jason Dufner  was walking to the
fifth tee at Oak Hill Country Club when his ears were blasted by
a three-man group of supporters.  “Come on Duf,” the trio shouted. “Smile.”  Dufner turned slightly to his right and allowed himself a
small grin, his teeth barely visible above a small patch of hair
growing below his lower lip. It was a major show of emotion for
a golfer best known for staring slack-jawed, and for blowing a
previous chance at a major championship.  The three fans high-fived each other as Dufner sauntered
away. By the time he walked off the fifth green about 15 minutes
later, Dufner had dropped a two-foot birdie putt to take a lead
he would never relinquish en route to winning the PGA
Championship, his first title at a Grand Slam tournament.  “I come across as a pretty cool customer, I guess,”
Dufner, 36, said in a press conference. “But there are
definitely some nerves out there. You try to act like it’s not
that big a deal, but it is a pretty big deal.”  Dufner’s two-shot victory over  Jim Furyk  in Rochester, New
York, yesterday capped a rise to the top of the sport for one of
its most outwardly emotionless players. He raised his arms in
the air after tapping in his final putt at the 18th hole, yet
didn’t break out into a smile for all to see until he hugged his
wife of 15 months, 25-year-old Amanda, just off the 18th green.  “I think he still may be in a little bit of shock,” she
told reporters, insisting her husband is just misunderstood.  “He’s a really, really funny guy,” she said. “He’s
always trying to have a good time. On the golf course, he’s just
there to work. Some people just don’t get him. But some people
do.”  Bradley’s Hug  Keegan Bradley, who defeated Dufner in a playoff two years
ago at the  PGA Championship  in Atlanta, is among those who do.
After finishing his round, Bradley was present at the 18th green
to hug his friend before Dufner lifted the same 27-pound
Wanamaker Trophy that Bradley had hoisted in 2011.  “We just sort of bro-hugged,” Dufner said at a news
conference, then tapping the silver trophy. “He always jabbed
at me a little bit about having one of these in his house. Now
I’ve got one, too. It’s pretty neat.”  Dufner won his first title in one of golf’s four annual
major tournaments on an 89-year-old course where  Tiger Woods , a
14-time major champions who finished 40th, has never broken par.
British Open champion  Phil Mickelson , the world’s No. 2-ranked
player behind Woods, finished 22 shots behind Dufner, an Ohio
native who now calls Auburn,  Alabama , home.  Twitter Fame  After winning twice on the  PGA Tour  in 2012, Dufner gained
a wider measure of fame in March when a local television
reporter snapped a picture of him at the Byron Nelson
Championship outside  Dallas  during a charity appearance at the J.
Erik Jonsson Community School.  With tousled hair and wearing a red golf shirt, black pants
and black shoes, an expressionless Dufner was slumped against a
wall alongside a group of children. Staring across the room,
Dufner’s hands were tucked under his thighs.  After Bradley posted the photo on the social-media website
Twitter, “Dufnering” was born. Golfers, other athletes and
fans began posting their own versions of the pose, with PGA of
America President Ted Bishop doing it this week.  “It got some notoriety for maybe something that was
probably trying to hurt me a little bit,” Dufner said. “I ran
with it and it helped me a lot. I got a lot of fans because of
it.”  Tobacco Hit  Dufner repeatedly stuffed a pinch of smokeless tobacco in
the right side of his lower lip through his final round. Only
occasionally did he replace the tobacco with a bite-sized energy
gel square, the kind that runners use to get through the final
miles of a marathon.  While Dufner won’t be mistaken for a marathoner as he moves
around the course, waving his club like a metronome before each
shot, he outlasted several would-be contenders, including Furyk,
the 2003 U.S. Open winner, and  Sweden ’s  Henrik Stenson , who was
third.  Dufner said afterward that what people see doesn’t always
tell the true story. He said his pulse was racing when he was
faced with a three-foot par putt on the first hole yesterday.  “After I made that, I would say I was pretty flat-lined
for most of the day,” the new champion said.  Dufner said his calm demeanor is simply a byproduct of the
sport he plays for a living.  “There are big plays in basketball, home runs in baseball,
big plays in football,” he said. “For me, golf is a little bit
more boring. I hit it in the fairway or I didn’t; I hit the
green or I didn’t. Usually I’m struggling with the putter, so
there’s not too much to get excited about with that.”  After his loss in Atlanta two years ago, Jason and Amanda
made the two-hour drive home to Auburn, stopping for fast-food
cheeseburgers. This year, they had other plans. Amanda said the
couple would fly home and sip champagne.  “My name will always be on this trophy, and nobody can
take that away from me,” Dufner said. “I’m really excited
about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Rochester,  New York  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  