-- Dutch Prince Friso Dies at 44 After 2012 Ski Accident
-- B y   J o h n   B u c k l e y
-- 2013-08-12T14:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/dutch-prince-friso-dies-at-44-after-2012-ski-accident.html
Friso van Oranje, the brother of
King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands whose love for a woman
led him to renounce his claim to the throne, has died 18 months
after a skiing accident left him in a coma. He was 44.  He died today in the Huis ten Bosch palace in  The Hague ,
the Dutch government information service said in a statement.
The cause was complications from  brain damage  suffered after an
avalanche buried him while skiing in  Austria  in February 2012.  Friso, the second son of Princess Beatrix, who abdicated as
queen in April, became chief financial officer at Urenco Ltd., a
London-based uranium enrichment company, in January 2011. He
previously was a managing director at Wolfensohn & Co. and had
worked at McKinsey & Co. in Amsterdam and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s investment-banking unit in  London .  In 2003, the prince gave up his right to the throne by
deciding to marry Mabel Wisse Smit without parliament’s
permission.  Wisse Smit  had provided incomplete information to
the government during a background check about her past
relationship with Klaas Bruinsma, the head of a Dutch criminal
organization who was murdered in 1991. After that, Friso was no
longer a Prince of the Netherlands but retained the title of
Prince of Oranje.  Friso’s death is “intensely sad,” Dutch Prime Minister
 Mark Rutte  said in a statement. “We will remember Prince Friso
as a man with broad interests who has always put his multiple
talents at the service of society.”  Berkeley Alumnus  Johan Friso Bernhard Christiaan David van Oranje was born
on Sept. 25, 1968, in the Dutch city of Utrecht, one of three
sons of the queen and Prince Claus. His father died in 2002.  Friso studied engineering at the  University of California 
at Berkeley from 1986 to 1988 and earned a degree in aerospace
engineering at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands
in 1994. He received a master’s in economics from Erasmus
University in Rotterdam in 1995 and a master’s of business
administration from the European Institute of Business
Administration, known as  INSEAD , in Fontainebleau,  France , in
1997.  On Feb. 17, 2012, while skiing in Austria, the prince was
trapped under snow for 20 minutes before being taken to the
intensive-care unit of a hospital in Innsbruck. He had been
skiing off the trail with another person without a guide and
triggered the avalanche, according to Hermann Fercher, tourism
director at Lech, the Austrian ski resort where the Dutch royal
family regularly vacations.  Besides his mother and older brother, Friso’s survivors
include his younger sibling, Prince Constantijn, and his wife
and two daughters, Luana, 8, and Zaria, 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Buckley  in Amsterdam at 
 johnbuckley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  