-- Egypt Islamist Warns Against Moves on Pro-Mursi Protest Camp
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-08-12T13:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/egypt-islamist-warns-against-moves-on-pro-mursi-protest-camp.html
A leading Egyptian Islamist said
forcefully breaking up a sit-in by backers of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi could lead to a “massacre,” as an official said
no date has been set for action.  “They will not be able to disperse the sit-in at Rabaa al-Adawiya except through a massacre of tens of thousands of
peaceful protesters,” Mohamed El-Beltagy, an official with the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, told Al
Jazeera’s  Egypt  channel, speaking of one of two sites in Cairo
where Mursi’s supporters have been camped out. “Instead of
Rabaa al-Adawiya there will be a hundred other squares where
open-ended sit-ins and peaceful resistance to this military coup
will start.”  The sit-ins have emerged as a main point of contention in
the standoff between Mursi’s supporters, who vow to stay there
until he is reinstated, and the interim administration backed by
the army, which toppled the elected president on July 3.
Officials have urged protesters to leave and the cabinet has
authorized police to take action, raising fears of violence.  Interior Ministry spokesman Hany Abdel Latif said today no
date has been set for a move against the sit-ins. While police
are ready to move, “the state is now exerting its utmost
efforts to end the crisis without a security intervention,” he
said by phone. “We hope that people respond.”  Earlier this month, Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi said
the government’s decision to clear the sit-ins was final and
asked protesters to leave. He made his comments shortly after
the interim presidency said international diplomatic efforts to
help ease the crisis have failed.  The government says the sit-ins are a threat to national
security.  At least 130 Mursi supporters have already been killed by
security forces since his ouster, which followed mass protests
against his rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  