-- Telekom Austria Misses Earnings Estimates on Competition
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-08-12T10:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/telekom-austria-misses-estimates-on-competition-regulation.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , one of the two
European network operators part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , reported second-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates as fierce competition, economic headwinds
and regulatory measures curbed profit.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to 330.3 million euros ($440 million) from
364.8 million euros a year earlier as revenue declined 1.9
percent to 1.04 billion euros, the Vienna-based company said in
a statement today. The average analyst estimate for Ebitda was
332.7 million euros, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “As expected, 2013 is turning out to be a mixed year,”
Chief Executive Officer Hannes Ametsreiter said in the
statement. “Cost-cutting measures are partly compensating for
the declines in revenues.”  Intense domestic competition in mobile and fixed-line
networks by units of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) 
and  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA)  have weighed on Telekom Austria’s
earnings for years. Growth in its eastern European units slowed
as economies in Croatia and  Bulgaria  contracted, reducing demand
for mobile phone services. That prompted the company to cut
costs and reduce shareholder payouts.  Its domestic business was hurt by a continuing shift to
cheaper tariffs, Telekom Austria said. In Bulgaria, earnings
declined mainly due to the reduction of mobile termination
rates, the fees operators charge to carry each other’s calls,
and due to lower demand caused by the sluggish economy.  The company’s  shares  fell 3 percent to 5.6 euros at 12:08
p.m. in Vienna.  Sales Outlook  Telekom  Austria  predicts revenue will fall 5 percent to
about 4.1 billion euros this year, heading for the fifth
straight annual decline. It reiterated the outlook for revenue
today, as well as for a dividend payment of 5 cents a share.
Capital expenditure will be 650 million euros to 700 million
euros, the company said.  Austria’s biggest-ever spectrum auction in September could
bring back a fourth mobile competitor after the number of
operators was reduced by Hutchison’s purchase of Orange Austria
last year. Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile is the third mobile phone
company in Austria.  Telekom Austria introduced new prices in March, charging
customers based on the transmission speed and volume of data.
With competitors eager to gain market share, offering similar
packages at lower prices, the company has kept the promotional
discount in place so far.  Higher Subsidies  While customers “responded well” to the new tariffs, the
cost of attracting and keeping clients doubled to about 80
million euros in the first half of 2013, Chief Financial Officer
Hans Tschuden told journalists today. The company paid higher
subsidies to make phones cheaper and plans to profit from
increased monthly fees in the longer-term, he said.  “The Austrian mobile market has remained tough,” with an
aggressive strategy from Hutchison’s 3, Usman Ghazi, a London-based Berenberg Bank analyst, who recommends selling the stock,
said in a note to clients dated July 31.  A takeover bid by America Movil for Dutch carrier  Royal KPN
NV (KPN)  caused Telekom Austria shares to rally 8.7 percent on Aug. 9,
almost erasing this year’s decline. Mexican billionaire Slim’s
company owns 23.7 percent of Telekom Austria, making it the
second-biggest shareholder after the Austrian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  