-- Emerging Stocks Rise as China Data Lifts Gold Producers
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-12T21:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/emerging-stocks-climb-for-third-day-as-china-developers-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
two-week high as confidence in  China’s economy  grew and gold
producers lifted  South Africa ’s benchmark gauge to a record.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.7 percent to
957.82, the highest level since July 26. The FTSE/JSE Africa All
Shares Index climbed 1.8 percent as  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) 
rallied the most since 2008 amid a jump in the precious metal.
Mining company  Vale  SA helped drive  Brazil ’s Ibovespa to the
highest level in two months. Mexico’s peso reversed an earlier
advance after President Enrique Pena Nietounveiled his plan to
boost private investment in the state-controlled oil industry.  Raw-material companies in the emerging-market measure
increased 1.8 percent to lead gains among 10 groups.  China ’s
 yuan  halted a two-day decline on optimism the world’s second-largest economy is stabilizing after data released last week
showed rebounding exports and manufacturing. The nation’s
developers gained as speculation grew that the government will
relax a ban on companies raising funds through share sales.  “There’s a general sense that the global deceleration has
abated,” Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based
fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees about $130 billion. “That, coupled
with economic data points that point to stabilization within
China, has put a floor under valuations.”  A three-day rally in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
trimmed this year’s slump to 9.2 percent, compared with a 14
percent surge in the MSCI World Index. The broad measure of
developing nations is trading at 10.1 times estimated earnings,
below the valuation of developed markets of 13.8.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund added 0.9 percent to $39.73. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 4.7 percent to 21.74.  The Ibovespa rose the most among major equity gauges in the
Americas after Vale rallied for a fourth day. Oil company
Petroleo Brasileiro SA reversed earlier gains that were driven
by better-than-estimated earnings. The real retreated 0.7
percent, snapping a two-day advance.  Mexico’s IPC index slid 1.2 percent, led by  Alfa SAB (ALFAA) , which
controls the nation’s largest publicly-traded petrochemical
company. The peso depreciated 0.5 percent.  South Africa  The FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index advanced to the highest
level since at least  1995 (JALSH) , led by Harmony, which soared 21
percent. Gold capped the longest rally in four weeks.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose a second day, led by OAO
RusHydro. Benchmark gauges in Turkey and Poland added more than
1 percent, while stocks in  Hungary  were little changed.  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 2.4 percent, the most
since July 11. China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s biggest
coal producer, rallied 6.1 percent and  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , the
largest copper producer, had its biggest gain in a month. Poly
Real Estate Group Co. soared 5 percent.  Indian stocks climbed as  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (SUNP) ,  India ’s biggest drugmaker, jumped after posting a 56
percent gain in net income before a one-time charge. The rupee
weakened 0.7 percent per dollar.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.06 percentage point to 323 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  