-- Eric Holder’s Virtuous Assault on Mandatory Minimums
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-12T20:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/eric-holder-s-virtuous-assault-on-mandatory-minimums.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
wants to save money on prisons and make the federal justice
system fairer -- and has proposed doing it by sidestepping
Congress. His approach is far from ideal, but the goals are
compelling enough to justify it.  The unfairness of criminal sentencing in the U.S. -- and
the iniquities of mandatory minimum sentences, in particular --
is no secret. The system imposes harsher punishments on
minorities than on whites and sends nonviolent drug offenders to
prison for years. In denying courts the power to take the
circumstances of particular crimes into account when weighing
sentences, the mandatory minimums renounce a core principle of
justice. The situation cries out for remedy.  As  Holder said today , “too many Americans go to too many
prisons for far too long, and for no truly good law-enforcement
reason.” He’s right, and it’s shameful.  He says he has instructed federal prosecutors to employ
“locally tailored” guidelines for filing federal charges and,
when appropriate, to tweak charges against low-level, nonviolent
offenders so that “the accompanying sentences are better suited
to their individual conduct.” In other words, charges will be
adjusted so that mandatory minimums won’t always apply. In
effect, the discretion in sentencing that Congress took away
from the courts is being restored -- not to judges but to
prosecutors, and not through legislation but through yet another
instance of executive action.  The means are unappealing, to put it mildly. It would be
far better if lawmakers had acted instead. Congress should
already have passed one of the measures proposed occasionally to
roll back and preferably abolish mandatory minimums. But it
hasn’t, and there seems little immediate prospect that it will.
Given this, Holder’s action serves the greater good: The wrongs
of the present regime are just too great to ignore.  Holder is not alone in his critique. “I can accept neither
the necessity nor the wisdom of federal mandatory minimum
sentences,” U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Anthony Kennedy   said in a
2003 speech . “In too many cases, mandatory minimum sentences are
unwise or unjust.” In a  ruling  in June, the high court slightly
curtailed the nation’s sentencing rules, but too much injustice
remains.  Too much crippling cost, as well. The federal prison
population has grown almost 800 percent since 1980, to more than
219,000. (The  U.S. population  grew by one-third over the same
period.) Federal prisons are almost 40 percent over capacity.
Altogether, more than 1.5 million people were incarcerated in
2012 in local, state or federal institutions. The  Justice
Department  says the bill was $80 billion in 2010. The cost in
needlessly destroyed lives is frightening to contemplate.  Where Congress has failed to act, states have been
reforming. From  New York  to  California ,  South Dakota  to  Texas ,
prison reforms are saving public money while treating offenders
more fairly and giving some a better shot at redemption. From
2001 to 2011, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts’s  Public
Safety Performance Project , 16 states reduced both imprisonment
and crime rates.  It’s never too late for Congress to clean up a mess of its
own making. In the Senate, Republicans Mike Lee and  Rand Paul 
and Democrats  Richard Durbin  and  Patrick Leahy  are backing
 different  bipartisan versions of  legislation  to give federal
judges greater discretion in sentencing. The rest of the Senate
should join their efforts.  Sentencing reform is a cause on which liberals and
conservatives can and should unite. Meanwhile, Holder has acted,
and he was right not to wait.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 