-- Merkel Economy Scorecard Shows Steinbrueck Struggle
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-13T11:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/merkel-economy-scorecard-shows-steinbrueck-struggle-euro-credit.html
German economic figures show the
uphill struggle Peer Steinbrueck faces to unseat Chancellor
Angela Merkel in Sept. 22 elections.  Since Merkel succeeded Gerhard Schroeder in 2005,
 unemployment  has dropped to near a post-reunification low, the
 budget deficit  has been virtually eliminated and workers have
more  money  in their pockets. Investors are accepting negative
real returns to lend money to the federal government.  All that is serving Merkel’s bid for a third term. Her
Christian Democratic Union bloc leads Steinbrueck’s Social
Democrats by about 17 points in the polls. Even after eight
years of her rule and her decision to bail out struggling euro
nations to keep the 17-nation currency union intact, Germans see
little need for a new leader, says Manfred Guellner, director of
the Berlin-based pollster Forsa.  “For the man on the street there’s every reason to feel
good and that of course works always to the benefit of the
incumbent,” Commerzbank AG chief economist  Joerg Kraemer  said
by telephone. “Real wages are rising and have unlocked consumer
spending.”  Germany’s 10-year government bond yield will be 1.76
percent by the last quarter of this year from 3.31 percent in
2005 and 3.38 percent in 2009, according to the weighted average
of 24 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The 10-year note now
yields about 1.8 percent. Inflation will remain below 2 percent
through 2014, according to the median of 84 estimates collected
by Bloomberg.  Shrinking Deficit  Declining borrowing costs, along with spending curbs, have
helped Merkel shrink the budget deficit. The shortfall exceeded
the European Union ceiling in 2005 when it stood at 3.3 percent
of gross domestic product. It fell to 3.1 percent in 2009, even
amid an economic contraction. It’s forecast to drop to 0.2
percent this year according to the median of 32 predictions.  “The government has overachieved on some key fiscal
targets,” Fitch Ratings said Aug. 7 when it affirmed  Germany ’s
rating at AAA with a stable outlook and said the country’s debt
as a percentage of the economy has peaked. “Germany has all the
ingredients of a declining public debt path.”  The country’s unemployment rate will fall to 6.9 percent
this year compared with 8.1 percent in 2009, when Merkel was in
a so-called grand coalition with the Social Democrats, according
to Bloomberg-compiled forecasts. It was 11.7 percent the year
she took over from Schroeder.  Merkel’s decision in 2009 to extend labor-cost subsidies to
businesses hit by collapsing orders allowed companies to hold on
to skilled workers and supported a recovery from the deepest
slump since World War II.  DAX Gains  Germany’s benchmark  DAX (DAX)  index returned more than 60 percent
since the end of Schroeder’s rule, compared with losses for
 France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  and for  Italy ’s  FTSE MIB (FTSEMIB)  gauge.  Net wages  grew 3.6 percent year-on-year on average per
quarter during Merkel’s current term, compared with 0.3 percent
during Schroeder’s final three years.  Hit by a two-year recession in the euro region that curbed
its exports, Germany’s economy will expand 0.3 percent this
year, the Bundesbank said June 7. Germany will grow 1.5 percent
in 2014, in line with its potential, the central bank said.  “The economy of Germany is dependent on exports and data
we’ve got from its key markets suggested the country is doing
fine in terms of growth,” said Soeren Moerch, the head of
fixed-income trading at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “If data
on growth and sentiment maintains its momentum, Merkel will
probably have a good chance of winning the election.”  Rising Confidence  German 10-year bonds fell today after the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research said its index of investor and
analyst expectations rose to 42 this month, the highest level
since March. The yield rose 8 basis points to 1.78 percent at
1:35 p.m. in Berlin.  Six weeks before the election, support for Merkel’s
Christian Union bloc fell one point to 40 percent, according to
a weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine and RTL television.
Backing for the SPD rose a percentage point to 23 percent, with
its Green party ally also up a point at 14 percent. Merkel’s
Free Democratic Party coalition partner held at 5 percent while
the Left Party dropped one point to 7 percent.  The SPD’s election manifesto calls for a “new social
balance” and says it’s Merkel’s fault that the lesser qualified
face growing risks of poverty. Steinbrueck said in an Aug. 8
speech in Hamburg that he would act quickly to implement a
statutory minimum wage and put a brake on labor leasing.  The SPD also aims to raise the top tax rate to 49 percent
from 42 percent progressively from 64,000 euros ($85.357) to
100,000 euros, whereby those earning 100,000 euros or more per
year would pay 49 percent income tax.  Tax Plans  Merkel’s Christian Union bloc has  rejected  tax increases
and vowed instead to reduce the effects of “bracket creep”
that occurs when wage gains subject workers to higher tax rates.
It would also leave it to collective bargaining partners to set
minimum wages in their respective sectors and plans to reduce
government debt gradually to 60 percent of GDP from around 82
percent last year.  Whereas former SPD chancellor Helmut Schmidt was an
economic expert and Schroeder had the clout of an economic “man
of action,” voters see Steinbrueck as a “financial
technocrat,” said Guellner.  “There is no appetite for a change in government because
there is a lack of faith in the SPD’s abilities,” Guellner said
Aug. 9 by telephone. “Steinbrueck isn’t seen as somebody who
could do the job any better than the incumbent chancellor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  