-- Estonia Avoids Recession as Economic Growth Misses All Estimates
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-08-12T08:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/estonia-avoids-recession-as-economic-growth-misses-all-estimates.html
Estonia’s economy expanded less than
analysts forecast, narrowly avoiding a technical recession.  Gross domestic product  rose 1.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 1.1 percent in the
prior three months, the statistics office in the capital,
Tallinn, said today on its website. That was below all four
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey, which had a median estimate of
2.6 percent. GDP grew a seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent from the
first quarter after shrinking 1 percent in the January-March
period.  The $22-billion economy of the newest euro member is
lagging behind expansion in the neighboring Baltic countries of
Latvia and Lithuania as public construction shrinks after
benefitting from the  United Nations ’ carbon quota sales in the
past two years. Weak export demand from Finland, Sweden and
Russia prompted the central bank in June to cut its 2013
economic growth forecast to 2 percent from 3 percent.  “In all three Baltics countries, much of the slowdown can
be attributed to weaker external demand and, hence, exports,”
Jekaterina Rojaka,  DNB ASA (DNB) ’s Baltic economist, said by e-mail.
“The development of the  Nordic countries  has been muted, while
most recent encouraging indicators from  Germany  and other euro-zone members have not yet translated into a rising number of
orders.”  Estonia, which adopted the euro in 2011, has weathered
 Europe ’s debt crisis as Swedish and Finnish demand helped its
economy recover from a 20 percent contraction in the wake of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 demise.  Finland’s working-day adjusted GDP shrank 4.2 percent in
April, the most since December 2009, and Sweden’s economy shrank
0.1 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months. Russia’s economic growth unexpectedly slowed in the
second quarter to 1.2 percent from a year earlier.  Estonia’s central bank pointed to weak exports and public
spending as reasons for the second-quarter slowdown, reiterating
its economic growth forecast for this year, according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  