-- EuroCCP Offers Netting of Settlement Fees for U.K. Stocks
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-08-12T13:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/euroccp-offers-netting-of-settlement-fees-for-u-k-stocks.html
EuroCCP , the European unit of
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., began offering a service to
cut settlement fees charged to clients buying or selling U.K. or
Irish stocks over several different alternative trading venues.  The clearinghouse will allow so-called netting of
transactions across the different trading systems it services
from today, the London-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. Customers can combine trades in the same security
across multiple venues into a single settlement obligation,
saving each client as much as 2 million euros ($2.7 million) a
year, EuroCCP said.  Clearinghouses act as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, protecting them if
other traders default. Netting enables market participants to
pay a settlement fee based on the net effect of all their buy
and sell orders, rather than paying to process every trade
individually.  The service “illustrates the focus of trading firms on
reducing settlement and other post-trade costs,” Diana Chan,
chief executive officer of EuroCCP, said in the statement.
“Cross-platform netting is an essential prerequisite to
realising the full benefits of a pan-European equities trading
market. Settlement obligations for trading firms are reduced
into a single net receipt or delivery per day for each U.K. and
Irish security traded.”  EuroCCP clears stocks across 19 markets, including Bats
Chi-X Europe Ltd., Stockholm-based Burgundy and  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s Turquoise. The company is merging with
European Multilateral Clearing Facility NV to form the biggest
pan-European clearinghouse for stocks.  Alternative trading systems such as London-based Bats Chi-X
have pushed so-called interoperability, which offers traders a
choice of who processes their transactions, to trim the cost of
post-trade services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  