-- Europe Growing Again Means Boost for Global Economy
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-13T14:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/europe-growing-again-means-boost-for-global-economy.html
The euro area is turning into more
of a help than a hindrance for the world economy.  With data this week predicted to show the 17-nation bloc is
growing again after an unprecedented six quarters of crisis-driven contraction, economists from Barclays Plc to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. say such stabilization will restore the region as a
prop, if not a powerhouse, for international demand and
financial markets.  “We’re not expecting a boom in Europe, but there is a
momentum shift, and you’re going to feel it in markets and the
world economy,” said Joseph Lupton, a senior global economist
at JPMorgan Chase in New York who also has worked at the  Federal
Reserve . “There’s a change in perception from when people
didn’t see a way out of the crisis to now seeing growth.”  Lupton estimates the euro area accounts for a fifth of
global gross domestic product, so a one percentage point home-grown improvement in its economy this year will be enough to
boost GDP growth elsewhere by 0.7 percentage point over four
quarters.  That will offset the drag of China’s slowdown, with likely
winners including nearby trade partners such as the U.K. and
eastern European nations, as well as Taiwan, Mexico and  Brazil (BZGDQOQ%) ,
according to JPMorgan Chase. It forecasts the euro-area economy
will grow 1.3 percent in 2014 after shrinking 0.5 percent this
year, with imports expanding 3.7 percent after two years of
declines.  Rising Manufacturing  The impact already is apparent. Manufacturing in Poland and
the  Czech Republic  rose in July amid increasing export orders to
elsewhere in Europe. Chinese exports to the European Union
increased  2.8 percent  in July, the first gain in five months,
data showed last week. Japanese shipments to the EU rose 8.6
percent in June, the most since February 2011.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  3M Co. (MMM)  are among
the global companies starting to hail improvement in their
European businesses. Canton, Massachusetts-based  Dunkin’ Brands
Group Inc. (DNKN)  plans to open more Dunkin’ Donuts stores on the
continent next year as it bets on growth being sustained.  “Europe is about to start recovering,” Chief Executive
Officer Nigel Travis said in an Aug. 1 interview in Frankfurt.
“We’re very excited.”  At BlackRock Inc.’s investment institute, Chief Investment
Strategist Ewen Cameron Watt says European companies with
exposure to their own region’s economies are exceeding earnings
expectations, supporting equities.  New Index  To show investors how to take advantage of the changes,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts last month created an index of
 19 European stocks  that should outpace the rest of the market if
the expansion speeds up. Including  Cie de Saint-Gobain SA ,
Europe’s largest supplier of building materials, and  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
its biggest engineering company, the index is up about 25
percent this year, compared with about  8 percent  for the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index.  The change in sentiment also is cooling market volatility
by restraining the bonds of stressed nations. The yield on
Italy’s 10-year securities today fell to the lowest level
 relative  to similar-maturity German bunds since July 2011.  The recovery still won’t be strong enough to turn the euro
region into a major engine for international growth, said Huw Pill, chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
London. That’s because it will remain a net exporter during the
next couple of years as so-called peripheral economies such as
Spain continue to pare public- and private-sector debts and
refocus their economies toward trade.  Export Growth  Exports have grown faster than imports in recent years,
leaving the euro area’s trade surplus around 3 percent of GDP in
the first quarter, the most since the euro began trading in
1999, according to Goldman Sachs estimates.  “We see a relatively shallow, saucer-shaped profile for
economic activity,” said Pill, a former economist at the
 European Central Bank . “That will weigh on demand relative to
what we see in the rest of the world, especially the U.S.
Exporting into the euro area won’t stimulate demand elsewhere.”  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam, is more positive, saying growth alone will be a boon
to the world after three years of speculation that the euro area
might splinter as countries from  Greece (UMRTGR)  to Spain chased bailouts
and were forced to embrace austerity.  “The fact that you remove a drag will be significant,”
Kounis said. “For sure, the main global-growth impulse will
still come from the U.S., but Europe will contribute.”  Rally Sentiment  Even if demand stays soft, the escape from the depths of
the debt crisis will be enough to rally financial sentiment
worldwide, said  Christian Schulz , a senior economist at
Berenberg Bank in London.  A survey of investors released today by Bank of America
Corp. found European equity holdings rising to the highest level
in five years. A net 88 percent of portfolio managers saw the
economy improving in 2014, with the region leading global growth
expectations for the first time in three years. Just 16 percent
of respondents cited Europe as the biggest risk, compared with
59 percent in July 2012 and 51 percent who now worry about a
hard landing in China.  Europe has “weighed on confidence globally, and that tail
risk is now fading,” Schulz said.  Emerging Markets  The region’s economic progress is especially timely because
 emerging markets  including China and Brazil are slowing, having
propelled the world out of its recession, said  Julian Callow ,
chief international economist at Barclays in London. The euro-area nevertheless may need to become even stronger to appease
foreign criticism that its expansion is led by foreign demand.  In a July 18 interview with Bloomberg Television, U.S.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said “the world needs Europe to
grow.” Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  told reporters in
London last week that the U.K.’s biggest trading partner still
isn’t going to provide a “very strong demand pull.”  “The euro area will still face a lot of international
pressure to import more,” said Callow, a former Bank of England
economist. Its “current-account surplus is going to command a
lot of attention globally.”  There are other reasons to hold off on declaring an all-clear. Unemployment, at  12.1 percent , remains the highest on
record and -- in a sign of how recovery may be patchy across the
continent -- is more than 25 percent in Spain and Greece.
Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  anticipate growth of only
1 percent next year versus 2.7 percent in the U.S.  Banks haven’t fully cleaned up their balance sheets, and
their lending to businesses and households fell the most on
record in June. Policy makers still have to complete promised
revamps to banking regulation.  Political Instability  Political instability also remains a threat. In Italy, ex-Premier Silvio Berlusconi’s PDL party threatened a mass
resignation of parliamentary deputies following his Aug. 1 tax-fraud conviction before Berlusconi backed off, saying the
government should “continue its work.” A party-payment scandal
is buffeting Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , and managing
the debt burden and bailout program in Greece leaves that nation
a flashpoint.  “The economic mood in the euro zone is at least
brightening,” said  Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in London. “Fledgling recoveries risk being
snuffed out if political paralysis undermines confidence.”  The gains are taking shape just over a year since ECB
President  Mario Draghi  vowed to do “whatever it takes” to save
the euro before going on to create a bond-buying program and
reduce the ECB’s benchmark interest rate to a record  0.5
percent. (EURR002W)  Austerity also is easing, with Berenberg Bank
estimating tax increases and spending cuts will moderate to 0.7
percent of GDP this year from 1.5 percent in 2012.  Growing Economy  A report due tomorrow from the EU’s statistics office will
show the economy grew 0.2 percent in the second quarter after
 shrinking 0.3  in the previous three months, according to the
median forecast of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It
last expanded in the third quarter of 2011.  Signs are the pickup will continue. Manufacturing
unexpectedly rose in July after two years of contraction, while
confidence among executives and consumers improved to a 15-month
high. Even though a report today showed industrial output
expanded less than economists estimated in June from the
previous month, its 0.3 percent rise from a year earlier was the
first annual uptick in 20 months.  Germany’s Economy  In Germany, factory orders increased in June by the most in
eight months, and industrial production rose the most since July
2011. Investor confidence in Europe’s largest economy climbed
more than economists expected in August, with the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research in Mannheim today saying its index of
expectations reached 42 from 36.3 in July.  There are also signs of life in the cash-strapped
periphery. Industrial output for Italy  increased  in June by the
biggest margin since January and rose in Greece by the most
since October.  Spain (SPUNEMPR) ’s recession eased in the second quarter,
pushing unemployment down for the first time in two years from a
record 27 percent. And the crisis economies have balanced their
joint current account, according to Berenberg.  “There’s not a huge cheer that Europe has escape velocity,
but clearly things are stabilizing,” said BlackRock’s Cameron
Watt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  