-- Ex-Fernandez Ally Massa Wins Argentina Primary Election
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-12T17:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/ex-fernandez-ally-massa-wins-argentina-primary-election.html
Former Cabinet Chief Sergio Massa
yesterday beat Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s leading
candidate in a primary to choose contenders for October mid-term
congressional elections.  Massa, who heads a group of dissident Peronist Party
members, took  35 percent of votes in Buenos Aires , the country’s
most populous province, compared with 30 percent for Martin Insaurralde with 97 percent of voting centers counted, according
to partial results posted on the  Interior Ministry ’s website.  “Looking ahead to the mid-term elections, Massa’s support
will grow as voters who oppose the government rally behind
him,” Federico Thomsen, a Buenos Aires-based economic and
political analyst with research company E.F. Thomsen, said in a
telephone interview.  Fernandez needs to secure two-thirds majorities in both
houses of congress to push through constitutional changes that
would allow her to seek a third term in 2015. Confirmation of
Massa’s popularity would make him a potential presidential
candidate, according to Mariel Fornoni, managing director of
pollster Management & Fit.  The election was a “significant blow” for Fernandez and
should be seen as positive for investors, wrote Barclays Plc.
analysts Sebastian Vargas and Alejandro Grisanti in a report
today.  Yields of Argentine government dollar bonds due 2015
dropped 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 10.75
percent at 2:23 p.m. in  Buenos Aires , the lowest since October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Insecurity, Inflation”  “Analyzing the results, we find people support our fight
against insecurity, inflation and taxes that are squeezing
workers and retirees,” Massa told a crowd of supporters in
Tigre last night. “We offer a path to the future and propose to
keep the courts autonomous and respect the constitution to make
sure it isn’t modified in any way.”  About 31 million Argentines were obliged by law to vote in
the primaries to choose candidates for 127 seats in the lower
house and 24 in the senate. Massa and Insaurralde are among
those seeking to contest the 35 lower house vacancies for
representatives from  Buenos Aires province .  Nationwide, Fernandez’s ruling Frente Para la Victoria
party secured 26 percent of the total vote with 98 percent of
votes counted. Fernandez, whose spending on education, highways
and handouts for the poor helped her win re-election in 2011
with 54 percent of votes, is banned by the constitution from
seeking a third consecutive term.  ‘Change’ Policies  The 26 percent represents the worst national election for
the coalition since 2003, when Fernandez’s late husband and
predecessor  Nestor Kirchner  took office with 22 percent of the
votes, according to political analyst Rosendo Fraga, who runs
Nueva Mayoria research firm.  “The ruling party needs to acknowledge that it needs to
change its policies as they don’t have people’s support,” Fraga
wrote in a statement on his website. “They can’t talk anymore
about that 54 percent for her re-election, it has to assume the
26 percent of these primaries.”  Fernandez called on supporters to work harder ahead of the
October election. Her party remains the most voted nationwide,
she said.  ‘Intensify’ Efforts  “We’ve always worked hard and will continue to do so,”
Fernandez told a crowd of supporters in Buenos Aires last night.
“We’re going to intensify our efforts over the next few
months.”  In the city of Buenos Aires, where 13 lower house and three
senate seats will be contested in October, Fernandez’s candidate
Juan Cabandie came in third place with 19 percent of votes,
behind an opposition coalition with 35.6 percent and Sergio
Bergman of City Mayor  Mauricio Macri ’s PRO party, who took 28
percent, with almost all votes counted.  Massa was elected mayor of Tigre, a sprawling, riverside
municipality on the northern outskirts of the capital, in 2007.
The following year, Fernandez chose him to head her cabinet,
firing him in 2009 in the wake of the ruling coalition’s losses
in mid-term elections. Massa resumed his mayoral duties and was
re-elected in 2011.  Massa told business leaders in Buenos Aires on Aug. 7 that
 Argentina ’s isolation from international  capital markets  has
caused it to miss the opportunity to secure cheap financing to
develop  South America ’s second-biggest economy.  Market Reaction  Argentina hasn’t sold debt abroad since defaulting on a
record $95 billion of debt in 2001. The nation’s average
borrowing costs of 13.01 percent, are the highest of 56 emerging
market economies, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index.  The  bond market  may react positively to the Massa victory
if he looks poised to present a strong challenge to the
government candidate in 2015 presidential elections, Credit
Suisse Group AG analyst Casey Reckman wrote in an Aug. 6 report.  Fernandez said neither she nor her candidates will make
promises they can’t keep ahead of the October election like
completely resolving crime since the government has never lied
to the people.  “Our struggle is like David versus Goliath having to deal
with media attacks and giving people answers to their problems
on a daily basis,” Fernandez said. “My responsibility is to
make the country governable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  