-- F1 Builder With $10 Billion Debt to Sell Assets: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-13T11:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/f1-builder-with-10-billion-debt-to-sell-assets-corporate-india.html
Jaypee Group, owner of  India ’s most
 indebted  cement maker, plans to sell some of its plants and real
estate in a bid to cut liabilities by about 25 percent.  The builder of India’s only Formula One racing track seeks
to reduce debt by 150 billion rupees ($2.5 billion) by selling
its cement plants in southern and western India, some of its
power generation units and property in a year, Suren Jain,
managing director at  Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd. (JPVL)  said in an
interview. The flagship  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA)  has $10
billion of total debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The group’s liabilities increased fivefold in five years as
Chairman Manoj Gaur took on debt to expand the cement maker’s
power, sports and construction businesses. Gaur is selling
assets to cut costs and revive profit, which has fallen for two
straight years, as a central bank engineered cash crunch prompts
lenders to raise  interest rates  for the first time in two years.  “The cash flows from operations won’t be sufficient in the
next one to two years to bring down the debt,” said Anubhav Gupta, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. If the
company had sold a cement plant “12 months back the troubles
might not have been what they are today.”  Jaiprakash Associates had a net debt of about 612 billion
rupees, the highest among Asian makers of the construction
material after China National Building Material Co., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Worst Performing  The Indian company will need 81 billion rupees to service
its debt in the year ending March 31, Ankur Kulshrestha, an
analyst with HDFC Securities Ltd., said in a note to clients on
July 30.  Jaiprakash Associates’  shares  have dropped 68 percent this
year, making them the  worst performing  stock in the CNX Nifty
index. They surged 4.5 percent to 32.85 rupees in Mumbai today,
the highest since July 31.  The company’s convertible bonds yield 14 percent, said
Hemant Dharnidharka, the Bangalore-based head of credit research
at SJS Markets Ltd. An index tracking eight Indian convertible
debt had an average yield of 4.66 percent on Aug. 9, according
to Barclays Plc.  “The higher yield shows that the investors want a higher
return for the comparatively higher risk for the name,”
Dharnidharka said.  The group plans to sell about 30 percent of its cement
capacity of 35 million metric tons, Jain said without
elaborating. Gaur is looking to cut debt at Jaiprakash
Associates and its two subsidiaries Jaiprakash Power Ventures
and  Jaypee Infratech Ltd. (JPIN) , he said.  Enterprise Value  Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla is in talks to acquire the
Gujarat cement unit of Jaiprakash Associates, three people with
direct knowledge of the matter said in November. Talks with
Birla were revived after it terminated talks with CRH Plc in
October. Jaiprakash Associates has a 4.8 million ton capacity in
Gujarat and a 5 million ton capacity in South India.  The company may sell the factories for about $120 a ton of
 enterprise value , calculated as a sum of market capitalization,
debt and minority interest minus cash, lower than the asset’s
replacement cost, Ashutosh Narkar, an analyst with HSBC Holdings
Plc in Mumbai wrote in a report to clients on Aug. 2.  Jaiprakash Power is in talks to sell some of its hydro
 power plants , two people with knowledge of the matter said,
asking not to be identified as the information is private.
Jaiprakash Power generates 1,300 megawatt from hydel plants and
has 500 megawatts of thermal capacity.  Jain declined to identify assets the company plans to sell.  The company plans to start generating power from a 1,320
megawatt thermal power plant this year and refinance loans for
the unit, which will be “cheaper as the projects would have
started operations,” Jain said.  Hockey Team  The group also plans to sell about 200 acres of land owned
by Jaypee Infratech for around 10 billion rupees, Jain said. It
sold 300 acres of land for around 15.5 billion rupees, he said.
It is also targeting home sales of around 10 billion rupees each
quarter this financial year.  Founder Chairman Jaiprakash Gaur, who started as a civil
contractor, expanded into hotels in 1981 and started producing
cement five years later. In the past five years, Jaiprakash
Associates added 15 subsidiaries from air transport services and
a company to process soya and mustard to managing a hockey team,
according to the company’s  annual report .  The company has also developed a 5.13-kilometer (3.19-mile)
Formula One track called the Buddh International Race Circuit,
built on the outskirts of India’s capital,  New Delhi . The
inaugural race was held in 2011.  Formula One Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  told
the Indo-Asian News Service the race will be dropped from the
2014 calendar and return in early 2015.  ‘Retain Faith’  “We retain our faith in the asset portfolio quality,”
HDFC’s Kulshrestha wrote in the report. “But remain cautious
given the tough macro environment. The company will not be able
to meet its funding requirements through operations alone.”  Money managers including Birla Sun Life Asset Management
Ltd. and Sundaram Mutual Fund have cut their  holdings  in the
company, data show.  “We are avoiding companies with high debt,” said Jaya Rao Venkatesan, a Chennai-based  fund manager  at Sundaram Mutual.
“The interest-rate reduction cycle, which we thought will
happen this year, will get delayed. To that extent such
companies will be hard pressed,” particularly during an
economic slowdown, he said.  Economy Slows  India’s industrial production in June fell for a second
straight month, while the central bank cut its forecast for
 Asia ’s third-largest economy to 5.5 percent from 5.7 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised two rates on July 15 and
has capped cash injections into the banking system and tightened
lenders’ reserve ratios to curb the supply of rupees in a bid to
reverse a slide in the currency. The measures triggered an
unprecedented 223 basis points jump in the three-month  interbank
rate  in July to 10.75.  “Today our leverage looks high because the economy is not
doing well,” Jain said.  Jaiprakash Associates’  profit  fell 27 percent to 4.6
billion rupees in the year ended March 31 after a 65 percent
drop a year earlier. Interest expense climbed 56 percent to a
record 43.4 billion rupees, data show.  For Jaiprakash Associates asset sales “are no longer just
a desirable outcome but a necessity,” said HSBC’s Narkar.
“However, in the current market scenario, potential buyers will
like to squeeze JPA on valuations making it difficult to sell
off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  