-- Facebook’s Sandberg Sells $91 Million in Shares After Surge
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-08-12T21:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/facebook-s-sandberg-sells-91-million-in-shares-amid-stock-surge.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Operating
Officer Sheryl Sandberg sold about $91 million worth of shares
in the social network after the stock topped its $38 initial
public offering price for the first time since May 2012.  Sandberg sold 2.37 million Facebook shares on Aug. 7, two
days after Facebook closed at a record high of $39.19, according
to a regulatory filing. With the latest sale she has sold more
than 7 million shares, or about 12 percent of her total, since 
the IPO. The holdings include unvested restricted stock units as 
of end-2012 and options.  “There’s no denying that she has tremendous amounts of
equity skin in the game,” said David Larcker, a professor of
accounting at the Stanford Graduate School of Business in
Stanford,  California . “I think it’s prudent for diversification
and other kind of purposes to take advantage of the value that
she has, and put it into alternative things.”  Facebook stock has surged 44 percent this year, buoyed by
the company’s increasing success in generating revenue from
advertising on mobile devices. After one of the worst IPOs in a
decade, the world’s largest social network has focused on ads
for smartphones and tablets, and is now projected to reach  sales 
of more than $16 billion by 2017. The shares fell less than 1
percent to $38.22 at the close in New York today.  Sandberg, who joined Facebook in 2008, has periodically
sold stock in the Menlo Park, California-based company since the
IPO last year.  Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment.  In the past year, Sandberg has sold a total of 7.3 million
shares for a total value of $221.5 million, according to
InsiderScore.com, which monitors insider transactions. All of
the sales were completed under trading regulations that allow
executives to cash out a portion of their holdings when stocks
reach predetermined prices.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  pledged in
September 2012 that he wouldn’t sell shares for at least a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  