-- Fed Economists See QE Offering at Best Moderate Growth Boost
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-08-12T18:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/fed-economists-see-qe-providing-at-best-moderate-help-to-growth.html
The Federal Reserve’s unprecedented
expansion of its balance sheet known as quantitative easing has
probably given a more limited boost to the U.S. economy than
previously estimated, two regional Fed economists said.  “ Asset purchase  programs like QE2 appear to have, at best,
moderate effects on economic growth and inflation,” Vasco
Curdia, an economist at the San Francisco Fed, and Andrea
Ferrero, an economist at the  New York  Fed, said in a research
note released today. “Communication about the beginning of
 federal funds rate  increases will have stronger effects than
guidance about the end of asset purchases.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said June 19 that the Fed may
begin reducing asset purchases later this year and end them
around mid-2014 if the economy improves in line with officials’
expectations. The central bank will keep “a high degree of
monetary accommodation” in place for “an extended period” by
keeping interest rates near zero after the purchases end,
Bernanke said in congressional testimony last month.  Bond buying and communications of the future course of
policy have formed the two pillars of record Fed accommodation
since the central bank cut the benchmark interest rate to zero
in December 2008.  A program approximating the second round of bond buying by
the Fed, which amounted to $600 billion, probably would provide
a 0.13 percentage point boost to real gross domestic product,
fading after two years, and a 0.03 percentage point increase to
inflation, the economists said. That’s about half the benefit to
growth from a 0.25 percentage point interest rate reduction,
they said.  Zero Rates  The study  assumed the stimulus program would last five
years, with the Fed purchasing the bonds in the first year,
holding them for two years and selling off the assets during the
final two years. The study also assumed the Fed would pledge to
keep rates at zero for the first four quarters of the program.  A commitment to keep interest rates at zero for longer
would increase the benefits for the economy, Curdia and Ferrero
said in the paper released by the San Francisco Fed.  The Fed last month repeated its pledge to keep rates near
zero as long as  unemployment  is above 6.5 percent and inflation
doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  A previous study estimated that the second round of
quantitative easing may have bolstered gross domestic product by
3 percentage points and pushed up inflation by 1 percentage
point, Curdia and Ferrero said. The probability that the impact
from the bond buying was that large is “negligible” because
there is little evidence that a large percentage of investors
buy only long-term bonds, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  