-- First Quantum Sees Banks Refinancing Much of $2.5 Billion Debt
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-08-12T14:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/first-quantum-sees-banks-refinancing-much-of-2-5-billion-debt.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the
copper producer seeking to refinance $2.5 billion of borrowings,
expects a “substantial portion” to come from bank debt.  “We are still seeing reasonable appetite in the bank
market to take up this debt and it appears that the  bond market 
is still strong,” Chief Financial Officer Hannes Meyer said in
an e-mail. The Vancouver-based company plans to have the bank
financing in place by the end of the year, he said.  First Quantum,  Canada ’s largest copper producer, needs to
refinance short-term debt that it took on to fund about half its
C$5 billion ($4.9 billion) acquisition of Inmet Mining Corp. in
April. Copper prices have dropped 6.3 percent since the end of
November, when the company first announced its hostile offer.  “We are currently in discussions to replace the $2.5
billion short-term facilities,” Meyer said Aug. 8. “A
substantial portion of that is likely to be in the form of bank
debt with some term and revolving features.”  The April acquisition gave First Quantum access to the
Cobre Panama project, which Inmet said would cost $6.2 billion
to build. First Quantum will this year announce a revised plan
for the venture, having determined it can build the  copper mine 
faster and at a lower cost than Inmet, Operations Director Matt
Pascall said in June.  Acquisition Financing  First Quantum raised debt for the Inmet deal in March, with
an interest rate of the London interbank offered rate plus 2.75
percent.  “They are likely to be well-bid on debt given the strength
and financing track record of the business,” Cailey Barker,
metals and mining equity research director at London-based Numis
Securities Ltd., said Aug. 9.  First Quantum plans to be the world’s fourth-biggest copper
miner by 2018, behind  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
Glencore Xstrata Plc and Codelco. While developing Cobre Panama,
it’s also building a mine and smelter in  Zambia , where it
already operates the Kansanshi pit.  The company will pursue its growth projects even if copper
prices fall a further 25 percent, according to Meyer, who said
he doesn’t expect the metal to drop to such an extent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  