-- Former De Beers CFO to Head Firestone Amid Talks With Investors
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-08-12T15:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/former-de-beers-cfo-to-head-firestone-amid-talks-with-investors.html
Firestone Diamonds Plc (FDI)  appointed
former  De Beers  Chief Financial Officer Stuart Brown to head the
London-listed company as it holds discussions with potential
investors in its  Lesotho  diamond development.  “We want to secure the funding as soon as possible and
that will allow us to focus on the delivery,” Brown said in a
phone interview. “I will be actively involved in that.”  Brown resigned as CFO of the biggest diamond producer in
2011, a month after it broke with tradition by hiring outsider
Philippe Mellier as chief executive officer. Brown had been
acting joint-CEO, after joining De Beers in 1992. He will become
an  executive director  at Firestone next month before becoming
CEO in December.  Firestone is seeking to raise money to fund the $167
million development of its Liqhobong mine in Lesotho. The
company said last month it would seek to secure $65 million to
$85 million in debt finance by the end of the year.  “We are focusing very much on  project financing  and the
process is going well,” Chairman Lucio Genovese said in the
telephone interview. “We are already in the process of
discussions with several strategic partners. Those discussions
are also progressing extremely well.”  Producers are struggling to find large new mines to replace
falling output at the biggest operations as supplies of diamonds
near the surface are depleted. They are seeking new supply to
meet rising demand from China and India. Firestone, down 35
percent this year in London, plans about 1 million carats of
output a year after it starts full production in 2015.  “The equity price reflects that there are a lot of doubts
around our financing at this stage,” Genovese said. “We are
making the necessary steps to strengthen the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  