-- Gazprom Picked Over Novatek in VTB Call: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-13T02:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/gazprom-picked-over-novatek-in-vtb-call-russia-overnight.html
OAO Gazprom’s record discount to
Russian rival  OAO Novatek (NVTK)  is narrowing in the stock market on
prospects that profits for the world’s largest natural gas
producer will improve.  American depositary receipts  of Gazprom rose 0.9 percent in
 New York  yesterday to trade at 2.8 times estimated earnings, 79
percent below Novatek’s valuation, narrowing from an all-time
high of 83 percent reached July 2. The Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index of Russian companies traded in the U.S. increased
less than 0.1 percent to 90.98, while  futures  on Moscow’s RTS
Index rose 0.1 percent to 132,330 in New York hours.  VTB Capital, the investment arm of  Russia ’s second-largest
bank, reiterated its buy on Moscow-based Gazprom last week after
reducing its recommendation for Tarko Sale, Siberia-based
Novatek on July 4. Gazprom is cutting its investment plan and
pledged last month to delay construction of Power of Siberia
pipeline until it reaches a supply agreement with  China . Exports
to  Europe  increased in July, reaching a five-year high, the
company said on Aug. 1.  “Gazprom is cheap and attractive, while the company is
beginning to improve,” Ekaterina Rodina, an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “It will further
shrink its discount to Novatek, which had been rising because of
Gazprom’s weakness.”  VTB Capital has a buy recommendation on Gazprom’s Moscow-listed stock and a hold on Novatek. Half of 20 analysts covering
Gazprom’s stock recommend buying it, with the other half
recommending to hold it, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Gazprom’s buy recommendations recovered after reaching the
lowest level on record last month, the data show.  Buy Recommendations  Analysts’ recommendations to buy Novatek’s Moscow-listed
stock have been decreasing for the second consecutive months,
falling to a three-month low of 58 percent in August, data
collated by Bloomberg show.  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the  stock futures , gained 1.8 percent to 22.95 yesterday. The
 Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  gained 0.7 percent to $26.32.  Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, has seen its market
capitalization in New York drop from as high as $369 billion in
May 2008 to a four-year low of $76.7 billion in June, after the
company increased its spending plans amid declining exports to
Europe and as consumers won price disputes against the producer.
The market value has since recovered 21 percent to $92.6
billion.  The company reported that exports to outside the former
Soviet states rose to the highest level in five years in July,
according to the Aug. 1 statement. The average daily export
volume increased 29 percent in July from a year ago, according
to the statement.  ‘Sustainable Trend’  “Gazprom is undervalued by the market,”  Oleg Maximov ,
senior analyst at Sberbank CIB in Moscow, said by phone from
Moscow yesterday. “The market is not yet taking into account
Gazprom’s rising exports to Europe, which is a new and
sustainable trend.”  Gazprom rose 0.7 percent to 129.03 rubles, or $3.91, in
Moscow yesterday, and increased 0.6 percent to $7.79 in  London .
Each ADR represents 2 ordinary shares.  Currently limited to Russia’s domestic market, Novatek is
awaiting the government’s decision on loosening Gazprom’s
control over exports of liquefied natural gas later this year.
The government will discuss next month whether to let other
companies than Gazprom export liquefied natural gas, known as
LNG, and new legislation could be approved by year-end, Deputy
Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said in Moscow Aug. 9.  LNG Shipments  The change has been sought by Novatek, which is building a
$20 billion plant on the Arctic Yamal Peninsula to produce
natural gas chilled to a liquid for transportation by tanker.
President  Vladimir Putin  said in June that Russia should
consider liberalizing LNG shipments to add sales to  Asia ,
outside the reach of Gazprom’s pipelines.  Novatek gained 2.3 percent to $117 in London yesterday,
settling at a 8.8 percent premium to the company’s Moscow-listed
stock, the most since July 30.  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer,
rose 1.2 percent to HK$2.60 in Hong Kong trading as of
10:41 a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained
0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  