-- German Stocks Rise as GDP Said to Have Beaten Forecasts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-12T16:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/german-stocks-little-changed-as-2q-gdp-said-to-be-0-75-.html
German stocks  advanced as the
government was said to have estimated that Europe’s biggest
economy grew more in the second quarter than analysts forecast.  QSC AG (QSC) , a provider of telephony and data services to small
and medium-sized businesses, jumped 9.5 percent after posting an
increase in quarterly net income.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  retreated
2.7 percent after Equinet Bank AG downgraded the shares to sell.  The  DAX (DAX)  added 0.3 percent to 8,359.25 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , after earlier falling as much as 1.1
percent. The equity benchmark declined 0.8 percent last week. It
has  rallied 8.7 percent  from its low on June 24 as the  European
Central Bank  said that  interest rates  will remain low for an
 extended period . The broader HDAX Index rose 0.2 percent today.  “We are in a phase of indecision as quantitative easing
tapering is just around the corner and economic data have been
mixed lately,” Peter Garnry, an equity strategist at Saxo Bank
A/S in Copenhagen, wrote in an e-mail. “It is likely that we
will be in these sideways markets for a while until we get some
hard data confirming positive surveys from the euro area.”  Germany’s Economy Ministry has predicted second-quarter
economic growth of about 0.75 percent, according to a person
familiar with the forecast, who asked not to be identified
because the projection is confidential. That exceeds the 0.6
percent median of 46  economist estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
 Germany ’s Federal Statistics Office will release the data on
Aug. 14.  “Germany has demonstrated better than expected economic
results recently,” James Butterfill, who helps manage about $44
billion as head of global equity strategy at Coutts & Co. in
 London , wrote in an e-mail. “The country continues to be one of
our favoured equity markets within Europe.”  Japanese Growth  Japan’s economy expanded an annualized 2.6 percent in the
second quarter, slowing from a revised 3.8 percent in the
previous three months, the Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo .
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
3.6 percent growth.  QSC jumped 9.5 percent to 3.31 euros after it posted a 79
percent jump in second-quarter consolidated net income to 5.2
million euros. Commerzbank AG upgraded the shares to add from
hold, forecasting a six-month target price of 3.40 euros apiece,
saying the company’s transformation track record has yet to be
fully rewarded.  Bilfinger Forecast  Bilfinger SE (GBF)  climbed 3.1 percent to 74.30 euros. Germany’s
second-largest builder predicted a significantly stronger second
half after reporting second-quarter net income of 47 million
euros ($62.5 million), which was in line with analysts’
estimates.  Deutsche Boerse  retreated 2.7 percent to 53.94 euros.
Equinet downgraded the operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange
to sell from hold, saying it doesn’t think recent share-price
gains were justified and third-quarter trading volumes are weak.
“Hence, we see a rising risk of consensus earnings
downgrades,” the brokerage said.  Fraport AG declined 0.6 percent to 49.42 euros, paring
earlier losses of as much as 1.3 percent, after it reported a
drop in July passengers and cargo at Frankfurt airport.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG,  Europe ’s second-largest airline,
retreated 1 percent to 14.69 euros, as a gauge of travel-related
shares in Europe was among the worst performers of the 19
industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 11 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  