-- Spanish Bonds Advance With Italy’s on Bets Region Grew
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-08-12T15:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/germany-s-bonds-little-changed-before-euro-area-growth-report.html
Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
rose for a fifth day as speculation that the euro-region economy
emerged from its longest-ever recession spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets.  Spain’s  10-year yields  dropped to the lowest level in more
than two months before a report this week that analysts said
will show the euro-area economy expanded in the second quarter.
 Germany ’s 10-year yields were about three basis points from the
 highest  level in five weeks as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. revised
up its forecast for gross-domestic-product growth in the 17-nation bloc. Germany, France and Italy sold bills.  “The data should confirm that the  euro zone  is heading
toward positive growth,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
interest-rate strategist at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “We think
the indicators will confirm the positive stance we’ve seen in
recent weeks. If we see more positive data, there will be
pressure for higher bund yields and a positive environment for
riskier assets.”  Spain ’s 10-year yields declined one basis point, or 0.1
percentage point, to 4.48 percent at 4:20 p.m. London time after
falling to 4.47 percent, the lowest since June 6. The 4.4
percent bond maturing in October 2023 rose 0.09, or 90 euro
cents per 1,000-euro ($1,330) face amount, to 99.335.  The rate on similar-maturity Italian debt dropped two basis
points to 4.16 percent. Germany’s 10-year bund yield increased
two basis points to 1.70 percent after climbing to 1.73 percent
on Aug. 2, the highest since July 5.  GDP Expands  Euro-area  GDP (EUGNEMUQ)  increased 0.2 percent in the three months
ended June, snapping six quarters of contraction, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before the report is released on
Wednesday. An  index  of German investor and analyst expectations
improved in August, a separate survey showed before data
tomorrow.  Goldman Sachs lifted its prediction for second quarter
growth to 0.2 percent from zero due to positive surprises in
data from Germany, France,  Italy  and Spain, Antoine Demongeot,
an economist at the firm wrote in a note to clients today.  “The pace of recovery is nevertheless set to be
sluggish,” Demongeot wrote. “Austerity will continue to weigh
on demand for some time to come.”  German 10-year  yields  climbed three basis points last week
after data showing the nation’s exports and factory orders rose
boosted speculation that the economy is gathering momentum and
sapped demand for the region’s safest assets.  Bund Auction  Germany is scheduled to auction an additional 4 billion
euros of 10-year bunds on Aug. 14. The nation last sold the
securities on July 17 at an average yield of 1.57 percent,
compared with 1.55 percent at a previous auction on June 19.  The German economy expanded about 0.75 percent, exceeding
the 0.6 percent analysts  predict , according to a government
estimate before the Federal Statistics Office releases the data
on Aug. 14. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research will
say its index of German investor and analyst expectations
climbed to 39.9 for August from 36.3 a month earlier, according
to a Bloomberg survey before the report is released tomorrow.  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Germany and  France ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Spanish bonds returned 7.2 percent this year through Aug.
9, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italy’s earned 4.2
percent, while German securities dropped 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  