-- Glaxo Wins U.S. FDA Approval for New Daily HIV Therapy
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-12T22:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/glaxo-wins-u-s-fda-approval-for-new-daily-hiv-therapy.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  won U.S.
regulatory approval for a daily pill against the deadly HIV
infection that was developed by ViiV Healthcare Ltd., its joint
venture with two other drugmakers.  Glaxo’s Tivicay can be used by adults with HIV who have
never been treated for the virus and those who have previously
received drugs to attack the illness. The medicine, known as
dolutegravir, is an integrase strand transfer inhibitor that
interferes with the enzymes necessary for HIV to multiply, the
 Food and Drug Administration  said in a statement.  Tivicay reduced the HIV virus to undetectable levels in
more people than  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Atripla, the world’s
best-selling AIDS drug, in a clinical trial released last year.
London-based Glaxo’s medicine is used in combination with other
antiretroviral drugs. Merck & Co. makes the first and only other
approved integrase strand transfer inhibitor, Isentress, cleared
in 2007 and with sales of $1.5 billion last year.  “HIV-infected individuals require treatment regimens
personalized to fit their condition and their needs,” Edward
Cox, director of the Office of Antimicrobial Products in the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in the
statement. “The approval of new drugs like Tivicay that add to
the existing options remains a priority for the FDA.”  About 1.1 million Americans have HIV, the virus that causes
AIDS, and 50,000 become infected each year, according to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About 15,500
died from the disease in 2010, the FDA said in its statement.  New Efforts  The FDA is encouraging drugmakers to develop therapies for
treatment-experienced HIV patients who develop resistance to
medicines on the market. The HIV virus can mutate to outsmart
treatments and leaves some patients, typically older ones that
have had the disease for a while, few options for survival. The
agency drafted guidance in June that, once made final, will
reduce clinical trials for HIV drugs to treat patients with
resistance.  Tivicay also is approved for children 12 years and older
that weigh at least 40 kilograms (88 pounds), though not those
who have taken other drugs in the same class.  ViiV is an independent company that is a joint venture of
Glaxo, New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Osaka , Japan-based
drugmaker  Shionogi & Co. (4507)  Glaxo owns 76.5 percent of ViiV while
Pfizer has a 13.5 percent stake and Shionogi holds 10 percent,
Glaxo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  