-- Tiger Woods’s Major Championship Drought Stretches to Five Years
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/tiger-woods-s-major-championship-drought-stretches-to-five-years.html
Tiger Woods  has to wait eight months
to resume his pursuit of  Jack Nicklaus ’s record 18 major golf
championships after a 40th-place finish at the  PGA Championship 
extended his Grand Slam drought to five years.  The world’s No. 1-ranked golfer is now winless in his last
18 starts in the sport’s four majors.  Woods had top-10 finishes at the  Masters Tournament  and the
British Open this year. He failed to shoot below par during any
round at the U.S. Open and PGA Championship.  “I was right there and certainly had a chance to win the
Masters and the British,” Woods said yesterday after finishing
14 shots behind champion  Jason Dufner  in the PGA at Oak Hill
Country Club outside Rochester, New York. “The other two, I
just didn’t hit it good enough. Just the way it goes.”  Woods entered the PGA Championship off his eighth victory
at the Bridgestone Invitational in Akron,  Ohio , where he was a
seven-shot winner in the World Golf Championships event. He
failed to carry that momentum to  Oak Hill , opening with a 1-over-par 71 and following with rounds of 70, 73 and 70.  “I put four good rounds together last week, unfortunately
it wasn’t this week,” Woods, a four-time PGA champion, said
yesterday. “I didn’t give myself many good looks and certainly
didn’t hit the ball good enough to be in it.”  Nicklaus said in a televised interview with the Golf
Channel that Woods is “pressing” in the majors. He said he
still thinks Woods will surpass his total of 18 Grand Slam
tournament wins.  Five Wins  Woods has time to add to his five U.S. PGA Tour victories
this season. He won’t get a chance to boost his major total
until the 2014 Masters, which is held in April at Augusta
National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia .  “We have a long way to go to that and I have a lot of golf
to play between now and then,” Woods said.  Woods tied for fourth at this year’s Masters, four shots
out of a playoff. His week in Augusta, Georgia, may be best
remembered for the two-stroke penalty he was assessed following
the second round for an improper drop.  Woods in June failed to break par in any round at the U.S.
Open, where he tied for 32nd place at 13-over par at Merion Golf
Club in Pennsylvania. The next month he tied for sixth place at
the British Open after a final-round 74 at Muirfield in
 Scotland .  Woods, whose longest previous stretch without a major title
was 10 in a row from 2002 to 2004, has had top-six finishes in
nine of his last 18 majors since the 2008  U.S. Open  victory.  “Is it concerning? No,” Woods said. “I’ve been there in
half of them. So that’s about right. If you are going to be in
three-quarters or half of them with a chance to win on the back
nine, you have just got to get it done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Rochester, New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  