-- India Unveils Rules to Allow 480 Billion Rupees of Tax-Free Debt
-- B y   D i v y a   P a t i l
-- 2013-08-12T11:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/india-unveils-rules-to-allow-480-billion-rupees-of-tax-free-debt.html
India  allowed 13 state companies to
raise as much as 480 billion rupees ($7.9 billion) selling tax-free bonds this financial year, helping generate funds for
infrastructure such as roads, ports and power plants.  The government will also allow sovereign wealth funds to
invest in such debt for the first time, according to a Ministry
of Finance circular obtained by Bloomberg News today.  Under the plan, India Infrastructure Finance Co. and Indian
Railway Finance Corp. can sell as much as 100 billion rupees of
debt each while Housing & Urban Development Corp., Rural
Electrification Corp.,  Power Finance Corp. (POWF)  and National Highways
Authority of India can sell as much as 50 billion rupees each.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government is selling tax-exempt bonds to help fund his plan to double spending on public
work projects to $1 trillion by 2017. Presenting the union
budget for 2013-14 in the lower house of parliament on Feb. 28,
Finance Minister P. Chidambaram had said 500 billion rupees of
tax-free bonds would be allocated to some institutions strictly
on the basis of “need and capacity” next financial year.  Surabhi Sharma, the under secretary to the government who
signed the Ministry of Finance circular, didn’t answer three
phone calls to her office today. Rekha Shukla, a spokeswoman for
the Central Board of Direct Taxes, couldn’t immediately comment.  ‘Attractive Proposition’  “Because these bonds will be issued by government-supported institutions, they’ll be considered as good as
sovereign bonds and sovereign wealth funds may find them an
attractive proposition,” said R.V. Verma, the managing director
of National Housing Bank, which itself has been allowed to sell
as much as 30 billion rupees of tax-exempt notes this year.
“Overseas sovereign wealth funds and investors are looking for
such opportunities because the investment climate globally
remains weak.”  Other companies mentioned in the circular include  NTPC
Ltd. (NTPC) , which can sell as much as 17.5 billion rupees of the
securities, and Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Ltd.
and  NHPC Ltd. (NHPC) , which are permitted to raise as much as 10
billion rupees each.  Ennore Port Ltd. and Airports Authority of India can issue
up to 5 billion rupees each of tax-free notes, and Cochin
Shipyard Ltd. can offer as much as 2.5 billion rupees.  The tax-free notes must be in maturities of 10-, 15-, and
20-years and pricing will be linked to government securities
reported by the  Fixed Income Money Market and Derivative
Association of India , according to the circular.  The ministry has also mandated companies raise at least 70
percent of the aggregate amount allocated by public offerings,
of which about 40 percent must be sold to individual investors,
according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Divya Patil in Mumbai at 
 dpatil7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  