-- India Plans Import Curbs to Steady Rupee as Factory Output Drops
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-08-12T12:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/india-plans-import-curbs-to-steady-rupee-as-factory-output-drops.html
India plans curbs on some imports to
pare a record current-account deficit and another push for
capital inflows to stem the rupee’s slide, as a drop in factory
output underscored the risks facing  Asia ’s No. 3 economy.  Imports of gold, silver and some non-essential items, as
well as demand for crude oil, would be compressed under the
plans, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in
parliament in New Delhi today. Industrial production fell 2.2
percent in June from a year earlier, while consumer prices rose
9.64 percent year-on-year in July, government reports showed.  India raised two  interest rates  last month to fight the
rupee’s 10 percent slump against the dollar in 2013. Emerging
nations from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  have also boosted borrowing
costs to defend their currencies, as the prospect of reduced
Federal Reserve monetary stimulus saps demand for emerging-market assets. Chidambaram said state-owned financial companies
would be allowed to issue “quasi-sovereign” bonds to woo funds.  India ’s proposed measures “should help limit the rupee
disruption,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “But,
ultimately, it will depend up on what the U.S. Fed says in
September and how global factors play out as a great deal of it
is not in India’s hands.”  The rupee, which reached an all-time low on Aug. 6,
weakened 0.7 percent to 61.275 per dollar at the close in Mumbai.
The S&P BSE Sensex index rose 0.8 percent. The yield on the 7.16
percent government bond due May 2023 advanced to 8.30 percent
from 8.13 percent on Aug. 8.  Capital Inflows  “The RBI has taken a number of measures to increase the
interest rate at the short end and this has contained the
depreciation of the rupee to some extent,” Chidambaram told
lawmakers. “However, we believe that we have to do more to
contain the current-account deficit to reduce the volatility in
the  currency market  and to stabilize the rupee.”  State-owned financial companies would be permitted to issue
“quasi-sovereign” bonds to finance long-term infrastructure
investment, Chidambaram said. Rules governing overseas
commercial borrowings and certain deposit programs for non-residents would be eased, he added. State oil businesses would
raise funds from abroad, he also said.  The planned steps will contain the current-account gap at
$70 billion, or 3.7 percent of gross domestic product, in the
year ending March 2014, the finance minister said. The imbalance
widened to an unprecedented 4.8 percent of GDP in 2012-2013.  ‘No Surprises’  “The government’s broad strategy throws up no surprises and
is mildly disappointing, given the build-up of expectations,”
said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.
“There is no detail on sustainably lowering the current-account
deficit. The real issue still remains financing the deficit.”  India, the world’s largest buyer of gold, increased taxes
on bullion imports in January and June to tackle the shortfall.
The  Reserve Bank  estimates the sustainable level for the deficit
is 2.5 percent of GDP.  Another report today showed the goods trade deficit was
$12.3 billion July as exports rebounded and imports dipped.  The South Asian nation’s consumer inflation is the second
fastest in the Group of 20 major economies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A gauge using  wholesale prices  quickened
to a four-month high of 5 percent in July, the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey shows before an Aug. 14 report.  Subdued Growth  The economy may expand 5.5 percent in the year through
March 2014, compared with a decade-low 5 percent in the previous
12-month period, the central bank estimates. Factory performance
in May was revised to a 2.8 percent contraction.  The effort to stabilize the rupee risks hampering lending
and blunting Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s almost one-year-old
drive to revive investment.  A moderation in domestic demand and exports has also curbed
output of items such as automobiles. Local passenger vehicle
sales in an industry that includes companies such as Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. fell 8.3 percent in July from a year earlier.  The government has eased caps on foreign-direct investment
and loosened restrictions on inflows into the  bond market  since
September, seeking to fund the current-account imbalance, spur
growth and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  Incoming Reserve Bank Governor Raghuram Rajan helped to
spearhead the effort as the top adviser in the  Finance Ministry 
since 2012. A former International Monetary Fund chief economist,
he takes over at the head of the RBI in September.  Rajan is in a tough spot as the recent “liquidity-tightening” steps will probably have to be kept in place for
longer to support the rupee, suggesting “a bigger growth
sacrifice” could be necessary, Leif Eskesen, chief economist
for India and  Southeast Asia  at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore ,
wrote in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  