-- Indian Rupee Forwards Touch One-Week High on RBI Auction Plan
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-08-12T02:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/indian-rupee-forwards-touch-one-week-high-on-rbi-auction-plan.html
Indian rupee forwards touched a one-week high after the central bank pledged to curb the supply of
cash in a bid to stem an unprecedented slide in the currency.  The Reserve Bank of  India  will auction 220 billion rupees
($3.6 billion) of cash-management bills every Monday, it said in
an e-mailed statement on Aug. 8. The move follows a review of
the impact of earlier measures to steady the currency and is for
“effective liquidity management,” the RBI said. Indian
financial markets were closed for a holiday on Aug. 9.  One-month non-deliverable forwards touched 60.87 per dollar,
the strongest level since Aug. 2, before trading little changed
at 60.93 as of 9:46 a.m. in Singapore, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The rupee fell to an all-time low of 61.805 on
Aug. 6 and has lost 9 percent in the past year. Its three-month
historical volatility rose to 11.94 percent on Aug. 8, the
highest level since 2009.  “The RBI’s move is to ensure that the short-term rates
stay high to make it expensive for investors to short the
rupee,” said Khoon Goh, a strategist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “The fundamental issue facing
India has not changed though. With growth slowing and deficit
countries getting overlooked by investors, the rupee will
continue to come under depreciation pressure.” A short position
is a bet a currency or security will decline.  Bill Auctions  The central bank last month cut its economic growth
forecast for the year through March 2014 to 5.5 percent from 5.7
percent, and said India’s record current-account deficit remains
the biggest risk to Asia’s No. 3 economy. Gross domestic product
rose 5 percent last year, the slowest pace in a decade.  The sale of cash-management bills, which typically mature
within 91 days, is in addition to about 150 billion rupees of
bonds auctioned each Friday as part of the government’s budgeted
borrowing program. The Finance Ministry also issues about 120
billion rupees of treasury bills, which mature in at least 91
days, every Wednesday.  The central bank will sell 220 billion rupees of 35- and
34-day cash-management bills in two separate auctions on today
and Aug. 13, it said on Aug. 8.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is likely to
announce measures to reduce the shortfall in the broadest
measure of trade, the Economic Times reported today, citing
people it didn’t identify. Possible measures may include a
special drive to raise non-resident deposits, bond sales by
state-run companies, and cutting imports of “non-essential”
consumer goods, the newspaper said.  In July, The RBI capped lenders’ borrowing through daily
repurchase auctions and tightened cash-reserve-ratio
requirements. It also asked foreign investors to prove they
aren’t speculating on the currency and barred banks from
proprietary trading in currency futures and exchange-traded
options. The Securities and Exchange Board of India raised
margin requirements and limited open positions in such contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  