-- India’s Rupee Drops as U.S. Stimulus Concerns Offset RBI Steps
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-08-12T11:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/india-rupee-strengthens-bonds-drop-as-rbi-restricts-cash-supply.html
India ’s rupee fell, rebounding from
a one-week high, as local policy makers’ steps to steady the
currency were countered by concern a potential paring of U.S.
stimulus will spur outflows. Bonds declined.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  rose before U.S. data tomorrow
that is forecast to show retail sales increased for a fourth
month, backing the case for the  Federal Reserve  to curb bond
purchases. India will contain its current-account deficit to 3.7
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March
2014, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in
parliament today. The central bank last week announced steps to
further tighten cash supply.  “We still await the finer details to assess the real
impact, but the government’s broad strategy throws up no
surprises and is mildly disappointing, given the build-up of
expectations,”  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Mumbai, wrote in a research report today. “The measures
broadly fall in the category of quick-fix solutions and there is
no detail on sustainably lowering the current-account deficit.”  The rupee weakened 0.7 percent to 61.2750 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, which plunged to a record 61.8050 on
Aug. 6, touched 60.45 earlier today, its strongest since Aug. 1.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell 18 basis points to
12.34 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will auction 220 billion rupees
($3.6 billion) of cash-management bills every Monday, it said in
a statement on Aug. 8. The nation’s financial markets were
closed for a holiday on Aug. 9.  Bonds Drop  India’s  consumer prices  probably rose 9.71 percent in July
from a year earlier, compared with 9.87 percent in June,
according to the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
before data due today.  Industrial production  contracted 1.1
percent in June, according to the median of 32 forecasts in a
separate survey.  “The sobering information about the dismal state of the
economy will effectively be irrelevant for the central bank,”
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in Singapore,
wrote in a research note today. “The policy action required to
resist further pressures on the rupee is at odds with policies
required to help cushion the economy and help boost growth.”  The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds due May 2023
rose 18 basis points to 8.30 percent, according to prices from
the central bank’s trading system, the first increase since Aug.
2.  Cash-Supply Steps  The RBI today sold 110 billion rupees of cash management
bills maturing Sept. 17, it said in a statement, and will
auction the same amount of the notes tomorrow.  Finance Minister Chidambaram said investors’ concerns about
the current-account gap, which widened to an unprecedented 4.8
percent of GDP in the year ended March 31, are reflecting on the
rupee. To bridge the shortfall, India will allow state-run
companies to sell quasi-sovereign bonds and make it easier for
companies to borrow from abroad.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.4 percent to
62.59 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts fell 1 percent to 62.51. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  