-- Iron Ore Gluts Seen Through 2017 on Record Supply: Commodities
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-08-13T14:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/iron-ore-gluts-seen-through-2017-on-record-supply-commodities.html
The seaborne iron ore market is
poised for at least four years of expanding gluts as producers
from Rio Tinto Group to Vale SA increase supply to a record just
as growth in  China  drops to the slowest pace in a generation.  The surplus will reach 82 million metric tons in 2014, the
most since at least 2008, and the glut will keep growing through
2017, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Australia  will
account for about 66 percent of the supply gains next year,
Morgan Stanley says. Iron ore will average $115 a ton in 2014,
19 percent less than now and the least since 2009, according to
the median of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices rose as much as eightfold in the past decade as
China added $6.8 trillion to its gross domestic product. The
nation now makes almost one in every two tons of steel produced
globally. Ore supply failed to keep pace, with shortages in
seven of the past eight years, spurring Rio,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to boost output. The looming
glut will drive prices down to $80 in 2015, Goldman Sachs says.  “China is slowing down and steel production is going to be
at a lower rate than what we’ve been used to,” said Christian Lelong, an analyst at Goldman Sachs in Sydney. “It’s a long-term trend that’s starting next year. On the demand side, it’s
hard to see a return to the strong rates in the past.”  Ore at the Chinese port of Tianjin, a global benchmark,
fell 2.1 percent to $141.80 a dry ton this year, according to
The Steel Index Ltd., owned by McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. Prices
reached a seven-month low of $110.40 in May. The  Standard &
Poor’s GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities declined 1.1 percent and the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 11 percent. The
Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.6 percent.  Commodity Cargo  Seaborne supply of the biggest commodity cargo after oil
will rise 9.7 percent to 1.27 billion tons next year, exceeding
the 3.7 percent gain in demand to 1.19 billion tons, Goldman
says. Imports by China, accounting for 67 percent of the global
total, may expand 4 percent to 800 million tons, the bank
estimates. Worldwide growth in imports will slow to 2.5 percent
this year, the lowest since at least 2008.  China’s  economic expansion  lifted more than 600 million
people out of poverty from 1981 to 2004, the World Bank
estimates. The second-biggest economy will expand 7.5 percent
this year and next, the weakest growth since 1990, according to
the median of economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Factory Production  There are signs that Chinese growth may exceed expectations
after factory production rose a greater-than-expected 9.7
percent in July and gauges of manufacturing and service
industries also strengthened. The  nation imported  a record 73.14
million tons of  iron ore  last month, 17 percent more than in
June, customs data show. Rates for Capesizes, the largest iron
ore carriers, more than doubled this year, according to data
from the  Baltic Exchange  in  London .  Ore rallied from the low in May on expectations that China
would have to expand port stockpiles that fell to a four-year
low in March. Inventories rose to 68.92 million tons as of Aug.
9 from 66.26 million tons in March, according to Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co., a state-backed research company.
Stockpiles are still 28 percent lower than a year ago.  “The sentiment around China should start to warm around
the start of 2014 and that should be reflected in a reasonably
buoyant price,” said  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research
for  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Melbourne .
“The market will underestimate Chinese demand, and I think the
supply response won’t be as great as people expect.”  Project Delays  Gains in supply may take longer than expected because of
project delays, bottlenecks and less funding, Morgan Stanley
says. The 82 million-ton surplus anticipated by Goldman for next
year compares with projections of 27 million tons by Deutsche
Bank AG and 8.8 million tons by Morgan Stanley. UBS AG is
predicting a 150.7 million ton surplus.  Declining prices may force higher-cost producers to shut
down, with Goldman estimating that about 15 percent of output in
China’s coastal provinces will close over the next two years.
Supply in China can cost more than $100 a ton to produce,
according to an Aug. 5 presentation from Perth-based Fortescue,
which mines ore for about $60.  India  may become a net importer for the first time.
Overseas purchases will surge to 24 million tons in the year to
March 31 from 3 million as shipments drop to 10 million tons
from 18 million, according the Federation of Indian Mineral
Industries. Mining remains banned in the state of Goa and
producers face delays restarting after curbs in Karnataka.  December Contracts  The swaps market anticipates prices will reverse the rally
over the past two months, with December contracts at $131 and
$111 for a year later, according to data from GFI Group Inc.
Trading volumes reached a record above 28 million tons in July,
The Steel Index said on Aug. 5.  Australian mines will remain profitable even as prices
drop, according to Goldman. Rio had all-in costs of A$37 ($34) a
ton last year, the bank estimates. Iron ore accounted for 42
percent of the London-based company’s sales last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares of the  biggest shipper  behind
Rio de Janeiro-based Vale fell 5.1 percent this year.  Steel use  in China will grow 2.5 percent to 686 million
tons next year, slowing from 3.5 percent in 2013, according to
the Brussels-based World Steel Association. Chinese hot-rolled-coil steel prices dropped 8.6 percent from this year’s high in
February to 3,633  yuan  ($593) on ton, data from Antaike show,
signaling surplus supply.  Weaker Currencies  Vale can produce as much as 350 million tons next year, 40
million tons more than 2013, Jose Carlos Martins, the  executive
director  for ferrous and strategy, said in June. The company is
better able to withstand lower prices than producers that began
operations during the boom, Martins said in an interview. Shares
of the company dropped 24 percent this year.  Mining companies in Australia and  Brazil  may also benefit
from weakening currencies, which will help curb local costs. The
Australian dollar is the second-worst performing major currency
this year, while the real ranks fourth.  Australian shipments of iron ore and associated products
were valued at $56.7 billion last year, more than twice as much
as in 2009 and 22 percent of total goods exports, according to
data from the Geneva-based International Trade Centre. Brazilian
cargoes were valued at $31 billion, or 13 percent of the
country’s total, the data show.  “This year, demand has been quite solid but it will
probably taper off a bit next year and the supply growth is
really ramping up,” said Ian Roper, a Shanghai-based
commodities strategist at CLSA Ltd. “By this time next year,
I’d expect to see iron ore prices below $100.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  