-- Israeli Court Approves Palestinian Prisoner Release
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-08-13T12:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/israel-s-settlement-move-adds-tension-ahead-of-talks.html
Israel ’s highest court upheld the
government’s decision to release 26 Palestinians held in Israeli
prisons, delivering the concession the Palestinians sought to
get peace talks moving.  Relatives of people killed by the prisoners had asked the
court to block the release and judges turned them down,
according to the ruling. The official Palestinian news agency
Wafa cited a Palestinian cabinet minister as saying the
prisoners would be freed late tonight.  Israel agreed to free 104 Palestinians, most incarcerated
before the sides signed their 1993 accords, as a gesture to
revive talks after a three-year impasse. At the same time, it
has complicated the U.S.-led negotiations by announcing it would
build almost 1,200 homes in Jewish settlements on lands the
Palestinians claim for their state.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who helped to restart
talks in  Washington  in July following months of shuttle
diplomacy, said the settlement announcement won’t lead to
another negotiations breakdown.  “We have known that there was going to be a continuation
of some building,” Kerry, on a trip to  Colombia , told reporters
yesterday in Bogota. “Once you have security and borders
solved, you have resolved the question of settlements.”  The U.S. hasn’t changed its position viewing settlement
construction as illegitimate and has “communicated that policy
very clearly to our friends in Israel,” Kerry said.  Dispute Over Occupation  Palestinians say Israeli construction in the battle-won
West Bank and east  Jerusalem  is a war crime that violates the
Fourth Geneva Convention. Israel says the settlements don’t fall
under the convention because the territory wasn’t recognized as
belonging to anyone before the 1967 war, in which Israel
prevailed, and therefore isn’t occupied.  Housing Minister Uri Ariel announced on Aug. 11 that the
government would solicit bids for construction projects in the
two territories, which the Palestinians see as the core of a
future state. “No country in the world takes orders from other
countries about where it can and cannot build,” Ariel said.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid said the settlement
construction plans were “unhelpful” to peace efforts,
highlighting the divisions in Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s coalition over the issue.  Jerusalem Homes  In addition to the plans announced by Ariel, officials have
authorized building 900 homes in an east Jerusalem area close to
the West Bank town of Beit Jala, Israel’s Channel 10 television
news reported late yesterday. Netanyahu’s office issued a
statement in response, saying the apartments were still in the
planning stage and previous Israeli administrations have built
housing in the same area.  “It’s understood that in any future arrangement, this area
is going to remain part of Israel,” according to the statement,
which cited the prisoner release as proof of the government’s
“serious intentions” and commitment to the  peace process .  Palestinians perceive the new settlement construction as a
sign of bad faith. “By announcing new bids every day and every
week, Israel is out to destroy the negotiations before they
start and destroy the principle of the two-state solution,”
chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said.  Israel captured east Jerusalem and the  West Bank  from the
Jordanians in the 1967 Middle East war, then annexed east
Jerusalem in a move that is not internationally recognized. The
U.S.,  United Nations  and European Union consider settlement
construction an obstacle to peacemaking, and the Palestinians
had refused for three years to negotiate while the construction
went on.  Domestic Victory  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  is leaning
toward continuing the talks nevertheless because of promises he
received from the U.S., the Haaretz newspaper reported on its
website, citing an unidentified Palestinian official.  Abbas scored a domestic victory in the run-up to the talks
by securing the release of some of the thousands of prisoners
Israel holds. Because many Palestinian families have had a
relative in an Israeli prison at some point, the release of
inmates is a priority for Palestinian leaders. The 104 inmates
are to be released in four rounds.  The Palestinian president was planning an overnight
celebration for the first group of prisoners returning to homes
in the West Bank at his Ramallah headquarters, Palestinian
Prisoner Affairs Minister Issa Qaraqa said. Some of the
prisoners will go to the Hamas-ruled  Gaza Strip  after they are
freed.  The planned release ignited two days of protests by
victims’ relatives outside the  Defense Ministry  in  Tel Aviv . Of
the 26 to be freed, 21 were convicted of homicide, with the rest
imprisoned on charges of attempted murder or kidnapping,
according to the list. Most have been incarcerated for at least
20 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  