-- Israel Advances Construction in West Bank, Prisoner Release
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-08-12T18:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/israel-advances-construction-in-west-bank-prisoner-release-2-.html
Israel  announced it would build
almost 1,200 homes in Jewish settlements, complicating U.S.-led
peace talks even as it agreed to release longtime Palestinian
prisoners under the deal that enabled the discussions to resume.  Israeli and Palestinian negotiators are to meet in
Jerusalem this week to continue talks that U.S. Secretary of
State John Kerry helped to renew in Washington last month
following months of shuttle diplomacy. Palestinians say Israeli
construction in the battle-won West Bank and east Jerusalem is a
war crime that violates the Fourth Geneva Convention, and
Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid attacked the plans to build
there as “unhelpful” to peace efforts.  The Israeli action on settlements comes “at a particularly
sensitive time, with the negotiations continuing in the
region,” Marie Harf, a U.S. State Department spokeswoman, told
reporters today in  Washington . “We continue to engage with the
Israeli government to make our serious concerns known.”  Housing Minister Uri Ariel announced yesterday that the
government would solicit bids for construction projects in the
two territories, which the Palestinians see as the core of a
future state. “No country in the world takes orders from other
countries about where it can and cannot build,” he said.  Hours later, a special ministerial committee agreed to free
26 Palestinian prisoners involved in attacks on Israelis. The
prisoners will be released to the West Bank and Gaza Strip at
least 48 hours after their names were posted shortly before
midnight on the Israel Prisons Service website, the government
said in a text message. They are among 104 to be freed over
several months as part of the agreement to renew peace
negotiations after a three-year breakdown.  Releases Protested  The planned release ignited protests in  Jerusalem , with
relatives of victims demanding the inmates be kept behind bars.
Of the 26 to be freed, 21 were convicted of homicide, with the
rest imprisoned on charges of attempted murder or kidnapping,
according to the list. Most have been incarcerated for at least
20 years.  Representatives of the victims’ families formally asked
today to meet with members of the ministerial panel that agreed
to the release in a bid to stop it, Israel Radio reported.  Israel holds thousands of Palestinian prisoners. Because
most Palestinian families have had a relative in an Israeli
prison at some time, the release of inmates is a top priority
for the Palestinian leaders, and Israel’s promise to free more
than 100 created the type of goodwill needed to get negotiations
moving again.  Its announcement of new settlement construction, by
contrast, was perceived by the Palestinians as a sign of bad
faith. Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat accused Israel
of sabotaging peace talks just as they are just getting started.  Plans Denounced  “The Israeli government must choose between negotiations
and dictates,” Erekat said in a telephone interview. “By
announcing new bids every day and every week, Israel is out to
destroy the negotiations before they start and destroy the
principle of the two-state solution.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was recuperating
from overnight hernia surgery and his office had no comment. The
plans must win Defense Ministry approval before building can
begin, a process that often takes years and is affected by
political developments.  Israel captured east Jerusalem and the West Bank from
Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war, then annexed east Jerusalem
in a move that is not internationally recognized. The U.S.,
United Nations and European Union consider settlement
construction an obstacle to peacemaking.  Special Envoy  The special U.S. envoy to the Middle East, Martin Indyk,
met with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in the
West Bank city of  Ramallah  yesterday and emphasized the U.S.
commitment to support the negotiations, according to the
official Palestinian news agency, Wafa. He also met with Israeli
President Shimon Peres.  The U.S. hasn’t changed its position that “we do not
accept the legitimacy of continued settlement activity,” Harf,
the State Department spokeswoman, said today. “Our focus has
been getting both parties to the table, which they are now, to
talk about the whole range of issues.”  The construction announcement laid bare deep divisions in
Netanyahu’s coalition and even within his own Likud party that
encumber his declared commitment to negotiating an end to the
conflict with the Palestinians.  Coalition Split  Ariel belongs to the Jewish Home party that opposes the
establishment of a Palestinian state and wants to annex the West
Bank areas where the new settlement homes are to be built.
Others in Netanyahu’s coalition, such as Lapid of the Yesh Atid
party, back a two-state solution, albeit on less territory than
the Palestinians claim.  Lapid accused the government of undermining the peace talks
by announcing the new settlement construction plans.  “This use of resources for middle-class housing to
unnecessarily defy the U.S. and poke sticks in the wheels of the
peace talks is not right and is unhelpful to the peace
process,” Lapid said in an e-mailed statement.  Unlike in its earlier peace efforts, the Obama
administration has not pressed Israel to halt all settlement
construction. A State Department official, who asked not to be
identified discussing the diplomatic effort, said Kerry decided
not to push the issue, which scuttled talks in 2010 when
Netanyahu refused to extend a freeze and Abbas walked away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  