-- Italy Borrowing Costs Drop at Sale as Political Risk Ignored
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-08-12T09:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/italy-borrowing-costs-drop-at-sale-as-political-risk-ignored.html
Italian borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of one-year bills from the previous sale as investors
shrug off political risk in the country.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 7.5 billion euros ($10
billion) of 365-day bills at 1.053 percent, down from 1.078
percent at the previous auction July 10. Investors bid for 1.49
times the amount offered, down from 1.56 last month.  The July sale came after Standard & Poor’s cut the
country’s credit rating on concern the economy will struggle to
recover. Last month the Treasury cancelled a bond auction
planned for tomorrow citing a surplus of cash.  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 4.2
percent after the sale at 11:10 a.m. in  Rome , leaving the
difference with comparable German bunds at 248 basis points.  Ex-Premier Silvio Berlusconi’s PDL party threatened a mass
resignation of parliamentary deputies following his Aug. 1 tax-fraud conviction that carries a five-year ban from public
office. He later backed off, saying the government should
“continue its work.”  Political concerns haven’t spilled over into Italy’s bond
market, partly because peripheral bonds continue to be supported
by the European Central Bank’s indication that rates will stay
low.  “The ECB message at the August meeting, that the recent
increase in money market rates was unwarranted, as well as
expectations for another LTRO are likely to keep money market
rates at subdued levels in the future,” UniCredit analyst  Chiara Cremonesi  wrote today in a note. “The environment should thus
remain favorable for BOTs.”  “I hope Italian politicians don’t forget about the
importance” of the spread, Prime Minister Letta said at a press
conference in Rome Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  