-- HIV Survivors Seek Drug Advances as FDA Eases Approvals
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/hiv-survivors-seek-drug-advances-as-fda-eases-approvals.html
Harold Fuller has run out of options
to keep his HIV at bay.  Fuller, 56, of  Brooklyn ,  New York , has lived with the virus
for 20 years. Earlier in his illness, he stayed ahead of HIV’s
ability to mutate by changing  medicines  every two years. For the
past five years, though, Fuller has had to take the same pills
because of a lack of new treatments.  “I’ve been on medication since 1995, and after a while
everything stops working,” Fuller said in an interview. His
doctor, he said, “has no clue what to do.”  With most HIV research focused on prevention and on
developing drugs for the newly infected, a growing number of
long-term patients like Fuller have found themselves caught in a
medical no-man’s land with diminishing options to fight off the
life-threatening virus. That may be about to change.  In a bid to give long-term sufferers more treatment options,
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is making it easier to
develop new HIV drugs. New FDA  guidelines  close to approval are
designed to cut the research time needed for regulatory
clearance by eliminating previously mandated follow-up studies
that can take almost a year to complete and cost millions of
dollars.  The goal is to “open up the pipeline,” Jeffrey Murray,
deputy director of the FDA’s antiviral products division, said
in an interview.  Many pharmaceutical companies have refocused their
infectious-disease research budgets away from the mature $17
billion global HIV market in favor of investments to tap the
smaller yet faster growing market for hepatitis C drugs. Now,
the updated guidelines are making the market for new treatments
for long-time HIV sufferers more appealing.  Matching Drugs  Margo Heath-Chiozzi, vice president for global regulatory
strategy in virology at New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,
said the changes makes sense.  “It so streamlines the process. It basically was double
work for both the companies and the agency,” said Heath-Chiozzi. “I think it does encourage development of therapy for
patients with the greatest need.”  The revised guidelines, unveiled in June, eliminate an
almost yearlong follow-up study of therapies for HIV sufferers
who have developed resistance to existing treatments. That’s an
incentive for companies such as Bristol-Myers to invest in new
drugs. Bristol-Myers is currently developing three new HIV
drugs, two of which may help people resistant to existing drugs.  New Patients  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s biggest maker of AIDS
drugs, received FDA approval last year for Stribild, a pill that
combines four drugs in one. That drug is approved only for
patients who have never been treated before. The last major
 treatment  specifically for patients with a resistance to other
drugs, Johnson & Johnson’s Intelence, was cleared by the FDA in
2008.  Cancer is one of the few other diseases for which such
accelerated approvals have been allowed by FDA.  HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus that causes  AIDS ,
infects about 1.1 million Americans, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. By 2015, about half
that number is expected to be ages 50 or older, and many of
those -- like Fuller -- have stayed alive over the years by
mixing and matching about 30 approved HIV drugs that, for the
most part, came on the market before 2004.  “They have had HIV for a long time and are resistant, or
can’t take most things,” said Daniel Tietz, executive director
of the New York-based  AIDS Community Research Initiative of
America . “They live in fear that one day this all goes to hell,
their viral load spikes and they get sick and die.”  Drug Cocktails  Since 1996, the virus has largely been controlled through
the use of drug cocktails made up of three or more types of
medicines taken together. While these combination therapies
limit the number of paths used by the virus to invade human
cells, they don’t end its ability to mutate in ways that allow
it to overcome the therapies, often within three to four years.  For HIV sufferers like Fuller, a wave of new drugs can’t
come soon enough. He said his disease has begun to develop
resistance to his current drug regimen. Without a new medicine
soon, his life is increasingly in danger.  “My church keeps me going. I have family I call, I have
friends I call,” Fuller said. “They keep me up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  