-- IVG Creditors Submit Plan to Restructure $4.3 Billion Debt
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-12T15:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/ivg-s-creditors-submit-plan-to-restructure-4-3-billion-of-debt.html
IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , the German
property company seeking to restructure 3.2 billion euros ($4.3
billion) of debt, said creditors submitted a proposal that would
wipe out most of its share capital. The shares fell as much as
26 percent.  Under the proposal, new shares would be issued in a debt-for-equity swap, the Bonn-based company said in a statement on
Saturday evening. That would cut its share capital to 0.5
percent of the current value, IVG said.  “The company will shortly assess these results, conduct
further negotiations on this basis and, in case of an overall
agreement on a detailed level,” invite shareholders and holders
of a hybrid bond to vote on the plan, IVG said.  IVG, once  Germany ’s biggest listed property company, has
seen its  market value  plummet since 2007 after demand for its
office buildings fell in the wake of the financial crisis. The
shares fell 36 percent to 14 cents in  Frankfurt  trading. The
stock reached a high of about 35 euros in 2007.  The company owns about 5 billion euros of office buildings
in  Europe , including The Squaire in Frankfurt, which was valued
at 800 million euros in the company’s  2012 annual report . IVG
manages 15 billion euros of property for private and
institutional clients, including a fund that owns a 50 percent
stake in  London ’s Gherkin tower.  IVG reduced the value of the assets on its balance sheet by
350 million euros, according to the statement. These assets
include offices, caverns, shareholdings and money owed to the
company.  Cerberus, BlackRock  IVG’s creditors include Cerberus Capital Management,
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Third Avenue Management LLC,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , according to two people with
knowledge of the talks. Aurelius Capital Management LP is also a
creditor, according to a July 23 statement from Aurelius.  This year, distressed-debt investors bought IVG bonds and
loans at a discount from the original bank lenders in the hope
of profiting from a restructuring, according to the two people.  If the plan succeeds, about 2.15 billion euros of debt will
be exchanged. Holders of the 1.35 billion-euro syndicated loan I
will receive 80 percent of the new shares and holders of a 400
million-euro convertible loan will receive 20 percent. Investors
in a 400 million-euro hybrid bond will split 0.5 percent of the
existing stock with shareholders.  In addition, syndicated loan I creditors have offered IVG a
bridge loan of about 140 million euros to help cover expenses,
including restructuring costs, according to the statement.  Averting Courts  The plan would enable IVG to avoid a court-supervised
restructuring, which the company began considering after
creditors failed to offer an alternative by a July 30 deadline,
a person with knowledge of the plan said.  IVG’s debt equals more than 80 percent of the value of its
assets and the company plans to bring it closer to 60 percent,
according to the person. The company owes money to more than 200
lenders, the person said.  IVG is being advised by financial consultants at Rothschild
and represented by law firms Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
and Goerg Partnerschaft von Rechtsanwaelten.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  