-- Jacoby & Meyers, Latham, Skadden, Day Pitney: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/jacoby-meyers-latham-skadden-day-pitney-business-of-law.html
Consumer law firm Jacoby & Meyers
LLC is expanding to the U.K. through a joint venture with the
London-based private equity and corporate law firm MJ Hudson.  The new office will be called Jacoby & Meyers  Europe  Ltd.
and is the first outpost in the firm’s global expansion plan.  MJ Hudson is led by Matthew Hudson, a veteran of several
big law firms who has a private equity background. He co-founded
the private equity group at SJ Berwin LLP, reestablished
 O’Melveny & Myers LLP ’s  London  office and chaired the firm’s
European private equity and M&A practices, according to his firm
biography. He also created the London office for Proskauer Rose
LLP, according to his biography.  Both Jacoby & Meyers and MJ Hudson are private equity
investing in the new venture in order to seek acquisitions
within the U.K. and across Europe, the firm said in a statement.
The new venture will seek Alternative Business Structure status
in the U.K., which allows law firms to attract external non-lawyer equity ownership and funding.  “Matthew Hudson is the most knowledgeable attorney in
Europe regarding the changing legal landscape and Alternative
Business Structures under the new U.K. Legal Services Act,”
Chase Givens, the J&M management committee member responsible
for European mergers and acquisitions, said in a statement.
“Matthew is the perfect mergers and acquisitions specialist to
serve as the chief architect for J&M’s European and global
expansion.”  In addition to its plans to grow in the U.K. and globally,
the firm has been expanding in the U.S., including through
nontraditional methods. Jacoby & Meyers acquired Macey
Bankruptcy Law PC, the largest consumer bankruptcy firm in the
U.S. as well as use of the consumer legal forms library and
domain “LegalForms.com,” from USLegal Forms, Inc.  “With the introduction of the U.K. new ownership
regulations for law firms, the U.K. has stolen a competitive
march from the other key global legal jurisdictions, including
the U.S.,” Hudson said in a statement. “Jacoby & Meyers is
lobbying for similar external ownership changes in the U.S.;
without those changes the practice of law in the U.S. is in
danger of falling behind the rest of the world.”  Jacoby & Meyers was started in 1972 and has more than 130
offices.  Deals  Latham, Skadden on AR Capital $2.3 Billion Purchase From Inland  AR Capital LLC agreed to buy 294 commercial properties from
Inland American Real Estate Trust Inc. for $2.3 billion
including debt. Latham & Watkins LLP advised Inland while
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP acted as special counsel
to the independent members of the Board of Directors of Inland
American Real Estate Trust,  Latham’s deal team was led by Chicago corporate partners
Cathy Birkeland and Michael Pucker, Chicago real estate partner
Robert Buday and Los Angeles corporate partner Julian Kleindorfer. Advice was also provided on environmental matters
by Chicago partner Karl Karg.  Leading the Skadden team were Chicago partners Rodd Schreiber, M&A; Chuck Smith, litigation; Nancy Olson, real
estate; and  David Levy , tax.  Fried Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP represented
Goldman Sachs in its role as financial advisor to Inland
American. The Fried Frank team was led by corporate partner
Philip Richter.  AR Capital made the acquisition on behalf of certain
affiliates, Inland American said in a statement Aug. 9. The
transaction could generate net proceeds of about $1 billion for
Inland American and will be paid over nine months, the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based investor said.  AR Capital will assume about $795 million of debt as a
result of the deal. The transaction’s value also includes
repayment by Inland American of about $361 million of debt.  Inland American, owner of 45 million square feet (4.2
million square meters) of business properties, will use the
capital raised to reduce debt and invest in stores, lodging and
student housing. It may also buy back shares, according to the
statement.  Firm News  Day Pitney to Fire Employees Including Attorneys  Day Pitney LLP announced in a memo to the firm last week
that it was firing 30 employees including a group of attorneys.  The firm declined to say how many lawyers were fired,
except that the number was fewer than 10. The firm also declined
to identify the laid off attorneys by title, location or
practice.  “As the legal industry changes, we continually evaluate
and reshape our staff to better align with industry norms and
client expectations for excellence. This reduction, which brings
us more in line with industrywide attorney/staff ratios, affects
about 30 employees,” according to the memo provided to
Bloomberg by the firm.  The affected attorneys have until the fall before they will
be forced to leave the firm, the memo said.  The firm, which has 300 attorneys in nine offices in the
U.S. Northeast, is among several that have laid off attorneys
and staff.  New Jersey-based law firm Archer & Greiner PC dismissed 14
attorneys, including seven nonequity partners across a mix of
practices in March. In June Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, a 1,200-lawyer firm, fired 60 salaried attorneys and 110 staff. Patton
Boggs LLP fired 65 staff members in March, including 22
associates.  Other firms have been stealthier about lawyer firings, law
firm consultant Peter Zeughauser said at the time of Weil’s
layoffs.  Moves  Holland & Knight Adds Real Estate Partner in New York  Victor E. Salerno joined Holland & Knight LLP’s real estate
practice as a partner in the firm’s  New York  office. He was most
recently a partner at Mayer Brown LLP.  Salerno focuses his practice on commercial real estate and
real estate finance. He has experience in complex restructurings
and recapitalizations from both the lender/creditor and
borrower/debtor perspective, the firm said.  “He brings extensive experience in representing domestic
and international owners, lenders, investors, developers and
tenants,” Stuart Saft, chair of the New York real estate
practice group said of Salerno’s hire. “The breadth of the
types of transactions he has handled is broad and will greatly
enhance the scope of our real estate transactional work.”  Holland & Knight’s real estate practice has more than 200
lawyers, the firm said. The firm has 1,000 lawyers in 18 U.S.
offices as well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing and Bogotá.  Gowlings Adds Aboriginal Law Practitioners Merle Alexander  Gowlings Lafleur Henderson LLP added partner Merle
Alexander and another lawyer specializing in Aboriginal law to
the firm’s Vancouver office. Alexander was previously at Bull,
Housser & Tupper LLP, where he was co-leader of the Aboriginal
law group, the firm said.  Alexander has experience in negotiations and business
transactions related to resource law areas, including forestry,
oil and gas, mining, energy, and pipeline projects. He is also a
member of the Kitasoo Xai’xais First Nation.  Gowlings has more than 750 professionals in offices in
 Canada , London, Moscow and Beijing.  Real Estate Attorney James Sullivan Joins Gardere in Dallas  Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP hired Dallas attorney James J.
Sullivan as a partner in the real-estate practice group. He
joins the firm from Haynes and Boone LLP.  Sullivan’s practice focuses on the representation of
developers, property owners, commercial landlords and tenants,
and borrowers and lenders in real estate and mortgage
transactions. He will concentrate on the preparation and
negotiation of complex commercial leases for offices and retail
establishments.  Gardere has 230 lawyers at three Texas offices and one
Mexican partnership office.  Health Care Benefits Attorney Joins McCarter & English  McCarter & English, LLP said Eleanor D. Thompson joined as
special counsel in the Philadelphia office. She spent 16 years
at Independence Blue Cross, where she led the litigation
practice group and rose to vice president and deputy general
counsel, the firm said.  Thompson has experience in managing health care litigation
and advising on related risk and crisis matters.  McCarter & English has more than 400 attorneys in  Boston ,
Hartford,  Connecticut , New York,  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
Philadelphia,  Stamford , Connecticut, and Wilmington,  Delaware .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 