-- Kenya Injects Money as Shilling Heads for Lowest Since January
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-08-12T12:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/kenya-injects-money-as-shilling-heads-for-lowest-since-january.html
 The Central Bank of  Kenya  injected
liquidity into the money markets after government borrowing
costs soared to a four-month high, sending the shilling tumbling
to its worst closing level in 6 1/2 months.  The bank accepted all 12.9 billion shilling ($147 million)
of bids for seven-day reverse repurchase agreements at 8.921
percent, a central bank official, who asked not to be identified
in line with policy, said by phone from the capital, Nairobi. It
offered 18 billion shillings in its first sale of reverse repos,
which adds liquidity to the financial markets, in almost two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The money market is tight, which has pushed overnight
borrowing rates to over 10 percent, a situation that the central
bank is keen to correct,” Ignatius Chicha, head of markets at
Nairobi-based Citi Bank Ltd., said today by phone.  Since late-2011, the central bank has frequently offered
repurchase agreements, which have the opposite effect of
reducing liquidity and supporting the currency. The central bank
said last week it injected 11.8 billion shillings in the market
through  net redemptions  of repos due to “tight liquidity”
owing to a delay in payments to government ministries, according
to data on the regulator’s website.  The shilling plunged 0.6 percent to 87.73 per dollar by
2:41 p.m. in Nairobi, heading for its lowest closing level since
Jan. 29 and bringing its losses this year to 1.9 percent.  Rising Rates  Yields on 91-day Treasury bills rose to 10.406 percent at a
sale on Aug. 8, the seventh weekly increase and the highest
since an auction on April 11. The squeeze on money markets
caused the interbank rate to jump to more than 10 percent on
Aug. 8 from 9.71 percent a day earlier, central bank data
showed. Markets were closed on Aug. 9 for Eid-al-Fitr.  “The significant rise in the yields is of concern
especially on the rising cost of borrowing to the government,”
Duncan Kinuthia, head of trading at Nairobi-based Commercial
Bank of Africa Ltd., said today in a phone interview.  The central bank said on Aug. 6 it seeks no target level
for the shilling and that research shows the currency is “never
misaligned” beyond a range of 5 percent. The bank said that
market participants need to change their misperceptions about a
weaker shilling, which can help the economy by boosting
competitiveness of the nation’s exports and domestic investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  