-- Keystone Foes Protest at State Department Over Contractor
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-08-12T18:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/keystone-foes-protest-at-state-department-over-contractor.html
More than 100 Keystone XL pipeline
critics protested outside the State Department for the first
time today, arguing that the government’s analysis of the
project is biased and flawed.  The protestors were among 70,000 people who pledged online
to conduct civil disobedience to stop the $5.3 billion pipeline
by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , according to the environmental group
Credo, which organized the demonstration against the project
from the oil sands of  Alberta  to refineries along the  Gulf of
Mexico .  The complaints focused in part on ERM Group Inc., the
contractor hired by the State Department for an environmental
impact statement, and its work on a joint venture that included
TransCanada as a partner.  “The State Department just got caught in bed with big oil
in their environmental assessment,” John Sellers, founder of
one of the groups protesting, the Other 98%, said in an
interview at the protest site today.  Outside the State Department headquarters, police set up
gates to prevent the collection of 60 grandparents, gardeners
and students who were prepared to be arrested from blocking the
doors. The demonstrators had set a plan with police to block the
doors and get arrested, Sellers said. Instead, with the gates in
place, they remained in front of the building and chanted for an
hour. Then they marched off without any police intervention.  Obama, Kerry  The State Department is conducting an environmental review
of the project, which will incorporate more than 1.2 million
public comments, Marie Harf, a State Department spokesman, said
at today’s briefing, held after the protesters left. No date has
been set for releasing the final report, she said.  “We are doing this in a rigorous, transparent and
efficient manner,” Harf said. “It’s just a process that takes
a little while to incorporate all of the public comments.” The
department must then determine that the project is in the
nation’s interest before the pipeline is built.  President  Barack Obama  has the final say, and before today
the protests focused on the president, raising the issue at
political appearances, fundraisers and on the sidewalk outside
the White House.  The protestors today singled out Obama, who is on vacation
in Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts, and not Kerry, who is in
Bogota,  Colombia .  ‘Getting Message’  “More and more, we think Obama’s getting the message,”
Elijah Zarlin, campaign manager for Credo Action, the activist
network funded by a mobile telephone company, said in an
interview. “We know the president is the ultimate decider.”  The State Department inspector general’s office is studying
the conflict-of-interest complaints against ERM. Environmental
groups criticized a draft analysis released in March that found
Alberta’s oil sands would be developed with or without Keystone,
meaning the project would have little impact on the climate.  Friends of the Earth and The Checks and Balances Project, a
watchdog group,  allege  the London-based ERM didn’t disclose a
financial tie to TransCanada through its venture with  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in Irving,  Texas , called the Alaska Pipeline
Project. The  project , under way since 2009, is developing a
natural  gas pipeline .  Keystone critics, energized by Obama’s pledge for federal
action on climate speech, were further emboldened by comments in
a July 30 speech in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , dismissing the
pipeline as a job creator, an argument made by Republican
supporters. Once completed, the project will create only about
50 permanent jobs, Obama said.  “Hey, Obama, liked your speech,” the activists shouted
today. “Now it’s time to practice what you preached.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  