-- N.Y. Subpoenas Bitcoin Firms in Probe on Criminal Risk
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-08-12T18:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/n-y-regulator-subpoenas-firms-over-bitcoin-crime-risks.html
New York’s top banking regulator
sent subpoenas to 22 digital-currency companies, including
BitInstant LLC and Dwolla Corp., to determine whether new
regulations should be adopted to govern the emerging industry,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Bitcoin is a virtual currency created four years ago that
can be used to buy and sell a broad array of items, from
electronics to illegal narcotics, according to the agency.  “If virtual currencies remain a virtual Wild West for
narco-traffickers and other criminals, that would not only
threaten our country’s national security, but also the very
existence of the virtual currency industry as a legitimate
business enterprise,” said  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of
the state’s Department of Financial Services, in a statement.
DFS is “considering whether it should issue new regulatory
guidelines specific to virtual currencies.”  The subpoenas, sent late last week, went to service
providers as well as investors in the sector, including
Winklevoss Capital Management and Andreessen Horowitz, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public.  Coinsetter LLC, one of the companies issued a subpoena,
according to the person, said the dialogue with the regulator
will have a positive effect on the industry, according to Chief
Executive Officer Jaron Lukasiewicz.  Taking Seriously  “U.S.-based Bitcoin companies are taking regulation very
seriously, and each company is closely working with legal
advisers to form and follow plans that adhere to it,”
Lukasiewicz said in an e-mail.  The DFS inquiry began earlier this year with letters from
Lawsky’s office to BitInstant and Dwolla seeking general
information about the virtual currency industry, according to
the person.  The subpoenas sent last week reflect the department’s
interest in more granular detail. According to his statement,
Lawsky is concerned with consumer complaints regarding how
quickly virtual currency transactions are processed.  The regulator, who threatened to pull the banking license
of Standard Chartered Plc last August over violations of
currency transfer sanctions against  Iran , also expressed concern
with criminal abuse of virtual currency markets.  ‘Money Changer’  “Serving as a money changer of choice for terrorists, drug
smugglers, illegal weapons dealers, money launderers and human
traffickers could expose the virtual currency industry to
extraordinarily serious criminal penalties,” Lawsky said.  In addition to BitInstant, Dwolla and Coinsetter, the
regulator sent subpoenas to the following service providers:
BitPay, Coinabul, Coinbase Inc., CoinLab, eCoin Cashier,
Payward, Inc., TrustCash Holdings Inc. and ZipZap, the person
said.  Butterfly Labs, a technology company, also received a
subpoena, according to the person familiar with the matter.  Christina Hirsch, a spokeswoman for Winklevoss, declined to
comment. Margit Wennmachers, a spokeswoman for Andreessen
Horowitz, said the firm did not receive a subpoena. Bloomberg LP
is an investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  In addition to Winklevoss Capital and Andreessen Horowitz,
DFS sent subpoenas to the following investor groups: Bitcoin
Opportunity Fund, Boost VC Bitcoin Fund, Founders Fund, Google
Ventures, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Tribeca Venture Partners,
Tropos Funds and Union Square Ventures, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  