-- Nadal Climbs to No. 3 After Winning Montreal Tennis Tournament
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-12T11:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/nadal-climbs-to-no-3-after-winning-montreal-tennis-tournament.html
French Open champion Rafael Nadal
climbed one spot on the men’s rankings to No. 3 after winning
his 25th Masters title at the  Rogers Cup  in Montreal yesterday.  The 27-year-old Spaniard defeated  Canada ’s Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-2 to extend his unbeaten run on hard courts this season.
Since his comeback from a knee injury in February, Nadal has won
eight tournaments, including two events on hard courts. Montreal
was his first tournament since he limped out of the opening
round of Wimbledon against Belgian journeyman Steve Darcis.  “To win here, I have to be playing my top level,” Nadal
told reporters. “Very happy the way that I played almost every
match in this tournament. Is very important for me, this
title.”  With two weeks to go before the U.S. Open,  Serbia ’s Novak Djokovic, who lost to Nadal in three sets in the semifinals in
 Montreal , remains the world’s No. 1 player on the rankings of
the men’s tennis ATP World Tour. Wimbledon and U.S. Open
champion Andy Murray of Britain, beaten in the third round of
Montreal by Latvia’s Ernests Gulbis, is at No. 2, while Spain’s
David Ferrer drops one place to No. 4. Raonic, 22, reached his
first top-10 spot by reaching the final. He climbed three places
to No. 10.  Roger Federer, who has struggled with a back injury since
he was upset in the second round of Wimbledon, is No. 5, his
lowest ranking in a decade. The 17-time Grand Slam champion from
Switzerland is defending his title at this week’s Western &
Southern Open in Cincinnati,  Ohio .  Women’s Rankings  If he doesn’t make the final, he may drop to as low as No.
7. The 32-year-old, who skipped Montreal because of his bad
back, suffered consecutive losses to lower-ranked players at two
clay-court events in Hamburg,  Germany , and Gstaad, Switzerland,
last month.  There are no changes in the top six of the women’s
rankings. Reigning U.S. Open and French Open champion Serena Williams remains the top-ranked player on the WTA tour after
winning her 54th career title in Toronto yesterday. The 31-year-old American beat Romania’s Sorana Cirstea, 6-2, 6-0.  Australian Open champion Victoria Azarenka of Belarus is
No. 2, followed by former U.S. Open winner Maria Sharapova of
 Russia  in third place. Poland’s Agnieszka Radwanska is fourth,
 China ’s Li Na fifth and Sara Errani of  Italy  remains sixth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  