-- Norway Fund Betting on ‘Quite High’ China Growth Rate
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-08-12T14:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/norway-fund-betting-on-quite-high-china-growth-rate.html
The head of the world’s biggest
sovereign wealth fund said investing in  China  hasn’t lost its
allure even after economic growth slowed.  “We’ve noticed that there has been a change in perception
about Chinese growth in the years coming,”  Yngve Slyngstad ,
chief executive officer of the $760 billion Government Pension
Fund Global, said in an Aug. 9 interview in Oslo. “However, the
growth that is expected by the authorities is still quite high.
We still have confidence that long-term prospects for China are
quite good.”  A report last week showed that China’s industrial output
rose more than estimated in July, adding to signs that economic
growth may start accelerating. Larger-than-forecast rebounds in
exports and imports and rising gauges of manufacturing and
service industries have also signaled the world’s second-largest
economy will meet Premier Li Keqiang’s economic growth target
for this year of 7.5 percent.  Norway’s wealth fund, which got its first capital in 1996
to invest the country’s oil wealth outside its borders, lost 5.9
percent on its stock investments in  emerging markets  in the
second quarter, in part because of speculation of weaker growth
in China, it said last week. The fund is undergoing a shift in
strategy to capture more global growth. It is moving asset
allocation away from Europe as emerging markets in Asia and
South America gain a bigger share of global output.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 2.4
percent, the biggest one-day gain since July 11, to 2101.283.  China Investments  Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s wealth fund and the
biggest foreign investor in Chinese banks, also said last month
that it’s not concerned by a cash crunch that caused Chinese
money-market rates to soar and pushed stocks to a four-year low.  Norway  held 10 percent of its stocks in emerging market
countries at the end of June, up from 9.9 percent in December.
Some 2 percent were invested in China, up from 1.7 percent in
December. That compares with 31 percent in the U.S. and 14
percent in the U.K. At the end of last year, the last time the
fund divulged all its holdings, it had 303 investments in
mainland China.  The fund aims to double its investment in emerging markets
to 20 percent, Slyngstad said.  Catching Up  “Our ownership in emerging markets is roughly 20 percent
lower than our average ownership in developed markets, so you
can assume that we have to increase emerging markets
proportionally just to catch up,” he said.  Emerging market equities and bonds also slid in the
quarter, and about $4.2 trillion was erased from the value of
global equities over a month after Federal Reserve ChairmanBen S. Bernanke in May signaled that policy makers could pare
stimulus should the world’s largest economy show sustained
improvement. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slumped 9 percent
in the second quarter.  In total, the $760 billion fund rose 0.1 percent, or 17
billion kroner ($2.9 billion), in the period, helped by U.S. and
Japanese stocks. Stocks rose 0.9 percent, while bond investments
dropped 1.4 percent. Real estate investments rose 3.9 percent.  Slyngstad said that the drop in emerging market shares was
advantageous for the fund since it’s building up its positions.  Europe’s biggest equity investor, which gets its guidelines
from the government, held 63.4 percent in stocks in the period,
up from 62.4 percent in the first quarter. Its bond holdings
slid to 35.7 percent from 36.7 percent of the fund while real
estate comprised 0.9 percent. It’s mandated to hold 60 percent
in stocks, 35 percent in bonds and 5 percent in real estate,
while allowing for fluctuations. The fund mostly follows global
indexes, with some leeway to stray from those benchmarks.  Biggest Holdings  Slyngstad said the increase in the equity portion was more
a reflection of pessimism on bonds than optimism over stocks.  The fund’s largest stock holding at the end of the quarter
was in  Nestle SA. (NESN)  The largest bond holding was in U.S.
Treasuries.  Norway generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and
gas, ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its 67
percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy
company. Norway is western Europe’s largest oil and gas
producer. The fund, which has an average holding of about 1.2
percent of the world’s listed companies, invests abroad to avoid
stoking domestic inflation.  Limited Spending  The government uses money from the fund to cover budget
deficits. Though use is limited to 4 percent, the amount of
money that figure represents is growing. The oil fund has
quadrupled in size since 2005 and will grow by 50 percent by
2020, the government estimates.  Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said today the government
should limit spending of the fund to 3 percent to prevent the
economy from overheating.  “Significant changes in the oil fund, like the strong
growth we are now seeing, shouldn’t feed directly through to
domestic use,” Stoltenberg said on state radio NRK.  The government deposited 58 billion kroner of petroleum
revenue into the fund in the second quarter. The return exceeded
by 0.3 percentage point the benchmark set by the Finance
Ministry.  The investor has been taking on more risk as it expands
globally. It first added stocks in 1998, emerging markets in
2000 and real estate in 2011 to boost returns and safeguard
wealth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  