-- NWR Jumps Most in 3 Years as Unit Lures Interest: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-08-12T16:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/nwr-jumps-most-in-3-years-as-unit-lures-interest-prague-mover.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR)  climbed the
most in more than three years after  Poland ’s Jastrzebska Spolka
Weglowa SA said the OKK coking unit put up for sale by the
unprofitable Czech coal company “may be interesting.”  The stock jumped 14 percent, its steepest advance since
April 2010, to 19.60 koruna by the end of trading  Prague , with
share turnover at 1.4 times the three-month average. Europe’s
benchmark thermal coal rose 1.1 percent to $83.95 a metric ton
in the Netherlands, gaining for the third day.  JSW is waiting for NWR’s response to questions asked after
due diligence, the coal miner’s Chief Executive Officer Jaroslaw Zagorowski said in Warsaw today. NWR is preparing to divest
assets to shore up its finances after a drop in demand for coal
from steelmakers and power generators triggered an 80.3 million-euro ($107 million)  loss  in the first quarter.  “NWR shares have been supported by rising coal prices and
a confirmation of interest in its OKK coking unit from JSW,”
Miroslav Adamkovic, an analyst at Komercni Banka AS in Prague,
wrote in a report to clients today. “We can expect a decision
on a possible sale within days or weeks.”  The company will decide on the sale of the unit in
“several weeks,” spokesman Vladislav Sobol said in an e-mailed
statement on July 16. The stock has tumbled 80 percent so far
this year, compared with a decline of 6.6 percent for the
benchmark  PX Index. (PX)   NWR’s unsecured Eurobonds maturing in January 2021 rallied
for the sixth day, with the yield dropping 39 basis points, or
0.39 percentage point, to 31 percent, the lowest in more than
six weeks. That compares with a record rate of 39.29 percent
reached on July 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  