-- New York Judge Orders Police Stop-and-Frisk Monitor
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e ,   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-08-12T21:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/nypd-ordered-subject-to-independent-monitor-by-judge.html
New York City will appeal a federal
judge’s ruling that its police unlawfully subject black and
Hispanic citizens to stop-and-frisk practices based on their
race, the city’s top lawyer said.  Michael Cardozo, head of the city’s law department, said
New York rejects the ruling issued today by U.S. District Judge
Shira Scheindlin finding the New York Police Department violated
the constitutional rights of minority residents. Scheindlin, who
oversaw a nine-week non-jury trial on the issue that ended May
20, appointed a monitor to oversee reforms to the program.  “Throughout the case, we didn’t believe that we were
getting a fair trial,”  Mayor Michael Bloomberg said during a
news conference at City Hall with Cardozo and New York City
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly. “This decision confirms that
suspicion, and we will be presenting evidence of that unfairness
to the appeals court.”  Bloomberg said Scheindlin had “ignored the real-world
realities of crime, the fact that stops match up with crime
statistics, and the fact that our police officers on patrol --
the majority of whom are black, Hispanic, or members of other
ethnic or racial minorities -- make an average about less than
one stop a week.”  The lawsuit leading to today’s ruling was filed by four
black men in New York who claimed they were stopped and
questioned or frisked by police without reasonable suspicion in
violation of their constitutional rights. Police have engaged in
more than 4 million stop-and-frisks in the past nine years, the
men alleged. At least 80 percent the people stopped were black
or Latino, according to court papers.  ‘Fundamentally Inconsistent’  The city and NYPD’s endorsement of the practice “is
fundamentally inconsistent with the law of equal protection and
represents a particularly disconcerting manifestation of
indifference,” Scheindlin wrote in her opinion, describing each
stop as a “demeaning and humiliating experience.”  She stopped short of imposing a wholesale end to the
practice, instead ordering that Peter L. Zimroth, a professor at
New York University School of Law and former corporation counsel
for the city, oversee changes and track the city’s progress.  Most of the Democratic candidates seeking to replace
Bloomberg as mayor next year applauded the decision, while the
three Republicans vying for their party’s nomination attacked
it. The mayor, a political independent, is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP. He is barred by law
from seeking a fourth term.  Fewer Murders  Bloomberg said “stop-question-frisk” had taken 8,000 guns
off the streets over the past decade, helping drive down murders
in New York to an average of one a day from six daily in 1990,
and accounting in part of a 50 percent drop in homicides since
he took office 12 years ago.  “There is just no question that stop-question-frisk has
saved countless lives,” Bloomberg said. “And we know that most
of the lives saved, based on the statistics, have been black and
Hispanic young men.”  Kelly said 97 percent of shooting victims were black or
Hispanic and most live in low-income neighborhoods.  “There were more stops with suspicious activity in
neighborhoods with higher crime because that’s where the crime
is,” Kelly said.  In the case before Scheindlin, lead plaintiff David Floyd
and the others accused the police department of failing to
properly train officers and of imposing a quota system that
encourages illegal stops.  Weapons’ Search  Police are generally barred by law from stopping,
questioning or frisking -- the act of patting a person down in a
search for weapons or other contraband -- someone in the street
without some level of reasonable, individualized suspicion. The
U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that police must have such
suspicion of crime to justify a stop.  As court-appointed monitor, Zimroth will be responsible
for developing changes, informing the city of milestones it must
achieve, conducting regular progress reviews and issuing public
reports every six months detailing the police department’s
compliance.  The city will be responsible for paying for the monitor,
Scheindlin said.  As part of necessary changes, police should address
misleading and overbroad training materials, such as those
indicating officers should stop individuals displaying “furtive
behavior,” Scheindlin said. Officers should be given
instruction on the constitutional standards for a frisk and
understand clearly that race may not be the motivation or
justification for a stop, she said.  Sharpton Praise  The Reverend Al Sharpton, president of National Action
Network, called Scheindlin’s ruling “a huge victory for those
of us that have marched and fought” for years, contending the
stop-and-frisk program was a violation of constitutional and
civil rights.  In June, the city council voted 40-11 to create an
inspector general empowered to review police policies and
practices, and 34-17 to allow lawsuits against the city when an
officer uses racial profiling as a reason to question a person.
The mayor vetoed both measures. Supporters will need 34 votes in
the 51-member council to override the veto at a meeting
scheduled for Aug. 22.  The monitor’s role will be distinct from that of the
inspector general envisioned by the council, Scheindlin said in
her ruling.  Cardozo said today that the city will ask to delay the
ruling during the appeal.  “Crime can come back any time the criminals think they can
get away with this,” Bloomberg said. “We can’t let that
happen.”  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York federal court at
   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  