-- Olam Sees Potential for Indian Sugar Exports on Rupee to Surplus
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-08-12T05:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/olam-sees-potential-for-indian-sugar-exports-on-rupee-to-surplus.html
Sugar millers in India, the world’s
second-biggest producer of the sweetener, may seek to export
product because of a record low for the Indian rupee and a
fourth year of domestic surpluses,  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  said.  Indian exports will probably be 500,000 to 1.5 million
metric tons in the 2013-14 season, Manish Gupta, head of sugar
trading at Olam India, said in an interview last week. Another
one million tons will be shipped from refineries that import raw
sweetener to re-export it as refined sweetener, he said.  The Indian rupee’s 12 percent retreat in the past six
months to a record low on Aug. 6 increased revenue from dollar-denominated sugar sales. A lower rupee means prices in India are
about equal to futures traded in London, boosting prospects for
overseas sales. Raw sugar traded in New York gained for the past
four weeks as frost last month may reduce the crop in  Brazil ,
the world’s largest producer.  “If New York rallies for some reason, on account of
Brazilian rains or the frost issue and the rupee depreciates, it
will give India an opportunity to export,” Gupta said.  White sugar futures on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai were 3,015 rupees for 100 kilograms
($495.90 a ton) today. Refined sugar futures traded on NSYE
Liffe settled at $497.90 a ton last week.  Accurate Forecast  Sugar production in the South Asian nation will be 1
million tons higher than consumption in the season that starts
Oct. 1, a fourth year of surplus, Ruchi Ahuja, an analyst at
Olam in India, said in the same phone interview.  India  will produce 24 million tons of sugar next season,
down from 25 million tons in 2012-13, considering normal monsoon
rains, according to Ahuja, who correctly forecast the size of
the current crop in a Sept. 4 interview. A lack of water,
particularly in the country’s southern states, resulted in a
“small” change in acreage, she said. Production will drop the
most in Maharashtra state, by 700,000 tons, Olam estimates.
Local stockpiles are 7 million to 8 million tons.  An end to state curbs on the amount of sugar that millers
can sell may help send domestic prices lower when the harvest
starts, Gupta said. That may encourage shipments should
international prices be higher, he said.  “There’s  New York , there’s the rupee, and there’s the fact
that we may see some reduction on the price here because of the
pressure,” Gupta said. “All three put together will possibly
in some way create a situation of exports.” One reason why it
may not happen is if international prices fall below local ones,
he said.  Sugar futures traded in New York are heading for a third
year of declines, the longest slump since 1992, as supplies
outpace demand. Production will be a record 10 million tons
bigger than consumption in 2012-13, estimates the  International
Sugar Organization  based in London.  Rupee Plunge  India is stepping up efforts to stem the rupee’s plunge.
The  Reserve Bank  of India said Aug. 8 it will sell 220 billion
rupees of cash management bills weekly. Last month it restricted
banks’ access to cash, curbed trading in currency derivatives
and raised  interest rates . It also asked foreign investors to
prove they’re not speculating on the currency.  Cane in India is still more competitive than other crops
and an end to state curbs on millers will attract more
investment to India, according to Gupta. While removing sales
curbs may bring some price pressure for now, in the longer run
the government’s push to link sugar and cane prices will allow
India to respond quicker to market moves, he said. Sugar is
traded freely while cane prices are set by the state.  “In a year where there’s a decontrol environment in which
anybody can sell any quantity, we might see some more pressure,
but I think fundamentals will drive the price rather than this
decision,” Gupta said. “The state governments are already
working very hard to put legislation through before this season,
probably, which will link the cane price to the sugar price.”  -- With assistance from Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai. Editors:
Claudia Carpenter, Sharon Lindores  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  