-- Mongolia Economic Growth Accelerates as State Spending Increases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-08-12T10:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/mongolia-economic-growth-accelerates-as-state-spending-increases.html
Mongolia’s second-quarter economic
growth accelerated from the first three months of this year as
the government boosted spending on infrastructure.  Gross domestic product grew 14.3 percent in the three
months from April through June, compared with 7.2 percent in the
first quarter, according to the National Statistics Office of
Mongolia. Expansion in the first half was 11.3 percent, compared
with an annual pace of 12.4 percent in 2012.  Mongolia, which raised $1.5 billion in a sale of bonds last
year, has increased government spending this year as foreign
investment plunged and slowing demand from  China , which buys
more than 90 percent of its exports, cut sales of coal by almost
half. The Mongolian central bank has reduced its policy rate
three times this year to aid growth.  Spending of proceeds from the bond sale “contributed much
to the economy in the second quarter,” Ganbaatar Gerelt-Od,
senior vice chairman of the National Statistical Office of
Mongolia, said in an interview from Ulaanbaatar. A more than 20
percent increase in agricultural production also fueled growth,
he said.  Projects funded by the bond sale include the construction
of roads linking six provinces to Ulaanbaatar, according to
Deputy Minister of Economic Development Ochirbat Chuluunbat.  Mongolia’s economy, fueled by a mining boom, grew at a
record 17.5 percent pace in 2011. That pace slowed after the
country implemented measures to increase government oversight of
the mining industry, which spurred disputes with companies
including Rio Tinto Group and discouraged foreign investments.
The World Bank in April cut its forecast for annual growth this
year to 13 percent from an earlier 16.2 percent.  Investment Slows  Foreign investment in the first half declined 43 percent
from a year earlier to $1.41 billion, according to central bank
data. Mongolia’s coal exports fell to $542.4 million from $1
billion, government data showed. Total exports in the first half
slid to $2.35 billion from $2.53 billion, according to the
statistics office.  Mongolia’s currency, the tugrik, has fallen 13 percent this
year, hitting a four-year low last week.  In the first seven months of this year, Mongolia exported
$595.5 million of coal, down from $1.16 billion a year earlier,
the statistics office said today. Gold exports increased to 4.7
tons from 1.2 tons, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  