-- Online Lender Western Sky Sued by N.Y. Over Rates
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-12T23:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/online-lender-western-sky-sued-by-n-y-over-rates.html
A South Dakota Internet lender and
two other companies were sued by the state of New York over
allegations they illegally charged interest of as much as 355
percent a year for a personal loan.  Western Sky Financial LLC, Anaheim, California-based
CashCall Inc. and its subsidiary WS Funding were sued by New
York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman today in state court
in  Manhattan .  Schneiderman’s office accuses the companies of scheming to
make high-rate loans in Western Sky’s name and collect through
CashCall and WS Funding LLC.  “These loans are very burdensome for consumers,” lawyers
for the attorney general’s office said in the petition.
Customers borrowing $2,525 can owe as much as $14,132 over four
years, according to the filing.  Western Sky has made at least 17,970 loans to New York
customers, according to the petition. New York customers who
borrowed a total of $38 million from Western Sky now owe almost
$185 million including interest and fees, according to the
petition.  The South Dakota lender says it’s owned by a member of the
Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, according to its  website .  Western Sky said today in a statement it and owner Martin
Webb, who is also a defendant in the case, dispute
Schneiderman’s allegations.  Tribal Jursidiction  The company, located on the tribe’s reservation, isn’t a
“so-called payday lender” and its underwriting guidelines are
“designed to ensure that loans are made only to borrowers who
can repay them,” according to the statement.  “Western Sky’s transactions with borrowers are governed by
the laws of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, and any issues
arising out of Western Sky’s operations are subject to the
jurisdiction of the tribe,” the company said.  In a separate statement, WS Funding and CashCall said the
companies aren’t affiliated with Western Sky and that the
attorney general’s suit is “baseless.”  Under New York law, lenders not licensed by the state may
not charge interest greater than 16 percent a year, according to
the petition.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Western Sky
Financial LLC, Supreme Court for the State of New York, County
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York, federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  