-- MorphoSys Biotechnology Success Offers European Blueprint
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-08-12T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/morphosys-biotechnology-success-offers-european-blueprint.html
MorphoSys AG (MOR)  is succeeding where
other European biotechnology companies have struggled, offering
a blueprint to start-ups seeking funding.  After two decades in business, the Martinsried, Germany-based company in June sold the rights to two experimental drugs,
in two of this year’s biggest European licensing deals.
MorphoSys’s stock has almost doubled in 2013, giving the company
a 1.37 billion-euro ($1.82 billion) market value.  Biotechnology companies have struggled for financing in
Europe, and the region has failed to produce companies the size
of  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  or  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  of the U.S., which have
market values of more than $80 billion. To surmount financial
hurdles, MorphoSys used a slow-and-steady approach: It first
hired out its expertise -- finding new medicines based on
antibodies, protein particles that are part of the immune system
-- to drugmakers before working on its own products.  “This is a model that can be very flexible, and at the end
of the day, you can make excellent money,” said Siegfried Bialojan, who heads Ernst & Young LLP’s Life Science Center in
 Mannheim ,  Germany .  European biotechnology startups have face a lack of ready
money since the bursting of the late-1990s stock market bubble
scared investors away from riskier investments. While risk
appetites rebounded in the U.S., they haven’t in Europe.  ‘Reluctant’ Investors  For example, venture-capital funds raised in Germany fell
40 percent to 207 million euros last year from 350 million euros
in 2006, according to an Ernst & Young  report . There hasn’t been
a single biotechnology IPO in Germany since 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Europewide, there were 10 biotech
IPOs in 2005 versus three so far this year.  “A lot of people got burned, and have been reluctant to
get back into the market,” Joachim Rothe, a partner at Life
Sciences Partners, a Munich-based venture-capital fund, said in
a telephone interview. “The first million is easy to get. But a
million euros is nothing in drug development.”  The key to MorphoSys’s success: Not relying on a single
product or on investor money, Jens Holstein, the company’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview. “You have to go around
gathering money, a commodity that tends to be in short supply,”
he said.  MorphoSys shares have gained 97 percent this year, closing
yesterday at 57.79 euros. MorphoSys’s market value makes it
Germany’s biggest biotechnology drugmaker, yet it wouldn’t even
rank in the U.S.’s top 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Antibody Library  MorphoSys built an income stream by charging fees to use
its library of antibodies to help big-name companies such as
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  find candidates to be developed
into medicines. MorphoSys also will get royalties if the drugs -
- it created Roche’s much-watched experimental Alzheimer’s
treatment gantenerumab -- reach the market.  “They’ve been making this work for some years now, and
it’s starting to pay off,” Timo Kuerschner, an analyst with
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany, said in an
interview.  As the company added clients, it started working on its own
portfolio of drugs. The first, a treatment for rheumatoid
arthritis and other inflammatory ailments called MOR103, was
bought by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in early June for as much as 445
million euros and a share of any potential revenue.  ‘Real Scoop’  While the MOR103 deal established MorphoSys as a drug
developer, the deal that followed may turn it into a drug
marketer as well. At the end of June, the company sold the
rights to its MOR202 multiple myeloma treatment to  Celgene Corp. (CELG) 
for as much as 628 million euros. MorphoSys held on to marketing
rights in Europe, giving it a toehold in drug distribution.  “They obviously did a super job, especially on the second
deal,” said Markus Manns, who owns MorphoSys shares in a
 health-care fund  at Union Investment in Frankfurt. “It was a
real scoop to get a deal for such an early-stage project. That
really speaks to the strength of the management and the strength
of the molecule.”  The company’s third drug MOR208, is used to treat cancers
such as non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and acute lymphoblastic lymphoma,
and MorphoSys has said it may be more widely used than Roche’s
Rituxan, a drug with 2012 sales of 6.7 billion Swiss francs
($7.2 billion) last year.  To be sure, MorphoSys may need to invest in areas outside
of antibodies to keep the growth going. The company said this
month it plans to spend part of its almost 190 million euros in
cash to expand into therapies that harness the immune system to
fight diseases such as cancer.  Should the drug-development successes continue, the company
may attract takeover bids. Moroney has said he’s not interested
in selling at this point.  “I’ve think we’ve shown we can manage quite well by
ourselves,” said Holstein, the CFO. “We don’t have to be
acquired. We still have a lot of potential in our pipeline.”  For Related News and Information:
MorphoSys Rises on $818 Million Drug Alliance:  Frankfurt  Mover  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  