-- Outlook Spurs Phoenix as E-House Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-12T20:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/outlook-spurs-phoenix-as-yanzhou-gains-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities climbed to a 12-week high in New York as  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG)  rallied before
posting second-quarter earnings, while signs of economic
stabilization drove a rebound in Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. increased 1.8 percent to 96.01
yesterday, the highest level since May 21. Phoenix, an Internet
and TV media outlet, advanced to a two-year high. Yanzhou surged
the most since 2011, while  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  jumped 29
percent amid speculation that policy makers will ease curbs on
real estate fundraising.  Analysts had estimated second-quarter  sales  at companies
from Sina Corp. to  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN)  and
Phoenix rose at least 11 percent before their releases,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China ’s central bank
said on Aug. 9 that new  yuan  loans topped estimates last month,
following a government report that factory output accelerated in
July and trade growth exceeded estimates.  “It looks like things in China are normalizing,” Elena Ogram, who holds Chinese stocks in her $50 million emerging-market portfolio at Bank Bellevue AG, said by e-mail from Zurich
yesterday. “Investors start to realize that most likely the
hard landing scenario isn’t the base-case scenario.”  ETF Surges  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 3.2 percent to a two-month high of $35.65. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated
0.1 percent amid data showing  Japan ’s economic growth slowed
last quarter and investors awaited tomorrow’s report on
America’s retail sales.  Phoenix jumped 14 percent in its sixth day of advances to
$8.22, the highest level since August 2011. Trading volume was
more than quadruple the daily average over the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The Beijing-based company said in a May statement it
expected  second-quarter sales  to climb to as much as 341 million
yuan ($62 million), which would represent a 20 percent growth
from a year earlier.  E-House, a Shanghai-based real estate brokerage, soared 29
percent to $6 in  New York , the highest close since May 2012.
Volume was almost nine times the daily average over the past
three months.  Analysts at Zheshang Securities Co. and Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. said China’s regulators were moving toward easing
curbs on real estate fundraising, after an Aug. 9 statement
issued by the nation’s securities regulator elaborated on
conditions for allowing financing by developers.  Growth Prospects  “Developers in China are being allowed to raise funds
again, adding another positive sign to the industry’s growth
outlook,” Ella Ji, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York,
said by e-mail today. “We anticipate EJ will report solid 2Q
results” on Aug. 16.  Sina rose 2.9 percent to $80.35, the highest close since
November 2011. The Shanghai-based company may report second-quarter  sales  increased 15 percent and adjusted net income more
than double, according to the average estimate of at least six
analysts compiled by Bloomberg before the company’s report.  Home Inns, operator of China’s biggest budget hotel chain,
climbed 0.4 percent to $29.17, extending gains into a third day.
Sales at the Shanghai-based company may expand 11 percent for
April-June while profit may grow 30 percent, the mean estimate
of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg showed.  Yanzhou Jumps  Yanzhou’s American depositary receipts surged to $8.45 in
the steepest rally since October 2011. The ADRs have climbed 24
percent in the past three days, the biggest gain since May 2009.  Economic data since Aug. 9 have eased fear of hard landing
risk, supporting coal stocks,  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Ltd., said by phone yesterday. Coal
stocks are undervalued and have priced in downside earnings
risks in 2013 and 2014, she said.  LDK Solar Co. advanced 5.7 percent to $1.66 for a three-day
rally after President Tong Xingxue said in an interview in Xinyu
that the solar maker may return to profit this year. Domestic
demand has increased and a tariff deal with  Europe  indicates
better sales in Europe, he said.  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the nation’s largest insurer,
surged 4.4 percent to a two-month high of $37.45 in New York.  Policy makers will expand the industries in which insurers
can invest as debtholders, the nation’s Caixin New Century
Magazine reported, citing an interview with  Xiang Junbo , head of
the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. Annualized return for
insurance assets was 4.98 percent in the first half, compared
with 3.56 percent in the same period a year ago, Xiang said,
according to the report.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  surged
3.4 percent to a two-month high of 9,928.04 after a third day of
rally. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2.4 percent to
2,101.28, rising the most in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  