-- Parents Losing Jobs a Hidden Cost to Head Start Cuts
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-08-12T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/parents-losing-jobs-a-hidden-cost-to-u-s-head-start-budget-cuts.html
A U.S. preschool program for  low-income  families allowed single mother Kelly Burford to take a
$7.25-an-hour job as a department store clerk in  Maryland . Her
son, Bradyn, 2, spent the day with friends listening to stories,
singing and drawing pictures -- at no cost to Burford.  That ended in June, when Bradyn’s school in Taneytown,
seventy miles north of Washington, closed after losing $103,000
because of automatic government spending cuts. Without support
from the federal Head Start program, Burford, 35, said she had
to quit her  job  and has seen her son’s progress slip.  “The teachers were really good -- he was learning a lot,”
she said. “Now, he’s fallen back.”  While President  Barack Obama  advocates expanded education
for all children under five, the budget deal he cut with
Republicans in Congress is throwing poor children out of
existing programs. The across-the-board reductions, made through
a process known as sequestration, removed about $400 million
from  Head Start  this year, the deepest cut in dollar terms since
its 1965 creation.  As a result, about 60,000 slots in the preschool program
for poor children are expected to disappear, according to the
National Head Start Association, an Alexandria, Virginia-based
 nonprofit  that advocates more funding for the program. The cuts
must take place by the Sept. 30 end of the U.S. fiscal year.  “This is the wrong time to cut back support for low-income
families,” said W. Steven Barnett, the director of the National
Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University in
New Brunswick, New Jersey. “There’s a disinvestment in kids
when they’re in their preschool years and we will see the
consequences of this play out over the rest of their lives.”  Untallied Damage  Ted Froats, a spokesman for the Department of Health and
Human Services, said the administration doesn’t yet know how
many children will be cut from Head Start this year. The program
served 1.14 million children in 2012, according to HHS.
Grants were distributed to about 1,600 entities, including
preschool owners, nonprofits and local government agencies.  At least two cities,  Chicago  and Baltimore, are using their
own resources to offset much of this year’s budget gap.  In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel ordered the city to cut
costs elsewhere to prevent the elimination of as many as 1,000
places for the city’s children. Baltimore made up for about half
of the $1.6 million that was cut, primarily by not filling
vacant city jobs.  Head Start recipients in rural areas said it’s difficult to
shift resources to save slots for poor children.  ‘Everybody’s Hurting’  Ramona Codling, the director of Head Start for Southwest
Georgia Community Action Council in Moultrie, said she hasn’t
found a way to make up for a $700,000 funding cut. Her program
can help 2,353 kids, 90 less than during the last school year.  “The big cities have the possibility of helping,” she
said. “But when you’re in a rural area, everybody’s hurting.”  Meanwhile, slots in big-city preschool classrooms are
disappearing.  In Los Angeles, Philadelphia,  Dallas  and Phoenix, more than
1,700 slots have been eliminated, according to local
administrators contacted by Bloomberg.  Neither lawmakers nor Obama said they wanted about $85
billion in sequestration cuts to take effect. They were included
in a 2011 agreement to raise the federal debt limit and were
meant to be so unpalatable that both parties would come up with
an alternative plan. Efforts to reach an agreement failed and 5
percent cuts in many discretionary programs began on March 1.  Measured in Years  The full impact of sequestration will take years to measure,
said Steve Bell, the senior director of Bipartisan Policy Center
in  Washington , a non-profit in Washington founded by former
Democratic and Republican Senate leaders.  “This is not like a government shutdown,” he said. “This
is much more insidious because it’s slower, it’s cumulative, and
it’s more diffuse.”  For some Head Start programs, the pain arrived almost
immediately. In May,  Audubon Area Community Services , a Kentucky
nonprofit that runs programs in rural parts of the state, made
personnel cuts that resulted in the elimination of slots for
more than 170 children, said Aubrey Nehring, the chief executive
officer of the organization.  Nehring also cut 42 jobs, or about 15 percent of the staff,
to make up for a $750,000 budget cut. About three-quarters of
the parents with children in the organization’s program are
working or in school.  ‘Huge Hit’  “It’s a huge hit,” he said. “We’ve had a number of
parents who’ve had to find other childcare, or quit work or drop
out of school.”  Head Start was created under President Lyndon Johnson, as
part of the “War on Poverty” he declared in the 1965  State of
the Union  address. The program began with 560,000 children in
the first summer and provided classes, medical and dental care
and mental health services.  In 2012, the Department of Health and Human Services spent
$8 billion on Head Start, which provides grants to help children
attending private and publicly-run centers. In April, because of
the mandatory budget cuts, the  department  said it would reduce
spending by 5 percent, to about $7.6 billion.  Community Teamwork Inc., a Lowell, Massachusetts non-profit, shut down three classes because it lost $350,000,
reducing the number of children it serves by 85 to about 600.  Bernadette Donovan’s twin children just graduated from
Community Teamwork’s class in Billerica, outside  Boston , one of
the three that was closed. Donovan, 37, a single mother of four,
said volunteering in the classroom allowed her to log hours
needed to qualify as a certified teacher.  ‘Only Option’  “Everyone who was in the program, this was their only
option,” said Donovan, who’s looking for a job. “It was a big
loss.”  In Taneytown, in a rural area of central Maryland, the
Catholic Charities of Baltimore eliminated eight slots for
children 2 and under.  Burford, the Maryland mother who was forced to quit her
job, said she’s now relying on help from her parents to pay $200
a week -- about what she was making at her minimum-wage job --to
place Bradyn in a nursery school while she looks for a new job.  “I struggle from day to day,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  