-- Pegatron Second-Quarter Profit Misses Analyst Estimates
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-08-12T06:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/pegatron-second-quarter-profit-misses-analyst-estimates.html
Pegatron Corp. (4938) , a maker of devices
for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Microsoft Corp., posted second-quarter profit
that missed analyst estimates.  Net income was NT$1.39 billion ($46 million) in the three
months ended June 30, the company said in statement today. That
missed the NT$1.72 billion average of 14  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pegatron, which makes Apple’s iPad Mini and devices for
Dell Inc. and Sony Corp., will supply Apple’s new low-cost
iPhone, according to analysts including Arthur Liao at Fubon
Financial Holding Co. The Taipei-based contract electronics
manufacturer makes Surface tablets for Microsoft, which last
month wrote down the value of unsold inventory and cut prices as
the device struggled to lure customers from Apple.  “We think the high dependency on Apple is an increasing
risk for Pegatron,” Bamboo Lin, an analyst at SinoPac
Securities Co. in Taipei, said in a July 23 report.  Apple is Pegatron’s biggest customer, accounting for 27
percent of sales, followed by  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  and  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992) , according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Pegatron competes with Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the
flagship of billionaire Terry Gou’s Foxconn Technology Group, to
assemble devices for Apple.  Pegatron company was spun off from Asustek in 2010.  China Labor Watch, an advocacy group, last month alleged
factories run by Pegatron use underage workers, pay insufficient
wages and force employees to work overtime.  Pegatron Chief Executive Officer Jason Cheng and Apple both
said they will investigate the China Labor Watch accusations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  