-- Pena Nieto Submits Bill to End Mexico’s 75-Year Oil Monopoly
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-12T20:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/pena-nieto-bets-mexico-is-ready-for-exxon-after-75-year-monopoly.html
Mexico’s President Enrique Pena Nieto presented a bill to Congress today that would end a seven-decade state energy monopoly.  Pena Nieto plans to allow private companies such as  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to pump crude for the first time
since 1938 by changing articles 27 and 28 of the constitution,
he told reporters today in Mexico City. Under the proposal,
companies would receive a portion of profit within a risk-sharing model that would also allow them to book a percentage of
reserves under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules,
said Deputy Energy Minster Enrique Ochoa.  The bill to loosen state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos’s grip
on production and attract investment needed to reverse an eight-year output drop would be the economy’s biggest overhaul since
the  North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994. An even more
aggressive proposal delivered last month by an opposition party
increases Pena Nieto’s chances of pushing his bill through
Congress, said Nomura Holdings Inc.  “The risk-sharing or profit-sharing contracts have a long-term economic interest that the SEC registers to define the
percentage” that a company can use to book reserves from a
project, Ochoa told reporters in Mexico City.  Pena Nieto, the 47-year-old former governor who returned
the PRI party to power in December, opted for risk-sharing
contracts similar to those used in Ecuador, Bolivia and Iran,
rather than a concession model, Energy Minister Pedro Joaquin
Coldwell said. The state would retain ownership of oil reserves.  Majors Interested  The government plans to split Pemex, as the state producer
is known, into two units, as well as ending the state’s
electricity generation monopoly. Mexichem SAB would invest as
much as $500 million in power generation, Ricardo Gutierrez,
head of the Mexican chemical maker, said in an interview in
Mexico City after the proposal.  Exxon, Chevron,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Repsol SA (REP)  are
among major producers that have expressed interest in Mexican
 oil fields .  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , Latin America’s most
valuable non-state crude producer, would consider investing in
Mexico if the PRI’s bill succeeds, Chief Financial Officer
Carlos Perez said in an Aug. 9 telephone interview.  “We welcome any decision by the government and people of
Mexico to provide new opportunities for investments,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a Chevron spokesman, said in an e-mail before today’s
announcement.  Middle Ground  Exxon and Repsol declined to comment on the planned
regulatory changes through their respective spokesmen, Patrick McGinn and Gonzalo Velasco. Shell referred a request for comment
to a  June 7 speech  by Upstream Americas Director  Marvin Odum , in
which he referred to Mexico’s “enormous” potential  and
Shell’s “strong and growing” relationship with Pemex.  The  National Action Party , or PAN, of Pena Nieto’s
predecessor  Felipe Calderon , wants to open the door to selling
shares in Pemex. Jesus Zambrano, head of the Democratic
Revolution Party, or PRD, whose candidate  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  finished second to Pena Nieto in last year’s election,
said on Aug. 8 the party opposes changing the constitution.  The PRI, which ruled Mexico for seven decades until 2000,
may try to take the middle ground between the two positions,
 Benito Berber , a strategist for Nomura in New York, said by
telephone before today’s announcement.  Bond Rally  Investors are gaining confidence that lawmakers will
approve the bill. The yield on Mexico’s benchmark fixed-rate
government peso debt due in 2024 has fallen 0.26 percentage
point to 5.75 percent since July 30, the day before the PAN
unveiled its energy proposal.  Pemex’s dollar-dominated notes due 2018 are the best-performing Latin American energy company debt this quarter with
a 3.94 percent return, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average return among more than 80 securities is 0.24
percent, the data show. Yields fell to 3.06 percent at 1:44 p.m.
in New York from 3.09 percent at the end of last week.  Pena Nieto has also promised fiscal changes to wean the
government off revenue from Pemex, which can’t invest enough in
its own operations because of a tax burden that funds about a
third of the federal budget.  Since Nafta, Mexico has become one of the world’s most open
trading economies. Even so, many industries are still dominated
by single groups, such as billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil (AMXL)  SAB in mobile-phone service and Comision Federal de
Electricidad, or CFE, in electricity.  Both Pemex and CFE will remained fully state owned under
the government’s proposal.  Tax Collection  The President has already achieved legislative success with
the Pact for Mexico, an accord signed between the PRI, PAN and
PRD on Dec. 2, the day after he took office. The accord has
helped pass an education bill to make teachers more accountable
for performance and a law to spur increased competition in the
telecommunications industry. It also set a goal of improving tax
collection and transparency in spending.  Oil at all stages of production, refining and distribution
has been the legal property of the Mexican people since 1938,
when then-President  Lazaro Cardenas  seized fields from U.S. and
British companies and changed the nation’s charter. The
expropriation is celebrated every March 18 and trumpeted as a
point of pride in schoolchildren’s textbooks.  Mexico has the biggest proven oil reserves in Latin America
after Venezuela and Brazil, with 13.87 billion barrels, and
shale-gas resources that may be as high as 460 trillion cubic
feet, according to data compiled by Pemex.  The state-owned company says that with the proper
investments and technology, about 27 billion barrels of crude in
the deep waters can be added to the nation’s proven reserves.  Protests Called  The PRD wants to maintain the state’s exclusive right to
oil refining, preventing private companies from entering the
process,  Luis Sanchez , a PRD senator, said in a speech in
Guadalajara Aug. 3. Zambrano told reporters Aug. 8 that the
party is against oil concessions.  “It’s absolutely unacceptable that we would give up part
of our territory in a concession,” Zambrano said. “It’s giving
up the future of our country.”  Lopez Obrador , who left the PRD following his election loss
to found his own movement, said people who offer natural
resources to foreigners are “traitors” and has called for
supporters to protest in Mexico City’s main square next month.  Marcelo Ebrard, the former mayor of Mexico City who leads
the Progress Movement within the PRD, has called for a national
energy referendum and said in an interview that Pemex’s tax
burden can be lessened and its autonomy increased without
constitutional changes.  Constitutional Change  This isn’t the first time a Mexican leader has tried to
reform Pemex. Under PRI President  Ernesto Zedillo , Pemex tried
to sell some assets in 1995, only to pare back the plan amid
opposition from members of his own party.  President Vicente Fox, or the PAN party, replaced Pemex’s
politician-staffed board in 2001 with businessmen, including
Slim. The board was dismantled two months later amid accusations
by lawmakers that it was unconstitutional.  PRI lawmakers defeated an attempt by Calderon to open the
nation’s refining and distribution projects to outside partners.
Calderon was able to win approval for private companies to
operate fields under incentive-based contracts.  Opposition from within the PRD is unlikely to derail the
energy proposal if the PAN and PRI reach an agreement. The two
parties, with the PRI-allied Green Party, would control more
than the two thirds each of the lower house and Senate needed to
pass a constitutional change.  “The government can now present something closer to the
PAN proposal than to the PRD proposal, but they can say they’re
offering a moderate position,” Duncan Wood, director of the
Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in Washington, said by telephone before today’s
announcement. “They can really say they are representing the
interests of the Mexican people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  