-- Petrobras Beats Estimates on Record Refining, Currency Hedge
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-08-12T03:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/petrobras-beats-estimates-on-record-refining-currency-hedge.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the world’s
biggest crude producer in deep waters, reported second-quarter
profit that exceeded analysts’ forecasts on record output at its
refineries and a currency hedge that narrowed financial losses.  Net income  was 6.2 billion reais ($2.7 billion), or 48
centavos a share, compared with a loss of 1.35 billion reais in
the year-earlier period, Brazil’s state-controlled producer said
on Aug. 9 in a regulatory statement. Per-share profit excluding
some items was expected at 45 centavos, the average of 13
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras averted 7.98 billion reais in financial losses
after implementing accounting changes in May to protect it from
currency swings that have eroded profits at other Brazilian
companies with foreign debt. Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, said Aug. 7 that second-quarter profit plunged 84
percent, missing analysts’ estimates, after real weakness
generated losses on its $30 billion debt.  “If you have dollar-denominated debt, you have to protect
yourself from currency price volatility,” said  Gianna Bern ,
president of risk-management adviser Brookshire Advisory and
Research, in the telephone interview from  Chicago . “They’re
actively taking steps to minimize fluctuations in currency.”  Brazil’s real was the worst-performing emerging market
currency in the quarter, losing 9.4 percent against the U.S.
dollar. The most indebted publicly-traded oil company borrowed
$15.1 billion during the quarter, including $11 billion in
dollar-denominated bonds, to finance its business plan, it said.  ‘All Cylinders’  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, lifted output of
refined products 6.5 percent to 2.1 million barrels a day,
reducing the amount of diesel and gasoline it sold under
subsidized prices.  “Brazilian refineries are really firing on all cylinders,
and that has helped minimize imports,” Bern said.  Fuel imports fell 47 percent to 261,000 barrels a day while
sales rose 8.2 percent to 73.6 billion reais, less than the
74.7 billion-real average estimate. The refining network reached
record processing rates of 2.2 million barrels a day on June 29
and June 30, Petrobras said.  Brazil ’s government, which control’s Petrobras’s board
through a majority of voting shares, hasn’t adjusted fuel prices
since March in a bid to control inflation. Petrobras has
increased prices for gasoline 15 percent and diesel 22 percent
since June 2012 to reduce the discount with international
prices. Losses at Petrobras’s refining and supply division
narrowed 62 percent to 3.8 billion reais.  Tax Drop  “The imports are particularly important because they sell
into a market that is priced well below what they are paying,”
T.J. Conway, a research and advisory manager at New York-based
Energy Intelligence Group, said by telephone from  Washington .  Petrobras’s royalties and taxes, which are partially based
on Brent oil prices, fell 5.3 percent from a year earlier to 7.2
billion reais.  The decline in the oil price in the quarter had less of an
impact on Petrobras than other large producers because fuel
prices were little changed in Brazil, Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst
at Banco Bradesco SA, said by telephone from Sao Paulo before
the earnings report was released.  “When oil prices go down, revenue stays stable, and costs
plunge because the government take goes down,” said Rozenbaum,
who rates the shares hold and doesn’t own any. “When you have
diesel and gasoline prices fixed, the company is short in oil.”  Petrobras used a Brent price of $102.44 a barrel to
calculate second-quarter results, down from $108.19 a year ago,
according to the statement.  Four Platforms  Petrobras added four production vessels during the first
half, compared to one unit during all of 2012, in an effort to
resume growth after output has hovered around 2.6 million
barrels a day since 2010.  The biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000 feet
expanded oil and gas production in June to the most since
December after adding a second floating, production storage and
offloading unit, or FPSO, to Brazil’s second-largest crude
discovery.  “They had four platforms come on line; that’s huge,” Bern
said. “From an operational standpoint, this is a turning
point.”  Petrobras expects crude production in Brazil to double to
4.2 million barrels a day in 2020 as it adds more than 30
production units to fields in deep waters of the Atlantic.  $174 Billion  The company, which is investing $237 billion over five
years to build refineries, develop deepwater fields and increase
output, will add Brazil’s biggest discovery to its pipeline of
projects when the government auctions the Libra field in
October. Petrobras, which will take at least a 30 percent stake
in Libra, has an option to expand its stake during the bidding
round.  Libra holds 8 billion to 12 billion barrels in recoverable
reserves, topping the 6.5 billion at Lula, Brazil’s hitherto
biggest discovery, also located in deep waters of the southern
Atlantic. Libra will cost Petrobras and its partners $174
billion to develop over 35 years, according to the country’s oil
regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  