-- Philippines to Host Talks on U.S. Troops Amid China’s Rise
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-08-13T01:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/philippines-announces-talks-for-more-u-s-troops-amid-china-rise.html
The  Philippines  will hold talks with
the U.S. on boosting American troop levels there as the
Southeast Asian nation seeks to counter southern insurgents and
 China ’s push for more influence in the region.  The two sides will discuss rotating more U.S. troops
through the Philippines, joint military exercises and stationing
equipment in the country to address natural disasters, Defense
Secretary Voltaire Gazmin said at a briefing yesterday in
Manila. The talks will start tomorrow, Foreign Affairs Assistant
Secretary Carlos Sorreta said.  The Philippines is strengthening its U.S. alliance and
modernizing its military to counter what it sees as a Chinese
move for greater sway in a region rife with disputes over the
ownership of fish and gas-rich waters of the  South China Sea .
The government also wants to contain an insurgency in the
southern Mindanao region, where U.S. troops have conducted
counter-terrorism training since 2001.  “As an American ally, the Philippines would benefit from
increased U.S. presence,” said Rommel Banlaoi, executive
director of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and
Terrorism Research. “Expect China to react negatively.”  The U.S. supports the Philippines in its desire “to build
a credible defense and respond rapidly during times of
humanitarian crisis and natural disasters,” the U.S. Embassy in
Manila said in an e-mailed statement today. “We are optimistic
that the first round of negotiations will result in positive
outcomes.”  Asia Rebalance  Asked about the negotiations on Aug. 8, White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  declined to comment, though he cited a move
by President  Barack Obama ’s administration to rebalance its
foreign policy toward a focus on the Asia-Pacific region.  “We need to be fully engaged throughout the region, both
economically and when it comes to security matters,” Carney
said.  The Philippines plans to spend 75 billion pesos ($1.7
billion) in five years to buy ships, helicopters, and weapons to
bolster defense, Aquino said in December after enacting
amendments to a 17-year-old military modernization law.  In June, the Philippines protested what it called “the
massive presence of Chinese military and paramilitary ships”
around territory it claims in the South China Sea.  Territorial Integrity  “At the front lines of ensuring the security of our people
and the territorial integrity of our nation is the profound
partnership between diplomacy and defense,” Foreign Affairs
Secretary Albert del Rosario said at yesterday’s briefing in
 Manila . “We have to strengthen both if we are to secure our
people and our nation and to improve its response to natural
disasters.”  At least 16 people were killed and scores injured by
bombings in Mindanao in the past month, police and military
said. An improvised bomb exploded in Maguindanao on Aug. 10 as
troops clashed with members of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom
Fighters, a group that had separated from the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front that’s in peace talks with the government.  Groups trying to derail the peace agreement may be behind
the bombings and the government will offer a reward for their
capture, Aquino said Aug. 8.  The Philippines topped a list of 10 countries most affected
by natural disasters in 2012, with 2,360 deaths, according to a
report by Brussels-based Center for Research on the Epidemiology
of Disasters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  