-- Pinnacle Foods to Buy Unilever’s Wish-Bone for $580 Million
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-08-12T14:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/pinnacle-foods-to-acquire-unilever-s-wish-bone-for-580-million.html
Pinnacle Foods Inc. (PF) , the maker of
Hungry Man dinners that’s majority-owned by Blackstone Group LP,
agreed to buy Unilever’s Wish-Bone unit for $580 million, adding
the U.S. market leader for Italian salad dressings.  The transaction is expected to immediately add to earnings
and brings in brands with annual sales of about $190 million,
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Pinnacle said today in a statement.
Wish-Bone also includes the Western dressings brand.  Unilever, the maker of hundreds of products from Dove soap
to Knorr soup, has been pruning its food business to focus on
faster-growing health and beauty products. The company sold its
Skippy peanut butter brand this year, having disposed of its
P.F. Chang’s and Bertolli frozen meals businesses in 2012.  The Wish-Bone sale “fits within  Unilever (UNA) ’s mantra lately
of repositioning their portfolio to stronger long-term growth
prospect brands,” Erin Lash, an analyst at Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc., said in an interview. “With some of these
brands, they weren’t able to leverage the strength and others
would be more apt to do so.”  Lash rates Unilever shares as slightly undervalued and
doesn’t rate Pinnacle. Eight analysts  recommend  buying Pinnacle
and two recommend holding the stock, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Perfect Fit’  Wish-Bone is “a perfect fit” with Pinnacle’s strategy of
reinvigorating iconic brands, Chief Executive Officer Bob Gamgort said in the statement.  The potential of Wish-Bone’s brands “can now be more fully
realized with Pinnacle Foods,” Unilever North America President
Kees Kruythoff said in a separate statement.  Unilever was unchanged to 29.77 euros at 4 p.m. in
Amsterdam. They had advanced 3.2 percent this year. Pinnacle, in
which Blackstone holds a 68 percent  stake , rose 4.2 percent to
$26.53 at 10:13 a.m. in  New York  after gaining 5.8 percent, the
most intraday since May 15.  The transaction will be funded from cash and new debt,
Pinnacle said. Cost benefits probably will be “substantial”
and the acquired business should add $65 million to full-year
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
once those have been fully realized, the company said.  The sale doesn’t include Unilever’s plant in Independence,
 Missouri , the Anglo-Dutch company said. The factory will
continue to manufacture for Pinnacle under a third-party
agreement, Unilever said.  Pinnacle said Bank of America Corp. is its financial
adviser on the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  