-- Pound Approaches One-Month High Against Euro Amid Growth Signs
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-12T15:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/pound-little-changed-versus-dollar-before-u-k-house-price-data.html
The pound approached the strongest
level in a month against the euro after an industry report
showed British banks boosted mortgage approvals in June, adding
to evidence the recovery is gathering pace.  The U.K. currency advanced for a second day against the
common currency before a government report tomorrow that
economists said will show  consumer-price inflation  stayed above
the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target. The central bank will
release the minutes of this month’s policy meeting on Wednesday.
U.K. government bonds were little changed.  “Economic data is pointing in the right direction,” said
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Bank
Ltd. in London. “The U.K. recovery will outperform the  euro
zone . I expect to see more demand for the pound than I do for
the euro in the weeks and months to come.”  The pound appreciated 0.1 percent to 86.01 pence per euro
at 4:42 p.m. London time after advancing to 85.79 on Aug. 7, the
strongest level since July 10. The U.K. currency weakened 0.1
percent to $1.5476.  Sterling has gained 0.5 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro weakened 0.2 percent,
and the dollar slipped 2.2 percent.  The number of U.K. home loans increased 15.7 percent in
June from a year earlier, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said
in an e-mailed report. Mortgages climbed 1.1 percent to 55,400
from the previous month, the Council said.  Consumer Prices  British consumer prices rose 2.8 percent last month from a
year earlier, after advancing 2.9 percent in June, according to
a Bloomberg survey before the  Office for National Statistics 
releases the data tomorrow. The number of Britons claiming
jobless benefits fell for a ninth month in July, a separate
Bloomberg survey showed before the report on Wednesday.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was at 2.47 percent after
increasing to 2.56 percent on Aug. 7, the highest level since
June 25. The price of the 1.75 percent bond maturing in
September 2022 was 94.19.  “The underlying trend of economic recovery is seen very
much in place, that’s going to be a negative for gilts this
week,” said Jason Simpson, a U.K. rates strategist at Banco
Santander SA in London. Investors will watch the jobs data and
the minutes of the bank’s latest policy meeting “for any sign
of dissent, hints that some members were unhappy about tying
down  interest rates  for such an extended period.”  Pound Bears  Sterling’s advance to a seven-week high last week after
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated his commitment
to curb inflation is failing to convince companies from  Standard
Chartered  Plc to Nomura Holdings Inc. that the pound is on the
cusp of a sustained rally against the dollar.  The U.K. currency will weaken to $1.41 by year-end,
according to four of the most-pessimistic forecasters in a
Bloomberg survey. The pound strengthened to $1.5574 on Aug. 8,
the highest level since June 19. The central bank released its
Inflation Report on Aug. 7.  “People are very excited about an uptick in U.K. growth
that’s at a very early stage, but in the global context growth
is very, very lagging,”  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Standard Chartered in London, said in an
Aug. 8 telephone interview. “The natural center of gravity for
the pound against the dollar is lower.”  The Bank of England said last week it planned to keep the
 benchmark rate  at 0.5 percent until the jobless rate falls to 7
percent, something it doesn’t forecast will happen before the
fourth quarter of 2016. Unemployment based on an International
Labour Organization measure was 7.8 percent in the second
quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey before the data is
released on Aug. 14.  The Debt Management Office said it may hold at least one
bond sale through banks in the third quarter, according to a
statement on its website. The DMO, which manages debt sales for
the Treasury, said it would be seeking investor views on the
type of security and potential timing of such a transaction. It
will also use its Aug. 19 meeting with investors to gauge demand
for super-long bonds, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in  London  at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  