-- Power Companies Urged to Shield U.S. Electric Grid
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-08-12T16:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/power-companies-urged-to-shield-u-s-electric-grid.html
Power companies should be pressed by
government to install technologies including smart meters and
energy- storage devices  to shield the electric grid from more
frequent disruptions tied to weather, according to a  study .  Severe weather, the primary cause of power failures in the
U.S., cost the economy on average $18 billion to $33 billion a
year from 2003 to 2012 when adjusted for inflation, according to
the report today from the White House and Energy Department. The
nation had 679 outages that each affected at least 50,000
utility customers in the decade, it said, without requiring
action by the power industry.  “The number of outages caused by severe weather is
expected to rise as  climate change  increases the frequency and
intensity of hurricanes, blizzards, floods and other extreme
weather events,” the study said.  Events in the past decade -- including  Hurricane Katrina  in
2005 and Superstorm Sandy in 2012 -- exposed vulnerabilities in
the U.S. electric grid, the network of generator plants,
transmission lines and technologies that distribute power across
the nation. The report was released ahead of the anniversary of
a power blackout, blamed in part on tree branches touching  power
lines , that swept the Northeast and parts of the Midwest into
darkness on Aug. 14, 2003.  The report identified steps to improve reliability,
including investment in storage devices tied to renewable-energy
technologies; metering systems that can quickly pinpoint the
location of outages; and use of so-called microgrids to isolate
flaws without disabling the entire network. The 2009 U.S.
economic stimulus law included $4.5 billion for grid-related
investments, according to the study.  Utility Challenges  The report didn’t mandate actions by electric utility
owners. As the U.S. attempts to encourage investment in the
grid, companies including  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of Chicago and  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK)  of Charlotte, North Carolina, are confronting other
obstacles. They include U.S. regulations to limit greenhouse-gas
emissions from  power plants , a slowdown in nuclear-reactor
construction resulting from a glut of natural gas, a competing
fuel source, and persistent threats of cyber attacks.  Costs from outages are rising on the nation’s aging grid
network, which includes more than 5,800 power plants and 450,000
miles (724,000 kilometers) of high-voltage power lines,
according to the study.  Costs were also greatest in years of severe storms.
Superstorm Sandy, which drenched parts of  New York City  in 2012,
cost an estimated $65 billion and was the nation’s second-costliest tropical cyclone since 1900, according to the report.
In 2008, when Hurricane Ike pummeled the  Gulf Coast , weather-related outages cost the economy from $40 billion to $75
billion, it said.  From 2004 to 2012, the U.S. experienced seven of the 10
costliest storms, the study said. Last year, 11 U.S. weather-related disasters cost more than $1 billion, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  