-- Prudential Jumps to Record as Profit Beats Forecasts on Asia
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-08-12T15:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/prudential-first-half-profit-beats-estimates-as-asia-sales-rise.html
Prudential Plc (PRU)  surged to a record in
London trading after the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value
reported first-half profit that beat analyst estimates, buoyed
by rising sales in Asia and a jump in U.S. earnings.  Operating profit climbed 22 percent to 1.42 billion pounds
($2.2 billion) in the first six months, the London-based insurer
said in a statement today. That beat the 1.3 billion-pound
estimate of 17 analysts provided by the company. The stock
surged to the highest since at least 1988 as the firm raised its
 dividend  and posted  record profit  for its fund management unit.  “There is still plenty of potential in that share price,”
Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam said on a conference call
with reporters from  London . Today’s results “provide further
evidence of our ability to deliver both earnings growth and
cash. We look forward to the rest of the year with confidence.”  The stock, which has more than doubled since Thiam became
CEO in October 2009,  advanced  4.1 percent to 1,232 pence in
London. That’s bringing gains this year to 42 percent, compared
with a 23 percent  increase  for the FTSE 350 Insurance Index.  Record Sales  Thiam, 51, said the insurer has achieved four of the six
2013 objectives that were set out in 2010, and remains on track
to achieve the last two, which include doubling Asia’s 2009
operating profit by year end. Asia reported a 18 percent jump in
the first half, with seven of its units in the region posting
record sales in the second quarter.  Asia remains a “significant driver” of earnings for the
company, according to Thiam, given the rebalancing of global
economic growth toward the region and low penetration rate of
insurance policies in countries such as the  Philippines  and
 Vietnam . The CEO said the insurer is close to completing the
reorganization of is Asia business into one single legal entity,
potentially making it easier to sell in the future.  “Rebalancing is under way of the world economy, it’s rapid
and substantial,” Thiam told reporters. “One of our successes
as a group has been an early recognition of this.”  New business profit, or NBP, in Asia jumped 20 percent to
659 million pounds from a year ago. Sales of life insurance
products rose 42 percent in  China , 38 percent in the Philippines
and  Korea  and 28 percent in Vietnam, the company said.  ‘Strong Results’  It was “a characteristically strong set of results from
Prudential, with continued strong growth in operating profits
from the major growth engines” of Asia, the U.S. and asset
management, Christopher Esson, a London-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG with an outperform rating on the stock, wrote in
a note. “With NBP remaining on a strong trajectory in Asia,
forward momentum is likely to remain robust.”  Operating profit from Jackson National Life, Prudential’s
U.S. business, jumped 32 percent to 582 million pounds in the
first half, helped by sales of Elite Access, a variable annuity
product. Thiam said the company will benefit from the retirement
of America’s 77 million baby boomers, adding that he remains
“open minded” to the future of the U.S. division including a
potential sale.  In the U.K., Prudential’s fund management arm M&G increased
operating profit 17 percent to a record 204 million pounds as
the business reported net inflows of 4.8 billion pounds, boosted
by increased sales in continental Europe.  Prudential raised its interim  dividend  16 percent to 9.73
pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  