-- Qualcomm CEO Shuns Debt-Funded Payouts, Hoards Cash
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-08-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/qualcomm-ceo-shuns-debt-funded-payouts-hoards-cash.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the most cash-rich
semiconductor company, needs to keep a large portion of those
reserves to help maintain its dominance in the phone-chip
market, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said.  While Jacobs said he is listening to investor calls for
buybacks or a dividend boost as the stock languishes, he’s
focused on investing in new products. Qualcomm, with more than
$30 billion in the bank, won’t mimic some of its peers in taking
on debt to deliver cash to shareholders, Jacobs said.  “People come to you and say things like, ‘Why don’t you
lever up to buy back your stock?’” he said, in an interview.
“My answer to that is, we’re not only investing in the current
business but we’re investing in new opportunities.”  Growth isn’t the problem. Qualcomm’s sales have increased
on average 31 percent annually per quarter since 2010, and last
period’s expansion of 35 percent put Qualcomm among the three
fastest-growing large technology companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. That hasn’t helped the share price, which has
gained 7.1 percent this year, trailing about three-quarters of
technology stocks in the index.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which sold $17 billion of bonds in April,
responded to a slumping stock price by returning $18.8 billion
in cash to shareholders last quarter in the form of dividends
and buybacks. Intel Corp., the world’s biggest semiconductor
maker, issued $6 billion of debt in December to repurchase
stock.  “Universally, investors are agitating for a higher rate of
return of capital and we’ve seen a number of companies, the
highest profile being Apple, make strides in the form of
buybacks and dividend hikes,” said Alex Gauna, an analyst at
JMP Securities in  San Francisco . Jacobs “is still very much
running a growth story.”  Dominant Position  Qualcomm, based in  San Diego , is the largest maker of chips
that run smartphones, powering dominant products such as Apple’s
 iPhone  and some of Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy devices. Its
ownership of technology used by all modern high-speed mobile
networks also allows it to charge royalties on equipment using
non-Qualcomm chips.  Rather than following  Intel (INTC)  and Apple into the bond
markets, Jacobs said he prefers to stay debt free. That will
enable the company to keep investing in research and development
even if the economy worsens, he said.  “Having a good war chest makes people realize you have the
ability to absorb a good blow and come back,” he said. “We
want to drive the new technology into the market as quickly as
possible.”  Cash Reserves  Qualcomm ended its fiscal third quarter with $30.4 billion
in cash and marketable securities and has no debt. Qualcomm is
aiming to keep at least $5 billion in domestic reserves and
currently has twice that amount, Jacobs said. The balance, held
overseas, will stay there unless the U.S. government changes its
policy on taxing profit that’s brought back into the country, he
said.  Intel reported cash and  investments  of $17.4 billion at the
end of the latest quarter.  Qualcomm paid out $2.2 billion from April through July 24,
in dividends and stock repurchases, the company said. It has an
indicated dividend  yield  of 2.1 percent compared with 4 percent
at Intel and 2.7 percent for Apple.  For Daniel Morgan, a  fund manager  at Synovus Trust Co. in
Atlanta, Qualcomm still presents more of an opportunity than the
big slow-growth technology companies even if it’s not returning
as much cash to shareholders. His firm is an investor in Intel,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   “Of the ones we own, there’s not much to get excited
about,” said Morgan, who helps manage $3.9 billion, including
about 168,000 Qualcomm shares. “The power growth days are
done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  