-- Railroads, Juniper, Health Law, Harbinger: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-12T11:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/railroads-juniper-harbinger-health-insurance-compliance.html
The four largest U.S. railroad
companies won their bid to reverse a ruling that turned a price-fixing lawsuit against them by shippers into a group lawsuit
with potential damages of at least $10 billion.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington Aug. 9 threw out a decision by a lower-court judge
certifying the class, sending it back for him to reconsider in
light of a subsequent Supreme Court ruling on class
certification. The lower court also used a flawed model for
determining potential harm to shippers, the panel said.  “Mindful that the district court neither considered the
damages model’s flaw in its certification decision nor had the
benefit” of the Supreme Court case, “we will vacate class
certification and remand the case to the district court to
afford it an opportunity to consider these issues,” U.S.
Circuit Judge  Janice Rogers Brown  wrote for the panel.  The suit, brought in 2007 by  Olin Corp. (OLN)  and seven other
companies that ship goods by rail, alleges the railroad
operators colluded at an industry meeting in 2003 to impose a
surcharge tied to total transportation costs rather than to
actual fuel prices during a 3 1/2-year period.  U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman last year certified a
class of about 30,000 shippers in a case against  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. carrier by revenues; Burlington Northern
Santa Fe, a unit of Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
the number two freight carrier; and  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and Norfolk
Southern Corp.  “While this obviously was not our preferred outcome, we
are gratified that the case was remanded,” Stephen Neuwirth, of
Quinn Emmanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, co-lead counsel for the
shippers, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident that
we will be able to demonstrate that the damages model in fact
satisfies the highest standards that have been set by the
courts, and that ultimately the case will move forward as a
class action.”  Tom Lange, a spokesman for Union Pacific, said in a
statement that the company is “pleased with the court’s
decision and looks forward to the opportunity to reaffirm that
Union Pacific’s fuel surcharge program complied with the
applicable legal requirements.”  The case is In re Rail Freight Fuel Surcharge Antitrust
Litigation, 12-07085, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of
Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  ASIC Increases Disclosure Requirements for Dark Trading Systems  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission
updated disclosure requirements in an e-mailed statement, with
rules that will come into force over nine months.  Crossing-system operators must report to ASIC if they
identify suspicious activity, and activity on their crossing
system must be monitored from Nov. 10.  “We expect the new rules will quickly lead to changes in
the behavior of market participants, building on the positive
changes we have already seen with other recent rule changes and
the work of ASIC’s taskforces on dark liquidity and high-frequency trading,” ASIC Commissioner Cathie Armour wrote in an
e-mailed statement.  Compliance Action  U.S. Said to Plan Charges Against Former JPMorgan Employees  The U.S. may announce charges as early as this week against
former London-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  employees related to
allegations they tried to conceal losses last year, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The situation remains fluid and it isn’t clear who may be
charged, said the person, who requested anonymity because the
information wasn’t public. Those facing U.S. charges include
Javier Martin-Artajo, a Spaniard who lives in London and a
former executive who oversaw the trading strategy, and Julien
Grout, a French citizen and a trader who worked for him, the  New
York Times (NYT)  reported Aug. 9. Prosecutors also are weighing
penalties for the bank, including a fine and a reprimand, the
newspaper said in a subsequent report.  The investigation has centered on whether employees at
JPMorgan’s chief investment office attempted to inflate the
value of trades on the bank’s books by mismarking them, a person
with knowledge of the matter said previously. Federal officials
are considering charges related to mismarking books and
falsifying documents, the person said.  Edward Little , an attorney for Grout, said his client moved
back to France before media reports last week about the
potential charges and that he has no intention of fleeing, the
New York Times reported late yesterday.  The bank first disclosed losses at its London office in May
2012 after what Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called
“egregious mistakes” in managing credit-derivative positions.
The trades by Bruno Iksil, nicknamed the London Whale because of
the size of his holdings, eventually caused more than $6.2
billion of losses for the company.  For more, click here.  Juniper Falls After Disclosing Foreign Bribe Investigations  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  fell the most in more than three
months after disclosing that it’s being investigated for
possible violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The shares fell 5.6 percent to $20.92 at the close on Aug.
9. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Department of Justice are both conducting investigations, the
Sunnyvale, California-based company disclosed in a filing Aug.
8.  Juniper, the No. 2 maker of networking equipment, generated
more than half of its sales outside the U.S. in 2012, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
prohibits U.S. companies from paying bribes to foreign officials
to win business. The company is cooperating with the
investigations and “can’t predict the scope or duration,” said
Michael Busselen, a spokesman for Juniper.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, and  Peter Carr , a
Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment.  In many instances, companies are investigated under the
FCPA because distributors or resellers don’t have strong
internal controls to prevent bribery, according to  Jayson
Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco.  For more, click here.  Obama Financial Fraud Task Force Takes On Banks Too Big to Fail  The criminal investigation of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
mortgage-backed securities practice is evidence a U.S. Justice
Department task force set up to investigate causes of the
financial crisis is finally getting some traction against banks
blamed for ruining the economy.  The probe, disclosed last week in the bank’s quarterly
filing, is the latest enforcement effort to emerge from the
Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Working Group. It was set
up last year on orders of President Barack Obama to coordinate
prosecutions of fraudulent underwriting activity by banks that
contributed to the financial crisis.  The JPMorgan probe, which is also looking at possible civil
violations, grew out of the working group’s efforts, said Lauren
Horwood, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner in
Sacramento, who is leading the investigation and is a member of
the group’s parent, the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force.  “Over the last year and a half, the RMBS Working Group
members have been aggressively investigating multiple cases
across the country and the public is only beginning to see the
results,” Associate Attorney General  Tony West , the No. 3
ranking official at the Justice Department, said in an e-mail.  The JPMorgan Chase investigation, which may not lead to
criminal charges, follows parallel civil lawsuits filed earlier
this week by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
U.S. Attorney Office in Charlotte, North Carolina. U.S.
officials claim  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  failed to disclose risks
embedded in $850 million in mortgage-backed securities issued in
2008.  The RMBS group’s director is Geoff Graber, who was also the
lead Justice Department lawyer in the investigation of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s S&P unit. More than 200
federal and state attorneys, investigators and analysts have
played a role in the group’s work, according to the Justice
Department.  Graber’s coordinating team, composed of eight members, is
based in Washington and made up of criminal prosecutors, civil
attorneys and analysts. As part of its work, it conducts day-long meetings every two months, the most recent of which
occurred on July 12, according to the Justice Department.  The group has faced criticism from lawmakers and consumer
advocates for its failure to live up to the promises President
Obama made when he announced its establishment in his January
2012 State of the Union address. The pace of the group’s work
drew early complaints from lawmakers.  For more, click here.  SAC Allowed by Judge to Keep Operating While Facing Charges  SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge fund owned by  Steven
Cohen  that is facing criminal charges and a civil money
laundering lawsuit, won a judge’s approval of a business plan
that will allow the firm to continue operating during the cases.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan on Aug. 9
issued an order saying that federal prosecutors, who indicted
the firm July 25 in an insider-trading scheme and filed a suit
against the Stamford, Connecticut-based fund, will avoid
interfering with SAC’s legitimate operations.  The approved plan requires that SAC maintain at least 85
percent of the “aggregate value” of assets owned by the firm’s
“entity defendants” as of July 1 and in exchange, allows for
the fund to continue its lawful operations. If the assets fall
below the specified level in a given month, the fund is required
to “replenish” the monies, according to the order.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the filing.  Oregon Exchange Delay Adds to Scale-Down of Health Law Goals  Oregon, a Democratic-led state that has embraced President
 Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, won’t meet all the
requirements for its health-insurance exchange when the online
marketplace opens Oct. 1.  For at least two weeks, people using Cover Oregon won’t be
able to complete their purchase without help from a certified
insurance broker or community group, said Lisa Morawski, an
exchange spokeswoman. Consumers in all 50 states were supposed
to be able to freely shop for health plans on their own.  “We thought that this was an opportunity for us to open
our doors on Oct. 1 with all the functionality, but not overload
the system,” Morawski said Aug. 9 by telephone.  Oregon’s step-back suggests that states don’t have enough
time to comply with next year’s core implementation of the 2010
health law as Obama envisioned. Even the federal data services
hub that is supposed to connect the exchanges may not get final
security certification until Sept. 30, the inspector general for
the Health and Human Services Department said April 5.  “With all of the delays -- the Supreme Court delay, the
election -- states and HHS for that matter simply don’t have
enough time to put this together as it should be,” said Dan
Schuyler, director of exchange technology at the consulting firm
Leavitt Partners in Salt Lake City.  Oregon is one of 14 states building their own exchanges.
The federal government is doing most or all of the work in the
remaining 36 states. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, which is supervising the building of state exchanges,
is aware of Oregon’s plan and isn’t concerned,  Brian Cook , an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  U.S. Regulator Issues Bitcoin-Related Subpoenas, WSJ Reports  New York’s banking regulator issued subpoenas to about two
dozen companies associated with bitcoin as it looks into the
virtual-currency industry, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing people familiar with the matter.  The subpoenas, issued by the  Department of Financial
Services , seek information on topics including antimoney-laundering, consumer protection and investment strategies,
according to the report, which didn’t identify the people. The
subpoenas were issued late last week, the Journal said.  The department is considering setting new guidelines aimed
at virtual currencies, the newspaper reported, citing a memo
from  Benjamin Lawsky , the agency’s head. The memo, which the
regulator plans to issue today, expresses concern that virtual-currency companies aren’t complying with the state’s money-transmission laws, according to the report.  Bitcoin is a virtual currency created four years ago that
can be used to buy and sell a broad array of items, from
electronics to illegal narcotics.  Coinsetter LLC, one of the companies cited in the report as
having been issued a subpoena, said the dialogue with the
regulator will have a positive effect on the industry, according
to Chief Executive Officer Jaron Lukasiewicz. Lukasiewicz said
there had been no misbehavior toward consumers by the leading
bitcoin companies.  “U.S.-based Bitcoin companies are taking regulation very
seriously, and each company is closely working with legal
advisers to form and follow plans that adhere to it,”
Lukasiewicz said in an e-mail.  In the Courts  Cantor, Ex-Trader Exchange Suits Over Alleged Blackmail Threat  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP accused a fired Singapore-based
derivatives trader of making a blackmail threat in an exchange
of lawsuits between the brokerage and its former employee over
his dismissal.  Gavin White, the former trader, sued in Singapore’s High
Court for wrongful dismissal, claiming unspecified damages.
Cantor, the New York-based independent broker-dealer,
countersued for a repayment of a loan and a return of a portion
of his wages. A closed hearing is scheduled for Aug. 15.  White, who had refused a 20 percent pay cut proposal in
October, had said he might complain about alleged breaches by
the brokerage in Australia, Cantor’s Singapore unit said in its
counterclaim. Cantor denied there had been any breaches and said
it had a right to fire him for gross misconduct. White
threatened to damage the firm’s reputation, which amounted to a
threat of blackmail, the brokerage said.  “Mr. White strenuously denies that he made any such threat
as alleged by Cantor,” his lawyer Pradeep Pillai said in a
phone interview. “He is eager to have his name cleared of the
allegation of gross misconduct.”  In addition to denying having made the statements
attributed to him, White said that any comments he made in
October meetings to discuss his pay with his supervisor weren’t
supposed to be used against him. Cantor breached a three-year
employment contract by firing him in November, he said in the
complaint.  Cantor proposed to cut White’s pay in October because his
division was underperforming and the brokerage couldn’t sustain
the “extremely high salaries” on the team, the firm said in
court papers.  White was paid S$580,000 ($461,000) a year at Cantor.
Cantor is seeking the return of S$297,576.  Robert Hubbell, a spokesman for Cantor, declined to comment
on the litigation.  The case is White v. Cantor Fitzgerald (Singapore) Capital
Markets Ltd. S139/2013. Singapore High Court.  UBS Agrees to Pay $120 Million to Settle Lehman Suit Claims  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, agreed to pay $120
million to settle claims by investors in Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. securities in a lawsuit tied to the investment
bank’s 2008 collapse.  UBS was accused of violating federal securities laws in
underwriting and selling the securities to investors, who
claimed that offering materials contained misleading information
about Lehman Brothers’ financial condition.  “UBS is pleased to have resolved this legacy litigation
matter arising out of the 2008 financial crisis,” the Zurich-based lender said in a statement. “UBS agreed to the settlement
to avoid the cost and uncertainty of continued litigation.”  The settlement, disclosed Aug. 8 in a filing in federal
court in New York, compares “favorably” with other recoveries
stemming from the credit crisis, the plaintiffs said. Lehman
Brothers filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  The settlement, which requires court approval, represents a
recovery of 13.4 percent of the total face value of securities
at issue, or about $896 million, without taking into account
UBS’s defenses and rights of offset, according to the court
filing.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Securities and Erisa
Litigation, 09-md-02017, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  N.Y. Federal Reserve Bomb Plotter Sentenced to 30 Years  A Bangladeshi man who tried to detonate what he thought was
a 1,000-pound bomb at the New York Federal Reserve was sentenced
to 30 years in prison.  Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, 22, who was drawn into
an undercover operation, was arrested in October after
repeatedly attempting to set off fake explosives provided to him
by federal agents. He pleaded guilty in February and on Aug. 9
was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Carol Bagley Amon in
Brooklyn, New York, for attempting to use a weapon of mass
destruction.  “I am persuaded that the defendant was a serious threat to
the safety of New Yorkers, of Americans,” Amon said during a
hearing, imposing a sentence that was at the lower end of a
recommended range of as much as life in prison.  On the day of his attempted bombing, while covering his
face, wearing sunglasses and disguising his voice, Nafis had a
federal agent posing as a co-conspirator record a video
statement he made, saying “We will not stop until we attain
victory or martyrdom,” according to a criminal complaint.  In the courtroom Aug. 9, Nafis, clean-shaven and wearing an
over-sized khaki jail uniform, said he was grateful to the
agents who caught him. He asked the judge to “please have mercy
on me.”  The U.S. alleged that Nafis came to the U.S. in January
2012 with the intention of carrying out a terrorist attack.
After a brief period at Southeast Missouri State University, he
went to New York and tried to recruit others for his plot,
prosecutors alleged.  His lawyer, Heidi Cesare, said Nafis has taken
responsibility for his actions and is unlikely to pose a future
threat.  The case is U.S. v. Nafis, 1:12-cr-00720, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Harbinger Sues Deere, Garmin Over Spectrum for GPS Products  Hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners sued  Deere & Co. (DE) ,
Garmin International Inc. and  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB)  claiming
they concealed facts about global positioning satellite products
that ruined Harbinger’s investment in a wireless communications
business.  The companies are accused of failing to disclose that
Harbinger’s venture, LightSquared, would interfere with their
products, according to a complaint filed Aug. 9 in federal court
in Manhattan. Harbinger is seeking damages of at least $1.9
billion.  “Plaintiffs have already lost a great deal and now stand
to lose their entire investment,” Harbinger said. “Plaintiffs
never would have made this investment if the defendants had told
the truth earlier.”  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy in 2012. U.S. regulators
blocked the service after GPS-device makers and users --
including the U.S. military and commercial airlines -- said
signals from LightSquared’s service would confound navigation
gear.  The case is Harbinger Capital Partners v. Deere & Co., 13-cv-05543, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York
at   erosen14@bloomberg.net .  Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 