-- Treasuries Snap Three-Day Advance Before Retail-Sales Report
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-12T21:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/treasury-inflation-expectations-rise-to-highest-in-10-weeks.html
Treasury 10-year notes snapped three
days of gains before a report tomorrow that forecasters said
will show U.S. retail sales increased for a fourth month in
July, adding to signs the economy is improving.  The 10-year break-even rate, a gauge of market inflation
expectations measured by the yield gap between inflation-indexed
and nominal Treasury 10-year notes, was at almost a 10-week high
before separate reports analysts said will show consumer prices
rose last month. Longer-maturity Treasuries, those most
sensitive to inflation, are the world’s worst-performing bonds
over the past year.  “The data has borne out the fact that the economy is doing
better,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading in  New
York  at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the  Federal Reserve . “I just don’t think people are
willing to risk here” by purchasing Treasuries.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  increased four basis points to
2.62 percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader data. The price of the 2.5 percent note due in
August 2023 fell 11/32, or $3.44 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 98 30/32.  U.S. notes and bonds due in a decade or longer fell more
than 10 percent in the past 12 months, the biggest loss of 144
debt indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  The central bank acquired $1.496 billion of Treasuries
today maturing from February 2036 to May 2043. The purchases are
the part of the Fed’s quantitative-easing program aimed at
keeping long-term rates low.  Sales Increase  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt each month to put downward pressure on  interest rates .
Policy makers are discussing whether the economy has improved
enough for them to start reducing the purchases.  Retail sales climbed 0.3 percent last month after a 0.4
percent advance in June, according to the median forecast of 64
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the Commerce Department
releases the figures.  The sales data is “the most important event of the week”
and may influence whether policy makers slow the pace of bond
purchases, said  John Briggs , a U.S. government-bond strategist
at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , a primary
dealer. “The burden of proof is on the data to take them off of
tapering.”  QE Impact  The Fed’s unprecedented expansion of its  balance sheet  to a
record $3.6 trillion from $900 billion in August 2008 has
probably given a more limited boost to the  U.S. economy  than
previously estimated, two regional Fed economists said.  “Asset-purchase  programs  like QE2 appear to have, at best,
moderate effects on economic growth and inflation,” Vasco
Curdia, an economist at the San Francisco Fed, and Andrea
Ferrero, an economist at the New York Fed, said in a research
note released today. “Communication about the beginning of
federal funds rate increases will have stronger effects than
guidance about the end of asset purchases.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that the Fed may
begin reducing asset purchases later this year and end them
around mid-2014 if the economy improves in line with officials’
expectations. The central bank will keep “a high degree of
monetary accommodation” in place for “an extended period” by
keeping interest rates near zero after the purchases end,
Bernanke said in congressional testimony last month.  Inflation Target  Producer prices rose 2.4 percent in July from the year
before, versus 2.5 percent in June, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the Labor Department reports
the number on Aug. 14. Consumer prices advanced 2 percent,
quickening from 1.8 percent, according to the surveys. The
department is scheduled to report the figure on Aug. 15.  The Fed’s inflation target is 2 percent. The personal
consumption expenditure deflator, the central bank’s preferred
gauge, rose to 1.3 percent in June from a year earlier.  “We are very close to equilibrium point in the market,
given where the continued Fed purchases, the slightly weaker
stock market and the economic data,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “In the long run, higher yields are still in
the cards as the taper is still coming.”  The economy added 162,000 jobs in July, compared with the
median forecast of 185,000 in a Bloomberg News survey, while the
 unemployment rate  fell to 7.4 percent. The economy has added an
average 192,000 jobs a month through July, the fastest pace
since 2005 when it created 207,000 positions per month, Labor
Department data show.  Break-Evens  The difference between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, was 2.26 percentage points today, after touching
2.28 on Aug. 9, the most since May 29.  The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, the Fed’s
 measure  of traders’ forecasts for prices in the economy from
2018 to 2023, was 2.73 percent as of Aug. 6, the most since May
28. It gained from this year’s low of 2.33 percent in June. The
average over the past decade is 2.75 percent.  The  Federal budget  deficit for July was $97.6 billion,
bringing the total for fiscal 2013, which ends Sept. 30, to
$607.4 billion, or  the lowest  to date since 2008, the Treasury
said today.  The Treasury Department said July 31 it expects to
gradually decrease coupon-auction sizes during the coming
quarter as the nation’s fiscal health improves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  