-- Republicans, Don’t Shut Down the Government
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-08-12T16:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/republicans-don-t-shut-down-the-government.html
Newt Gingrich  is  telling  Republicans
not to fear a government shutdown because the last one went so
well for them. This is pure revisionist history, and they would
be fools to believe him.  Some Republicans are urging the party to refuse to back any
legislation to keep the government operating unless funding for
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul is stopped. Other
Republicans say this tactic will fail, citing the conventional
wisdom that the government shutdowns of 1995-96 helped President
Bill Clinton and hurt congressional Republicans.  Gingrich is trying to buck up the Republicans who favor
this tactic, while reinterpreting an important episode in his
career that has usually been taken to be a big mistake. He says
the shutdown advanced Republican aims, making it possible to
restrain spending and balance the budget.  The former speaker of the House is off message, or rather
is revealing a contradiction in the political strategy of his
current allies. Their public line is that any shutdown would be
the unfortunate product of Democrats’ obstinate refusal to give
in to the Republican demand to defund Obamacare. But it’s not
easy to convey that message when prominent Republicans are
saying that shutdowns are good for their party.  More important, Gingrich’s current spin on the events of
1995-96  is just wrong . The election of a Republican Congress in
1994 put government spending on a lower trajectory, as the
election of a Republican House did again in 2010. Whether the
shutdowns contributed to that result is a different matter.  A Surrender  Almost nobody back then believed it. Democrats thought that
they had won the battle over the shutdowns, and that the
agreement to end them was a Republican surrender. Clinton made a
point, in his next  State of the Union   address , to criticize
Republicans for their strategy. It was an applause line.
Clinton’s  job-approval numbers  started to rise as soon as the
shutdown fight was over, and they never really sank again.  Republicans thought they had lost, too. A minority of them
thought that they should have kept the government shuttered
longer, and that Gingrich and Senate Republican leader Bob Dole
had caved. (Gingrich was widely reported at the time to have
told unhappy colleagues, “I melt when I’m around him,”
referring to Clinton.) Most of them decided that bringing on a
shutdown at all was a mistake.  It’s true, as Gingrich now says, that Republicans lost only
a few House seats in the next election. But it’s also true that
the shutdowns ended what had been called the “Republican
revolution” of the mid-1990s. Before the shutdowns, the
Republicans had talked about eliminating four cabinet
departments. Afterward, they quit.  The view that Republicans had been routed was so widely
accepted that some of them proposed legislation to prevent a
shutdown from ever taking place again. The idea was that if no
budget were enacted, the government would just keep going on the
previous year’s funding levels. The legislation never went
anywhere because Democrats thought the possibility of a repeat
performance of the 1995-96 shutdowns gave them leverage.  Gingrich himself accepted the conventional wisdom that his
party had lost. That’s what associates of his told me (among
others) at the time, and that’s how they recollect it now. The
“balanced budget deal” of 1997 included the creation of a new
health-care entitlement for children, something the Republicans
of 1995 would never have accepted but the post-shutdown
Republicans were too beat down to resist. The conservative end
of the party hated the deal.  The Consequences  And that deal wasn’t the only leftward move the party made
in response to Clinton’s victory in the shutdown battle. The
rise of the big-government-friendly politics of George W. Bush
was another, more consequential one. Gingrich is hoping that
today’s partisans of smaller government have forgotten this
history, or are too young to have experienced it.  While Clinton’s poll numbers improved after the shutdowns,
Gingrich’s declined. After he lost his job as speaker, the
Gallup Organization  reviewed  his generally low ratings in office
and concluded, “The public appeared to turn particularly
strongly against the Speaker after his budget confrontation with
Bill Clinton and the resulting U.S. Government shutdown in late
1995.” Through most of the next two years, it noted, people who
viewed Gingrich unfavorably outnumbered those who viewed him
favorably by almost 2-to-1. That unpopularity, of course,
contributed mightily to his losing the job at the hands of his
Republican colleagues.  His successors should take note before they heed his
advice.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at the National Review.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 