-- Rio Tinto to Decide on Bauxite Expansion Within Year, Cote Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-08-12T19:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/rio-tinto-to-decide-on-bauxite-expansion-within-year-cote-says.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-largest mining company, will decide within the next year on
whether to expand its Weipa bauxite mining operation in
 Australia  to help capture rising demand from China.  Bauxite is “the healthiest” of the three products sold by
Rio Tinto Alcan, Jacynthe Cote, chief executive officer of the
company’s aluminum unit, told reporters today after a speech at
the World Mining Congress in  Montreal . In addition to mining
bauxite, Rio Tinto Alcan refines alumina and produces aluminum.  Australia’s federal government conditionally approved in
May plans to expand mining and extend the life of the 50-year-old project. The Queensland facility last year produced 23.7
million metric tons of metal-grade bauxite, a source of
aluminum, according to the company’s  website . Rio began studies
on the development in 2008, a year after the company acquired
bauxite, aluminum and alumina assets as part of its $38 billion
takeover of Canada’s Alcan Inc.  “ China  imports a great deal of bauxite and output is
constrained,” Cote said. “When we think about the next project
we could seriously take a look at, it’s definitely the expansion
of our Weipa bauxite mine.”  Rio Tinto Alcan had sales of $5.29 billion in the first six
months of 2013, equivalent to about 20 percent of the company’s
revenue. Rio Tinto expects to produce 34 million metric tons of
bauxite, 7.3 million metric tons of alumina and 2.5 million
metric tons of aluminum in 2013, it said last week.  The price of bauxite imported to China gained about 15
percent this year through the end of June to about $53 a metric
ton, Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,
 Virginia , said in an Aug. 7 report.  BHP Billiton Ltd. is the largest mining company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  