-- Rockwell Collins to Buy Carlyle’s Arinc for $1.39 Billion
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-12T21:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/rockwell-collins-to-buy-carlyle-s-arinc-for-1-39-billion.html
Rockwell Collins  Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Kelly Ortberg landed Arinc Inc., the company’s
biggest acquisition, after months of talks with owner  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  -- and just 11 days in the new job.  The $1.39 billion transaction announced yesterday is the
largest U.S. aerospace and defense deal unveiled this year and
will expand Rockwell Collins’s aerospace business outside the
cockpit by combining its avionics and cabin technologies with
Arinc’s communications networks.  Ortberg, 53, spearheaded the acquisition effort as he
prepared to take over as CEO of  Cedar Rapids , Iowa-based
Rockwell Collins Aug. 1, replacing Clay Jones, who retired. The
purchase gives Rockwell Collins a profitable company with a
global customer base and an air-to-ground  communications system 
that should give pilots a wealth of data as air traffic control
systems are modernized, he said.  “Obviously this isn’t something that we cooked up
overnight,” Ortberg said in a phone interview today. “We’ve
been working on this deal for months. We long viewed Arinc as an
attractive” addition to Rockwell Collins’s burgeoning
information management portfolio.  Fourfold Return  Carlyle will earn a more than fourfold return on its $275
million equity investment in Arinc, which it purchased from
 American Airlines  and other carriers in 2007, said a person
familiar with the deal, who asked not to be identified because
the terms are private. Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for
Carlyle, didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking
comment.  The transaction gives Rockwell Collins a cushion against
future U.S. defense cuts since about 85 percent of Arinc’s
revenue is derived from commercial customers, Ortberg said. The
purchase will shift Rockwell Collins’s  business mix  to 54
percent commercial and 46 percent government.  Rockwell Collins’s current breakdown is 52 percent of sales
from government contracts and 48 percent from the private
sector, Cindy Dietz, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail. The company
said it expects the transaction to close within 90 days.  “Arinc will provide a serious acceleration” back toward a
business tilted toward commercial sales, Robert Stallard, a
Royal Bank of Canada analyst, said in a note to clients.
Stallard, who rates the shares as outperform, said transaction
and integration costs probably will dilute earnings per share in
the company’s next fiscal year.  Share Sales  Rockwell Collins fell 1.5 percent to $73.33 at the close in
 New York . Washington-based Carlyle slid 0.5 percent to $26.92.  For Carlyle, the world’s second-largest manager of
alternative assets such as private equity and real estate, the
sale adds to the disposal of shares in seven companies in the
second quarter. Co-CEO Bill Conway said on an Aug. 7 conference
call that the firm will invest less than the $7.9 billion it did
last year, reversing an earlier prediction for an increase.  Before its sale to Carlyle, Arinc had been owned by
airlines since its founding in 1929 to handle air-to-ground
communications. The Annapolis, Maryland-based company once known
as Aeronautical Radio Inc. now helps more than 14,000 commercial
aircraft make more than 100,000 takeoffs and landings daily,
according to its website.  Data Network  The company’s data tools, which are sold on a subscription
basis, range from in-flight e-mail to the Aircraft
Communications Addressing and Reporting System, which provides
real-time weather and flight data to airborne pilots.  Under Carlyle’s management, Arinc has expanded globally a
network that previously was centered on  North America , said
 Robert Mann , who heads R.W. Mann & Co., a  Port Washington , New
York-based consultant. Rockwell Collins could further harness
its data network to develop new in-flight entertainment
products, a competitive segment, Mann said in a phone interview.  Arinc will have about $600 million in revenue this year,
according to Rockwell Collins, which said last month that  sales 
in its current fiscal year would be about $4.65 billion.  While Rockwell Collins’s 28 percent stock-price surge this
year through Aug. 9 beat the 19 percent advance for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, that jump only left it in the middle of the
pack compared with peers. The S&P Supercomposite Aerospace &
Defense Index of 28 companies rose 31 percent in 2013.  Paris Air Show  Precision Castparts Corp. (PCP) ’s $600 million purchase of
Permaswage SAS from Bridgepoint Advisers Ltd. was the year’s
previous record acquisition in aerospace and defense announced
in North America, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ortberg joined Rockwell Collins in 1987 and had been
president since September. He had previously led the Government
Systems unit and helped oversee development of equipment for the
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 while running the Commercial Systems division.
Jones remains with the company as nonexecutive chairman.  In a June 19 interview at the  Paris Air Show , Ortberg said
the company would seek to win work on cockpit avionics as Boeing
upgrades the 777, the planemaker’s biggest twin-engine model.
Rockwell Collins displaced  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  last
year as Boeing’s supplier for cockpit displays on the 737 jet.
The company also provides cockpit displays, pilot control
systems and flight computer systems for the 787 Dreamliner.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  acted as Rockwell Collins’s financial
adviser and also provided bridge financing for the Arinc
transaction, Ortberg said. Evercore Partners Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. acted as co-advisers to Arinc on the deal, according
to Abernathy MacGregor, a public relations firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  