-- Rogoff Saying This Time Different Calls for Reflation
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-08-12T12:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/rogoff-saying-this-time-different-calls-for-reflation-economy.html
The economist whose  research 
foreshadowed the unusually long slog back from the 2008
financial crash is calling for the unlikeliest kind of central
banker to lead the  Federal Reserve : one who welcomes some
inflation.  Harvard University Professor  Kenneth Rogoff , whose
influential 1985 paper endorsed central bankers focused more on
securing low inflation than on spurring employment, is
highlighting the benefits of a Fed led by either  Janet Yellen  or
 Lawrence Summers  precisely because they fail his old litmus
test. President  Barack Obama  said Aug. 9 that they are
“outstanding” and “highly qualified” candidates to replace
 Ben S. Bernanke , whose term as chairman runs out in January.  What qualifies them in Rogoff’s view is their dovishness, a
refusal to place too much weight on stable inflation at a time
when unemployment is far above its longer-run level. Rogoff is
espousing aggressive monetary stimulus, even at the cost of
moderate price increases. At a time of weak global inflation,
higher prices may even help the  U.S. economy  by lowering real
 interest rates  and reducing debt burdens, he said.  “In more normal times, you’re looking for the central
banker to be an anchor against high inflation expectations and
to assure investors that inflation will stay low and stable to
keep interest rates down,” Rogoff, co-author with  Carmen Reinhart  of the 2009 book “This Time Is Different: Eight
Centuries of Financial Folly,” said in an interview. Now
“we’re in this situation where many of the central banks of the
world need to convince the public of their tolerance for
inflation, not their intolerance.”  G-7 Inflation  Central banks across the developed world are struggling
with inflation that’s too low. Consumer price increases in all
but one of the Group of Seven economies are currently running
under 2 percent, which has become the standard goal in recent
years for monetary authorities. Two years ago, deflationary
 Japan  was the only country struggling with below-target
inflation.  “If you look at the biggest challenges we have, the
challenge is not inflation,” Obama said in a press conference
last week. “The challenge is we’ve still got too many people
out of work, too many long-term unemployed, too much slack in
the economy.”  In the U.S., inflation has been below the Fed’s 2 percent
target for 14 months in a row, even as the central bank has
expanded its balance sheet to a record $3.59 trillion in an
effort to support the economic recovery.  Bullard’s Dissent  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  dissented from the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 18-19 decision, arguing the
Fed should signal its readiness to push inflation higher.
Bullard later said the Fed shouldn’t begin dialing back its bond
purchases when “inflation is sinking.” At its next meeting
July 30-31, the FOMC added language to its statement saying
persistently slow price gains “could pose risks to economic
performance.” Bullard joined the majority in that decision.  Policy makers for the next three or four years “will be
focused on the problem of reviving the economy,” said  Joseph Stiglitz , a Nobel laureate and a professor at  Columbia
University  in  New York . “The likelihood that inflation is going
to be a problem is very, very small. I think there’s a growing
consensus that the use of that policy to continue to stimulate
the economy and avoid deflationary expectations is going to be
one of the key issues.”  Inflation Tolerance  Both Yellen and Summers have signaled a tolerance of and
even a preference for some price gains, even at a time when many
held that no inflation would be best. In remarks published in
1991, Summers argued that a policy leading to zero inflation
would be “disastrous” because it would rob the central bank’s
ability to drive real, or price-adjusted, interest rates
negative to spur borrowing.  “The optimal inflation rate is surely positive, perhaps as
high as 2 or 3 percent,” he said then. “I would support having
someone in charge of monetary policy who is more inflation
averse than I.”  Less than a year after first joining the Fed board as a
governor in 1994, Yellen argued against setting a singular
inflation goal because it could prompt officials to neglect
their responsibility to support growth.  “When the goals conflict and it comes to calling for tough
trade-offs, to me, a wise and humane policy is occasionally to
let inflation rise even when inflation is running above
target,” she said, according to transcripts of the FOMC meeting
of Jan. 31-Feb. 1, 1995.  In 1999, she echoed Summers’s point, noting research that
“a little inflation” may actually be necessary for a healthy
economy because it’s difficult for employers to cut their
workers’ nominal wages.  Policy Scope  “The attempt to push inflation too low could permanently
raise unemployment and reduce the scope for monetary policy,”
she said.  To some extent, the Fed has codified those early views
espoused by Summers and Yellen by, for the first time, adopting
a 2 percent longer-run inflation target in January 2012. Fed
officials further specified in December that they would be
willing to accept an inflation outlook that’s as high as 2.5
percent to bring unemployment down to 6.5 percent. That was
revised from Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans ’ proposal that
the Fed signal it would be willing tolerate price gains of as
much as 3 percent.  “I would have picked a number more like 4 percent and I
think it would have been helpful in helping reflate the
economy,” Rogoff said. The selection of the new Fed chair
“will have a big influence on expectations.”  Temporary Goal  The idea of signaling a temporarily higher inflation goal,
when the central bank’s interest-rate  target  is stuck at the so-called zero lower bound, is based on more than a decade of
academic research. In 2000, Bernanke, then a professor at
 Princeton University , suggested deflationary Japan pledge to
target 3 percent to 4 percent inflation for “a number of
years,” citing research by  Paul Krugman , now a Nobel laureate.  In 2010, Chicago’s Evans advocated targeting a path for the
price level, in which the Fed would say it seeks higher-than-normal inflation until it makes up for the “inflation deficit”
the economy has been running since December 2007, when the
recession began. The idea gained little traction on the FOMC,
and Bernanke repeatedly rejected stating a higher inflation
objective for the U.S. when it, unlike Japan, wasn’t in
deflation.  Fed’s Credibility  “We, the Federal Reserve, have spent 30 years building up
credibility for low and stable inflation,” he told a news
conference in April 2012. “To risk that asset for what I think
would be quite tentative and perhaps doubtful gains on the real
side” would be “unwise” and “very reckless,” he said.  The Fed won’t risk allowing medium-term inflation to
deviate above 2.5 percent, even under the stewardship of someone
like Summers or Yellen who understand the dangers of deflation,
according to  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economics at Bank
of America Corp. in New York. Even Rogoff acknowledges there’s
little stomach at the Fed for more than that already-stated
ceiling.  “Once you accept higher inflation, it becomes a slippery
slope and eventually you get to inflation that really hurts the
economy a lot,” said Harris. “Everyone remembers that episode
quite well” of above-10 percent inflation in the 1970s and
1980s “and that would be true for all the candidates for the
chairmanship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  