-- Ruble Weakens Versus Bank Rossii Basket as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-12T13:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/ruble-weakens-versus-bank-rossii-basket-as-economic-growth-slows.html
The ruble dropped for the first time
in three days against Bank Rossii’s target basket as oil sank
and data showed the economy grew less than forecast, spurring
speculation the central bank will cut  interest rates .  The ruble depreciated 0.1 percent to 37.8485 against the
central bank’s basket of dollars and euros by 5 p.m. in Moscow.
The yield on the benchmark OFZ due February 2027 fell one basis
points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.67 percent.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 1.6 percent in the
first quarter, data from the Federal Statistics Service showed
on Aug. 9, when Bank Rossii kept interest rates unchanged.  Brent
crude  declined 0.5 percent today to $107.67 per barrel.  “In terms of flows non-residents remain buyers of foreign
currency, which, perhaps, is a consequence of weak GDP data and
increased expectations of monetary easing from the central
bank,” Dmitry Polevoy, an economist for  Russia  and CIS at ING
Groep NV in Moscow, said by e-mail.  The central bank held its main rates on Aug. 9 as inflation
remained above its 5 percent to 6 percent target range, while
policy makers said there were “significant” risks to  economic
growth .  The ruble weakened 0.3 percent against the dollar to
32.9690. The Russian currency was little changed against the
euro at 43.8100.  The ruble may also be depreciating because Russian
companies need foreign currency to pay dividends for holders of
depositary receipts, while the vacation season and European
summer lead to a seasonal worsening of the current account,
Polevoy said.  Dividends should be paid within 60 days of their approval
at a company’s shareholder meeting under the law. OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s biggest company, and state-run crude producer OAO
Rosneft held their meetings on June 28 and June 20,
respectively.  “Times remain challenging for the ruble,” Polevoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  