-- Rupee Clouds Monsoon Silver Lining on India Inflation
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-13T05:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/rupee-clouds-monsoon-silver-lining-on-india-inflation.html
The rupee’s plunge to a record
threatens to dash the  Reserve Bank  of  India ’s hope that monsoon
rains will boost farm output and help ease the fastest inflation
among the world’s largest  emerging markets .  India’s  consumer-price index  rose 9.64 percent in July,
official data showed yesterday, compared with 6.3 percent in
 Brazil , 6.5 percent in  Russia  and 2.7 percent in  China . The
 interbank overnight call money rate  closed at 10.25 percent
yesterday, the highest since March 2012, after the central bank
tightened cash-supply to support the currency.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said July 30 the monsoon is a
“silver lining” as the slumping rupee kept him from adding to
three cuts in the benchmark repurchase rate this year. The
agriculture ministry forecasts that the grain harvest may climb
to a record. The July-September rainy season, the main source of
irrigation for India’s 235 million farmers, had its best start
since 1994, according to the weather office.  “The stark rupee depreciation has pulled the plug on the
monetary-easing cycle,” Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS Bank
Ltd. in  Singapore , said in a phone interview. “Global  oil
prices  and local food-supply disruptions mean there’s unlikely
to be a significant pullback in retail inflation.”  Inflation Outlook  Rao predicts India’s CPI will quicken to 9.8 percent this
month. Gains in wholesale prices, the RBI’s benchmark inflation
gauge, accelerated to 5 percent last month from 4.86 percent in
June, according to the median of 34 economists in a Bloomberg
survey before data due tomorrow.  The RBI last month lowered its growth forecast for  Asia ’s
third-largest economy to 5.5 percent from 5.7 percent for the
year ending March 2014 and said that, assuming a normal
distribution of monsoon rains, it will try to ensure a 5 percent
WPI inflation rate at the end of the fiscal year.  Analysts estimate that a 10 percent rupee depreciation
boosts inflation by one percentage point,  Raghuram Rajan , the
finance ministry’s top adviser who will take over as RBI chief
when Subbarao’s term ends next month, said June 20. The currency
has fallen 10.5 percent in 2013, Asia’s second-worst
performance.  Depreciation fuels inflation in a country that imports
about 80 percent of its oil, and DBS Bank’s Rao says an
unchecked decline could compel the monetary authority to raise
lenders’ cash-reserve ratios and even its key  repurchase rate .  Fuel Costs  Brent crude prices have risen 6.7 percent since the end of
June as a political upheaval in  Egypt  heightened concern that
unrest in the most populous Arab nation will spread, disrupting
regional oil supplies. Energy costs contribute about 15 percent
to India’s wholesale-price index and 9.5 percent to consumer
prices. Food comprises 24 percent of the WPI basket.  In an attempt to steady the currency, the RBI last week
added to measures to restrict cash supply. The central bank will
sell 220 billion rupees ($3.6 billion) of cash-management bills
each week, it said on Aug. 8, supplementing steps taken in July
to cap lenders’ access to funds through daily repurchase
auctions, tighter daily cash-reserve ratio balances and higher
emergency funding costs.  “In the classic growth-inflation tradeoff, the angle of a
sharply depreciating rupee has made currency management an
imperative,” Sandesh Kirkire, who oversees 377 billion rupees
of assets as chief executive officer at Kotak Mahindra Asset
Management Co. in Mumbai, said in an Aug. 8 e-mail interview.
“A more robust and coordinated policy response is needed to
address the problem.”  ‘Evenly Matched’  The rupee, which touched a record low of 61.8050 per dollar
on Aug. 6, weakened 0.3 percent to 61.4250 today, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The  yield  on the
benchmark 10-year  government bonds  rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 8.34 percent.  Gains in wholesale prices are likely to stay around 4.5
percent to 5 percent as supply and demand are “evenly
matched,” according to Glen Levine, a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics.  “The economy is still growing well below potential, but
supply is limited, especially of food, which supports prices,”
Sydney-based Levine wrote in an Aug. 8 research report. “Rising
agricultural yields will cool food inflation towards the end of
2013.”  Output of monsoon-sown grains in India may climb to a
record this year, Tariq Anwar, the junior agriculture minister,
told reporters in New Delhi July 30.  Bond risk in India has risen. Government-controlled  State
Bank of India (SBIN) ’s credit-default swaps insuring the lenders’ bonds
against non-payment for five years have climbed 96 basis points
from this year’s low of 174 on May 17, according to data
provider CMA.  ‘Fragile’ Currencies  The rupee is among five “fragile” emerging-market
currencies partly due to relatively high inflation, according to
Morgan Stanley. Price pressures will necessitate further
depreciation to prevent an erosion of external competitiveness,
the investment firm said in an Aug. 5 report. The Brazilian
real, Indonesian rupiah, Turkish lira and the South African rand
are the other four.  Global funds cut  holdings  of Indian debt by $8.4 billion
since the start of June, worsening the currency’s decline, on
concern the U.S. will pare stimulus that fueled demand for
emerging-market assets. The weak rupee leaves India vulnerable
to a current-account deficit, which official data show widened
to an unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the
last fiscal year.  “India has fallen victim to a perfect storm,”  Nicholas Spiro , managing director at consulting firm Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London , said in an Aug. 11 research note. The nation
is “caught in a vicious circle in which severe balance of
payments weaknesses, ineffective measures to shore up the
tumbling rupee, a sharp decline in growth and persistent foreign
outflows from its local currency debt market are all feeding on
each other,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  