-- Russian Black-Market Data Defendant Pleads Not Guilty
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-12T20:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/russian-black-market-data-defendant-pleads-not-guilty.html
A Muscovite accused of being a
black-market broker for the most prolific computer hacking ring
to hit corporate America entered a not-guilty plea.  Dmitriy Smilianets, 29, appeared today in federal court in
 Newark , New Jersey, where prosecutors said July 26 he was
indicted with three other Russians and a Ukrainian. They are
accused of hacking 17 retailers, financial institutions and
payment processors, including 7-Eleven Inc., Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc.,  Carrefour SA (CA)  and J.C. Penney Co., to steal more than 160
million credit- and debit-card numbers.  Smilianets has been in custody since his arrest in
Amsterdam on June 28, 2012, after leaving an Aeroflot flight.
His attorney, Bruce Provda, said U.S. agents used an informant
to lure him to the Netherlands. On Sept. 7, Smilianets was
extradited to the U.S. After that, he negotiated a possible plea
agreement for months without reaching one before his indictment,
according to court records.  Smilianets appeared in court today with a Russian
interpreter. He wore handcuffs shackled to his waist, a green
top and orange pants. Provda said his client speaks English
well. U.S. District Judge Jerome Simandle asked Smilianets
several questions about whether he understood his legal rights,
and the defendant answered, “Yes, sir,” in English.  No Bail  The judge didn’t set a trial date, saying he would have a
status conference on Dec. 2. Provda said he didn’t object to his
client’s continued detention without bail.  Smilianets is accused of computer hacking conspiracy and
conspiracy to commit  wire fraud  with Vladimir Drinkman, 32,
Aleksandr Kalinin, 26, Roman Kotov, 32, and Mikhail Rytikov, 26.
All but Rytikov are charged with wire fraud and unauthorized
computer access. Drinkman was arrested in the Netherlands the
same day as Smilianets and awaits extradition. Smilianets faces
as long as 30 years in prison on the most serious charges.  Prosecutors said Smilianets trafficked in personal
identifying information such as user names and passwords, means
of identification, credit- and debit-card numbers, and personal
ID information on cardholders. He sold that information, known
by hackers as “dumps,” to resellers, the U.S. said.  The resellers in turn sold the information to others who
encoded it onto magnetic strips on blank plastic cards that were
used to make unauthorized withdrawals from automated teller
machines or to buy goods, according to the indictment. The
losses to just three retailers were at least $300 million,
according to prosecutors.  An attorney for Rytikov, Arkady Bukh, attended the hearing.
Rytikov remains a fugitive in Ukraine, he said.  “My client at this time does not consent to the
jurisdiction of the  United States , so he cannot be arraigned,”
Bukh said in an interview. “He claims he’s not guilty.”  The case is U.S. v. Smilianets, 12-mj-03043, U.S. District
Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  