-- RWE Shuts Fifth of German Gas Power Capacity as Profit Drops
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-08-12T15:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/rwe-shuts-fifth-of-german-gas-power-capacity-as-profit-drops-1-.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, closed almost a fifth of its natural gas-fired power
capacity in Germany as low demand for electricity made the
plants unprofitable.  A total of 954 megawatts of German gas-fed generation will
be offline until at least the end of next year, the Essen-based
company said in a  filing  on Aug. 9. That compares with gas-fired
capacity of 5,228 megawatts in Germany at the end of 2011,
according to a company  presentation .  Increased generation from renewable sources such as wind
and solar and a slump in German power prices has cut the income
from gas-fired plants run by utilities including EON SE, the
nation’s biggest utility. The so-called  clean-spark spread , a
measure of profitability for the next year based on electricity,
emissions and  gas prices , dropped to a record minus 19.61 euros
a megawatt-hour on Aug. 6, compared with minus 8.05 euros a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The decision to idle gas capacity does not come as a
surprise in an environment of negative spark spreads,” Patrick Hummel, an analyst at UBS AG in Zurich, said today in an e-mailed research note. “RWE will decide on plants mothballing
and closures on a case-by-case basis, rather than announcing a
massive capacity shutdown at once.”  RWE will idle two  gas turbines  with a generation capacity
of 272 megawatts each at its Weisweiler power plant from today
until the end of 2014, according to a  filing  on the company’s
 website .  “Gas power plants have low running hours, so we decided to
put those two turbines in reserve mode,” Jan-Peter Cirkel, a
spokesman for RWE, said by phone from Essen on Aug. 9.  10,000 Megawatts  The utility will also mothball its 410-megawatt
Gersteinwerk-F gas plant for all of next year, according to the
filing. The unit has not generated any power since at least
March 2012, according to  RWE production data  on Bloomberg.
Another 410-megawatt gas unit at the site, Gersteinwerk-G, will
be offline from April 1, 2014, until the end of that year, the
company document shows.  RWE has put a total of 10,000 megawatts of generation
capacity in  Europe  under observation for potential closure,
Chief Executive Officer Peter Terium said in July. The company
is scheduled to release its second-quarter earnings on Aug. 14.  Norway’s Statkraft SE closed its 510-megawatt gas-plant in
Landesbergen, Germany, on July 1 after shutting a 430-megawatt
unit in Emden in February 2012.  EON, Germany biggest utility, said in July it would close
its 430-megawatt gas-fired plant in Malzenice in Slovakia. In
April, the company signed an agreement with German grid operator
Tennet TSO GmbH to keep operating blocks 4 and 5 at its loss-making Irsching gas plant in the south of Germany to secure grid
stability.  Carbon Plunge  The closures follow an 86 percent drop in benchmark carbon
permit prices since they peaked at 31 euros ($41) a metric ton
in April 2006, according to data from the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . Natural gas emissions are about half those
of plants that burn coal. December futures fell 3 cents today to
4.43 euros on ICE at 3:48 p.m. local time.  To encourage gas power generation, Europe may need to
tighten its emissions-reduction target to more than 30 percent
compared with 1990 levels from the current 20 percent, Geoff Sinclair, head of sales and trading for Standard Bank Plc in
London, said today by e-mail.  The EU has an oversupply of carbon permits and credits
because emissions dropped more rapidly than expected, Sinclair
said. The surplus was 1.8 billion tons in the five years through
2012, 18 percent of total emissions, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “To encourage people to prefer gas over coal, either the
oversupply needs to be taken away permanently or the target
needs to be improved,” Sinclair said. “An improvement beyond a
30 percent reduction may be needed to make a significant
difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  