-- S. African Coal Unions Declare Dispute After Snubbing Pay Offer
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-08-12T17:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/s-african-coal-unions-declare-dispute-after-snubbing-pay-offer.html
South African labor unions declared
a dispute over wages after coal producers increased their offer
by only 0.5 percentage point in the final round of pay talks.  The Chamber of Mines, representing companies including
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , raised its wage
offer to 7 percent, Gideon du Plessis, general secretary of the
Solidarity union, said today in an e-mailed statement. That also
includes a 7 percent increase in housing allowance, he said.  Opening a dispute pushes the matter into arbitration.
Should talks at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and
Arbitration fail to break the impasse, the coal companies may
face the prospect of renewed strikes. Walkouts over pay
disrupted South Africa’s coal, platinum, gold and iron-ore
industries last year.  Wage talks between unions and gold producers started last
month with a proposed 4 percent increase in basic pay that was
rejected by the unions. Solidarity today called for a new pay
proposal and said an additional increase must be offered to
compensate for unspecified “housing inequalities.”  The  National Union of Mineworkers , the biggest union, has
also joined the dispute, Du Plessis said in a text message. The
NUM’s General Secretary Frans Baleni didn’t answer calls or
respond to  text messages  seeking comment.  The UASA union is supporting the dispute, Franz Stehring,
its head of mining, said by phone.  BHP Billiton Energy Coal,  Coal of Africa Ltd. (CZA)  and Optimum
Coal are also represented by the Johannesburg-based Chamber of
Mines in the coal pay talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  