-- SAC’s Parameter Trading Unit Is Said to Close Amid Probe
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-08-12T19:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/sac-s-parameter-trading-unit-is-said-to-close-amid-probe.html
 SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge-fund firm that’s facing federal insider-trading charges and a
money-laundering lawsuit, shuttered one of its trading units,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Parameter Capital, which was started by Anil Stevens and
Glenn Shapiro three years ago to trade financial stocks, managed
about $300 million, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the information is private. Stevens, 41, plans to start
his own firm and take as many as nine people with him, the
person said. Shapiro won’t be joining Stevens in his new
venture, the person said.  Stevens and Shapiro couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment. Reuters earlier today reported the closing of
Parameter.  Billionaire Steven A. Cohen has vowed to keep SAC open for
business as investors have pulled billions of dollars from its
funds. Remaining clients have until Aug. 16 to ask to redeem
their capital for the third quarter. Executives at SAC, which
oversaw about $14 billion at the start of July, expect to end
the year with about $9 billion in assets, the person said.  SAC was granted court approval last week to continue
operating until the cases are resolved. The  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based firm was accused by the U.S. government in a
July 25 indictment of engaging in an unprecedented insider-trading scheme lasting more than a decade. Regulators last month
in an administrative action said Cohen failed to supervise two
employees who have been charged with insider trading.  Martoma’s Arrest  The multi-year government probe intensified in November
when a former portfolio manager, Mathew Martoma, was arrested
and charged with securities fraud.  SAC employees have been searching for new jobs, hoping to
land new roles for next year after Cohen has paid their bonuses.
SAC employs about 1,000 globally in offices from New York to
Hong Kong.  SAC’s Parameter unit was based in New York and started in
2010 with 12 employees. Stevens and Shapiro rejoined SAC at that
time after working at Chicago-based hedge-fund firm Balyasny
Asset Management LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  