-- Sanofi Will Cooperate in China Review After Bribery Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-12T04:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/sanofi-will-cooperate-in-china-review-after-bribery-report.html
Sanofi (SAN) , France’s largest drugmaker,
will cooperate with a review of its business in China, after a
newspaper reported a whistle-blower’s allegations of bribery.  Sanofi is “committed to cooperating with the authorities
in any review they undertake regarding these allegations,” it
said in a statement dated Aug. 10.  A whistle-blower said Sanofi paid about 1.69 million  yuan 
($276,000) in bribes to 503 doctors in the country, the 21st
Century Business Herald reported on Aug. 8. The payments were
made in the cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and  Guangzhou 
around November 2007, said the newspaper, which is based in the
southern Chinese city of Guangzhou.  The National Health and Family Planning Commission has
instructed local health authorities to investigate allegations
that Sanofi bribed doctors, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported Aug. 10. Chinese authorities are cracking down on
malfeasance in the health-care industry, accusing
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  of economic crimes and fining Johnson &
Johnson for monopolistic practices.  Sanofi didn’t elaborate on the events or allegations it
referred to in its statement, saying only that it is “aware of
the publication of allegations coming from a whistleblower
referring to events that may have occurred in 2007.”  Clare Xu, a communications manager for Sanofi China, sent
the Aug. 10 statement by e-mail after being asked to comment on
the newspaper report today.  “It would be premature to comment
on events that may or may not have occurred in 2007,” Paris-based Sanofi said, repeating a stance it made in an Aug. 8
statement.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said on an
Aug. 1 conference call that Chinese authorities visited one of
the company’s regional offices in Shenyang on July 29 for
unknown purposes. Eli Lilly & Co. also said it had been visited
by regulators.  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s biggest maker of insulin,
last week said Chinese authorities visited its office in Tianjin
in northern China on Aug. 1.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  