-- Sberbank Leads Russia Financials Lower as Energy Companies Gain
-- B y   M a r k   S w e e t m a n   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-12T13:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/sberbank-leads-russia-financials-lower-as-energy-companies-gain.html
Russian stocks swung between gains
and losses as OAO Sberbank sank on concern economic growth is
slowing, while commodity producers rose on optimism  China’s
economy  is stabilizing after a two-quarter slowdown.  The benchmark Micex Index erased gains of as much as 0.5
percent before trading little changed at 1,383.11 by 3:37 p.m.
in Moscow. Sberbank, the nation’s biggest lender, lost 0.6
percent. Billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s OAO Novolipetsk Steel
headed for the highest close since March 13, while oil and gas
shares on average increased 0.5 percent.  Emerging-market  stocks rose  for a third day as  money supply 
in  China  unexpectedly accelerated and new  yuan  loans exceeded
estimates in July, according to official reports after the
market closed on Aug. 9. Russia’s gross domestic product
expanded 1.2 percent in the second quarter, below the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists and
less than 1.6 percent recorded in the first three months,
according to Federal Statistics Service data released on Aug. 9.  “People have grasped that as the main proxy for the
country’s GDP, Sberbank’s not going to show any great
improvement,” Kirill Yankovskiy, a director of equity sales at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by e-mail. It would be
better to invest in oil or gas stocks than add to Sberbank as
most investors are overweight on the state-run lender, he said.  Bank Rossii kept its main lending rates unchanged on Aug. 9
as inflation remained above policy makers’ target range of 5
percent to 6 percent. The central bank sees “significant”
risks to growth, it said in a statement accompanying the
decision.  Data last week showed China’s industrial output and exports
rose more than analyst estimates. Oil in  New York  rose for a
second day, adding 0.2 percent to $106.17 a barrel.  OAO Gazprom, the country’s largest company, added 0.8
percent to 129.20 rubles, and OAO Lukoil, the nation’s biggest
non-state controlled crude producer, added 0.6 percent to 1,935
rubles. Gazprom and Lukoil have the biggest weightings in the
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  at about 16 percent and 14 percent, respectively.  Novolipetsk Steel advanced for a fourth day after saying
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
rose 26 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months. Coal and steel producer OAO Mechel increased for a third
day, adding 0.6 percent to 99.70 rubles.  “The data confirmed the upward trend in the Chinese
economy and, accordingly, increasing demand for raw materials
for metallurgy and steel,” UFS Investment Co. said in a
research note today.  Russian equities have the cheapest  valuations  among 21
emerging economies tracked by Bloomberg at 5.2 times 12-month
estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 10 for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index.  OAO Uralkali, the potash producer part owned by billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov, fell 2.5 percent to 161 rubles, taking this
year’s decline to 31 percent. Uralkali said on July 30 it would
halt a venture with a Belarusian potash miner that controlled
exports from the former  Soviet Union , ending production
restrictions that underpinned global prices and triggering a
selloff in fertilizer producers’ shares.  “Fundamentally the stock is weak at the moment and can
only start rising if it falls much further to begin with or if
people start seeing the first supply contracts,” Yulia Bushueva, a  money manager  at Arbat Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Sweetman in Moscow at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  