-- Sina Posts Surprise Loss as New Services Drive Up Costs
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-13T04:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/sina-posts-surprise-loss-as-new-services-drive-up-costs.html
Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of China’s largest
Twitter-like service, posted a second-quarter loss on a charge
related to an asset sale as it boosted spending on new services
on mobile applications to contend with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)   The net loss was $11.5 million in the three months ended
June 30 after taking a $27.1 million charge related to a sale of
a stake in its Weibo service to Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the
New York-listed company said in a statement yesterday. Sales
rose 20 percent to $157.5 million, beating the $146.1 million
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sina boosted spending on mobile development as more of its
536 million Weibo account-holders access the microblogging
service from wireless devices. The company sold an 18 percent
stake in Weibo to Alibaba for $586 million in April as the
companies work to compete with Tencent on social e-commerce.  “Revenue was better than expected but a rise in operating
costs hurt Sina’s profit,” Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai
Junan International Holdings Ltd. said by phone. “Working with
Alibaba could help improve its financials in the second half and
compete with Tencent.”  Operating expenses, including costs on sales and marketing,
product development and staff, rose 46.9 percent to $102.5
million in the second quarter.  Alibaba,  China ’s biggest e-commerce company, is allowing
shoppers to log on to its Taobao Marketplace using their Sina
Weibo accounts, after it disabled sellers’ access to Tencent’s
instant messaging app WeChat. The two companies are also
developing mobile payment systems, mobile gaming and videos.  New Formats  “We are going to create new advertising formats or
marketing campaign formats for Taobao,” Charles Chao, chairman
and chief executive officer of Sina said during an earnings call
today. “There’s a bunch of opportunities that we are going to
explore, we are working on all these fronts.”  The company forecast third-quarter non-GAAP revenue of $176
million to $180 million, including advertising sales of $151 to
$153 million.  Sina’s ad sales increased 17 percent in the second quarter
to $120.6 million, according to the statement.  Advertising from the Weibo unit more than tripled to $30
million. Weibo value-added services revenues, which include
revenue share from web games and membership fees, grew 186
percent to $7.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  