-- So Much for Serendipity in Personalized News
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-12T14:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/so-much-for-serendipity-in-personalized-news.html
The Graham family’s  sale of the
Washington Post  to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  founder  Jeff Bezos  has
prompted intense discussion of the future of journalism. That
discussion has yet to focus on a remarkable feature of the Post
and other old-fashioned newspapers: They provide people with a
great deal of content that they wouldn’t have chosen in advance.  Newspapers create what we might call an architecture of
serendipity, in which readers encounter all sorts of stories,
facts, ideas and opinions that they didn’t select. Much of what
they encounter seems boring, irritating, wrong or offensive, but
on occasion it turns out to be surprising, delightful, alarming,
important and even life-changing.  A lot can be said on behalf of serendipity. In your daily
newspaper, you might learn about a new book -- on neuroscience,
say, or folk music -- and, to your great surprise, it might
pique your interest and broaden your horizons. You might run
into a story on how to improve your health or save for
retirement, and it might lead you to alter your habits, even if
you don’t much like thinking about your health or your
retirement.  You might see a story on  Syria , and it might move you,
maybe even alter your life, even though you couldn’t have
imagined yourself being interested in Syria. Well-run newspapers
offer stories that intrigue, entertain and affect readers who
come across those stories only by happenstance, not because they
ordered them in advance.  Desiring Serendipity  An architecture of serendipity seems old-fashioned today,
an artifact of the technological limitations of a bygone era.
The wave of the future is an architecture of control, through
which consumers get to see, read and hear exactly what they want
and avoid what they don’t want. Modern technologies make it easy
for providers of goods and services to engage in
personalization, which means they can tailor their products to
people’s specific tastes.  Bezos has mastered this point. Amazon learns what you like,
and it makes recommendations for you based on what you like.
Those recommendations can be eerily good. In 1998, Bezos made
the point explicitly (and  to the Washington Post , no less): “If
we have 4.5 million customers, we shouldn’t have one store. We
should have 4.5 million stores.”  Can’t the same be said of newspapers? If the Post has  19
million readers , could it have 19 million newspapers? In 1995,
Nicholas Negroponte, a technology specialist at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , prophesied the emergence
of the Daily Me -- a newspaper in which each person selected the
stories that he wanted and screened out those that he didn’t.  In the newspaper business, complete personalization hasn’t
yet arrived, but it may be on its way. For example,  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  has created a news feed, with a secret algorithm, that uses
your previous clicks to make selections for you.  Mark Zuckerberg 
has said that the feed will operate as a “personalized
newspaper.” Then there’s  News360 , an application that monitors
what you choose to read and, “by learning what you enjoy,
brings you content that you’ll find interesting and important.”  If he wishes, Bezos could easily take the Washington Post
in this direction. A redesigned website, or an app, might create
headlines and sort stories, ideas and opinions on the basis of
people’s previous choices. If you are bored by politics, or if
new science-fiction movies are what most interest you, then Your
Post could be set up accordingly. Why shouldn’t people see what
they want?  The best answer is that in communications, as in daily
life, serendipity is highly desirable -- an important part of
freedom and self-government, not an obstacle to them. Those who
read only what they identify in advance end up narrowing their
horizons; they may create echo chambers of their own design.  Social Glue  This is a social problem, not merely an individual one.
When like-minded people speak only with one another,  they tend
to go to extremes , thus aggravating political polarization. An
architecture of serendipity can reduce that effect. It can also
create a kind of social glue, by creating common understandings
and experiences for members of a highly diverse nation.  It is ironic that old-fashioned newspapers served some of
their most important social functions only because of
technological limitations, which prevented them from giving
their customers only what they want. Those limitations are a
thing of the past. In 20 years, daily newspapers, including the
Washington Post, will likely look a lot different from how they
look today. Whatever their emerging form, it is critical, for
individuals and societies alike, that they continue to provide
readers with the experience of serendipity.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 