-- South Africa Ready to Act If Sustained Breach of CPI Target
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-12T17:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/south-africa-ready-to-act-if-sustained-breach-of-cpi-target.html
The South African Reserve Bank will
act to ensure that inflation does not breach the upper end of
its target band for a prolonged period, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said.  “Depending on unfolding events in the global and domestic
environment, the bank stands ready, as always, to act in
whichever manner is prudent, in line with its mandate, to ensure
that  inflation  does not breach the upper end of the inflation
band on a sustained basis and results in a deterioration of
inflation expectations,” Mminele said in a speech at an
investment conference in Johannesburg today, a copy of which was
published on the central bank’s website.  The Reserve Bank expects inflation to average 5.9
percent this year, up from a previous estimate of 5.8 percent,
and to exceed its target temporarily in the third quarter, when
it will average 6.3 percent.  It has held the repurchase rate at 5 percent for the past
year.  Risks to the inflation outlook present themselves mainly
through a depreciated exchange rate of the rand, especially if
such depreciation occurs very rapidly and is sustained, Mminele
said. The rand has lost 14 percent against the dollar this year,
the worst performance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The inflation rate generally rises as much as 2 percentage
points for every 10 percent decline in the rand,  Reserve Bank 
Governor Gill Marcus has said. The pass-through effect on
inflation has not been as severe as in the past, she said  Risks to the outlook also come from inflationary pressures
arising from excessively high wage settlements and from higher
food prices, Mminele said.  Under Pressure  The rand’s decline this year is putting pressure on prices,
creating a dilemma for the Reserve Bank because of a slowing
economy, Mminele said in an interview last month in Moscow. Weak
demand for  manufactured  exports and mining strikes are limiting
growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy, which expanded at the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession in the first quarter.  Risk to  South Africa ’s economic growth stem from relatively
weak business and  consumer confidence , and international
factors, Mminele said today. This has impacted private sector
real gross fixed capital formation and household consumption
expenditure, which is also being constrained by subdued
employment growth, Mminele said. An additional risk to growth is
possible disruptions from  strike action  as part of current wage
negotiations in various industries, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  