-- State Bank of India Profit Drops on Rising Bad Loans
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-08-12T09:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/state-bank-of-india-says-first-quarter-profit-fell-on-bad-loans.html
State Bank of India , the country’s
largest by assets, posted first-quarter profit that dropped more
than analysts estimated as bad loans climbed amid a slowdown in
 Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Net income  fell 14 percent to 32.4 billion rupees ($534
million), or 47.38 rupees a share, for the three months ended
June 30, from 37.5 billion rupees, or 55.91 rupees, a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based lender said in an exchange filing
today. That compared with the 34.2 billion-rupee average of 42
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of State Bank  fell to their lowest in more than a
year and a half on concern that more defaults may erode profit
as the  economy slows . The  Reserve Bank  of India’s measures
starting last month to halt a slide in the rupee by curtailing
 money supply  may weaken the pace of expansion in India, where
output grew last year at the slowest rate in a decade.  “Asset quality remains the major concern,” Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC Global
Securities Ltd., said by telephone. “The profits from
investments in stock and government debt weren’t enough to make
up for the surge in bad loans.”  State Bank  was the worst performer today on the S&P BSE
Bankex index, which tracks 13 lenders. The  shares , which have
dropped 32 percent this year, fell 3.1 percent as of 3:03 p.m.
to 1,612.20 rupees, the lowest in intraday trading in Mumbai
since January 2012. That compared with a 1.1 percent gain in
 India ’s equity benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index today.  Lending Slows  Total outstanding loans at SBI increased by 16 percent to
11 trillion rupees at the end of June. Credit growth at Indian
banks decelerated to 13.7 percent in the twelve months to June
28, the slowest pace since 2009, data compiled by the RBI shows.  The bank will focus on lending to individuals as the demand
for credit from companies is falling, Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri
said in an interview in May. The lender is also taking measures
to bring down soured debt by offering incentives to employees
who recover bad loans, Chaudhuri said.  State Bank’s gross bad loans expanded to 5.6 percent of the
total by the end of June, from almost 5 percent a year earlier,
the filing showed. The measure at  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-largest by assets, was 3.23 percent as of June 30.  Emergency Steps  India’s central bank began taking emergency steps to
tighten liquidity on July 15 by boosting the  bank rate  and the
marginal standing facility to 10.25 percent after the rupee fell
to what was a record low against the dollar. A week later, it
followed up by further limiting banks’ borrowing and raising the
daily balance requirement for the  cash reserve ratio .  The  Reserve Bank of India  on July 30 cut its economic
growth forecast for the year through March 2014 to 5.5 percent
from 5.7 percent. The central bank also indicated that day that
the liquidity measures would be rolled back when the currency
stabilizes.  The rupee’s further decline to an all-time record on Aug. 6
prompted the RBI, two days later, to introduce additional
measures to remove cash from the financial system.  Increasing rates will put pressure on banks’ asset quality
and earnings as it drives up their funding costs, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a July 22 note.  “ State Bank of India (SBIN)  is relatively well placed to grow its
loan book in this tight-money scenario,” Hatim Broachwala, a
Mumbai-based banking analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd., said
before the announcement. “They are in a comfortable liquidity
situation compared to many other lenders and better placed to
deal with the rise in money market rates.”  The lender’s net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, for domestic operations on a cumulative basis was
3.44 percent, it said today, without providing a year-earlier
figure. Net interest income, or revenue from lending minus
payments on deposits, rose 3.5 percent from a year earlier to
115 billion rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  