-- Steinbrueck Says Merkel’s Euro Mess Has to Be Cleaned Up
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-08-13T09:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/steinbrueck-says-merkel-s-european-mess-has-to-be-cleaned-up.html
German Social Democratic chancellor
candidate Peer Steinbrueck said he’s going to have to clean up
the mess created in Europe by  Angela Merkel ’s “one-sided”
solution to almost four years of crisis in the euro region.  Steinbrueck, 66, speaking in an interview on the eve of
Merkel’s return to official engagements in Berlin today, said
the “therapy” of budget cutting prescribed by the chancellor
against the debt crisis that began in  Greece  in late 2009 has
prompted a European rift, with “a downward spiral above all in
southern Europe.”  “Many countries have the impression that  Germany  is using
its economic and political clout to impose its  crisis management 
on other states,” Steinbrueck said yesterday at the SPD’s
headquarters, Willy-Brandt-Haus, named after the chancellor
known for his Ostpolitik, the policy of pursuing rapprochement
with Eastern  Europe . “Germany must contribute much more
strongly to the stabilization of Europe,” he said.  Steinbrueck, whose SPD trails Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc by 13-17 percentage points in polls, is attempting to turn
Merkel’s handling of the crisis to his advantage at the Sept. 22
ballot. While surveys suggest voters back the chancellor’s
crisis-fighting efforts, Steinbrueck, her first-term finance
minister, says she isn’t telling the electorate the truth about
the costs that will need to be borne.  “Merkel is lulling the voters, she isn’t challenging
them,” he said. “Who wants to be confronted with challenges in
summer? That’s tiresome. I’m tiresome, the SPD is tiresome.”  ‘Chief Mistake’  A policy of consolidation and economic “impulse” is
needed similar to that pursued by the grand coalition government
in which he served from 2005-2009, Steinbrueck said. “That’s
missing,” he said. “That’s the chief mistake.”  European structural and cohesion funds must be concentrated
on southern Europe, with revenue from the proposed financial
transaction tax used to create “a kind of Marshall Program
2.0,” he said.  As Merkel returns to the campaign trail with a live
television interview at Deutsche Bank AG’s Berlin offices,
Steinbrueck may struggle to lure voters with his message,
according to Holger Sandte, chief European economist at Nordea
Bank AB. He compares Merkel’s relationship with the electorate
during the crisis as one of a trusted doctor and her patients.  Doctor Merkel  “They don’t exactly understand the diagnosis and the
treatment not at all,” Sandte said in a note to clients today.
“But they do trust that the woman doctor acts to the best of
her knowledge.” That means “one needs very strong reasons to
change the doctor,” he said.  Latest polls suggest opinion may be hardening. Backing for
Merkel’s CDU and its Christian Social Union Bavarian sister
party held at 39 percent, while the SPD’s 26 percent support was
also unchanged in a weekly INSA poll for Bild newspaper today.
The SPD’s Green party allies had 14 percent and Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner 5 percent, both also
unchanged. The Left Party had 8 percent. INSA surveyed 2,121
voters on Aug. 9-12. No margin of error was given.  In the interview, Steinbrueck said that any Greek exit from
the euro must be averted since it would carry “incalculable”
risks as contagion rippled out to engulf Spain, Italy or  France .  He spoke after the  Finance Ministry  under his successor,
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , dismissed a report in  Der Spiegel  magazine
citing a Bundesbank document as saying that Europe may need to
provide more aid for Greece as soon as this year.  Risks to the Greek aid program continue to be
“extraordinarily high” and “considerable doubts” remain
about Greece’s ability to implement reforms, the Bundesbank
paper said, according to Der Spiegel.  “To let a country like Greece go isn’t like a chemistry
experiment in a lab that can be at some point be regretted as a
shame when it goes wrong,” Steinbrueck said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  