-- Steinway Gets $475 Million Offer From Unidentified Firm
-- B y   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-08-12T20:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/steinway-gets-38-a-share-offer-topping-kohlberg-s-bid.html
Steinway Musical Instruments Inc. (LVB) 
received a $475 million takeover offer from an unidentified
investment firm, topping Kohlberg & Co.’s bid from last month
and setting the stage for a bidding war for the owner of the
160-year-old piano maker.  The offer of $38 a share in cash, higher than Kohlberg’s
$35-a-share bid, was from an affiliate of an investment firm
with more than $15 billion under management, Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Steinway said today in a statement, without
naming the bidder. Julie Theriault, a spokeswoman, said that
while the latest bidder asked for its identity to be kept
secret, it would be revealed if a merger agreement was signed.  Steinway topped $38 in  New York  trading, indicating
investors expect higher offers for the maker of Ludwig drums,
Conn-Selmer band instruments and the company’s namesake pianos.
Under the July agreement, Mount Kisco, New York-based Kohlberg
has certain matching rights ending Aug. 14, Steinway said today.  “There’s a good chance we see another offer, a higher
offer from Kohlberg, because there was little incentive for them
to provide their best offer on the first round of bidding,”
Bradd Kern, a portfolio manager for  Irvine , California-based
Armored Wolf LLC, said today in an interview. “It’s time for
Kohlberg to play Beethoven or get off the bench.”  The shares rose 9.3 percent to $39.59 at the close in New
York. Steinway had traded above Kohlberg’s bid since it was
disclosed on July 1.  Steinway said it notified Kohlberg on Aug. 11 about the
higher offer and is prepared to negotiate an improved proposal.  Samick Interest  Last month’s deal included a 45-day period in which
Steinway could solicit other proposals.  Samick Musical
Instruments (002450) , the company’s largest shareholder, said it was
weighing a counteroffer.  Private-equity investors had been interested in Steinway
before this year, and two firms conducted due diligence in 2012,
during a review of strategic alternatives that ended in
December, Steinway said in a July 15 proxy filing.  One concern for buyers was the value of the company’s
interest in Steinway Hall, the company’s New York showroom
building, which would affect the amount of available financing,
according to a filing. Steinway in March agreed to sell its
stake in the New York City building for more than $46 million.  Kohlberg may increase its offer above $38, and bidding may
rise as high as $41, said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and
merger arbitration strategist at Albert Fried & Co. in New York.  The latest offer is “a very good price,” Theriault said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  