-- Stockland Full-Year Profit Drops 79% on Housing Weakness
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-13T06:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/stockland-full-year-profit-drops-79-after-housing-impairments.html
Stockland,  Australia ’s biggest
diversified property trust, said full-year profit fell 79
percent as conditions in its residential business remained
challenging.  Net income  slid to A$104.6 million ($95.4 million) in the
12 months to June 30, from A$487 million a year earlier, the
Sydney-based company said today in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange. Earnings per share in the year to June 30, 2014,
will be between 4 percent and 6 percent above this year’s
profit, assuming property markets don’t deteriorate, it said.  Stockland, which took A$355 million of writedowns on
residential developments during the year, said it is focused on
bringing more profitable projects to market, while adding that
earnings in the division will remain constrained as it works
through the impaired and low-margin projects. The company also
said in May it will increase its exposure to retail and
industrial properties, and raised A$400 million in the same
month to repay debt and fund planned retail property
developments.  “Management are setting conservative expectations due to a
second-half skew to fiscal year 2014 earnings and to avoid the
mistakes of the past few years, where  Stockland (SGP)  had to downgrade
multiple times,” John Meredith, an analyst at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in an e-mailed note. “Stockland could firm guidance
toward the upper end of the range by February 2014.”  Medium Density  The company, which said in May it will return to medium-density residential development, will include townhouses in its
Macarthur Gardens project in Sydney and Highlands development in
 Melbourne , Managing Director Mark Steinert, who took over in
January, said in a telephone interview today. It expects to
complete them in 2015, and will review existing developments to
determine where it can incorporate town houses, he said.  Stockland  shares  were 2.9 percent lower at A$3.70 at the
close of trading in Sydney, compared with a 1 percent gain in
the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index.  “We expect a steady improvement in our profitability in a
risk-aware way,” Steinert said. “We didn’t announce any
impairments today, so we like to think we’ve dealt with that
particular issue.”  Operating  profit  in Stockland’s residential division
plunged to A$60 million in the year to June 30, from A$198
million 12 months earlier. The retirement living business saw
profit rise to A$38 million from A$36 million, while the retail
division recorded an increase to A$324 million from A$310
million.  Profit in the office and industrial business fell to A$119
million and A$63 million respectively, from A$142 million and
A$77 million a year ago, after Stockland sold A$1.5 billion of
non-core properties, it said.  Retail, Industrial  The company, which is seeking to increase its exposure to
retail and industrial properties, has identified 14 retail
properties for future redevelopments costing A$1.5 billion, it
said today. Stockland will also step up developments of
industrial properties to meet its target of increasing its
holdings to between 10 percent and 15 percent of assets in five
years from the current 7 percent.  “We acknowledge that industrial is probably the most
competitive part of the market,” Steinert said. “Our existing
industrial assets have quite a significant amount of development
opportunity, associated with either refurbishing existing
buildings or underutilized land, more than a couple of hundred
thousand square meters of development opportunity across the
eastern seaboard.”  Steinert declined to rule out a possible bid for smaller
rival  Australand Property Group (ALZ) , which was the subject of a
failed partial takeover bid by  GPT Group. (GPT)  GPT in May abandoned
its pursuit of Australand, saying the two sides couldn’t agree
on a price. Australand’s biggest shareholder, Singapore-based
 Capitaland Ltd. (CAPL) , said in July it had concluded a review of its
stake with a decision to maintain its holding.  Stockland reported underlying earnings of A$494.8 million,
compared with a median forecast of A$490.9 million from 12
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. It will pay a  dividend 
of 24 Australian cents for the year, and expects to maintain the
same level in the next year as earnings improve, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  