-- Swiss Stocks Rise to Highest Level Since May; Roche Gains
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-08-12T15:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/swiss-stocks-rise-to-highest-level-since-may-roche-gains.html
Stocks in Switzerland advanced,
sending the  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  to its highest level in more than
two months, as  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  gained.  Roche climbed 1.5 percent after a report that the drugmaker
may not buy  Alexion (ALXN)  Pharmaceuticals Inc. Julius Baer Group Ltd.
and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  slipped.  The SMI rose 0.3 percent to 8,000.60, its highest level
since May 30, at the close in Zurich. The equity benchmark has
surged 17 percent so far this year, the fourth best performance
among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also increased 0.3 percent today.  “We could have in the next days more profit taking,”
 Arnaud Scarpaci , who helps oversee $260 million as a fund
manager at Montaigne Capital in Paris, said by telephone. “A
lot of company results were supportive of the markets in the
first week of August and now we have plenty of good news valued
in stock prices.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI companies was 35
percent lower than the average of the last 100 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Swiss stocks advanced last week
as better-than-forecast economic releases from the euro area and
China outweighed concern that the  Federal Reserve  will reduce
the pace of its bond-purchase program.  Germany’s Economy  The German Economy Ministry has predicted that gross
domestic product climbed 0.75 percent in the second quarter,
according to a person familiar with the forecast, who asked not
to be identified because the projection remains confidential.
That would exceed the 0.6 percent median of 46 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Germany’s Federal Statistics
Office releases the official figure on Wednesday.  Three companies on  the SMI  -- Geberit AG, Holcim Ltd. and
Zurich Insurance Group AG -- release their financial results
this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Roche climbed 1.5 percent to 239.60 Swiss francs for the
biggest gain on the SMI. NZZ am Sonntag reported that the
largest maker of cancer drugs and Alexion, whose blood-disease
treatment is among the world’s most expensive medicines,
disagree on price. Roche’s spokeswoman Silvia Dobry said the
company doesn’t comment on rumors.  Julius Baer , Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager,
retreated 0.5 percent to 43.68 francs. Credit Suisse, the
 nation’s second-biggest bank , lost 0.6 percent to 28.51 francs.  AMS AG (AMS)  slid 2.1 percent to 68.50 francs. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut the maker of semiconductors to neutral from buy,
lowering its estimates because of weakness in the company’s
revenue from smartphone customers.  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN)  dropped 2.1 percent to
132.60 francs, its largest decline in seven weeks. MainFirst
Bank AG downgraded the freight-shipping company to underperform
from outperform, meaning that investors should hold fewer of the
shares than are represented in benchmark indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  