-- U.K. Home-Price Index Rises to Seven-Year High, RICS Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-08-13T08:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/u-k-house-price-index-rises-to-highest-since-2006-rics-says.html
A U.K. house-price gauge rose to the
highest in almost seven years in July as government measures to
stimulate the  property market  boosted demand,  the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors  said.  The index rose to 36 from 21 in June, the highest reading
since November 2006, London-based RICS said in an e-mailed
report today, citing a monthly poll of property surveyors. A
positive number means more respondents saw values increase
rather than decline. A measure of inquiries from new buyers rose
to 53 from 38, the most in four years.  Recent house price reports suggest the property market is
gaining strength as demand from new buyers picks up. In addition
to a strengthening economy, housing is getting a lift from
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s program to increase
mortgage availability and the Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending Scheme.  “It looks like at long last a recovery could be around the
corner,” Peter Bolton King, global residential director at
RICS, said in the report. “This is the first time that
everywhere has experienced some improvement.”  A measure of the outlook for prices rose to 35 in July from
24 in June, according to RICS. It said the price expectations
measure is now above zero in all regions of the U.K.  Supply Shortage  In a sign that supply is not keeping up with rising demand,
the measure of new seller instructions was at 15 in July, up
from 13 in June.  “The challenge presented by the short supply of stock is
particularly pronounced in the capital,” RICS said. It added
that the price expectations balance for  London  is at the highest
level since September 2009.  The Treasury’s Help to Buy program, which offers buyers of
new homes interest-free loans for 20 percent of the value of the
property up to 600,000 pounds ($928,000), is fueling demand.
Since its introduction four months ago, 10,000 reservations for
new homes have been made, according to  figures  published on the
Department for Communities and Local Government website today.  Guarantees covering buyers of existing homes will be
introduced in January. The plan has drawn a warning from the
 International Monetary Fund  over its potential to stoke  home
prices . Respondents to the RICS survey forecast prices will rise
2 percent over the coming year and by more than 4 percent in
each of the next five years. At the beginning of the year, they
forecast increases of 0.6 percent and 3.4 percent respectively.  Other reports have also painted a positive picture of the
housing market. Halifax said last week that  house prices  rose
for a sixth month in July and will continue to increase.
 Nationwide Building Society  said on Aug. 2 that house prices
rose to the highest level in five years last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  