-- U.S. Regulator Subpoenas Banks Over Long Warehouse Queues
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-08-13T09:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/u-s-regulator-subpoenas-banks-over-long-queues-at-warehouses.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
subpoenaed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for
documents relating to their warehouses for aluminum and other
metals, according to two people with knowledge of the probe.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has requested
documents dating to the start of 2010 about the banks’ commodity
warehouses, according to the people, who asked not to be named
because the subpoenas are private. Glencore Xstrata Plc, which
owns warehousing business Pacorini, also received a subpoena,
another person said.  MillerCoors LLC,  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  and other metal users
have complained about long queues and artificially high prices
at the warehouses, particularly for copper and aluminum.  “We’re a market regulator overseeing the commodity
futures, swaps markets and have clear authority to police
markets for fraud, manipulation and other abuses,” CFTC
Chairman Gary Gensler said in response to questions about
warehousing at a Senate Banking Committee hearing last month.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
subpoenas.  Commodities Units  The subpoena to Goldman was also sent to its Metro
International Trade Services unit, which stores aluminum, copper
and other metals as part of the London Metal Exchange system.
JPMorgan owns Henry Bath & Son Ltd., a founding member of the
LME and a warehouse operator. Glencore, the biggest publicly
traded raw-materials supplier, is one of the largest owners of
warehouses monitored by the LME as lawmakers and regulators
increase scrutiny.  Global aluminum costs were inflated by $3 billion in the
past year through unfair rules that allow warehouse owners to
slow deliveries, Tim Weiner, a global risk manager at Chicago-based brewer MillerCoors, said in written testimony before his
July 23 appearance at a U.S. Senate hearing.  Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said he plans to
hold additional congressional hearings on banks’ ownership of
mines, pipelines, tankers and warehouses. “It does significant
potential damage to the economy,” Brown said July 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  