-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Hold; Viacom Sells $3 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-12T21:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-viacom-said-to-plan-bond-issue.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held after the biggest weekly rise in seven weeks.  Viacom (VIAB) 
Inc. sold $3 billion of bonds in its biggest offering in about
seven years.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 75.8 basis points at 5:25 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure added 2.7 basis points last week, the most
since the comparable period ended June 21, as four Federal
Reserve officials indicated a greater willingness to begin
curtailing the pace of the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases. Investors are assessing economic data to
determine when the Fed will reduce the monetary stimulus that
has supported credit markets.  “The clear takeaway from last week’s Fed speak was you had
both doves and hawks express a willingness to begin tapering in
September,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies
at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Viacom Bonds  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said last week that
it’s timely for policy makers to begin moderating the central
bank’s bond buying as the economy continues to improve. Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  said he wouldn’t rule out a decision
to start dialing back the purchases at the Sept. 17-18 Federal
Open Market Committee meeting.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate bond risk,
added 2.4 basis points to 381.6 basis points, Bloomberg prices
show.  Viacom sold $500 million of 2.5 percent, five-year notes to
yield 125 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
and $1.25 billion of 4.25 percent, 10-year bonds at a relative
yield of 178 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The owner of Paramount film studios also sold $1.25
billion of 5.85 percent, 30-year securities at a 220 basis-point
spread, Bloomberg data show. The debt will be used for general
corporate purposes.  Prudential Offering  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, raised $1.05 billion in a three-part bond offering. The
 Newark , New Jersey-based company issued $350 million of 30-year
bonds to yield 140 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The company also sold $350
million each of fixed-and floating-rate notes maturing in 2018.  The fixed 2.3 percent, five-year notes pay 95 basis points
more than benchmarks and the floaters yield 78 basis points more
than the three-month London interbank offered rate, the data
show. Proceeds will be used to repay debt and for general
corporate purposes. MetLife Inc. is the largest U.S. life
insurance company.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade corporate bonds rather than similar-maturity
Treasuries tightened 0.5 basis point to 128.5 basis points,
according to Bloomberg data. The measure for speculative-grade
debt widened 0.9 basis point to 567.8 basis points.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  