-- U.S. Wants Companies to Share the Benefits of African Trade
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-08-12T15:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/u-s-wants-american-companies-to-share-benefits-of-african-trade.html
American companies should share the
benefits of trade with sub-Saharan  Africa  as the U.S. examines
extending duty-free access for imports from many nations on the
continent, Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said.  The U.S. African Growth and Opportunity Act, approved by
the U.S. Congress in 2000 and extended in 2004, is meant to
boost economies on the world’s poorest continent. The law
eliminates import levies on products ranging from textiles to
manufactured items for about 40 sub-Saharan African nations that
meet criteria including good governance and poverty reduction.
AGOA may be renewed before it expires in 2015.  “How do we think about AGOA in the context of two-way,
reciprocal trade agreements?” U.S. Trade Representative Michael
Froman said, in copy of speech handed to reporters today in
Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa.  “As we think about renewing AGOA, we certainly do not want
U.S. firms to be put at a competitive disadvantage in the
rapidly growing and dynamic African market,” Froman said.  The U.S. is cognizant of the terms of free trade deals
being discussed by the European Union and some Africa nations,
Froman said. The EU is negotiating to give preferential market
access, known as Economic Partnership Agreements, across most of
the continent before an October 2014 deadline.  AGOA doesn’t go far enough in helping African exporters
become more competitive, President  Barack Obama  said last month
on a three-nation African tour. The U.S. also wants to help
African countries ease trade and investment barriers by
simplifying customs procedures and improving the flow of goods
across borders, among other measures, Obama said.  Stronger Ties  The U.S. and the five-nation East African Community, a
common market of about 135 million people, are discussing trade
facilitation and investment agreements to strengthen commercial
ties, Froman said today in a separate statement.  U.S. imports from sub-Saharan Africa  fell  33 percent to
$49.7 billion last year as shipments of oil, mineral fuel,
precious stones and metals declined. Of that amount, $34.9
million was shipped under the terms of AGOA, according to the
U.S. Department of Commerce’s website. Total two-way trade was
$72.3 billion, down 24 percent from 2011.  Oil remained the largest portion of AGOA imports accounting
for 86 percent of the total. Under AGOA, the top exporters were
Nigeria and  Angola , the largest oil producers in Africa, the
continent’s biggest economy, South Africa, as well as Chad and
Gabon, according to the statement.  AGOA, which is being reviewed by U.S. and African officials
in Addis Ababa today and tomorrow, should be extended another 15
years to 20 years, South Africa’s Deputy Trade and Industry
Minister Elizabeth Thabethe said in an interview today in the
city.  “We feel that will give us space to do a lot of
development and for industrialization to take place,” Thabethe
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net  