-- Hungary GDP Growth Slowed in Second Quarter, Survey Shows
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-08-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/hungary-gdp-growth-slowed-in-second-quarter-survey-shows.html
Hungary’s economy probably lost
steam in the second quarter after exiting a 2012 recession,
raising pressure on Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  before
parliamentary elections next year.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.3 percent from the
previous three months after rising 0.7 percent in the first
quarter, according to the median estimate of five economists in
a Bloomberg  survey . It grew 0.6 percent from a year earlier, a
separate  poll  of eight economists showed. The statistics office
will report preliminary data at 9 a.m. tomorrow in Budapest.  Economic growth may exceed the government’s 0.7 percent
forecast for this year, Orban said June 14, with the cabinet
estimating accelerating expansion in the second half. Its
prospects may be helped by euro area demand, with the currency
bloc’s growth projected to snap six quarters of contraction in
the three months ended June, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Euro-area GDP data will be published tomorrow.  “The favorable data from the euro area and Germany appear
to underpin the hypothesis that the recovery will start in”
Hungary’s “main export markets in the second half of the
year,” Mariann Trippon, a Budapest-based economist at Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, said in an e-mailed report. “Monthly data all
point in the direction of Hungary having exited the recession.”  Hungary’s forint has lost 1.9 percent against the euro this
year, the sixth-best performer among emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It had weakened 0.3 percent to 297.14
against the common currency late yesterday in Budapest.  Budget Focus  Orban sacrificed growth in his first two years in office to
keep the  budget deficit  within the European Union’s 3 percent of
GDP limit and remove the threat of cuts in funding from the
trading bloc. Measures included Europe’s highest bank tax and
extraordinary corporate levies on industries such as energy,
damaging lending, industrial production and investment.  Industrial production, Hungary’s economic engine, expanded
a workday-adjusted 1.7 percent from a year earlier in June as
car company production rose.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s  Audi AG (NSU) ,  Suzuki Motor Corp (7269)  and  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Opel unit are among car manufacturers in Hungary.  The central bank in June began a 750 billion forint ($3.4
billion) Funding for Growth program, giving free funding to
commercial banks that boost lending to small and medium-sized
companies.  The funding plan complements 12 consecutive quarter-point
cuts in the benchmark  interest rate  to a record-low 4 percent.
The central bank has said it plans to reduce the rate further,
by as much as 1 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  