-- Hungary Alleged Nazi-Era War Criminal Csatary Dies Age 98
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-08-12T09:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/hungary-alleged-nazi-era-war-criminal-csatary-dies-age-98.html
Laszlo Csatary, a Hungarian who’d
been convicted by Slovakia for aiding the deportation of Jews to
Nazi death camps and who was awaiting trial in his home country,
died at age 98.  Csatary died Aug. 10 from pneumonia at a hospital in
Budapest, his lawyer, Gabor B. Horvath, said today by phone. His
trial was scheduled to start in the fall, Horvath said. Csatary
denied the allegations against him.  A Slovakian court sentenced Csatary in absentia to death in
1948, with the punishment later commuted to  life imprisonment .
Hungarian prosecutors detained him last year after pressure from
the Simon Wiesenthal Center, which tracks Nazi-era war
criminals. About 6 million Jews were killed in the Holocaust,
including more than 500,000 from Hungary, according to the
Budapest-based Holocaust Memorial Center.  “We didn’t expect to see justice served in this world,”
Lucia Kollarova, a spokeswoman for the Federation of the Jewish
Communities in Slovakia, said today by e-mail. “However he
didn’t escape higher judgment.”  In 1944, Csatary worked as a Hungarian policeman in charge
of 12,000 Jews held in a brick factory in Kosice, now part of
Slovakia. He beat detainees with a dog leash “regularly and
without justification and without regard to the detainees’
gender, age or health,” according to a June 18 statement from
 Hungary ’s prosecutor’s office.  On June 2 of that year, as Jews were forced into trains for
deportation to Nazi death camps, Csatary rejected a request to
have a window cut in a wagon where 80 people were crammed to let
in air, according to the charges.  A Slovakian court had been due to decide next month on
where he should serve his life sentence, Marcela Galova, a court
spokeswoman, said today by phone.  Csatary lived in  Canada  after the war and returned to live
in Hungary in 1996, Horvath said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Brussels at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  