-- Turkey June Industrial Output Surprises Amid Growth Concerns
-- B y   O n u r   A n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-08-12T09:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/turkey-june-industrial-output-surprises-amid-growth-concerns.html
Turkey ’s industrial production
expanded in June at its highest pace annually since February,
amid concern economic growth may be losing momentum.  Industrial growth on a workday-adjusted basis rose 4.2
percent in June from a year earlier, the highest since 4.34
percent in February, according to a release today on the state
statistics agency’s website. Output rose 1.4 percent on the
month on a workday and seasonally adjusted basis, according to
official data.  Turkey may have to lower its year-end growth target of 4
percent because its main trade partners’ economies are in a
slump, Economy Minister Zafer Caglyan said in e-mailed comments
today. Forecasts for Turkey’s 2013 gross domestic product
growth were cut to 3.8 percent in July from 4 percent earlier,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 32
economists that ended on July 24.  “It’s almost certain that the government will revise down
its growth target for this year,” Hasan Isik, an analyst at
Tera Brokers in Istanbul, said by phone after the industrial
production data release. “Although today’s figures will not
reverse growth forecast revisions, they may be able to put a
brake on them.”  The lira weakened less than 1 percent to 1.9245 per dollar
at 11:02 a.m. in Istanbul, extending the year-to-date declines
to 7.31 percent to become the second-worst performing  emerging
markets  currency in Europe,  Africa  and the Middle East after
South Africa’s rand. Yields on benchmark two-year notes were
down 9 basis points, or .09 percentage point, to 8.74 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  