-- Votorantim Cimentos Pulls IPO Amid Brazilian Stock Market Slump
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-12T15:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/votorantim-cimentos-pulls-ipo-amid-brazilian-stock-market-slump.html
Votorantim Cimentos SA (VEBM11) , Brazil’s
biggest cement maker, is canceling plans to sell as much as $3.7
billion in an initial public offering after the country’s
benchmark index slumped the most among its biggest global peers.  The company asked securities regulators in Brazil and the
U.S. to withdraw its request for the share offering, according
to an e-mailed statement today. Votorantim had suspended its IPO
because of the market selloff, according to a June 19 statement
published in newspaper  Valor Economico .  “The current market conditions reinforce the low
probability of a window of opportunity for the offering in the
short term,” the Sao Paulo-based company said today. It is
still considering a stock sale and will continue to monitor
markets, according to the statement.  The Ibovespa plunged 18 percent this year through Aug. 9,
the most among the world’s 20 biggest equity benchmarks, wiping
out $222 billion from the  value  of Brazilian stocks. The index
sank into a  bear market  on June 11 as faltering growth drove
down consumer stocks and raw-material exporters slid with
commodities on concern the  Federal Reserve  will scale back U.S.
monetary stimulus.  The cement maker and its parent, Votorantim Participacoes
SA, said in a May 29 regulatory filing they would offer 400
million units for listing in  Sao Paulo  or their equivalent in
American depositary receipts in New York. It’s the first IPO to
be postponed in Brazil this year, after eight initial share
sales were suspended or scrapped last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  