-- Wal-Mart Africa Unit Massmart Looks at Kenyan Acquisition
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-08-12T08:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/wal-mart-africa-unit-massmart-looks-at-kenyan-acquisition.html
Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , South
Africa’s biggest food and household-goods wholesaler, said it
has met “several important players” in  Kenya ’s retail industry
as the unit of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  seeks expansion abroad.  “Massmart’s interest in investing in Kenya is well
known,” Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said in an e-mailed response to questions. “We don’t however, comment on
acquisitions, potential, speculative or otherwise.”  Business Daily, a Nairobi-based newspaper, reported the
South African company’s meetings earlier today, saying that
among possible targets in Kenya, Massmart’s potential interest
triggered a dispute about whether to sell among investors at
family-controlled  Naivas Supermarket Ltd.  Multiple phone calls
to Nairobi-based Naivas seeking comment weren’t answered today.  Nakumatt Holdings Ltd.,  East Africa ’s largest retail chain
by sales with a network of 40 outlets, said on July 25 that
there are no plans to sell its shares.  Tuskys , a Nairobi-based
retailer with 42 stores in Kenya and six in  Uganda , hasn’t held
any talks with Massmart, a company official, speaking on
condition that he not be identified, said by phone today. Tuskys
sees prospects of opening more outlets in the near future and
entering nearby countries, according to its website.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has a 52 percent
stake in Johannesburg-based Massmart. The South African company
said last month that first-half sales growth slowed to 5.5
percent, from 7.3 percent in the six months through December, as
rising unemployment discouraged spending by consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  