-- Washington Plans $99 Million Sale for Cop Museum: Muni Deals
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-08-12T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/washington-plans-99-million-sale-for-cop-museum-muni-deals.html
The  District of Columbia  plans to
sell $99.4 million of revenue bonds to build a museum dedicated
to U.S. law enforcement that will include artifacts such as Pat
Garret’s badge and  Al Capone ’s bullet-proof vest.  The 57,000-square-foot museum will be built in the
Judiciary Square section of  Washington , across from the National
Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. The tax-exempt debt, with a
final maturity of July 2048, will be repaid through law-enforcement and corporate donations, merchandise sales and
federal grants, according to offering documents.  “We expect a high interest level,” said Craig Floyd,
chief executive officer of the National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial Fund. “We’ve already had a number of interest calls
about the deal.”  The museum, expected to open in January 2016, will be
mostly underground. It will feature interactive exhibits and a
collection of historical and contemporary artifacts that will
tell the story of American  law enforcement , said Steve
Groeninger, a spokesman for the fund. Among the exhibits will be
the badge and gun of Garret, the Old West lawman who killed
Billy the Kid in 1881.  Washington’s debt falls into the category known as
industrial-development bonds. Local agencies sell the securities
for companies, hospitals and nonprofit organizations, whose
credit backs the obligations. The bonds have lost 4.2 percent in
2013, more than the 3.8 percent for the broader municipal
market, Barclays Plc data show.  Industrial development revenue bonds have accounted for the
most defaults in the $3.7 trillion municipal market, according
to Federal Reserve data.  Washington last came to market in June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The negotiated deal isn’t backed by insurance, and the
bonds aren’t rated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Freeman in  New York  at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  