-- WTI Trades Near Four-Day High Amid Signs Europe Recession
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-12T11:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/wti-crude-fluctuates-as-brent-drops-sixth-time-in-seven-days.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near its highest level in four days amid estimates that the
euro-area edged back to growth last quarter for the first time
since 2011.  Futures fluctuated in  New York  before data this week that
will probably show gross domestic product in the 17-nation
region expanded 0.2 percent in the three months through June
after shrinking for the previous six quarters, according to the
median of 21 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey . Es
Sider,  Libya ’s biggest oil terminal, closed after briefly
reopening, an official said today. Bijan Namdar Zanganeh pledged
to raise  Iran ’s output if he becomes the country’s oil minister.  “The worst is over for  Europe  but we expect growth to
remain shallow rather than a return to impressive growth,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “I
don’t see an environment for prices rising further at the
moment. We need to absorb the oversupply first.”  WTI for September delivery advanced as much as 43 cents, or
0.4 percent, to $106.40 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest intraday level since
Aug. 6, and traded for $106.16 as of 12:15 p.m. London time. The
volume of all futures traded was 12 percent below the 100-day
average.  Brent for September settlement slid 7 cents to $108.15 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark traded at a  premium  of as little as $1.62 to
WTI, the narrowest on an intraday basis since Aug. 5.  Bullish Bets  The European Union’s statistics office in  Luxembourg  will
release GDP data at 11 a.m. on Aug. 14.  Money managers reduced their net-long positions on WTI
crude for a second week as speculation that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will scale back stimulus sent prices to the longest
losing streak this year.  Hedge funds  cut net-long positions, or wagers that prices
will rise, by 2.5 percent to 310,827 futures and options
combined in the seven days ended Aug. 6, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said in its weekly report on Aug. 9.  WTI dropped 1.2 percent on Aug. 6 on signs that the Fed may
start to pull back. Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
said he wouldn’t rule out a September decision to slow the pace
of the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond buying. The
purchases, known as quantitative easing, have weakened the U.S.
currency and bolstered the appeal of dollar-denominated
commodities as investments.  Iran Supply  Hedge funds and other money managers raised  bullish bets  on
 Brent crude  to the highest level in two weeks, according to data
from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 188,789 lots in
the week ended Aug. 6, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitments of Traders report. The increase of 7,454
contracts brings net-longs, which fell the previous week, to
their highest since July 23.  Bijan Namdar Zanganeh, a former Iranian oil minister
nominated by President Hassan Rohani to re-assume the post, said
his “first action will be to bring the country’s oil production
capacity back to 2005” levels, according to Shana, the Oil
Ministry’s news website.  In 2005, the Persian Gulf nation wasn’t subject to  United
Nations , U.S. and European Union sanctions against its nuclear
program that have restricted its crude exports. Foreign Minister
 Ali Akbar Salehi  said the dispute has reached a “good stage”
and will be resolved, according to state television reports
yesterday.  Iran Decline  Iran, once the second-biggest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , has slipped
to sixth place, producing 2.56 million barrels a day in July,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of producers and analysts.
It produced about 4 million barrels a day in 2005.  Iraq’s North Oil Co. increased pumping through a pipeline
to Ceyhan to as much as 425,000 barrels a day. Supply averaged
300,000 to 325,000 in recent weeks, the company said Aug. 9.  Libya’s Es Sider export terminal shut today after being
open briefly yesterday, Port Coordinator Captain Abu Ejela Al
Zanati said by phone from the terminal today. The terminal has a
capacity of as much as 350,000 barrels a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  