-- WTI Trades Near One-Week High on U.S. Supply, Mideast
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-13T12:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/wti-rises-a-third-day-amid-speculation-u-s-stockpiles-shrank.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near a one-week high amid forecast that U.S. stockpiles fell and
as Middle East unrest curbs exports.  Futures rose as much as 1 percent. U.S.  crude inventories 
dropped by 1.55 million barrels last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy Department
report. Libya’s biggest oil terminal remained shut yesterday
after briefly reopening, a port official said. South  Sudan  is
working to avoid halting fuel exports planned by Sudan on Aug.
22, according to a Foreign Ministry spokesman.  “It’s the mix of political factors keeping prices up,”
said Frank Klumpp, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in Stuttgart,  Germany . “The last uptick we had was because of
seasonal demand, but that will fade and fundamental factors
should weigh more until the end of the year.”  WTI for September delivery advanced as much as $1.09 to
$107.20 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange and was at $106.38 as of 12:52 p.m. London
time. The volume of all futures traded was 8 percent above the
100-day average. Prices have climbed 16 percent this year.  Brent for September settlement gained 66 cents to $109.63 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a  premium  of $3.26 to WTI,
compared with $2.86 yesterday.  U.S. crude inventories probably fell as new pipeline
capacity helped shrink a glut at Cushing in  Oklahoma , the
largest U.S. oil hub, the Bloomberg survey showed. That would
leave supplies at the lowest level since Jan. 11. All 10
respondents forecast a drop. The American Petroleum Institute in
 Washington  will publish its own data today.  U.S. Stockpiles  Stockpiles declined 30.8 million barrels from June 21 to
Aug. 2 as refineries operated at more than 90 percent of
capacity, according to the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical unit. Supplies at Cushing,
the delivery point for WTI contracts, have decreased for five
consecutive weeks to 39.9 million, the lowest since March 2012.  “It’s very hard for inventories to post consistent gains
when refineries operate in excess of 90 percent of capacity,”
Tom Finlon, the director of Energy Analytics Group LLC in
Jupiter,  Florida , said yesterday. “We should also see supplies
draw out of Cushing because of the new pipeline capacity.”  Libyan Ports  The Libyan port of  Es Sider  shut after opening on Aug. 11.
It was closed since July 28 amid protests by the Petroleum
Facilities Guard, which is pressing for better working
conditions.  Interruptions at ports and other installations across Libya
reduced the country’s oil production to 800,000 barrels a day in
July, half the rate of a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
survey of output by members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  South Sudan is producing 160,000 barrels a day, Petroleum
Minister Stephen Dhieu Dau said on Aug. 9. The nation seceded
from Sudan in July 2011 and took three-quarters of the formerly
united country’s output of 490,000 barrels a day.  In Europe, production of the North Sea Ekofisk grade was
curtailed after a gas turbine broke down Aug. 7, Jan Erik Geirmo, a BP spokesman in Stavanger,  Norway , said in an e-mail
yesterday. The affected fields were producing 8,000 barrels a
day, according to estimates by the Norwegian Petroleum
Directorate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  