-- Yahoo Japan Hires Ex-Goldman Banker as More Deals Planned
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-08-12T08:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/yahoo-japan-hires-goldman-sachs-banker-as-it-steps-up-deal-pace.html
Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , operator of the
country’s most-visited Web portal, said it hired Ryu Hirayama, a
former banker at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in  Tokyo .  Hirayama, who was vice president of investment banking at
Goldman Sachs, joined Yahoo  Japan  on Aug. 1, and the company
hasn’t decided on his position, said Junji Miyahara, a spokesman
for Yahoo Japan. Hirayama advised on mergers and acquisitions
while at Goldman, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because personnel matters
aren’t discussed publicly.  Yahoo Japan, whose largest  shareholder  is billionaire
Masayoshi Son’s  SoftBank Corp. (9984) , has announced at least eight
mergers and acquisitions worth about $670 million since April
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company said
in June it’s targeting a 77 percent increase in  earnings  during
the next six years through expanding its e-commerce business and
offering more services for smartphones and tablet computers.  “Domestic mergers and acquisitions are very critical” for
 Yahoo Japan , said Hiroshi Naya, an analyst at Ichiyoshi Research
Institute Inc. “Yahoo Japan may look for joint ventures and
collaborations with newspapers, broadcasters or the financial
industry,” he said.  The company is bound by an agreement with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , its
second-biggest shareholder, against doing business outside Japan
with the Yahoo brand, said Miyahara, the spokesman.  Hiroko Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman at Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment. A person who answered the phone at
Yahoo Japan headquarters declined to connect a call to Hirayama.  Investment Bankers  Yahoo Japan  fell  3.5 percent to 48,950 yen at the close in
Tokyo trading, paring its gain this year to 76 percent. The
benchmark Topix index dropped 0.6 percent and has  added  32
percent this year.  Yahoo Japan’s hiring of Hirayama follows similar moves by
 Gree (3632)  Inc.,  Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  and  Otsuka (4578)  Holdings
Inc., which have also appointed bankers from brokerages.  Suntory Beverage hired in March Haruhisa Inada, a former
co-head of the investment banking division at Merrill Lynch
Japan Securities Co., a unit of Bank of America Corp., to lead
the M&A team it set up in January. Otsuka hired Manabu Kawata
from Morgan Stanley in 2011 after he arranged an initial public
offering of the pharmaceutical company,  Gree, the Japanese social-networking website operator,
appointed Naoki Aoyagi from Deutsche Bank AG as chief financial
officer in 2006.  Mixi Inc. (2121) , owner of Japan’s largest social
networking service, hired Fumiaki Koizumi from Daiwa Securities
Group Inc.’s  investment banking  unit in the same year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  