-- Perion Shares in Tel Aviv Follow U.S. Down on Outlook
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-13T07:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/yahoo-fails-to-lift-perion-amid-outlook-israel-overnight.html
Perion Network Ltd. (PERI) , the software
maker whose New York shares trade at almost half of its
historical valuation, fell to the lowest in four months in  Tel
Aviv  as its lower-than-estimated sales forecast outweighed a
search partnership with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Shares of the Tel Aviv-based company declined 2.3 percent
to 37.32 shekels, the lowest since April 8, at 10:31 a.m. in
Israel. The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose 0.3 percent. The U.S.-traded shares
sank 14 percent yesterday, the biggest retreat since March 2010.  Perion forecast maximum third-quarter sales of $22 million,
below the mean  projection  of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
amid delays in implementing new partnerships. The projection
overshadowed the announcement of a pact with Yahoo, which Perion
is pursuing to diversify its revenue sources after  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
halted automatic software downloads on Feb. 1, raising concern
the number of Perion’s products installed would decline.  Google’s “policy change fell into place in February and
everyone expected there would be some impact from that, but
nobody knew how big it was going to be,”  Jay Srivatsa , an
analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in New York who rates
Perion a buy, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They’re
betting a lot on” Yahoo, he said. “We’ll have to wait to see
how that plays out.”  Search Revenue  In addition to Google and Yahoo, Perion has partnerships
with Microsoft Corp.’s Bing, Oakland, California-based Ask.com
and toolbar-developer Conduit. Google, which contributed all of
Perion’s 2012 search revenue, accounted for 51 percent in the
second quarter. Chief Executive Officer Josef Mandelbaum told
Bloomberg News in June that no single provider will make up more
than 50 percent of search revenue by the end of this year.  “Our second-quarter results were impacted by certain
execution delays launching our new partnerships,” Mandelbaum
said on a conference call with analysts yesterday. “These
delays will also affect the third quarter.”  Perion fell to $10.33 in  New York , sending its  valuation  to
5.7 times estimated earnings, compared to an almost seven-year
average of 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  