-- Yum Falls After China Sales Slide as Diners Shun Chicken
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-08-13T20:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-12/yum-store-sales-trail-estimates-as-diners-shun-chicken.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and Pizza Hut chains, fell after posting July same-store sales
in  China  that declined 13 percent, more than in June, as diners
remained reluctant to eat chicken amid an outbreak of avian flu.  The shares slid 2 percent to $72.97 at the close in  New
York , the most since June 20. Yum has  advanced  9.9 percent this
year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index has
gained 17 percent.  Analysts estimated sales last month fell 7.1 percent, the
average of four projections compiled by Consensus Metrix. Sales
at stores open at least 12 months fell 16 percent at KFC and
rose 3 percent at  Pizza Hut  in the Asian nation, the Louisville,
Kentucky-based company said yesterday in a filing.  Yum gets about 50 percent of its revenue from China, where
it has about 5,980 KFC and Pizza Hut stores, and is facing
consumer backlash amid a slowing economy there. The company is
struggling to attract diners after an outbreak of H7N9 bird flu
scared KFC diners away from poultry and one of its former
suppliers was investigated for selling food with too much
antibiotics. China same-store sales decreased 10 percent in June
and 19 percent in May.  “Trends worsened in July,” Andy Barish, a San Francisco-based analyst at Jefferies & Co. with a hold rating on the
shares, said in a research note yesterday. “We worry that the
miss confirms a tougher competitive environment and more
cautious  consumer spending .”  Chinese Economy  China’s  economy  expanded 7.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the second straight deceleration, according
to the National Bureau of Statistics of China. The nation’s
consumer prices during July rose less than the government’s 2013
target of 3.5 percent for the seventh straight month.  Sales at KFC were hurt by “residual effects of adverse
publicity surrounding the December poultry supply incident,”
Yum said in the filing. The company projects China comparable-store sales will be positive in the fourth  quarter .  The company said earlier this year that it’s improving
safety and tightening standards for suppliers in China to help
win back consumers after a probe into a former poultry provider
hurt sales. It has also been airing television commercials there
about the quality of its food and the safety of its supply chain
and is advertising chicken alternatives, such as shrimp and
mushroom rolls.  Avian Flu  KFC “is continuing to recover from both avian flu and the
poultry supply incident,” Chief Executive Officer  David Novak 
said during a conference call on July 11.  The bird flu virus, which emerged in March, has sickened
131 people in China and killed 39, the official Xinhua news
agency reported on June 9.  Yum also may be facing more competition from local, lower-priced eateries in China such as Dicos and Hua Lai Shi, which
both are expanding. Last month, the KFC owner said same-store
sales in China declined 20 percent in the second  quarter .  Same-store sales are considered an indicator of growth
because they include only older, established locations.  Yum has more than 39,000 restaurants worldwide and also
owns Taco Bell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  