-- Malaysia Killings Surge Spurs Crackdown Using Detention Law
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-08-19T13:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/malaysia-surge-in-killings-spurs-crackdown-using-detention-law.html
Malaysia began using a law for the
first time to hold suspects without filing charges in a
crackdown on violence after at least eight killings in the
country in less than a month, Prime Minister Najib Razak said.  Police apprehended 200 people using Section 105 of the
Crime Prevention Act to detain suspects for an initial 24 hours
without charging them, Bernama reported citing Inspector-General
of Police Khalid Abu Bakar. Five suspected armed criminals were
shot dead in the northern city of Penang by police this morning,
the official Bernama news service reported, citing the state’s
police chief Abdul Rahim Hanafi.  “People are becoming concerned of crimes being committed
in broad daylight,” Prime Minister Najib Razak told reporters
today in Putrajaya, outside  Kuala Lumpur , confirming the
crackdown. “We are having very intensive discussion over
whether we require additional laws.”  The rise in violence is partly due to the abolition of the
Emergency Ordinance two years ago, which led to 2,600 people
being released from detention, the malaymailonline reported July
9, citing Home Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi. Prime Minister Najib Razak repealed the law, which allowed people to be held for two
years without trial, in a bid to boost civil liberties.  The Crime Prevention Act means people can be held for as
long as 70 days, subject to approvals at various stages,
providing time for police to gather evidence, according to Paul Low, a minister in the Prime Minister’s Department overseeing
graft and human rights. They can also be released and placed
under police supervision for up to five years, he said in an
interview in the capital today.  Electronic Tagging  “The act has been there but not used,” Low said. “If I
look at human rights I can’t be too idealistic. I’m more
interested in protecting the safety and security of the larger
population.”  The government is also considering allowing electronic
tagging, he said.  The police action comes after a surge in crime that
included the July 29 slaying of  AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM)  founder
Hussain Ahmad Najadi. The prime minister’s coalition was
returned to power in May elections by its narrowest margin since
independence from Britain in 1957. Najib promised during his
campaign to make fighting crime and corruption a policy priority.  Crime Concern  Voters cited crime and social problems as their biggest
concern after the economy, according to a survey of 1,018 people
conducted in December by the  Merdeka Center for Opinion Research .  A 26-year-old man in the town of Kapar was killed Aug. 15
by a gunman riding the back of a motorcycle, a shooting police
suspect is related to a gang rivalry, the Star newspaper
 reported , citing North Klang deputy police chief superintendent
Jani Ahmad. In Dungan, a restaurateur was shot to death outside
his eatery Aug. 13 during what police said was an attempt to
steal his Toyota Hilux, according to the  New Straits Times ,
citing Terengganu Criminal Investigation Department Chief
Assistant Commissioner K. Manoharan.  This month there have been three shootings in Penang,
including one man killed at point-blank range at a traffic light,
according to an incidents list compiled by the Star newspaper
and confirmed by police. An unemployed man was killed and a
woman injured in Kelantan state. There was also a shooting at
the Thai border, the list showed.  A primary school clerk was killed when a package he took
from the top of a relative’s car exploded in Kelantan, the Star
reported, citing local criminal investigations chief Lai Yong
Heng.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  