-- Atlas Copco Buys Vacuum-Pump Maker Edwards for $1.2 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-08-19T09:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/atlas-copco-said-in-talks-to-buy-u-k-vacuum-pump-maker-edwards.html
Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  agreed to buy  Edwards
Group Ltd. (EVAC)  for $1.2 billion in cash to expand in vacuum pumps
for semiconductor production and further broaden a client base
beyond the construction and mining industry.  Shareholders of the British company will receive as much as
$10.50 a share depending on this year’s financial results,
Stockholm-based Atlas Copco said in a statement today. The offer
price, starting at a minimum of $9.25 per share, is at least 11
percent more than Edwards’ average value over the past 30 days
of trading, it said.  The purchase is Atlas Copco’s biggest for 14 years, and it
follows six other takeovers this year, including Shandong Rock
Drilling Tools Co. Edwards taps a $6 billion vacuum-pump market
with an offering of smaller-scale units used in semiconductor
production and flat panels.  “It is a great fit,” said Atlas Chief Executive Officer
Ronnie Leten in the statement. “The vacuum solutions market is
growing and has similar characteristics to our existing
industrial businesses.”  Edwards Group, based in Crawley, had sales of about $1
billion last year, of which more than half was in  Asia , and has
3,200 employees. Atlas Copco acquired Rental Service Corporation
for $1.61 billion in 1999. Atlas Copco, with a market value of
217 billion kronor ($33 billion), makes products from air
compressors to rock drills and assembly systems for industrial
equipment.  U.K. Hunting Ground  A bid would be the latest for a U.K. manufacturer from a
larger European competitor.  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  of  France  last
month agreed to buy  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  to gain control systems used by
chemicals makers and oil refineries. Trelleborg AB  agreed  in
April to purchase Ambler Technologies Ltd., a maker of composite
materials located near Manchester,  England .  Edwards’ vacuum products and abatement systems create
controlled, low-pressure, particle-free environments needed by
makers of semiconductors as well as solar-energy equipment. Its
shares closed at $8.45 on the Nasdaq Stock Market on Aug. 16.
The ADR’s traded at the equivalent of $11.33 in  Germany  as of
10:42 a.m. local time.  Edwards’ two largest shareholders are CCMP Capital Advisors
LLC, the former private-equity unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and
Unitas Capital Pte, an Asian buyout firm, which hold equal
stakes of more than 42 percent each, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The board of Edwards unanimously recommends the
offer, which will be financed using existing funds with closing
in the first quarter of 2014.  Including debt of $400 million, Atlas Copco is paying about
6.42 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Industrial deals in the U.K. have attracted
multiples of 8.69 times earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Barclays and Lazard acted as financial advisers to Edwards
on the transaction. Legal advisers to Edwards are Davis Polk &
Wardwell London LLP, Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and Maples &
Calder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net 
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  