-- Aussie Dollar Rises to 3-Week High Before RBA Minutes Tomorrow
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-19T07:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/aussie-trades-near-three-week-high-before-rba-minutes-tomorrow.html
Australia ’s dollar rose to a three-week high on speculation minutes tomorrow of the Reserve Bank’s
meeting this month will signal the central bank is in no hurry
to cut interest rates.  The Aussie advanced for a fourth day after traders pared
bets for further declines in the currency. Australia’s benchmark
 10-year (GACGB10)  government bond yielded the most in eight weeks. New
Zealand’s dollar gained against all of its major peers as
traders increased bets borrowing costs will rise.  “It was very helpful for the Aussie that the RBA sounded
more neutral in August,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney, said of the
central bank’s statement earlier this month. “The timing
doesn’t seem right for a rout of the Aussie dollar.”  The Australian currency gained 0.2 percent to 92.06 U.S.
cents as of 5:06 p.m. in Sydney from Aug. 16, after touching
92.33, the highest since July 29. New Zealand’s dollar advanced
0.4 percent to 81.33 U.S. cents, after touching 81.42, the
strongest since May 29.  The Aussie rose 0.4 percent to 89.91 yen. The kiwi
strengthened 0.5 percent to 79.43 yen.  The yield on Australia’s 10-year government bond rose as
high as 4.03 percent, a level unseen since June 24.  Traders trimmed record positions betting on declines in the
Aussie versus the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. The difference in
the number of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators
on a drop compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts 
-- was 62,721 as of Aug. 13, compared with an all-time high of
76,779 a week earlier.  “Momentum has moved against those positions,” said
Westpac’s Callow. “The market was really excessively bearish.”  Biggest Decliner  The Aussie has gained 0.5 percent in the past week,
trimming to 9.5 percent the drop over the past six months that
makes it the biggest loser among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s
dollar added 1.5 percent in the last week, the most on the
indexes, reducing its six-month loss to 1.3 percent.  The RBA cut the benchmark lending rate to a record-low 2.5
percent on Aug. 6. Traders see 54 percent odds that the central
bank will lower borrowing costs again this year,  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a 64
percent implied probability a week earlier.  RBA Minutes  The central bank is signaling that further cuts “would
require a material deterioration in the outlook, beyond that
embodied in the Statement on Monetary Policy,”  Kieran Davies ,
the chief economist at Barclays Plc in Sydney, wrote in a
research note today. The minutes “should shed some light” on
the shift to the less dovish tone, according to the note.  The RBA said in its quarterly policy outlook statement on
Aug. 9 that gross domestic product will grow 2.25 percent in the
year to December 2013, compared with 2.5 percent forecast three
months earlier. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News is for a 2.5 percent expansion. The economy grew
3.6 percent in 2012.  Traders see a 24 percent chance that the Reserve Bank of
New Zealand will raise the benchmark lending rate from a record-low 2.5 percent by the end of this year, according to swaps
data. A week earlier, the odds of an increase were 21 percent.  New Zealand’s services industries expanded at the fastest
pace in nine months in July, Business New Zealand and Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. said today. Producer input and output prices
rose in the second quarter from the three months before,
according to Statistics New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  