-- Blackstone Said in Talks to Buy Stake in Goldman’s U.K. Insurer
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-08-18T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/blackstone-said-in-talks-to-buy-stake-in-goldman-s-rothesay-unit.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, is in talks to buy a stake in
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s European insurance business,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The price and size of the stake to be acquired by
Blackstone’s Tactical Opportunities fund are being discussed,
and a deal still may not be reached, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the negotiations are private. The
companies were considering the sale of a minority stake, the
Financial Times reported Aug. 16, citing people familiar with
the matter.  Goldman Sachs, which said it probably will sell a majority
of London-based Rothesay Life Ltd., is doing so in part because
new rules require banks to hold more equity to absorb potential
losses on assets, a person briefed on the discussions said
earlier this month. The business, run by Goldman Sachs partner
Addy Loudiadis, 50, insures more than 10 billion pounds ($15.6
billion) of pension liabilities for companies including IAG SA’s
British Airways.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, and  Michael DuVally  at Goldman Sachs declined to
comment on the potential deal.  The Tactical Opportunities fund, which oversaw $2.7 billion
as of April, invests across Blackstone’s four main strategies:
private equity, real estate, credit and  hedge funds . It’s led by
 David Blitzer , 43, a senior managing director who started the
firm’s European  private-equity  business in 2002.  Basel Rules  Rothesay, which Goldman Sachs set up in 2007, had $9.66
billion of assets at the end of the second quarter, an Aug. 8
filing shows. The unit had a pretax operating profit of 266
million pounds in 2012, according to its  website .  Goldman Sachs’s Tier 1 common equity was equal to 9.3
percent of the bank’s risk-weighted assets at the end of June
under new rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
known as Basel III, according to the filing. The New York-based
bank has said it wants to maintain a ratio of about 9.5 percent,
or 1 percentage point higher than regulators will require.  The firm’s Tier 1 common equity was reduced by $9.87
billion because of investments in nonconsolidated financial
institutions, according to the filing. That brought its Basel
III figure to $55.8 billion, compared with $61.9 billion under
current rules.  Insurance Insider reported earlier that Goldman Sachs and
Blackstone were discussing a deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in  New York  at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  