-- Bo Xilai Set to Face Trial This Week as Historic Case Nears End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-18T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/bo-xilai-trial-set-for-aug-22-in-jinan-xinhua-says.html
Bo Xilai, the former Politburo
member charged with bribery and abuse of power, will go on trial
on Aug. 22, bringing the Communist Party’s gravest scandal in
more than 20 years a step closer to its conclusion.  Bo will face trial in the eastern Chinese city of Jinan in
Shandong province at 8:30 a.m., the official Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday. He will face charges of bribery, graft and abuse
of power, according to Xinhua.  While a not-guilty verdict is unlikely, Bo’s trial is set
to be the most politically charged since Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s
wife, Jiang Qing, was prosecuted more than three decades ago for
her role in the Cultural Revolution. Bo’s downfall, and his
wife’s 2012 conviction for the murder of a British businessman,
marked the biggest political scandal for the party since the
1989 Tiananmen Square protests.  Bo was formally charged last month by the prosecutor’s
office in Jinan, the Shandong capital, more than 16 months after
he was removed from his post as the party boss of southwestern
China’s Chongqing municipality.  “Defendant Bo Xilai used his official state position to
seek benefits, illegally accepted an extremely huge amount of
property from others, embezzled a huge amount of public money,
and abused his power, resulting in huge losses to the nation and
the people,” Xinhua reported last month, citing Bo’s
indictment. “The circumstances are extremely serious.”  Princeling Class  As the son of former Vice Premier  Bo Yibo , one of the
“eight immortals” of the Communist Party, Bo, like President
Xi Jinping, belongs to the princeling class of second-generation
officials whose families are tied together through decades of
shared experiences, alliances and patronage. His trial follows
the August 2012 conviction of his wife, Gu Kailai, for murdering
Neil Heywood after a one-day trial that produced a suspended
death sentence.  Heywood’s family is seeking at least 30 million  yuan  ($4.9
million) in compensation for his death, the Wall Street Journal
reported Aug. 13. In a statement to the newspaper, Heywood’s
mother Ann said she was disappointed the Chinese authorities
hadn’t responded in a substantive way despite “repeated
approaches.”  Bo’s ouster has focused attention on the accumulation of
wealth by the politically connected. The extended families of Bo
and Gu, for example, built a fortune of at least $136 million in
company shares and property, according to regulatory and
corporate filings.  ‘Strike Black’  A former commerce minister and governor of northeastern
 China ’s Liaoning province, Bo, 64, rose to prominence for his
moves in Chongqing to boost social spending and state-led
financing. His crackdown on organized crime, called “da hei,”
or “strike black,” was a cornerstone of his tenure. Bo won
praise from China’s top leaders, including Xi, who  flocked to
Chongqing  to study his policies.  Rare for Chinese politicians, Bo attracted admirers across
the country. Supporters unfurled a banner in Chinese that read
“Secretary Bo, corrupt and incompetent officials envy you, the
people love you,” outside a courthouse in Guiyang on Jan. 28,
where some media reports said his trial would be held.  Once seen as a possible candidate for the ruling Politburo
Standing Committee, Bo was expelled from the party in September.
The party said he took bribes throughout his career and abused
his power in the homicide case against his wife, Xinhua reported
at the time. He also had improper sexual relations with “a
number” of women, Xinhua reported.  The People’s Daily published a page-one commentary July 26
on Bo’s case, saying the prosecution shows the new leaders are
serious about cracking down on corruption even in the highest
levels of government.  ‘Severely Punished’  “People will be held accountable and severely punished if
they break the law, no matter who they are, no matter whether
their power is great or small, no matter whether their positions
are high or low,” the unsigned commentary said.  Bo was ousted as party secretary of Chongqing in March 2012
and accused of violating party discipline after his former
police chief fled to a U.S. consulate with evidence that Gu
helped plot Heywood’s murder, after they clashed over financial
issues, Xinhua reported last year. The police chief, Wang Lijun,
was given 15 years in prison in September for trying to cover up
the killing.  In a separate development, Xinhua yesterday cited Supreme
People’s Procuratorate of China as saying Liu Tienan, a former
vice chairman of China’s National Development and Reform
Commission, is under investigation on suspicion of taking
bribes. The Communist Party announced earlier this month it had
expelled Liu after finding that he and his relatives took huge
bribes.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  