-- Brazil World Cup to Buoy Birla’s Aluminum Sales: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-08-18T18:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/brazil-world-cup-to-buoy-birla-s-aluminum-sales-corporate-india.html
Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , the
world’s biggest supplier of aluminum for cans, is counting on
next year’s soccer World Cup and the 2016 summer Olympics in
Brazil to buoy demand amid sagging sales at home in  India .  Novelis Inc., a unit of the company controlled by
billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla, has spent about $340 million
in the South American country to expand recycling and rolled
aluminum capacities, Vice Chairman Debnarayan Bhattacharya said
in an interview. Novelis, which supplies to the world’s biggest
drinks-can maker  Rexam (REX)  Plc, and to Coca-Cola Co. and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , started its new capacity in Brazil last month.  “We expect a surge in consumption and with football World
Cup and the Olympics coming consecutively, I have no doubt that
we will do very well,” he said. “Hopefully we will start
serving from  Brazil ’s expanded unit in another month or so.”  Struggling with falling prices caused by a global surplus
of the metal and Indian sales that fell to a two-year low in the
quarter to June 30, Hindalco is looking at events like the  FIFA
World Cup  that attract visitors from around the world and drive
consumption of soft drinks and beer. During the London Olympics
in 2012, Coca-Cola, the No. 1 beverage company, had estimated it
would serve 23 million drinks over an eight-week period,
equivalent of about 338 tons of aluminum if served in cans.  Sheet Expansion  Novelis on July 30 opened its expanded aluminum rolling
operations in Pindamonhangaba,  Sao Paulo . The expansion
increases production capacity at the plant by more than 50
percent to over 600,000 metric tons of aluminum sheet a year in
the largest capital expansion by the company in the continent in
the past decade.  The company is targeting to sell 60,000 tons from the new
unit this fiscal year, Steve Fisher, chief financial officer
said in an earnings call on Aug. 12. The company is ramping up
the unit to be able to meet rising demand, Philip Martens, chief
executive officer said on the same call.  “With our expansion, we will be able to keep pace with the
demands of our customers who are also investing in building
capacities,” Bhattacharya said. He didn’t give details of
expected earnings from sales during the  World Cup  and Olympics.  The facility is an integrated hot rolling, cold rolling and
recycling complex located in the state of Sao Paulo, midway
between the major cities of Sao Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro .
Novelis, the Atlanta-based unit, also operates a foil mill and
two aluminum smelters in Brazil.  Largest Market  London-listed Rexam raised its capacity at Brazil’s Belem
unit early this year to make 800 million more cans. Brazil is
the largest beverage can market in the region, it said on its
website. The FIFA Confederations Cup in 2013, the FIFA World Cup
in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016 are all set to simulate further
beverage can consumption, it said.  “The sporting events may lead to higher spending and more
sales but these will be short-term,”  Rahul Jain , an analyst at
CIMB Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai, said in a phone interview.
“The specialty can market is doing well but the general
 consumer spending  is weak.”  Aluminum prices have declined 6.2 percent this year and
reached the lowest level since 2009 in June because supply is
exceeding demand. About 25 percent of the global capacity is
unprofitable on a cash-cost basis, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in
a report on July 18.  Global Surplus  The metal will be in surplus next year by 1.17 million
metric tons, widening from 870,000 tons in 2013, Barclays Plc
said in a report the same day. The industry’s cost-based price,
linked to the average production expense, is $2,300 a ton,
according to Moscow-based United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest
producer. The benchmark LME contract for delivery in three
months traded recently at $1,945.  Hindalco’s sales in India declined in four of the past five
quarters while net profit has dropped in six of seven, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the Mumbai-based
company have  slumped  28 percent this year, compared with a 4.3
percent loss in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index. The stock
fell 4.7 percent to 93.55 rupees on Aug. 13.  Of the 50 analysts who track the stock, 20  recommend  buying
it while 16 favor selling, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Novelis is facing “headwinds” because of weak demand in
 North America  and margin pressure in  Asia  because of higher
capacity in  China , Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. said in a
 research note  dated Aug. 16. The unit’s adjusted earnings before
interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization, fell 21 percent
in the quarter ended June 30 to $204 million, while Hindalco’s
standalone EBIDTA was at an 11-year low, according to the note.  Time Away  “We believe earnings performance has a huge scope for
improvement,” the brokerage said in the report. With Hindalco
in the midst of a $6 billion expansion in India and $1.5 billion
at Novelis, “returns are still some time away.”  Novelis, which saw a 9 percent decline in adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization in the
fiscal year ended March 31, is a monopoly producer of flat
rolled products in Brazil. The challenge in Brazil is to
commission projects at “faster than anticipated” pace to meet
expected demand in the second half of the year, Martens said on
the Aug. 12 call.  Fully Contracted  Each year, more than 280 billion beverage cans are
manufactured worldwide, and more than 85 percent of them are
made from aluminum, according to  Novelis ’ website. The company
is the largest recycler of the light-weight metal, including
around 40 billion cans annually.  The 2010 World Cup in  South Africa  attracted 309,000
visitors during the tournament, with fans spending 3.6 billion
rand ($360 million) on hotels, while the London Olympics of 2012
provided a 9.9 billion-pound ($15.5 billion) boost to business
in the year since they were held, according to estimates from
the U.K. government last month.  “The second half of the fiscal year in Brazil is expected
to be very strong and our available capacity in the region is
already fully contracted in the third and fourth quarters,”
Martens said. “There is a strong market demand in  South America 
in the near term, mostly driven by the World Cup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  