-- Cairo Carnage Mixes With Weddings as Strife Is New Normal
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2013-08-19T10:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/cairo-carnage-mixes-with-weddings-as-strife-is-new-normal.html
In the chaos that engulfed Cairo
over the past few days, looters broke into Nadet’s Beauty Salon,
smashing the glass façade and making off with padded chairs, the
LCD TV and buckets of L’Oreal hair conditioner, leaving behind
bullet holes and muddy footprints.  Yesterday afternoon, the first day of calm after four days
of violence that left over 900 people dead across  Egypt ,
hairdresser Magda Abdel-Fattah had dragged in a few office
chairs to place in front of the mirrors, and Asmaa Ibrahim was
getting her hair done.  “If I weren’t travelling, I wouldn’t have come here at
all,” said Ibrahim, 34, a teacher preparing for a trip to Saudi
Arabia.  Less than a block away, the ruins of the Rabaa Mosque were
smoldering, and bored policemen in black uniforms played Arabic
pop music on their mobile phones. They half-heartedly asked
passers-by for ID as their eyes followed a group of women in
jeans and tight t-shirts.  This is the paradox of Cairo today, where the familiar can
turn suddenly frightening as residents try to reclaim the
routines of daily life. Little girls in the back of a canary-yellow sedan joke and laugh, then burst into tears as the car
approaches a barbed-wire roadblock. Men out for an evening
stroll appear grandfatherly, until a casually slung assault
rifle slips into view. Young men hamming it up pose for cell
phone pictures, their backdrop a mosque pockmarked with bullet
holes.  Car Carcasses  “I think of it as flexibility and strategies for survival
-- maintaining normal life activities as much as possible under
abnormal circumstances,” said Ahdaf Soueif, a political
commentator and author of Cairo: My City, Our Revolution.
“We’ve lived in extraordinary circumstances for some 30 months
now,” since former President  Hosni Mubarak  was deposed.  A heavy military presence means demonstrations are quickly
isolated, but around the areas of protest, the city looks like a
warzone, with the carcasses of burnt cars strewn by the
roadside. Near Al-Fath mosque, where until Aug. 17 hundreds of
protestors had holed up, four sand-colored tanks kept watch over
the deserted and locked-up compound.  Around a corner, Nasser Ahmed, 50, had reopened his
stationery shop, selling staplers and notebooks in a tiny
alleyway.  “It was like a war on Friday” with bullets whistling by
his shop and spent rounds littering the streets, he said.  Hookah Smokers  A few minutes away, women shop for groceries and men puff
on hookahs on streets crowded with pedestrians. On the roads
lining the Nile, wedding processions honk the horns of BMW and
Mercedes sedans festooned with bouquets.  The slow return to normal, though, masks the underlying
fear of many in a city on edge from conflicting news reports and
rumors spread by text message.  “When we sleep, even a child’s fire-crackers scare us,”
said Soad Khalil, 65, shopping for diapers in Shubra, a lower-income suburb, her daughter-in-law and four-month-old
granddaughter in tow. They’d spent three days holed up at home,
the door to their building padlocked to keep out thugs, she
said.  The fear extends to the supporters of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi, blamed by the Egyptian military-led interim
government for the violence of recent weeks. After a weekend of
mourning the dead from government attacks on protest sites, the
Muslim Brotherhood had called for a day of marches in Cairo.  Hesistant Marchers  At 4 p.m. yesterday, about 100 people filed out of a 
mosque on El Sadek Street, the starting point for a planned 
protest. Instead of heaving crowds, a smattering of hesitant 
marchers milled about, fretting over reports that snipers might
be positioned along the streets leading to their destination,
Roxy Square.  The Brotherhood called off that march, and the would-be
protestors made their way home, their eyes darting to rooftops
sprouting satellite dishes and water tanks. Elsewhere in the
city, opponents of the interim government did gather in four
marches, demanding the return of Mursi, who has been jailed and
charged with espionage.  “People are trying to live their daily lives as normal,”
said Mohamed Mostafa, 47, who owns a market research company.
“When you go to Ramsis it was like civil war, but outside these
areas, you don’t see anything.”  Last week, he took his daughters and wife to see the
protesters at nearby Rabaa Square; he ended up carting a dead
man, shot through the head, in the back seat of his van.  “This is my life now,” he said.  Neighborhood Checkpoints  Cairo turns even more ominous as the sun sets. Districts
have tried to close themselves off to outsiders as a city-wide
curfew drives residents indoors. Unofficial neighborhood watch
committees set up roadblocks, armed with clubs and makeshift
weapons. They stop cars, often by standing in the middle of the
road, and force passengers to disembark for searches. Drivers
try to make it home before curfew duck through side streets to
skirt the checkpoints. The government said yesterday it’s
banning local groups from such activities.  Even in the quietest parts of the city, the walls offer a
different sign of conflict: graffiti. “Exclusive: Lies on State
Television,” reads one quip. Another says, “C.C., you’re
better off ruling over your wife,” a reference to General Abdel Fattah Al-Seesi, the army chief and minister of defense.  Near Rabaa Mosque, Sohaib Yasser, 21, was contemplating the
wreckage of his car, a late-model Subaru. It had been shoved off
the road by a bulldozer as the military cleared the roads
leading to the mosque last week. Dented and dusty, its windows
shattered, he had loaded it onto a tow-truck.  “I have the get the bullet hole fixed too,” he said,
pointing to one on the back.  And then, as his friends laughed, he cracked a big smile.  “Maybe then,” he said, “I can take a girl out in it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in Cairo at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  