-- McCain Says He Sees Long Period of Unrest in Egypt
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-08-18T16:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/mccain-says-he-sees-long-period-of-unrest-in-egypt.html
Republican Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona  predicted “a long period” of unrest and repression in
Egypt in the face of U.S. inaction following the Egyptian
military’s coup that deposed President Mohamed Mursi.  “We have no credibility,” after failing to follow through
on the Democratic Obama administration’s threat to cut off aid,
McCain, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said on CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” program.  With U.S.-supplied “Apache helicopters flying overhead,
nothing is more symbolic of the  United States of America  siding
with the generals,” McCain said.  Senators McCain of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham , a South
Carolina Republican, have led a push for the U.S. to suspend all
aid to Egypt to pressure authorities to halt a civil conflict
that, over four days, has killed more than 800 people, including
173 since Aug. 16, and injured thousands.  Graham said Egypt is going to become a “failed state.” He
said the U.S. should suspend aid because “we can’t support the
reaction of the military.” He said aid should be suspended
until there is a democratic transition.  “Where are we headed? We’re headed for  Algeria ,” Graham
said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “The Brotherhood
will go underground. Al-Qaeda will come to their aid. And you’re
going to have an armed insurgency, not protesters on your hands,
in the next six -- 60 days or 90 days. And we’re going to have a
failed state in Egypt.”  Senators Rebuffed  With the approval of U.S. President  Barack Obama , McCain
and Graham visited Cairo earlier this month and met with top
officials including army chief Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who led the
overthrow of Mursi, the elected president, on July 3. The
senators asked Egypt’s government to release Mursi and other
political prisoners in order to diffuse tensions. Their
suggestion was rebuffed by interim President Adly Mansour.  McCain said that, with “Iraq unraveling,” chemical
weapons being used in  Syria , and  Iran  pursuing its nuclear
program, the U.S. has become “more hated, less respected” in
the region.  “We are losing all across the region,” McCain said on
CNN. “There is no policy; there is no strategy.”  American Weakness  Senator  Rand Paul , a Republican from  Kentucky , said the
U.S. should end aid to  Egypt  because it is not “buying any love
of the Egyptian people.”  “It has to end,” Paul said on the “Fox News Sunday”
program. “We don’t have it and it’s counterproductive and it
shows nothing but American weakness to continue it.”  Obama on Aug. 15 announced the cancellation joint military
exercises between the U.S. and Egypt scheduled for next month
and said his national security team will assess “further steps
that we may take as necessary.” Obama, though condemning the
violent crackdown, left intact $1.3 billion a year in U.S.
military aid.  While the administration has so far declined to call
Mursi’s ouster a coup d’etat, shielding Egypt from a U.S. law
that would mandate an aid cutoff, the Washington Post reported
officials are considering whether to show their displeasure by
halting a delivery of Apache AH-64D aircraft scheduled for next
month. The helicopters are part of an $820 million, 12-aircraft
order dating from 2009, the newspaper said.  Leverage Overestimated  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said the U.S.
has “overestimated what our leverage was,” and that it’s
“time for us to recalibrate and look at what is our national
interest.”  Representative  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat from
 Connecticut , said aid should be released in blocks conditioned
on certain steps, while Republican  Peter King  of  New York  said
the U.S. “certainly shouldn’t cut off all aid.”  “I would be reluctant to be cutting off aid,” King, a
member of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Fox.
“Obviously we should use as a bargaining wedge; we should lean
on the military to the extent as we can.”  Representative Eliot Engel of New York, the senior Democrat
on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, agreed with King on
ABC’s “This Week” program.  “Egypt’s an important country, and I think we have to be
very, very careful before we willy-nilly just cut off aid,” he
said on ABC.  Minaret Gunman  Egyptian police and troops yesterday fired tear gas into
the al-Fath Mosque in Ramses Square in central Cairo, where
hundreds of Mursi supporters were holed up, in scenes televised
live by  Al Jazeera . Forces were also shown firing at gunmen atop
one the mosque’s minarets.  The military-backed government said yesterday it would seek
a “legal framework” to dissolve the Muslim Brotherhood, the
organization started in the 1920s of which Mursi has been a
leader. Egyptian forces also arrested 56 Brotherhood members
yesterday across the country, MENA reported.  The National Coalition for Legitimacy, made up of the
Brotherhood and its Islamist supporters, said in an e-mailed
statement that protests would take place at the court.  The military attacks against the country’s main Islamist
group are part of campaign that began last week which has killed
at least 800 people and injured thousands, according to the
Health Ministry. Among the dead is Ammar Badie, the son of the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Supreme Guide Mohammed Badie, the group’s
political arm said in a statement.  The violence was sparked by the Aug. 14 storming by police
of two pro-Mursi protest camps. Before the crackdown, about 200
people had been killed in clashes between protesters and
security forces since Mursi’s ouster and detention by the army.  The military assumed responsibility for order as a state of
emergency and curfews were declared after the raids. The
government authorized security forces to use live ammunition to
repel attacks on personnel or government buildings, and says it
won’t allow any more sit-ins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  