-- China July Home Prices Rise as Nation Seeks Long-Term Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-19T08:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/china-s-july-home-prices-rise-as-nation-seeks-long-term-measures.html
China ’s new  home prices  rose the
most since January 2011 in the nation’s four major cities, led
by a 17 percent jump in Guangzhou and Shenzhen, on speculation
the government will refrain from imposing tighter curbs.  Beijing and  Shanghai  prices both increased 14 percent in
July as 69 of 70 cities tracked by the government climbed from a
year earlier, according to a statement by the National Bureau of
Statistics yesterday. For the third month in a row, the eastern
city of Wenzhou was the only one to post a decline.  “The new leadership seems to have a higher tolerance for
rising home prices than the previous government,” Ding Shuang,
a senior China economist at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong , said in
an interview yesterday. “It’s unlikely that the government will
issue nationwide curbs or ease policies. The government will
likely aim at long-term policies by increasing more supply.”  China will seek “stable and healthy” development of the
 property market , the government said on its website after a
meeting last month led by President  Xi Jinping , who took over
the helm earlier this year. The government is expected to
release a “long-term mechanism” for stable and healthy
development in about three months, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on Aug. 15, citing Zhu Zhongyi, the deputy head
of the China Real Estate Industry Association.  China’s “long-term” property policies, on which the
government hasn’t elaborated, may include acceleration of
shantytown redevelopment and property taxes in more cities,
Citigroup’s Ding said.  More Land  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index rose 0.5 percent at the close of trading, the smallest
gain among the five industry groups on the  benchmark , which
added 0.8 percent.  Beijing may supply more land for homebuyers who live in
their properties, the  Securities Times  reported today. The near-term policy will help curb prices, the newspaper said.  China also plans to suspend some laws on foreign investment
in proposed new free trade zones including Shanghai as part of
Premier  Li Keqiang ’s drive to open up the economy to sustain
growth. The changes will provide “innovative” ways of opening
up the economy, remove unnecessary administration and help
transform the state’s role in the economy, according to a State
Council statement after an Aug. 16 meeting led by Li.  The premier also said last month fiscal funds should be
used to redevelop shantytowns and improve basic infrastructure
to stabilize the world’s second-largest economy.  The eastern city of Hangzhou in Zhejiang province may
impose a property tax of as much as 1 percent, China Securities
Journal reported today, citing an unidentified person.  Different Mentality  “The new leadership seems to have a different mentality on
property policies,” Jack Gong, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Orient Finance Holdings (H.K.) Ltd., said in a phone
interview yesterday. “They may be less interested in tightening
measures, but allow local governments to release their own
property policies, depending on local situations.”  China in March stepped up a three-year campaign to cool
home prices, with the capital city of Beijing issuing the
toughest measures among 35 provincial cities. Beijing became the
only region to raise the minimum down payment on second homes to
70 percent from 60 percent and to enforce a 20 percent capital-gains tax on existing homes.  Existing home prices rose 15 percent in Beijing last month
from a year earlier and increased 11 percent in both Shanghai
and Guangzhou, according to the data.  More Signals  Private data also showed rising values. Home prices jumped
7.9 percent from a year earlier last month, according to  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  The government will have to tolerate gains in property
prices in the short term with slower economic growth and as
fiscal revenue “underperformed” in the first half, Zhang Zhiwei, a Hong Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in an e-mailed response to queries
yesterday.  The value of home sales fell 17 percent in July from June,
the statistics bureau reported Aug. 9.  Some smaller cities have already started easing some of the
policies designed to restrain price gains. The eastern city of
Wenzhou is “fine tuning” its home purchase restriction by
allowing second-home purchases by some local residents, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 15, citing a local
housing bureau official. Yancheng in Jiangsu province suspended
limits on housing prices as the supply of homes increased, the
official People’s Daily newspaper reported on July 23.  Wenzhou’s home prices fell 2.4 percent last month from a
year earlier, according to the data.  Home prices will stabilize in the second half of the year
as the government focuses on the long-term development of the
market rather than cracking down on it, Yu Liang, president of
 China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s biggest developer on the mainland
exchanges, said Aug. 9.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  