-- Corn-Crop Cuts Seen Premature as Goldman Predicts Record
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-08-19T07:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/corn-crop-cuts-by-usda-seen-premature-as-goldman-predicts-record.html
Government forecasters may have to
reverse three straight months of lower U.S. corn-crop  estimates 
as warm weather and near-record planting spur Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to predict a record crop.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture on Aug. 12 said output
this year will be 13.763 billion bushels (349.6 million metric
tons), down 2.7 percent from what it expected in May, after rain
delayed planting and low temperatures slowed growth. With most
fields two months from harvest, Goldman said normal weather
until then will yield 14.14 billion bushels, and Deutsche Bank
forecast 14.25 billion, up 6.4 percent from June.  Farmers sowed the most acres since 1936 after rain delays
in April and May. Prospects of an output rebound after the 2012
drought sent prices to a 35-month low on Aug. 13, cutting costs
for buyers including Tyson Foods Inc. Christina McGlone at
Deutsche Bank says the USDA will boost its forecast of the crop,
which the Professional Farmers of America starts surveying today
in its tour of more than 1,000 Midwest farms.  “We are going to harvest a record corn crop,” said Dave Smoldt, a vice president for FCStone LLC in West Des Moines,
 Iowa , who predicts a harvest of 13.993 billion bushels. “There
are high plant populations, and the cool temperatures have
helped corn yields. The crop needs the warmer weather and more
rain to finish strong.”  Corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade tumbled 32
percent this year to $4.7425 a bushel on Aug. 16, capping the
biggest drop among 24 commodities tracked by the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index, which rose 0.5 percent. Last year, corn
reached $8.49, the highest ever, after drought damaged yields.  Record Crop  Even after reducing forecasts every month since May, when
the USDA estimated the crop at 14.14 billion bushels, the
government is anticipating the biggest harvest ever, up 28
percent from last year’s 10.78 billion. The U.S. is the largest
grower and exporter.  The reduction in the U.S. forecast, a cut equivalent to
4.75 million tons, was more than made up by the USDA’s revised
increases of 3 million tons each for crops in Brazil and
Ukraine, leaving supplies ample and signaling lower prices,
Damien Courvalin, a Goldman analyst in New York, said in an Aug.
12 report. The bank kept its corn forecast unchanged, saying
prices will be at $4.25 in three, six and 12 months.  World output will surge 11 percent to a record 957.15
million tons, exceeding demand by 27.06 million tons, the
biggest surplus in 17 years, USDA data show. Inventories before
next year’s harvest will jump 22 percent to a 13-year high of
150.17 million.  Cheaper Food  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased their
net-short position, or bets on lower prices, to a record 123,211
Chicago futures and options contracts as of Aug. 13, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. The net holdings
have been bearish since early July.  Plunging corn futures sparked a grain slump that helped
send global food costs to a 13-month low in July, UN data show.
Cheaper livestock feed helped boost profit at  Tyson (TSN) , the largest
U.S. meat processor. The Springdale, Arkansas-based company
reported earnings Aug. 5 that topped analysts forecasts, fueled
by record profit in its chicken unit and wider margins on beef.
The shares are up 62 percent this year.  More than 120 analysts, traders, farmers and processors
will inspect farms in  Ohio , Indiana, Illinois, Iowa,  Nebraska ,
South Dakota and  Minnesota  over the next four days as part of
the 21st annual Pro Farmer crop tour. The farm newsletter will
compile the inspection findings into daily summaries and then
release its own estimate of the U.S. crop size Aug. 23.  “The crop potential is strong, and we believe that the
corn yield will be revised up in subsequent reports,
particularly in  Indiana , Nebraska, Illinois and South Dakota,”
Deutsche Bank’s McGlone said in an Aug. 12 report. Her forecast
is up from 13.395 billion bushels in June.  Freeze Risk  Not everyone is expecting the crop to improve, or that it
will be mature enough to harvest before the first freeze.
Planalytics Inc., a Wayne, Pennsylvania-based researcher that
uses satellite images to make production forecasts, said Aug. 16
that it expects yields of 154.5 bushels an acre, matching the
USDA’s Aug. 12 estimate. Goldman forecast 161 bushels, and
Deutsche Bank predicted 160.8.  U.S. farmers filed crop-insurance claims on 3.41 million
acres that they were unable to plant because of excessive rain,
up from 262,467 last year, according to an Aug. 15 USDA report
that sent corn prices to their biggest gain in five weeks.
Bennett Meier and Alan H. Lee, analysts at Morgan Stanley in New
York, said in a report that the data “support our claim that
official U.S. acreage estimates are too optimistic” and that
the harvest will be about 13.513 billion bushels.  Delayed Growth  Crops slowed by delayed planting and cool temperatures are
more vulnerable to yield damage from a freeze this year, said
Mike Day, the president of Rural Community Insurance Services, a
crop-insurance subsidiary at Wells Fargo & Co., the largest U.S.
farm lender.  About 32 percent the crop in the top 18 growing states was
beginning to fill  kernels  with sugars and starch as of Aug. 11,
down from 78 percent a year earlier and 48 percent on average
the prior five years, the USDA said. Crop  ratings  last week
declined in four of the seven states tour participants will
visit because of drier weather. The government will update its
assessments today.  Weather patterns this summer haven’t allowed the Northern
Hemisphere to warm up normally, and reports from the arctic
suggest ice accumulations are way ahead of recent years,
increasing the risks of an early freeze and damage to immature
corn plants in September,  World Weather Inc.  said in a report
Aug. 15 to clients.  Behind Normal  “Farmers who received rain the past month are looking at
some huge yield potentials, but if they missed the rain, the
conditions are declining,” said Scott Docherty, the general
manager for Top Flight Cooperative in Monticello,  Illinois ,
which buys more than 34 million bushels of corn and soybeans
annually in five counties from Decatur to Champaign. “The other
concern is the lateness of the crops, which are at least two
weeks behind normal and more susceptible to freeze damage.”  USDA data already shows fields have the third-highest plant
populations ever with 27,500 ears per acre, compared with a
record 27,750 in 2009. Ear weights were estimated at 0.32 pound
(0.15 kilogram), up from last year’s drought-reduced total of
0.27 pound. The record was 0.345 pound in 2009. A bushel of corn
weighs 56 pounds.  Government estimates have been based on limited data,
partly because planting delays left too many immature plants,
said  Dale Durchholz , the senior market analyst for AgriVisor LLC
in Bloomington, Illinois. More field data collected in
September, October and November will find higher yield potential
because grain weights will be bigger, he said.  Underestimating Potential  Because the crop was more immature than normal, the USDA’s
Aug. 12 forecast was based on a five-year average for estimating
ear weight, Durchholz said. That figure included 2012, which was
20 percent below average, implying the government has
underestimated yield potential, he said.  The number of higher-yielding fields will exceed the low-yielding ones because Midwest  temperatures  were as much as 6
degrees Fahrenheit below normal in the past four weeks, which
allowed improved corn reproduction even as they slowed
development, said Terry Gardner, the director of marketing for
 DuPont Co. (DD) ’s Pioneer unit, the world’s second-biggest seed
producer. A warm spell expected this week will accelerate the
filling of kernels with starch, he said.  “The corn crop is looking pretty good in general, outside
of the drowned-out areas in parts of Iowa and Minnesota,”
Gardner said. Production also will get a boost from widespread
use of hybrid seeds, which “are better able to handle the
weather conditions, disease and pests,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  