-- Egypt Defense Chief Says Army Will Fight to Protect State
-- B y   T a r e k   E l   T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-19T07:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/egypt-defense-chief-says-army-won-t-allow-state-destruction-1-.html
Egypt ’s defense chief said the
military won’t permit the destruction of the state as the death
toll from violence in recent days climbed to almost 900.  The remarks by Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi came
amid reports that at least 36 detainees were killed while en
route to prison. Supporters of deposed President Mohamed Mursi
again held protests yesterday on the heels of days of violence
unleashed with the security forces’ breakup of pro-Mursi
encampments on Aug. 14.  The latest deaths occurred yesterday as gunmen exchanged
fire with guards of a convoy carrying more than 612 people
detained in Cairo, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  said.
The incident offered another example of the rising stakes in
Egypt’s political fight since Mursi’s ouster on July 3 and the
ensuing crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood.  An earlier statement by the  Interior Ministry , posted on
its website, said detainees were Brotherhood members who were in
custody and tried to escape while being transported to Abu
Zaabal prison in Qalyubia province.  The conflicting accounts couldn’t be immediately
reconciled. The Anti-Coup Alliance, which groups the Brotherhood
and its Islamist allies, said in an e-mailed statement that the
deaths demonstrate the “rights violations and poor treatment to
which detained opponents of the July 3rd coup are exposed.”  Stocks Drop  Egyptian shares fell the most in two months yesterday,
while borrowing costs rose for the first time in seven weeks at
an auction.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index slumped 3.9 percent, the most
since June 12, to 5,334.55 at the close in Cairo. Egypt sold 5.5
billion pounds at an auction of treasury bills yesterday, with
the yield on  three-month notes  rising 18 basis points from last
week to 11.44 percent, according to central bank data on
Bloomberg.  Al-Seesi, who has become an iconic figure to many Egyptians
since announcing Mursi’s ouster, said the military was
determined to push ahead with Egypt’s transition to democracy
and ensuring that it was a nation where all had the chance to
choose their leader.  “We will not remain silent before the destruction of the
country and the people, and the torching of the nation,” al-Seesi said in an address yesterday on state television.  EU Meeting  The days of bloodshed drew international condemnation, with
the European Union saying yesterday it will “urgently review”
relations with the Arab world’s most-populous nation. Senior
diplomats from the 28-nation bloc will meet today to coordinate
a response in a gathering that could lead to an EU foreign
ministers meeting, according to EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton ’s office.  The U.S. has taken initial steps to withhold economic
assistance without cutting off the much larger military aid
provided, the  New York  Times reported, citing officials in
President  Barack Obama ’s administration it didn’t identify. For
the year, the administration proposed $250 million in economic
assistance, compared with $1.3 billion for the military.  Under Review  “All of our assistance to Egypt is currently under review,
and we will consider additional steps as we deem necessary,”
Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the National Security
Council, said in an e-mail when asked about the report. “At
this point, no additional decisions have been made regarding
assistance.”  Republican Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  have led a push for the U.S. to suspend
all aid to Egypt to pressure authorities. Egyptian Foreign
Minister Nabil Fahmy condemned talk of cutting aid, saying Egypt
won’t abandon its efforts to restore order.  “We keep hearing if Egypt doesn’t do this or doesn’t do
that, then aid will be stopped here or will be stopped there,”
Fahmy said. “If one side is revising aid they are giving, we
are revising aid we receive as well.”  In remarks aimed at bridging the violent rift over Mursi’s
July 3 ouster, al-Seesi said “there is room for all,”
including Islamists, in Egypt’s political landscape. There will
be “no deviation” from the post-Mursi “road map,” he said.  “Do we choose a nation dismantled or a regime
dismantled?” al-Seesi said. “I’m sure every patriot will
choose a nation to survive and not a regime.”  Al-Seesi’s comments marked the latest effort by the
country’s interim leadership to address the unrest that has
gripped the nation since Mursi’s ouster upended a political
process that saw the  Muslim Brotherhood  evolve from an
opposition movement to the nation’s powerbroker.  Mursi, who was fielded for office last year by the
Brotherhood, was pushed from power by the army chief amid a
mounting outcry against what Egypt’s secularists saw as a power
grab by Islamists.  “We’re not calling for killing of the people, we’re just
protecting our country and people,” al-Seesi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Johannesburg at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  