-- Fitzpatrick Gives England First U.S. Amateur Golf Win Since 1911
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/england-s-matt-fitzpatrick-wins-golf-s-u-s-amateur-championship.html
Matthew Fitzpatrick is bringing
golf’s U.S. Amateur Championship title back to  England  for the
first time in 102 years.  Fitzpatrick, 18, was a 4-and-3 victor over Oliver Goss of
 Australia  in yesterday’s 36-hole final, meaning he had an
insurmountable four-hole lead with three remaining at The
Country Club in Brookline,  Massachusetts .  Fitzpatrick, who was the low amateur finisher at this
year’s British Open, joins Harold Hilton (1911) as the second
Englishman to win the U.S. Amateur Championship. His victory
came two months after Justin Rose became the first Englishman in
43 years to win the U.S. Open.  “It’s absolutely amazing,” Fitzpatrick, who won six
matches in total during the tournament, said of his victory.
“That’s sort of what everyone in golf wants to achieve, and I’m
pretty sure Justin Rose said that after his U.S. Open that it’s
nice to go down in the history books.”  Fitzpatrick, who will be entering his freshman year at
Northwestern University, entered the tournament at No. 2 in the
world amateur ranking. He receives automatic spots in the 2014
U.S. and British Opens as well as a probable invitation to the
Masters Tournament, the season’s first major championship.  The 2012 British Boys champion, Fitzpatrick joins a list of
former U.S. Amateur champions that includes Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson, Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer and Bobby Jones.  The 19-year-old Goss, who earned All-America honors as a
freshman at the University of  Tennessee  last year, also gets a
spot in the U.S. Open by reaching the amateur final. The U.S.
Golf Association runs both events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  