-- Merkel Shuns Opposition Saying No One Wants Grand Coalition
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-08-19T11:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/merkel-rebuffs-opposition-saying-no-one-wants-grand-coalition.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
dismissed the prospect of a post-election alliance with the main
opposition  Social Democratic Party  as the  latest poll  showed her
in a position to reprise her current coalition after the vote.  “Nobody wants that,” Merkel said in an interview with
 broadcaster ZDF  yesterday when asked about the probability of a
repeat of her first-term “grand coalition” with the SPD. “I
hear that from all sides.”  Merkel brushed off the option of a grand coalition as she
seeks to pile pressure on her SPD challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck ,
five weeks before the vote that will determine who wins control
of  Europe ’s biggest economy.  With both candidates stepping up campaigning this week,
Merkel was forced to cancel a planned appearance in the Bavarian
city of Ingolstadt today after a gunman took several people
hostage in the town hall. Police said the incident was unrelated
to her rally, which had been scheduled for 5 p.m.  In her interview, the chancellor predicted that the Sept.
22 vote will be “very, very close,” even as an Emnid poll for
yesterday’s  Bild  newspaper showed her Christian Democratic-led
bloc and its Free Democratic coalition partner with a majority.  “I want to continue the Christian-liberal coalition
because we’ve done a good job,” Merkel told ZDF.  Latest Poll  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , dropped one
percentage point to 40 percent in the weekly Emnid poll for Bild
am Sonntag. The Free Democrats gained a point to 6 percent, a
combined tally that would probably allow a rerun of the current
government if repeated on Election Day.  The SPD lost a point to 24 percent and their Green party
allies were also down a point at 12 percent. The Left Party was
unchanged at 8 percent. Emnid polled 1,883 voters on Aug. 8-14.
No margin of error was given.  Merkel, who has come to the fore of European policy making
during more than three years of the euro-area debt crisis, is
leveraging her popularity with German voters to try and secure a
third term.  Voters are concerned about demographic change and its
effect on pensions as well as the euro-area crisis, said  Michael Fuchs , a CDU deputy parliamentary leader and economy spokesman.  ‘Be Careful’  “They tell us always, ‘Be careful guys, because we can’t
just pay for the world’,” Fuchs said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Francine Lacqua and Manus Cranny.  While Steinbrueck intensifies his assaults on the
chancellor, accusing her at a weekend rally in Berlin of
“managing” rather than “guiding” the nation, Merkel has
avoided a counterattack. In her first campaign appearances last
week, she failed to mention Steinbrueck by name.  “It’s well known who the chancellor candidate is for the
SPD,” Merkel said, when asked about “ignoring” Steinbrueck,
her finance minister during the previous grand coalition from
2005 to 2009. “I worked very well with him for four years as
finance minister and have only the best memories of it.”  She deflected the charge that she’s “demobilizing” the
electorate to remain in power by occupying policy ground
normally associated with the SPD, such as minimum wages and rent
controls. Steinbrueck has accused Merkel of “lulling” voters
into inaction.  “Honesty and clarity” are needed to win over the
electorate, SPD chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  told reporters today.  Coalition Vote  Merkel’s dismissal of a grand coalition comes after Gabriel
raised the prospect of a party-wide vote on any coalition
immediately after the election. While declining to rule out such
a configuration, Steinbrueck has said that he won’t be part of a
government with Merkel.  “I want to experience a new start for this country with
you,” Steinbrueck told a crowd of several thousand in front of
Berlin’s Brandenburg Gate on Aug. 17, part of an outdoor concert
staged for the SPD’s 150th anniversary.  The SPD has started a nationwide mobilization effort to win
back some of the 10 million voters who have drifted away from
the party over the past 15 years. While  polls  have shown Merkel
with a steady lead, the SPD leadership has insisted that the
contest will be decided in the final weeks of the campaign.  Merkel’s finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , returns from
summer vacation to hit the campaign trail today in North Rhine-Westphalia, followed by a four-stop rally in and around Hamburg
tomorrow.  As Schaeuble goes north, the chancellor heads south to
campaign in Bavaria, where her CSU ally is bidding to win an
absolute majority in a state election on Sept. 15 that will be a
bellwether for the federal vote seven days later.  Dachau Visit  Merkel is due to speak in Regensburg this evening, followed
tomorrow by rallies in Erlangen and in Dachau, where she will
visit the site of the former Nazi  concentration camp , the first
sitting German chancellor to do so.  Steinbrueck teams up with former SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder for campaign stops in Detmold tomorrow and in
Schroeder’s home town of Hanover on Aug. 21. In the 2005
election, Schroeder narrowed Merkel’s poll lead -- about 13
points five weeks before the vote -- to just one percentage
point, forcing Merkel into a grand coalition with his party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  