-- EU to Urgently Review Relations With Egypt in Coming Days
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-08-18T09:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/eu-to-urgently-review-relations-with-egypt-in-coming-days.html
The European Union said it will
“urgently review” its relations with  Egypt  as the 28-nation
bloc warned that an escalation of violence in the country could
have unpredictable consequences.  “Together with its  member states , the EU will urgently
review in the coming days its relations with Egypt and adopt
measures aimed at pursuing” the goals of promoting an “end to
violence, resumption of political dialogue and return to a
democratic process,” EU President Herman  Van Rompuy  and
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said today in a joint
statement.  “Further escalation must be prevented,” Van Rompuy and
Barroso said. “It could have unpredictable consequences for
Egypt and for its broader neighborhood.”  The storming of a landmark mosque by the country’s security
forces yesterday was the latest in a four-day campaign that has
killed at least 800 people and injured thousands, according to
the Health Ministry. Security forces yesterday fired tear gas
into the al-Fath mosque, where supporters of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi had been besieged since Aug. 16.  “Recent developments in Egypt, and more particularly the
violence of the last days, are extremely worrying,” Van Rompuy
and Barroso said in the statement. “While all should exert
maximum restraint, we underline the particular responsibility of
the interim authorities and of the army in bringing clashes to a
halt. The violence and the killings of these last days cannot be
justified nor condoned.”  Senior diplomats from the 28 EU governments will meet
tomorrow to seek to coordinate the bloc’s response and may pave
the way to a meeting of EU foreign ministers, according to EU
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton ’s office.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  