-- Everbright Gets China Proprietary Trading Ban After Error
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-19T11:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/everbright-trading-error-adds-to-china-broker-s-woes.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788) ’s woes
worsened after erroneous trades that sparked the wildest Chinese
stock swings in four years as the firm was banned from
proprietary trading and said it today mispriced a bond sale.  State-controlled Everbright said yesterday it placed 23.4
billion yuan ($3.8 billion) of incorrect buy orders on Aug. 16,
prompting the three-month ban and an investigation by the  China 
Securities Regulatory Commission. The company gave the wrong
price for 10 million yuan of government bonds today, it said on
its website.  The ban is a further setback to a brokerage already
contending with falling profits and a CSRC probe into an initial
public offering that Everbright worked on, which forced it to
delay a $1.3 billion sale of its own shares. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped from a loss of as much as 1 percent to a
gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes on Aug. 16 after the
erroneous orders, before erasing the gain.  “The consequences for Everbright Securities could be
huge,” Song Jian, a Beijing-based analyst at China Minzu
Securities Co., said by phone. “This is a serious issue. This
may also lead to the cleansing of the internal risk management
systems at Chinese brokerages as part of the government’s effort
in strengthening risk control.”  China’s  stock market  was roiled on Aug. 16 by a 53 percent
surge in trading volumes that sent the Shanghai Composite Index
to its biggest intraday gain since March 2009.  Buy Orders  Of the 23.4 billion  yuan  of buy orders, 7.27 billion yuan
were transacted, the company said. Everbright had a mark-to-market loss of about 194 million yuan based on Aug. 16 closing
prices, and the final value may change, the company said in a
statement to the Shanghai exchange yesterday.  The final trading loss could reach 300 million to 400
million yuan, Citigroup Inc. analyst Paddy Ran wrote in a note
dated Aug. 16.  Everbright Securities was China’s 12th-largest brokerage by
revenue last year, data from the Securities Association of China
show. China Everbright Group, the broker’s closely held parent,
is led by Chairman Tang Shuangning and supervised by China’s
State Council, with businesses spanning from banking, insurance
and asset management to tourism and property development.  Set up in 1983, the group had 2.4 trillion yuan of assets
and almost 50,000 employees at the end of last year, according
to its website.  Bond Transaction  In today’s incident, Everbright Securities sold 10 million
yuan of government bonds at a yield of 4.2 percent, 25 basis
points higher than the valuation on the previous trading day,
the brokerage said. The counterparty agreed not to settle the
deal, the company said.  The CSRC didn’t reply to a faxed inquiry about whether it
would include the bond transaction in its probe. Everbright
Securities has also been barred from creating new stock-index
futures positions starting today, the China Financial Futures
Exchange said in a  statement .  Everbright Securities shares  are suspended in Shanghai
trading until  tomorrow . The stock has dropped 14 percent this
year, lagging behind an 8.1 percent decline in the Shanghai
Composite.  Company Apology  Everbright Securities apologized and said the incident
“brings negative impact to the company’s brand reputation and
market image,” according to yesterday’s statement. It said it
may face regulatory penalties.  Everbright Securities’ proprietary trading revenue rose 77
percent to 165 million yuan last year, according to the broker’s
 annual report . The company posted net income of 1 billion yuan
on revenue of 3.6 billion yuan in 2012.  Disruptions in electronic markets have been under scrutiny
since a May 2010 incident in which the Dow Jones Industrial
Average fell almost 1,000 points in minutes before rebounding.
Separately, Knight Capital Group Inc. lost more than $450
million after sending erroneous orders to U.S. exchanges on Aug.
1, 2012, because of a computer malfunction. Knight was later
bought by Getco LLC to create  KCG Holdings Inc. (KCG)   “I haven’t seen this kind of error in at least the past 10
years,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip
Securities Group, said by telephone last week. “This is an
extraordinarily big loophole, which doesn’t just show defects in
Everbright, but also the A-share market.”  In addition to the buy orders, the brokerage sold 1.85
billion yuan in exchange-traded funds, along with short-selling
7,130 contracts of index futures, according to the statement on
the CSRC website. Everbright Securities won’t sell the
mistakenly purchased shares immediately, it said today.  Profit Decline  The brokerage’s  profit  has declined for three straight
years as stock trading and underwriting businesses shrank amid a
slump in the world’s second-worst performing stock market.
Equity trading in Shanghai and Shenzhen fell 25 percent in 2012
and funds raised from domestic share sales decreased 64 percent,
Everbright Securities said in its 2012 annual report.  Net income fell 35 percent to 1 billion yuan last year,
according to a March exchange filing. The company is scheduled
to report first-half earnings on Aug. 22.  Everbright Securities in June said it’s being investigated
by China’s securities regulator for its work on Henan Tianfon
Energy-Saving Panel Science & Technology Co.’s proposed IPO. The
market watchdog has also frozen approvals for IPOs for more than
10 months amid a crackdown on fraud and misconduct by companies
and bankers, and has said it won’t allow listings to resume
until new rules are introduced.  Underwriting Revenue  Underwriting new stock offerings accounted for about 70
percent of Chinese brokerages’ investment-banking revenue from
2009 through 2011, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Everbright Securities’ plan to raise as much as 8 billion
yuan from a private placement of its shares was also blocked by
the regulator last month after it started investigating the
Henan Tianfon IPO.  China Everbright Group and its Hong Kong-listed unit, China
 Everbright Ltd. (165) , hold 67 percent of Shanghai-based Everbright
Securities. Everbright Ltd. rose 0.2 percent to HK$11.06 at the
close in Hong Kong today, after tumbling 5.5 percent on Aug. 16.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  