-- Everbright Reports Loss After Flawed Trades
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-18T11:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/everbright-reports-loss-after-flawed-trades.html
State-controlled Chinese brokerage
 Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  reported a trading loss of 194 million
yuan ($31.7 million) and apologized to investors after errors in
order-execution systems sparked the biggest intraday swing in
China’s benchmark index since 2009.  Everbright said the Aug. 16 incident “brings negative
impact to the company’s brand reputation and market image,”
according to a statement submitted to the Shanghai Stock
Exchange today. Everbright may face regulatory penalties that
could affect its business development and results, it said.  “The final loss cause to the company and influence on the
company’s financial status may change,” Everbright said. “We
feel deeply disturbed, and with a heavy heart, we would like to
deliver our most sincere apology to investors.”  The incident, which touched off a 53 percent surge in
trading volumes in he  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , echoed the May
2010 “flash crash” in which the Dow Jones Industrial Average
fell almost 1,000 points before rebounding. Internal controls at
Everbright were “obviously flawed” and no human errors were
detected, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said in a
statement posted on its website today.  Everbright detected order-generation and execution defects
in an arbitrage-trading system in the company’s strategic
investment department, the company said in its statement today.  The company held a news conference tonight that was only
open to invited journalists. At the briefing, Everbright said it
will deal with “spot goods and stocks” and will communicate
with the exchange about details, 21st Century Business Herald
reported on its website.  Everbright Trades  Everbright’s trading system placed an accumulated 23.4
billion  yuan  of buy orders, of which 7.27 billion yuan was
transacted. The brokerage sold 1.85 billion yuan in exchange-traded funds, along with short-selling 7,130 contracts of index
futures, according to the  statement  on the CSRC website.  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped from a loss of as much
as 1 percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes during the
morning session, as 16 of the measure’s 20 biggest companies by
weighting increased by the 10 percent daily limit. The gauge
closed with a loss of 0.6 percent.  The securities regulator said today all stock market
trading on Aug. 16 was effective, and its Shanghai branch has
suspended the company’s relevant businesses. The stock has
declined 14 percent this year, surpassing the 8.8 percent fall
in the equity benchmark.  The brokerage’s  profit  has declined for three straight
years, with net income falling 35 percent to 1 billion yuan last
year, according to a March exchange filing. It is scheduled to
report first-half earnings on Aug. 22.  Frozen Approvals  Everbright Securities in June said it’s being investigated
by  China ’s securities regulator for its work on Henan Tianfon
Energy-Saving Panel Science & Technology Co.’s proposed initial
public offering. The market watchdog has also frozen approvals
for IPOs for more than 10 months amid a crackdown on fraud and
misconduct by companies and bankers, and has said it won’t allow
listings to resume until the CSRC introduces new rules.  The brokerage’s plan to raise as much as 8 billion yuan
from a private placement of its shares was also blocked by the
securities regulator last month after it started investigating
the firm.  China Everbright Group and its Hong Kong-listed unit, China
Everbright Ltd., hold 67 percent of Shanghai-based Everbright
Securities.  Everbright Ltd. (165)  fell 5.5 percent, the biggest drop
in more than a year, to close at HK$11.04 in Hong Kong trading.  The closely held parent group, led by Chairman Tang Shuangning and supervised by China’s State Council, has
businesses spanning from banking, broking, insurance, futures
and asset management to hotels, tourism and property
development. Established in 1983, it had 2.4 trillion yuan of
assets and almost 50,000 employees at the end of last year,
according to its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  