-- Treasuries Slump With U.S. Stocks, Metals as Crops Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-08-19T20:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/gold-holds-gains-as-asian-futures-slip-after-u-s-retreat.html
Treasury yields jumped to the
highest level since 2011 amid swelling speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will trim its bond purchases next month. Emerging
markets led losses in stocks and industrial metals slid, while
U.S. shares were poised for their first four-day slump of 2013.  Ten-year Treasury yields climbed six basis points to 2.88
percent and yielded 40 basis points more than bonds in an index
of debt from the Group of Seven nations, the highest since May
2010. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 1.4 percent as
 India ’s rupee dropped to a record against the dollar. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500  declined 0.6 percent to 1,646.06, the
lowest closing level since July 8. Italy and Greece led Europe
government bonds lower. Corn and soybeans surged more than 3
percent, while copper slid 1.3 percent.  U.S. central bankers gather this week in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, to discuss monetary policy and minutes of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s July meeting will be released on Aug.
21. Slowing economic growth in countries from India to  Indonesia 
combined with speculation the Fed will taper its stimulus
program is driving investors to pull funds from  emerging markets 
and sending Treasuries lower.  “Every little uptick is met with sellers,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
 New York , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“There’s more of a feeling tapering is going to happen in
September.”  Officials will probably begin to scale back their $85
billion in monthly asset purchases in their program of
quantitative easing next month, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13. The first step
may be reducing purchases by $10 billion a month, the median
estimate of analysts shows.  3% Eyed  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes will rise above 3 percent
as the Fed scales back its purchases, according to Rick Rieder,
chief investment officer for fundamental fixed-income at
BlackRock Inc.  The Fed’s quantitative easing “is too big,” Rieder said
in an interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television. “You have got to taper down QE. It has created this
tremendous distortion in  interest rates . We think fair value on
the 10-year is close to 3-to-3.25 percent. You are getting very
close to there.”  The  yield  on 10-year Treasury note extended last week’s 25
basis-point increase. Italy’s 10-year bond yield climbed 10
basis points to 4.28 percent and rates on Spanish, Swedish,
Dutch and U.K. debt of similar maturity increased more than four
basis points.  ‘Disruptive’  “The market’s going to be watching the FOMC minutes this
week to see if there’s any more indication in regards to
potential of tapering in September,” Martin Lakos, a Sydney-based director at Macquarie Private Wealth, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up” with  Susan Li . “There are still some
concerns that a big move in QE will be disruptive.”  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  decreased 2.1 last week, its biggest drop since
June, and is down almost 4 percent from its last record on Aug.
2. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  sank 2.2 percent last week,
the biggest drop in 14 months.  Gauges of energy and financial companies lost more than 1.3
percent today to lead declines in nine of the 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500.  Zillow Inc. tumbled 7.1 percent as it agreed to acquire New
York City real-estate website StreetEasy. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
slipped 2.7 percent to lead losses in the Dow after the New York
Times reported that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s anti-bribery unit is investigating whether the bank
hired the children of Chinese officials to help its business in
that nation. Apache Corp. tumbled 4.6 percent, pacing losses in
energy stocks.  Market Movers  Intel gained 1.7 percent after Piper Jaffray Cos. raised
its rating on the shares. Edwards Group Ltd. surged 18 percent
after Atlas Copco AB agreed to buy the company for $1.2 billion.
Dollar General Corp. gained 3.1 percent after JPMorgan raised
its rating on the shares.  The Stoxx 600 retreated after climbing for three straight
weeks, as three shares fell for every two that advanced.  Holcim
Ltd. (HOLN)  dropped 4.4 percent as UBS AG downgraded its recommendation
on the cement maker. Lafarge SA, a competing cement producer,
slid 4.2 percent.  Euro, Dollar  The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.3337 while the dollar was
little changed against the yen. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index,
a gauge of the currency against 10 major peers, added 0.1
percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost the most since July 3.
Investors are favoring U.S. stocks over emerging markets by the
most ever as fund flows and volatility measures show
institutions are increasingly seeking the relative safety of
American equities.  Almost $95 billion was poured into exchange-traded funds of
American shares this year, while developing-nation ETFs saw
withdrawals of $8.4 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  S&P 500  trades at 16 times profit, 70 percent
more than the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. A measure of
historical  price swings  indicates the U.S. market is the calmest
in more than six years compared with shares from  China ,  Brazil ,
India and  Russia .  Cash is draining from emerging-market ETFs and flowing into
U.S. stock funds at the fastest rate on record as bulls say an
unprecedented third year of higher  earnings growth  will support
the S&P 500 even as the Federal Reserve begins to remove
stimulus. Developing-nation investors say the ETFs will lure
more cash after equity valuations reached a four-year low.  India, Indonesia  India’s rupee fell to an all-time low of 63.23 per dollar
and the Sensex index dropped 1.6 percent. Foreigners sold a net
$3 billion of Indian stocks and bonds in July amid the slowest
growth in a decade in Asia’s third-largest economy, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Jakarta Composite Index sank 5.6 percent, the most
since October 2011 and the biggest drop among equity indexes
tracked by Bloomberg worldwide, after Indonesia’s current-account deficit widened to a record. The rupiah fell to as low
as 10,608 per dollar, the weakest level since 2009, prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.  Foreign institutional investors sold a net $85.4 million of
Indonesian stocks on Friday, the biggest outflow since July 8,
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg show. The economy grew less
than 6 percent last quarter for the first time since 2010.  ‘Bad News’  “Indonesia has seen a gradual but persistent bout of bad
news, with slowing growth, quickening inflation and then the
current-account deficit,” said Leo Rinaldy, a Jakarta-based
economist at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the nation’s
largest lender.  Thailand’s SET Index dropped 3.3 percent, the most in two
months, after a report showed the economy unexpectedly shrank in
the second quarter, pushing the country into a recession, and
the government cut its growth forecast. The baht weakened 0.4
percent, the biggest decline in two weeks.  Soybeans climbed 3.5 percent on speculation dry U.S.
weather may curb yields. Corn jumped 4.8 percent. More than 120
analysts, traders, farmers and processors will inspect farms in
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota and
Minnesota over the next four days as part of the 21st annual Pro
Farmer crop tour.  West Texas Intermediate oil was down 0.3 percent at $107.10
a barrel, halting a six-day rally, as the threat to production
from a storm in the  Gulf of Mexico  dissipated.  Brent crude 
slipped 0.5 percent at $109.88 a barrel. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. raised its price forecasts for Brent, predicting an
increase to about $115 in the “very near term” amid supply
disruptions in Libya and Iraq.  U.S. natural gas futures for September rose to their
highest level of the month, climbing as much as 4 percent to
$3.50 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , on speculation that late August heat will
stoke demand for power-plant fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  