-- Israeli Growth Accelerates to 5.1% as Consumer Spending Rises
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-18T12:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/israeli-growth-accelerates-to-5-1-as-consumer-spending-rises.html
Israel ’s economy expanded by 5.1
percent in the second quarter as private consumption climbed.  Annualized  growth  accelerated from a revised 2.7 percent in
the previous three months, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. The median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 3
percent.  “This seems like an outlier,” said Yonie Fanning, chief
economist for I.L.S. Brokers Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “I wouldn’t
count on seeing this kind of growth for the year as a whole.”  The  Bank of Israel  has lowered the benchmark  interest rate 
from 3.25 percent in 2011 to 1.25 percent to shore up the
export-dependent economy amid the  European debt crisis . Growth
is forecast to slow to 3.2 percent in 2014 from 3.8 percent this
year, including first-time natural gas production, the Bank of
Israel said in June.  Private consumption rose as consumers rushed to buy large-ticket items such as homes and cars ahead of a June 1 increase
in value-added-tax, and that probably will moderate, Fanning
said. Government consumption also will probably ease as budget
cuts are implemented, he said.  Private consumption expenditure rose by 6.7 percent in the
second quarter, after climbing 5 percent in the previous three
months. Government consumption expenditure rose 8.3 percent,
after dropping 0.2 percent.  Exports advanced an annualized 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, after jumping 10.9 percent in the first, while imports
grew 1.8 percent, the same as in the previous 3 months, the
bureau said.  Investment in fixed capital such as machinery and buildings
declined for a fifth consecutive quarter, by 6.3 percent, after
falling 2.7 percent in the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  