-- Kentz Said to Weigh Sale as Buyers Eye Irish Engineering Firm
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-08-18T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/kentz-said-to-weigh-sale-as-buyers-eye-irish-engineering-firm.html
Kentz Corp. (KENZ) , the Irish provider of
engineering and construction services to the oil and gas
industry, is considering selling itself after receiving interest
from potential buyers, according to three people familiar with
the matter.  Kentz received approaches from companies including  Amec
Plc (AMEC) , a U.K. engineer for energy projects, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) , Canada’s largest engineering company, has
also shown interest, one of the people said.  Kentz, which is based in Tipperary, Ireland, has gained 23
percent to 475.90 pence a share in London trading so far this
year, valuing the company at 561 million pounds ($876 million).  The Mail on Sunday reported yesterday that Amec has been
examining an 800 million-pound takeover of Kentz and that the
Irish company may fetch as much as 700 pence a share, citing
people it didn’t identify. Amec is unlikely to offer more than
600 pence a share, one person told  Bloomberg News  yesterday. SNC
approached Kentz a few weeks ago and M&W Group GmbH of Germany
has also shown interest, Mail on Sunday reported.  Officials at Kentz and Amec declined to comment, and SNC
and M&W couldn’t be immediately reached for comment outside of
regular business hours.  Kentz Services  Kentz provides services to oil and gas, petrochemical and
metals industries and has more than 14,500 employees, according
to its  website . The company’s shares have risen to the highest
level since April 2012, helped by winning contracts in  southern
Africa .  Amec, which also provides engineering to the oil and gas
and mining industries, has a market value of 3.22 billion
pounds. The company has “ample opportunity” to make
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Samir Brikho said in a
Bloomberg Television interview this month.  SNC-Lavalin, which is based in  Montreal , earlier this month
cut its annual profit forecast and posted a surprise quarterly
loss, hurt by fixed-price projects in North  Africa .  M&W is a German engineering and construction company based
in Stuttgart that is owned by Austria’s Stumpf Group, according
to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  