-- Nadal Wins Final U.S. Open Tuneup as Azarenka Defeats Williams
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/nadal-beats-isner-to-win-final-tuneup-event-for-u-s-open-tennis.html
Rafael Nadal  won his final tuneup
event for the  U.S. Open , defeating  John Isner  to take his first
Western & Southern Open tennis title and move up to No. 2 in the
ATP rankings.  Nadal beat the American 7-6 (10-8), 7-6 (7-3) in Cincinnati
yesterday to become the second player to win five Masters
tournaments in a single year after Novak Djokovic. It’s the 26th
Masters title and second straight in the series for Nadal, who
won the Rogers Cup in Montreal on Aug. 11.  “Being able to win two straight titles, two Masters 1000
on hard back-to-back is just amazing for me,” Nadal said.  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus beat defending U.S. Open
champion  Serena Williams  in a third-set tiebreaker in the
women’s Cincinnati final yesterday, winning 2-6, 6-2, 7-6 (8-6).  Azarenka, ranked second in the world behind Williams, had
lost 12 of their 14 previous meetings. The 24-year-old collected
her third WTA Tour title of the year two weeks after withdrawing
from the Rogers Cup with a back injury.  The U.S. Open is scheduled to begin Aug. 26 at the National
Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows, New York.  “I will not be a favorite,” Azarenka said of her chances
at the year’s final Grand Slam tournament. “We’re in the  United
States , and Serena is No. 1 in the world, the defending
champion, so I still think that she’s going to be a favorite.”  Nadal, who’s second in the rankings to Djokovic of  Serbia ,
enters the U.S. Open unbeaten on hard courts this season.  Since losing in the final of the VTR Open in Chile in
February in his comeback from a seven-month layoff because of a
knee injury, Nadal has won nine titles on the ATP World Tour.
The 27-year-old former world No. 1 from Spain has now won 59
career singles titles.  Nadal won the U.S. Open in 2010, when he also claimed the
French Open and Wimbledon titles. He secured his 12th major
championship at the French Open in June to become the first man
to win the same major eight times. Two weeks later he exited
Wimbledon in the first round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  