-- North Korea Agrees to Reunion Talks After Gaeseong Accord
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-08-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/north-korea-agrees-to-reunion-talks-after-gaeseong-accord.html
North Korea  agreed to talks over
reunions for families separated by the 1950-1953 war with South
Korea, signaling new reconciliation after the two sides charted
a path toward reopening a shuttered industrial complex.  Talks should be held Aug. 23 at the Mount Geumgang resort
to organize family reunions, the North’s Korean Central News
Agency said yesterday. The North also proposed talks for Aug. 22
on resuming tourist visits to Mount Geumgang, KCNA said.  The North’s proposal answers a call from South Korean
President Park Geun Hye, who had proposed the talks Aug. 15, a
day after the two sides agreed to make “active efforts” to
reopen the Gaeseong complex. Tensions had soared earlier this
year after the North conducted a nuclear test, prompting United
Nations sanctions, and shuttered the complex in April to protest
U.S.-South Korean military drills.  “ South Korea ’s government should agree to the North’s
offer,” said Yang Moo Jin, professor at the University of North
Korean Studies in Seoul. “The message here is that the North
wants tours resumed along with Gaeseong.”  Family reunion talks should be held at the Panmunjom truce
village, Kim Hyung Suk, a spokesman for South Korea’s
unification ministry, said in a media briefing yesterday after
the KCNA statement. The government will look into holding talks
on Mount Geumgang tours and disclose its stance on the issue at
a later date, he said.  The latest proposal is a way to test Park’s government and
find out what it thinks about resuming tourism, Yang said. North
Korea also said family reunions should be held next month.  Tours to Mount Geumgang on the North’s side of the border
have been halted since North Korean troops shot and killed a
South Korean tourist at the resort in July 2008..  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in  Seoul  at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  