-- North Korea Agrees to Reunion Talks After Gaeseong Accord
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-08-18T10:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/north-korea-agrees-to-reunion-talks-after-gaeseong-accord-1-.html
North Korea  agreed to discuss
reunions for separated families, less than a week after an
accord with the South aimed at reopening the Gaeseong industrial
complex, and suggested talks be held at the Mount Geumgang
resort.  The North’s Korean Central News Agency said today talks on
Aug. 23 to organize family reunions should be held at the resort
rather than the Panmunjom truce village, and also proposed
additional talks Aug. 22 on resuming tourist visits to Mount
Geumgang.  Family reunion talks should be held at Panmunjom, Kim Hyung
Suk, a spokesman for South Korea’s unification ministry, said in
a media briefing after the KCNA statement. The government will
look into holding talks on Mount Geumgang tours and disclose its
stance on the issue at a later date, he said.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye on Aug. 15 proposed
talks on family reunions, a day after the two sides agreed to
“make active efforts” in reopening the jointly operated
Gaeseong complex. While no timetable was given, the two will
form a joint committee to prepare for reopening the facility.  “ South Korea ’s government should agree to the North’s
offer,” said Yang Moo Jin, professor at the University of North
Korean Studies in Seoul. “The message here is that the North
wants tours resumed along with Gaeseong.”  The proposal is a way to test Park’s government and find
out what it thinks about resuming tourism, Yang said. “This
will be a good opportunity for both sides to find out what’s
behind each other’s mind,” he added.  North Korea also said family reunions should be held next
month, and that separate video meetings should coincide with its
Oct. 4 declaration, according to KCNA.  Tours to Mount Geumgang on the North’s side of the border
have been halted since North Korean troops shot and killed a
South Korean tourist at the resort in July 2008. The North
pulled its 53,000 workers out of Gaeseong in April amid
heightened tensions after a February nuclear test prompted
tighter United Nations sanctions and the U.S. and South Korea
held military drills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in  Seoul  at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  