-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Stocks Fall, Traders Charged, Ackman
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-08-18T04:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/most-read-on-bloomberg-stocks-fall-traders-charged-ackman.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Stocks Fall as Bond Yields Rise; Oil Gains on Egypt Unrest  Aug. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks tumbled, with European shares
snapping a five-day rally and U.S. benchmark indexes reaching
one-month lows, as improving economic data triggered losses in
 government bonds  that sent Treasury yields to two-year highs.
Oil, gold and silver rallied.  2. Ex-JPMorgan Traders First Charged in $6.2 Billion Loss Probe  Aug. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Two former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
employees were charged by federal prosecutors with attempting to
conceal trading losses at the largest  U.S. bank  last year as
part of a probe of its $6.2 billion loss on derivatives bets.  3. Ackman With $700 Million Loss Leaves J.C. Penney’s Board  Aug. 13 (Bloomberg) --  Bill Ackman  resigned from J.C.
Penney Co.’s board after sparring publicly with fellow directors
over how to reverse the sales slump that’s dragged down the
stock and left him with more than $700 million in potential
losses on his stake in the department-store chain.  4. China Trading Error Shakes Confidence in World’s Worst
Equities  Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- The biggest swing in China’s
benchmark equity index since 2009 threatens to further erode
confidence in the nation’s stock market after it lost more money
for investors than any in the world during the past four years.  5. Dufner Plans Early Retirement After PGA Win as Wife Says Wait  Aug. 14 (Bloomberg) --  Jason Dufner ’s  PGA Championship 
victory fortified his plan to retire from golf in the next few
years, if his wife doesn’t insist he keep working.  6. London Whale Surfaces to Aid U.S. in JPMorgan Trading Probe  Aug. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bruno Iksil, the former JPMorgan
Chase & Co. trader whose bets caused more than $6.2 billion in
losses last year, is now central to any U.S. charges against his
former colleagues.  7. U.S. Said to Plan Charges Against Former JPMorgan Employees  Aug. 12 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. may announce charges as
early as this week against former London-based JPMorgan Chase &
Co. employees related to allegations they tried to conceal
losses last year, a person familiar with the matter said.  8. SAC Said to Refuse Client Push to Return Money Before Year-End  Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) --  Steven Cohen ’s $14 billion SAC
Capital Advisors LP, which last month was indicted by the
government as a “veritable magnet for market cheaters,” has
refused clients’ requests that the firm speed up payouts on the
billions of dollars earmarked for withdrawals, according to
three people familiar with the discussions.  9. BlackBerry Weighs Putting Itself Up for Sale as Demand Ebbs  Aug. 12 (Bloomberg) -- BlackBerry Ltd., the struggling
Canadian smartphone maker, is considering putting itself up for
sale after the lackluster debut of the BlackBerry 10 lineup
dimmed its prospects as an independent company.  10. BofA Plans to Dissolve Merrill Lynch Unit While Keeping Name  Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Merrill Lynch & Co., the 99-year-old
firm known for its “thundering herd” of brokers pitching
stocks to Main Street, may cease to exist as a legal entity more
than four years after being acquired by Bank of America Corp.  COLUMNS  1. Krugman’s Attempt to Bury Friedman Buries Itself: Caroline
Baum  Aug. 15 (Bloomberg) -- It’s good that  Milton Friedman  is
dead, because for the past week  Paul Krugman  has been trying to
kill him off and discredit his monetarist theories.  2. Why So Little Hiring With So Many Jobs Open Now?:  Peter
Orszag   Aug. 13 (Bloomberg) -- An odd puzzle is taking shape in the
labor market: Over the past three years, the number of job
openings has risen almost 50 percent, but actual hiring has gone
up by less than 5 percent. Companies are advertising a lot more
jobs, in other words, but not filling them.  3. Debt of 1,000,000,000,000,000 Yen? Not a Problem: William
Pesek  Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Haruhiko Kuroda doesn’t wear a
wizard’s hat when he arrives at  Bank of Japan  headquarters each
morning. Once inside, I do wonder if he dons a cloak, waves a
magic wand and concocts mysterious potions.  4. SanDisk Fixes Problem You Don’t Know You Have:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Aug. 15 (Bloomberg) -- File these under “solutions to
problems you didn’t know you had.”  5. Eric Holder Owes the American People an Apology: Jonathan
Weil  Aug. 12 (Bloomberg) -- The  Justice Department  made a long-overdue disclosure late Friday: Last year when U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder boasted about the successes that a high-profile  task force  racked up pursuing  mortgage fraud , the
numbers he trumpeted were grossly overstated.  MULTIMEDIA  1. BMW’s $115,000 M6 Gran Coupe Unites Beauty and Power  Aug. 15 (Bloomberg) -- The 2014 BMW M6 Gran Coupe is seen
in a promotional video from BMW of North America LLC.  2. Chambers Says Cisco to Cut More Jobs on Weaker Sales  Aug. 14 (Bloomberg) --  John Chambers , chief executive
officer of Cisco Systems Inc., Frank Calderoni, chief financial
officer, Rob Lloyd, president for development and sales, and
 Gary Moore , chief operating officer, speak on a teleconference
about the company’s fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and first-quarter forecast.  3. Man Dies After 65-Foot Fall at Atlanta’s Turner Field  Aug. 13 (Bloomberg) -- A man died at Turner Field in
Atlanta after falling from the upper deck before last night’s
Major League Baseball game between the Braves and  Philadelphia
Phillies , police said.  4. Dufner Wins PGA Championship by 2 Strokes for 1st Major  Aug. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Dufner won golf’s PGA
Championship by two strokes yesterday for his first major title,
two years after he lost in a playoff to Keegan Bradley at the
same tournament.  5. UPS Freighter Crashes Near Birmingham, Alabama Airport  Aug. 14 (Bloomberg) -- United Parcel Service Inc. said a
cargo jet crashed and exploded early today while approaching the
airport in Birmingham,  Alabama .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  