-- Penn State Settles First of Sandusky Sex Abuse Lawsuits
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-18T23:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/penn-state-settles-first-of-sandusky-sex-abuse-lawsuits.html
Pennsylvania State University agreed
to settle the first of 31 suits filed in the sex-abuse scandal
involving ex-football coach Jerry Sandusky, with about 25 more
set to settle, lawyers in the resolved case said.  The settled complaint involved a 2001 locker-room shower
assault on a 13-year-old boy known in court documents as
“Victim 5,” according to the plaintiff’s attorney, Tom Kline,
of Kline & Specter PC in Philadelphia. He declined to disclose
the amount of the settlement.  The case was considered key to resolving other suits
because it concerned an assault that occurred months after the
university received and failed to act on an eyewitness account
of an another shower-room attack by Sandusky on what appeared to
be a 10-year-old boy, Kline said in a telephone interview.  “If Sandusky had been stopped in his tracks in February,
then this incident in October involving Victim 5 would not have
occurred,” Kline said.  Kline and Michael Rozen, of Feinberg Rozen LLP, an attorney
hired by Penn State to help resolve the cases, said that with
the Victim 5 settlement concluded they expect agreements to be
reached soon in 25 other cases.  “I think everything will play out in the next days or
weeks,” Rozen said.  The university considers two or three others cases to be
without merit and a few more will require lengthier negotiations
and possibly litigation, Rozen said.  Penn State approved spending about $60 million for claims
in the cases, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal.
The Victim 5 settlement was earlier reported by the Philadelphia
Inquirer and described as a “multi-million dollar” agreement.  Sandusky, a longtime assistant to legendary Penn State
coach Joe Paterno, was convicted in June 2012 of sexually
abusing children and sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison.  Sandusky met the boys he abused through the Second Mile, a
charity he founded for needy children, according to testimony at
his trial.  The settlement is structured to protect the university
against further claims by the victim while providing “an open
road for Penn State to go back after their insurers, the Second
Mile foundation and Second Mile insurers,” Kline said.  Three former university officials, including ex-president
Graham Spanier, ex-athletic director Timothy Curley and Gary Schultz, retired vice president in charge of university police,
were ordered last month to stand trial on criminal charges they
conspired to cover up the sex abuse allegations against
Sandusky.  The three men allegedly kept silent on abuse claims against
Sandusky, including the account of February 2001 incident.  Kline said Victim 5, who is now 25-years-old, may be called
as a witness in the criminal proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  