-- Patrick Reed Wins First PGA Title at Wyndham With Wife as Caddie
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/reed-beats-spieth-in-playoff-at-win-golf-s-wyndham-championship.html
Patrick Reed earned his breakthrough
title at the Wyndham Championship to become the first golfer in
17 years to win on the U.S. PGA Tour with his wife as caddie.  Reed, a 23-year-old Texan, beat Jordan Spieth with a birdie
on the second hole of a playoff at Sedgefield Country Club in
Greeensboro,  North Carolina , yesterday, after the pair finished
in a tie at 14-under par 266. Reed had a 4-under-par 66 in the
final round, one shot more than Spieth.  Reed, in his 38th start on the tour and 23rd this season,
and his caddie, Justine, are the first husband-and-wife team to
win on the tour since Nicki and  Steve Stricker  at the 1996
Western Open. Reed secured a place on tour this year by
finishing 22nd in the 2012 qualifying tournament.  “I see so many of these guys that are with their wives for
a week, then they go off on the road for four, five weeks in a
row,” Reed said. “They don’t see their families for a long
time. That’s going to take a toll on you. And for me to be able
to have mine with me at all times, it means everything.”  The Wyndham Championship was the last chance for players to
get into the top 125 of the FedExCup rankings and qualify for
the Barclays. The first of four playoff events is scheduled to
begin Aug. 22 at Liberty National Golf Club in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . The player who tops the FedExCup rankings after the
season-ending Tour Championship receives a $10 million bonus.  With his win, worth $954,000, Reed climbed 56 places to
22nd in the standings, while Spieth advanced eight places to
eighth.  Tiger Woods , a five-time winner on tour this year, is
first, followed by  Matt Kuchar  and  Brandt Snedeker , who won the
FedExCup in 2012.  Status Quo  For the first time since the FedExCup began in 2007, no
player moved into or dropped out of the top 125 after the
Wyndham. Robert Streb finished the tournament in a tie for 37th
place to climb seven spots to 126th and said he tried to put the
pressure of trying to qualify for the playoffs to one side.  “You can’t completely ignore it,” Streb told reporters.
“I just tried to play the best golf I could.”  Brian Harman and reigning PGA Tour rookie of the year John
Huh tied for third place behind Reed and Spieth at 12-under par.  Reed missed a chance to win when he failed to drain a
seven-foot birdie putt on the first playoff hole, the 18th. He
hit his next drive almost out of bounds before setting up the
winning birdie by punching a 7-iron underneath the branches of a
tree on right of the 10th hole to seven feet from the cup.  “The ball was so far above my feet that it almost felt
like I was taking a baseball swing,” Reed said of his lie after
getting a free drop. “It was the best shot of my life.”  Reed is the 12th first-time winner on tour this year and
the second player from Augusta State University after Vaughn Taylor to win on the world’s richest golf circuit. His wife
joked afterward that she’d take the whole paycheck rather than
the caddie’s standard 10 percent of the winnings.  Spieth, 20, missed the chance to become the youngest two-time winner in tour history. On July 14, Spieth became the first
teenager to win a  PGA Tour  event since 1931 when he defeated
 Zach Johnson  and David Hearn on the fifth hole of a playoff at
the John Deere Classic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 