-- Rudd Faces Election Defeat as Polls Show Marginal Seat Losses
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-08-18T04:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/rudd-faces-election-defeat-as-polls-show-marginal-seat-losses.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  is facing
defeat at next month’s Australian election with polls in the
nation’s most marginal electorates indicating the opposition may
gain enough seats to form government.  The ruling  Labor party  would lose at least five seats in
the Sept. 7 election, according to separate polls published in
the Australian Financial Review and Sydney Morning Herald. The
opposition coalition needs to gain four additional seats to make
 Tony Abbott  the prime minister.  “There’s no doubt we’re still the underdog, and there’s no
doubt that Tony Abbott, if the election was held on the day it
was announced would be the prime minister,” Finance Minister
 Penny Wong  told the Financial Review Sunday program on
Australian television.  Rudd pledged A$500 million ($459 million) over the weekend
to help the nation’s car industry after producers cut jobs and
announced plant closures as lower tariffs and a strong
Australian dollar make imported models cheaper. The coalition
announced plans for a parental leave system to start from 2015
that would give mothers 26 weeks leave at their full wage.  In the four most marginal electorates held by each side,
Rudd’s party would retain just one seat while failing to take
any from the opposition if the election were held now, according
to a JWS Research poll in the  Australian Financial Review . The
ruling party is on course to lose two other seats in New South
Wales state, a  separate poll  by ReachTel in the Sydney Morning
Herald indicates.  76-Seat Target  Labor, with 71 of the 150 seats in the lower house of
parliament, has relied on support from independent lawmakers and
the Greens party since forming a minority government after the
2010 election. Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition, which had 72
lawmakers in the chamber where government is formed, needs to
increase that to 76 at the election to rule in its own right.  Both leaders have put management of the world’s 12th-largest economy at the center of their campaigns, amid slowing
growth as a China-led  boom  in mining investment wanes. While
Rudd has narrowed the margin in opinion polls since defeating
 Julia Gillard  in a June 26 Labor party ballot, Abbott remains on
track to win government.  The JWS Research poll sampled the Labor-held seats of
Lindsay, Greenway and Banks in Western Sydney and Corangamite in
Victoria state. It canvassed the coalition seats of Brisbane and
Forde in Queensland, Aston in Victoria and Macquarie in New
South Wales. Labor is trailing in the seat of McMahon, held by
Treasurer  Chris Bowen , and in Kingsford Smith, which is being
vacated by former minister Peter Garrett, according to ReachTel.  Beattie’s Struggle  Labor’s best chance of victory was in Greenway, where the
Australian Financial Review said a result was “too close to
call.” Coalition candidate Jaymes Diaz is leading incumbent
Michelle Rowland by 46 percent to 44 percent on the primary
vote, the survey shows.  Former Queensland Premier Peter Beattie, who announced he
would contest Forde in the state’s southeast last week, is
trailing incumbent member Bert van Manen by 33 percent to 54
percent on the primary vote, a 9.9 percent swing since the 2010
election, the poll shows according to the Financial Review.  JWS Research sampled 568 people in Forde, held by a 1.6
percent margin by van Manen. The poll canvassed a total of 4,739
people and has a margin of error of 4.2 percent, according to
the newspaper.  Federal support for Labor trails the opposition at 35
percent on the primary vote, slipping for a second week in a
row, according to a Galaxy survey published today in the Sunday
Telegraph. The coalition primary support was unchanged at 45
percent.  Galaxy puts coalition support at 52 percent and Labor on 48
percent on a two party preferred basis, under which votes from
smaller parties are distributed to the two major parties under
the nation’s preferential voting system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  