-- Rudd Election Defeat Looms as Polls Show Abbott Gains
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-19T01:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/rudd-election-defeat-looms-as-polls-show-abbott-gains.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  trails the
opposition ahead of next month’s Australian election as polls
in the most marginal districts indicate coalition leader  Tony Abbott  may gain enough seats to form government.  Rudd’s voter satisfaction level fell four percentage points
to 35 percent, the lowest recorded in his two stints as prime
minister, according to a Newspoll published in The Australian
newspaper today. Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition doubled its
lead in the two-party preferred measure over Rudd’s  Labor party 
to an eight-point margin.  “There’s no doubt we’re still the underdog, and there’s no
doubt that Tony Abbott, if the election was held on the day it
was announced would be the prime minister,” Finance Minister
Penny Wong yesterday told Channel Nine television.  Both leaders have put management of the world’s 12th-largest economy at the center of their campaigns for the Sept. 7
ballot, amid slowing growth as a China-led  boom  in mining
investment wanes. While Rudd initially narrowed the margin in
opinion polls since defeating  Julia Gillard  in a June 26 Labor
party ballot, Abbott has regained the upper hand in the most
recent surveys.  “The polls show us that Rudd is failing to persuade
swinging voters to switch to Labor,” said  Nick Economou , a
political analyst at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “His brief
when he returned to the leadership was to try and avoid a
landslide defeat and he still may do that. Australians vote for
parties, not personalities, and the electorate seems to have
decided that Labor has failed and should be replaced.”  Better Prime Minister  Labor stands to lose at least five seats in the election,
according to separate polls published in the Australian
Financial Review and Sydney Morning Herald. The coalition needs
to gain four additional seats to makeAbbott the prime minister.  Rudd pledged A$500 million ($459 million) over the weekend
to help the nation’s car industry after producers cut jobs and
announced plant closures as lower tariffs and a strong
Australian dollar make imported models cheaper. The coalition
announced plans for a parental leave system to start from 2015
that would give mothers 26 weeks leave at their full wage.  On the question of who would make the better prime
minister, Rudd fell three points to 43 percent, with Abbott
gaining four points to 41 percent, today’s Newspoll showed. The
poll, conducted Aug. 16-18, surveyed 1,692 voters and had a
margin of error of 2.4 percentage points.  The coalition now leads Labor on a two-party basis 54
percent to 46 percent. The two-party preferred measure is
designed to gauge which party is most likely to form government
under  Australia ’s preferential voting system.  Newspoll is 50 percent owned by News Corp. Australia and 50
percent by Millward Brown Inc., a market-research company.  Marginal Electorates  In the four most marginal districts held by each side,
Labor would retain just one seat while failing to take any from
the opposition if the election were held now, according to a JWS
Research poll published in the  Australian Financial Review  Aug.
17. The ruling party is on course to lose two other seats in New
South Wales state, a  separate poll  by ReachTel in the Sydney
Morning Herald indicated the same day.  Labor, with 71 of the 150 seats in the lower house of
parliament, has relied on support from independent lawmakers and
the Greens party since forming a minority government after the
2010 election. The coalition, which had 72 lawmakers in the
chamber where government is formed, needs to increase that to 76
at the election to rule in its own right.  Beattie’s Struggle  “I am not getting ahead of myself,” Abbott told the Meet
the Press program on Channel Ten yesterday. “I am not taking
anything for granted.”  The JWS Research poll sampled the Labor-held seats of
Lindsay, Greenway and Banks in Western Sydney and Corangamite in
Victoria state. It canvassed the coalition seats of Brisbane and
Forde in Queensland, Aston in Victoria and Macquarie in New
South Wales.  Former Queensland Labor Premier Peter Beattie, who
announced Aug. 8 he would contest Forde in the state’s
southeast, is trailing incumbent member Bert van Manen by 33
percent to 54 percent on the primary vote, a 9.9 percent swing
since the 2010 election, the poll showed, according to the
Financial Review.  It sampled 568 people in Forde, now held by a 1.6 percent
margin by van Manen, and the poll had a margin of error of 4.2
percentage points.  Labor is trailing in the seat of McMahon, held by Treasurer
 Chris Bowen , and in Kingsford Smith, which is being vacated by
former minister Peter Garrett, according to ReachTel.  Federal support for Labor trails the opposition at 35
percent on the primary vote, slipping for a second week in a
row, according to a Galaxy survey published yesterday in the
Sunday Telegraph. The coalition’s primary support was unchanged
at 45 percent.  Galaxy puts the coalition at 52 percent and
Labor on 48 percent on a two-party preferred basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  