-- Russian Recession Risk Worsened as Banks Skimp on Loans
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-08-19T13:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/russian-recession-risk-worsened-as-banks-skimp-on-loans-economy.html
Elena Dibova was ready to pledge her
15 million-ruble ($456,000) apartment to get financing for her
metal-safe business. As her bank dragged its feet, she hit the
roadblock companies across  Russia  face as the economy sinks.  Corporate-lending growth has plunged as the weaker economy
prompts banks to demand more collateral and as borrowers shun
interest rates that can top 20 percent. As  VTB24 , the retail arm
of Russia’s second-largest lender, expanded its list of demands,
Dibova borrowed 2.5 million rubles from her business partners so
she could join a tender to supply the Moscow police.  “I’d have an entirely different strategy for developing my
business if money was easily accessible,” said Dibova, 48, who
also halted investments and canceled a holiday after giving up
on her bank. “I’d have expanded or would have built something,
but it’s impossible with loans costing so much.”  President  Vladimir Putin  is seeking ways to shore up the
economy as corporate credit dries up amid policy makers’
reluctance to cut interest rates in the face of above-target
inflation. The economy grew 1.2 percent from a year earlier in
the second quarter, the slowest pace since 2009, as investment
shriveled. That may mean Russia has entered its second recession
in five years, according London-based to Capital Economics Ltd.  Reduced Access  “Corporate lending has been decelerating for the last six
to nine months,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at  Renaissance
Capital , said in a phone interview. “It’s hard for companies
that aren’t big, quasi-sovereign companies to access credit.”  Loans to companies increased 12 percent from a year earlier
in June compared with 24 percent in the same month of 2012,
central bank data show. The average weighted interest rate on
loans to smaller companies is between 15 percent and 17 percent,
according to SME Bank, a unit of state development bank
Vnesheconombank, or VEB, that focuses on such clients.  By contrast, state-run telecommunications company OAO
Rostelecom agreed this month to borrow 5 billion rubles at 7.8
percent from OAO  Rosbank (ROSB) , a unit of Societe Generale SA.  Russia, the biggest emerging economy to raise borrowing
costs last year, left its benchmark rate unchanged at 8.25
percent, for an 11th month Aug. 9, with inflation exceeding its
6 percent goal for an 11th month in July. Oleg Deripaska, the
billionaire owner of  United Co Rusal Plc (486) , the world’s biggest
aluminum producer, has said policy makers “sucked all blood
from the Russian economy” by refraining from rate cuts.  ‘Too High’  “Rates are too high and under those conditions our
industry isn’t competitive,” Deripaska said in a June interview
with state television channel Rossiya 24. “We have to compete
with producers in  Germany ,  Korea , America when their rates are
twice or three times lower.”  The downturn in the world’s largest energy exporter is
threatening to undermine the consensus that’s underpinned
Putin’s 13-year rule, which has been challenged by the largest
protests of that period in recent years.  As Putin flagged “alarming signals” of an economic
slowdown, Russian asset prices have tumbled. The benchmark RTS
 stock index  has dropped almost 14 percent this year compared
with an 11 percent decline for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.
The yield on 10-year government debt has risen to 7.42 percent
from 6.9 percent at end-2012 as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may scale back bond
purchases.  Currency Losses  The ruble was 0.1 percent weaker at 32.9480 per dollar at
5:39 p.m. in Moscow, having retreated 9.3 percent against the
U.S. currency since reaching a 12-month peak on Feb. 1.  The plight of smaller businesses hasn’t gone unnoticed by
the president, who pledged last year to raise their share of
overall employment to at least half from 9 percent at present.  Putin called an emergency meeting in April with cabinet
members to find ways to revive growth. Three months later, the
government unveiled measures to bring down borrowing costs,
including tapping one of Russia’s sovereign wealth funds for
small-business lending and insuring loans issued by banks.  “This sector of the economy has the lowest access to
funding,” central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  said in June.
“It’s necessary first of all to take measures to cut borrowing
costs for small and medium-sized business.”  In the meantime, the souring economic backdrop is making
banks less keen to lend to smaller companies, according to
Dmitry Polevoy, an economist at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Moscow.  SMEs Squeezed  “Because of the slowdown, there’s been a decline in
corporate profits, meaning corporates’ financial positions have
deteriorated,” he said by phone. “Banks reacted to this by
raising some requirements for new loans, especially for small
and medium-sized enterprises that have less valuable and higher
risk collateral than the big companies.”  That’s a phenomenon Mikhail Koltunov’s all too familiar
with. The 31-year-old entrepreneur had to pledge his Kia car as
well as his father’s Hyundai and his business partner’s Skoda to
get a 5 million-ruble loan to buy a new office for his printing
company in Rostov-on-Don in southern Russia.  The collateral allowed him to secure an  interest rate  of 14
percent from his hometown bank,  Center-Invest , cheaper than the
18 percent to 19 percent he’s paying the country’s biggest
lender, OAO Sberbank, for 2 million rubles of unsecured loans
and 21 percent he’s paying to borrow 800,000 rubles from VTB24.  Lenders need to offer terms that allow companies to prosper
and make healthy profits, according to Koltunov, who employs
eight people. “But banks don’t trust small businesses.”  Back in Moscow, high loan rates have curbed the enthusiasm
for enterprise that Dibova had when she started her safe-making
company 22 years ago.  “It’s not a business any longer,” she said. “It will
just see me through to retirement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net  