-- Saudi Arabia and Iraq Cut Oil Exports in June: JODI Data
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-08-18T15:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/saudi-arabia-s-may-crude-exports-hit-11-month-high-jodi.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
oil exporter, shipped less crude in June and exports also slid
in fellow OPEC members  Iraq , Kuwait and Nigeria, according to
official data.  The kingdom delivered 7.32 million barrels a day, down from
7.79 million in May, according to figures the governments filed
with the Joint Organizations Data Initiative. Daily Saudi
production fell by 20,000 barrels in June to 9.64 million.  Exports from Iraq, OPEC’s second-largest producer, slumped
to 2.33 million barrels a day from 2.48 million in May, the data
showed. Kuwaiti crude shipments dropped to 2.09 million barrels
a day in June from 2.23 million in the prior month.  “Exports were low from OPEC countries, as demand was low
in June, but production was high in many of them since local
demand for summer is pushing consumption up,” Kamel al-Harami,
an independent oil analyst based in  Kuwait , said today by phone.
“Still, there are countries like Nigeria, Iran and Libya who
are cutting on exports due to their own problems.”  Nigeria and Angola, the West African producers in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, lowered their
exports of light crude in June by 0.7 percent and 3.6 percent,
respectively, according to JODI.  Algeria , another African
producer of light crude, reported an increase of 33 percent in
its June shipments to 704,000 barrels a day from 529,000 in May,
the data showed.  JODI is supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy
Forum and uses statistics supplied by national governments to
compile data on production, imports and exports for oil
producers and consumers. The data include crude and condensates
and exclude natural-gas liquids.  Libya , Iran,  Venezuela  and the United Arab Emirates failed
to submit export data for June. The other members of OPEC, which
accounts for about 40 percent of daily global crude production,
are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iraq, Kuwait, Nigeria, Qatar and
Saudi Arabia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  