-- Scottish Independence Case Clouded by Oil Industry Growth Drag
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-08-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/scottish-independence-case-clouded-by-oil-industry-growth-drag.html
Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond 
says North Sea oil and gas is a boon for  Scotland ’s economy,
helping it outperform the rest of Britain and making the case
for independence. Official U.K. economic data suggest otherwise.  A 30 percent slump in North Sea oil and gas output over the
past two years stymied U.K. economic growth, contributing to the
slowest post-recession recovery in more than 80 years, according
to the  Office for National Statistics .  “It confirms that the decline has been pretty important
and has made getting out of the fiscal hole we are in more
difficult than it would have been,”  John Curtice , a professor
of politics at Strathclyde University, said in a telephone
interview Aug. 16. “There is no doubt that the prospects for
oil are a matter of dispute between the two sides.”  The prospects for  North Sea  hydrocarbons are at the heart
of the debate about whether Scotland would be more prosperous if
it separated from the rest of the U.K. Salmond, a former oil
economist, says the industry is on the cusp of an upturn that
will strengthen Scotland’s economy by boosting revenue.  Salmond’s view that oil levies have the potential to
improve Scotland’s prospects isn’t finding favor with voters.
The latest opinion polls show support for independence lagging
the status quo by more than 20 percentage points. A public vote
on whether to quit the U.K. is scheduled for Sept. 18, 2014.  The U.K.’s gross domestic product expanded faster in eight
of the last 16 quarters when North Sea production was excluded,
the data show. Including oil and gas, output boosted economic
performance twice.  Better Judgment  “GDP excluding oil and gas gives a better judgment of how
the economy is recovering,” John McLaren, professor of public
policy at the Glasgow-based Centre for Public Policy for
Regions, said in a telephone interview on Aug. 7. “On that
basis the recovery is better than it would appear.”  Over the past decade dipping production has tempered GDP
data in 22 of the 40 quarters, while it has outperformed in six
quarters, the ONS data show. GDP expanded  0.6 percent  in the
second quarter with oil and gas production increasing in line
with the economy. The ONS and economists measure growth on an
inflation-adjusted volume basis.  The Scottish economy lagged growth in the U.K. between 2001
and 2011, McLaren said in a  study  published in March. Including
the effect of falling North Sea production, which has declined
since 1999, the Scottish economy shrank 0.3 percent a year over
the decade on average while U.K. GDP rose 1.6 percent, he said.  The figures “do not capture the fact that rising oil and
gas prices mean that the value of each barrel extracted is now
substantially higher than it was ten years ago and the wider
positive benefits that this provides,” Scottish Energy Minister
Fergus Ewing said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Offshore Investment  Measuring the contribution of oil and gas on a cash basis,
the measure used by the Scottish government, Scotland
outperformed the U.K., helped by  oil prices  rising more than
five-fold over the period, McLaren’s study said.  Investment in the North Sea will rise to a record 13
billion pounds ($20.3 billion) this year, the industry group
 U.K. Oil & Gas  said in March.  “A period of sustained investment means our forecasts are
more likely to be met,” U.K. Oil & Gas spokeswoman Sally Hatch
said in a telephone interview. Over the next four years,
production may  rise 30 percent  to 2 million barrels a day, the
group said.  Tax Take  The Scottish government and the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , the U.K. fiscal watchdog, differ in their
forecasts for North Sea tax revenue.  The tax take from the North Sea will be about 26.7 billion
pounds over the next five years, the OBR, the U.K.’s fiscal
watchdog set up in 2010, said in its central forecast. That’s
based on flat production and a lower oil price than the Scottish
government is assuming.  The semi-autonomous government, based in Edinburgh,
predicts revenue of 41.2 billion pounds over the period. In
March it forecast an annual average price of $113 a barrel
through 2017. This year it has averaged almost $108 a barrel.  The Scottish government’s estimates are “top of the range
in terms of optimism,” McLaren said. “It is probably best not
to assume too high a production or price estimate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  