-- Lee Steps Up Support for Singaporeans as Economic Revamp Bites
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-19T01:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/singapore-s-lee-says-government-will-enhance-elderly-safety-net.html
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong pledged to improve housing affordability and revamp its
health-care system, increasing support for citizens as the
economy adjusts to an aging population and tighter labor supply.  In his annual National Day Rally policy address yesterday,
Lee also announced changes to the education system and unveiled
long-term plans to free up space near the central business
district for housing, offices and recreation. The government
will provide help to companies struggling as it tightens the
intake of foreign labor, he said.  Lee, 61, is stepping up measures to help Singaporeans
buffeted by infrastructure strains, rising  living costs  and
greater competition for jobs, education and housing. The prime
minister said the country, which celebrated its 48th year of
independence this month, is at a “turning point” and must make
a “strategic shift” in its approach to nation building.  The government will “strengthen social safety nets, assure
people that whatever happens to you, you can get the essential
social services that you need, especially health care,” Lee
said. “We will monitor closely how well people can afford
housing in Singapore, and over time, as it becomes necessary, we
will do more to help the lower- and the middle-income
Singaporeans own their homes.”  Aging Population  Lee is trying to steer the economy through an aging
population and a declining overseas-worker supply by prodding
companies to produce more with less manpower and hire older
Singaporeans, as well as increasing the birth rate.  Singapore  probably delivered the biggest employment surge
among 33 advanced economies in the decade to 2014, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Annual jobs growth may halve in the
coming years from a 2007 peak as the island widens the clampdown
on foreign workers, Bank of America Corp. estimates.  “The foreign worker issue is complex and government cannot
meet all the demands and there’s no perfect solution but we’ll
definitely help small and medium-sized enterprises find a way to
make it,” Lee said. “We need to control foreign workers,
otherwise it will lead to serious consequences.”  A jump in population via immigration in recent years has
stoked social tensions and public discontent, leading to
weakened support for his People’s  Action Party  in elections held
in the past two-and-a-half years. The next general election must
be held by 2016.  “The groundswell of unhappiness is real, for them to
ignore it would cost them significant votes in 2016,” said
Terence Lee, an assistant professor of political science at
 National University  of Singapore. “Education, health care and
housing are things which of course really matter a lot to
Singaporeans.”  Expensive Housing  Young couples have held back from having children in  Asia ’s
second-most expensive housing market, where public housing is
the only affordable option for many families. With 82 percent of
Singaporeans living in apartments built by the state, housing
policy has been used to encourage the development of families.  The administration will increase public-housing grants for
some families to afford bigger homes, and add 20,000 pre-school
places over the next five years, the prime minister said. While
the government will provide more health-care subsidies, that
means medical insurance premiums and contribution rates into the
national savings system will have to rise, he said.  An insurance program currently known as MediShield will
soon be expanded to provide life-long coverage from a current
ceiling of 90 years, Lee said. The new plan will be universal
and provide better coverage for large hospital bills, and the
government will create a package to help the elderly pay for
their premiums, he said.  More Babies  The government is encouraging Singaporeans to have more
babies to avoid a shrinking pool of workers and consumers, a
deterrent to future investment. Lawmakers from Lee’s party
endorsed a set of proposals in February to allow more foreigners
through 2030 to boost the workforce, which may raise the
island’s population to 6.9 million from 5.3 million.  Lee also elaborated on plans to free up 800 hectares of
space for homes and offices by moving a military airbase to the
eastern part of Singapore. There are also plans to convert a
parking lot into shops and an indoor garden at Changi Airport,
while a fifth terminal is targeted for completion in the mid-2020s, he said.  More land will also be available after 2027 when the lease
for ports at Tanjong Pagar near the central business district
expire and operations move to the island’s south-west, Lee said.  “I think it’s necessary to try and extend the CBD, and try
to make way,” said Joey Chew, an economist at Barclays Plc in
Singapore. “It’s expensive land, it’s valuable land, so it
doesn’t really make sense to have a port in Tanjong Pagar.”  The infrastructure changes will take place in the next two
decades or so, Lee said.  “These are very ambitious, long-term plans, it’s an
example of how we need to think and plan for our future,” Lee
said. “If we can carry off these plans, we don’t have to worry
about running out of space or possibilities for Singapore. We
are not at the limit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  