-- Stop-And-Frisk Ruling ‘Cries Out for Appeal,’ Kelly Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-18T18:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/stop-and-frisk-ruling-cries-out-for-appeal-kelly-says.html
New York  City Police Commissioner
Raymond Kelly said a court ruling that the city’s stop-and-frisk
practices violate minorities’ constitutional rights “cries out
for appeal” because it’s based on a small sample size.  The lawsuit that led to U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin’s August 12 decision involved four plaintiffs and
focused on 19 stops by police, Kelly said. A witness for
plaintiffs in the case found that six percent of 4.4 million
stops over a 10-year period were unjustified, he said.  “This is very small evidence, a small amount of
information to have such a sweeping finding,” Kelly said today
on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “The judge has indicted
the entire New York City Police Department, 35,000 officers, of
racial profiling on the flimsiest of evidence.”  The city told the court on August 16 it intends to appeal
Scheindlin’s ruling.  Four black men claimed in their lawsuit against the city
that they had been stopped and questioned or frisked by police
without reasonable suspicion in violation of their
constitutional rights. At least 80 percent of the people who
experience a stop-and-frisk encounter were black or Latino,
according to court papers.  Benjamin Jealous, president of the NAACP, said the practice
isn’t responsible for a drop in murders as asserted by
advocates.  ‘No Relationship’  “The fall in homicides happened prior to 2002 and the
increase in stop-and-frisk happened after 2002. So there’s no
relationship between these two,” said Jealous, who also
appeared on “Meet the Press.”  “Just because there are more murders in our community
doesn’t mean you can treat all of us like we are guilty,”
Jealous said.  Endorsement of stop-and-frisk by the city “is
fundamentally inconsistent with the law of equal protection and
represents a particularly disconcerting manifestation of
indifference,” Scheindlin wrote in her ruling. She described
each stop as a “demeaning and humiliating experience.”  Police are generally barred by law from stopping,
questioning or frisking -- the act of patting a person down in a
search for weapons or other contraband -- someone in the street
without some level of reasonable, individualized suspicion. The
U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that police must have such
suspicion of crime to justify a stop.  Reform Monitor  Scheindlin didn’t altogether ban stop-and-frisk. She
appointed Peter L. Zimroth, a New York University Law professor
and former corporation counsel for the city, to monitor changes
in the police department. Zimroth will be responsible for
developing changes, informing the city of milestones it must
achieve, conducting regular progress reviews and issuing public
reports every six months detailing the police department’s
compliance.  Kelly said the tactic isn’t based on racial profiling but
rather the characteristics of perpetrators as described by their
victims.  “You should first look at the universe of people who are
identified by the victims of violent crime,” Kelly said. “In
New York City, that universe certainly comports to the racial
makeup of the people who are being stopped.”  “I think, no question about it, violent crime will go up”
if stop-and-frisk is abandoned, Kelly said.  (With assistance from Christie Smythe and Bob Van Voris in New
York and Andrew Harris in Chicago)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  