-- U.K. Growth Forecasts Raised by CBI as Recovery Builds
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-08-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/u-k-growth-forecasts-raised-by-cbi-as-recovery-builds-momentum.html
The  Confederation of British
Industry  raised its forecasts for U.K.  economic growth  this year
and next as business and consumer confidence strengthens and
credit conditions improve.  The business lobby’s quarterly forecasts see the economy
expanding 1.2 percent this year and 2.3 percent in 2014. That’s
up from 1 percent and 2 percent projected in May. The London-based group also said today that  unemployment  -- which the  Bank
of England  has set as the key indicator for its guidance on
policy -- will fall to 7.6 percent next year after staying at
its current 7.8 percent in 2013.  “The economy has started to gain momentum and confidence
is picking up, but it’s still early days,” said CBI Director-General  John Cridland . “We need to see a full-blown rebalancing
of our economy, with stronger business investment and trade,
before we can call a sustainable recovery.”  Services, manufacturing and construction indexes all rose
last month, while jobless claims fell twice as much as forecast
by economists, suggesting Britain’s recovery is gaining
momentum. Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  said earlier this
month that he plans to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low at least until joblessness falls to 7 percent.  The CBI expects household spending to strengthen in the
second half of this year and through 2014, with a stable labor
market and slowing  inflation  helping to shore up incomes. It
also said the Bank of England’s forward guidance will help boost
business and  consumer confidence .  While the recovery is gathering pace, the economy needs to
rebalance through increased business investment and trade to
ensure a “sustainable recovery,” it said.  “We hope that will begin to emerge next year, as the  euro
zone  starts growing again,” Cridland said. Business investment
is forecast to grow 7.3 percent in 2014 after falling 2.8
percent in 2013, according to the CBI.  The euro area, the U.K.’s biggest trading partner, emerged
from a record-long recession in the second quarter, expanding
for the first time since 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Svenja O’Donnell} in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  