-- U.S. Regulator Probes JPMorgan Over China Hires: NYTimes
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-08-18T05:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/u-s-regulator-probes-jpmorgan-over-china-hires-nytimes.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s anti-bribery unit is investigating whether  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  hired the children of Chinese officials to help its
business, The  New York  Times reported, citing a confidential
government document.  The bank hired the son of a former Chinese banking
regulator who is currently chairman of China Everbright Group
Ltd., a state-controlled financial company, while its  Hong Kong 
office employed a Chinese railway official’s daughter, according
to the report. After each appointment, the bank secured
assignments from companies connected to the new hires’ parents,
according to the report.  The bank has not been accused of any wrongdoing, according
to the report. The government document and public records cited
by The New York Times do not indicate that the employees helped
JPMorgan secure business or that they were unqualified,
according to the report.  The regulator in May requested records from the bank
concerning Tang Xiaoning, the son of Tang Shuangning, who since
2007 has been chairman of the China Everbright Group, according
to the report. Officials also sought information on the hiring
of Zhang Xixi, daughter of former Railway Ministry deputy chief
engineer  Zhang Shuguang , the New York Times said. Both Tang and
Zhang have left JPMorgan, according to the report.  JPMorgan made a reference to the inquiry in its  quarterly
filing , saying the SEC had asked for information about its
“employment of certain former employees in Hong Kong and its
business relationships with certain clients,” according to the
report.  “We publicly disclosed this matter in our 10-Q filing last
week, and are fully cooperating with regulators,”  Brian
Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan, told  Bloomberg News .  Two calls to Everbright Group’s headquarters in Beijing
went unanswered. Two calls to China Railway Corp., which took
over operations from the disbanded Ministry of Railways in
March, were unanswered.  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , is
also working to resolve U.S. and U.K. investigations after
botched trades by its chief investment office caused more than
$6.2 billion of losses last year. U.S. Senate investigators
concluded in March that the bank dodged regulators and misled
investors about souring bets by Bruno Iksil, a trader dubbed the
London Whale because his positions were so big.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  