-- What If What You ’Survived’ Wasn’t Cancer?
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-08-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/what-if-what-you-survived-wasn-t-cancer-.html
You’re feeling fine when you go for
your annual physical. But your mammogram looks a little funny,
or your PSA test is a little high, or you get a CT lung scan and
a nodule shows up. You get a biopsy, and the doctor delivers the
bad news: You have cancer. Because you don’t want to die, you
agree to be sliced up and irradiated. Then, fortunately, you’re
pronounced a “cancer survivor.” You’re glad they caught it
early.  But maybe you went through all that pain for nothing.  For decades, the reigning theory has been that the earlier
a cancer is spotted and treated, the less likely it is to be
lethal, because it won’t have time to grow and spread. Yet this
theory infers causality from correlation. It implicitly assumes
that cancer is cancer is cancer, even though we now know that
even in the  same part of the body , cancer is  many different
diseases  -- some aggressive, some not. Perhaps people survive
early-stage cancers not because they’re treated in time, but
because their disease never would have become life-threatening
at all.  This isn’t just logical nit-picking. Thanks to widespread
screening, the number of early-stage cancers identified has
skyrocketed. In many instances -- including types of breast,
prostate, thyroid and lung cancers -- more early diagnoses
haven’t led to proportionate decreases in mortality. (New drugs,
not early detection, account for at least two-thirds of the
reduction in breast-cancer mortality.) The cancers the tests
pick up aren’t necessarily life-threatening. They’re just really
common. So more sensitive tests and more frequent screening mean
more cancer, more cancer treatment and more cancer survivors.  “We’ll all be cancer survivors if we keep going at the
rate that we’re going,” says  Peter Carroll , the chairman of the
department of urology at the  University of California  at  San
Francisco  and a specialist in prostate cancer.  Distracting Doctors  In a well-intended effort to save lives, the emphasis on
early detection is essentially looking under the lamp post:
Putting many patients who don’t have life-threatening diseases
through traumatic treatments while distracting doctors from the
bigger challenge of developing ways to identify and treat the
really dangerous fast-growing cancers.  “Physicians, patients, and the general public must
recognize that overdiagnosis is common and occurs more
frequently with cancer screening,” argues a recent JAMA  article 
by the oncologists Laura J. Esserman (a surgeon and breast-cancer specialist), Ian M. Thompson Jr. (a urologist) and Brian
Reid (a specialist in esophageal cancer). They argue for
limiting the term “cancer” to conditions likely to be life-threatening if left untreated.  That’s going to be a tough change for a lot of people to
swallow. For patients and the rest of the public, getting tested
offers a sense of control, encouraging an almost superstitious
belief that frequent screening will ward off death. (A few years
ago, when the actress Christina Applegate was making the  talk-show rounds  urging young women to get breast MRIs, my own
oncologist told me he was getting calls from women who thought
the tests would not merely detect but prevent  breast cancer .)  Early detection of non-life-threatening cancers also
produces a steady supply of “ cancer survivors ,” who work to
support cancer charities and make their efforts look successful.
There’s an entire industry devoted to celebrating “ breast
cancer survivors ” in particular, and many women are heavily
invested in that identity. It offers a heroic honorific as a
reward for enduring horrible treatments. A term originally
coined to remind cancer patients that their disease need not be
fatal has become a badge of personal achievement.  Fearing Mistakes  Physicians, meanwhile, fear making a mistake. It seems
safer to treat someone who doesn’t really need it than to miss
something potentially fatal. But, warns  Esserman , director of
the Carol Franc Buck Breast Care Center at UCSF, “the cancers
that grow and spread very quickly are not the ones that you can
catch in time with screening.” If anything, emphasizing early
detection misdirects research  and funding. “We have to come up
with better treatments, we have to figure out who’s really at
risk for those and figure out how to prevent them,” she says.
“We’re not going to fix it with screening.”  There are plenty of scientific unknowns. Take the commonly
diagnosed breast cancer called ductal carcinoma in situ, which
accounts for about a third of new U.S. diagnoses, 60,000 a year.
In these cases, the cells lining the walls of milk ducts look
like cancer, but they haven’t invaded the surrounding breast
tissue. DCIS was a rare diagnosis before the introduction of
mammograms, which are highly sensitive to milk-duct
calcifications, and the JAMA article labels it a “premalignant
condition” that shouldn’t even be called cancer. Arguably, a
lot of women who think of themselves as “breast cancer
survivors” have survived treatment, not cancer.  Yet oncologists who identify DCIS have been surgically
removing it (and in many cases the entire surrounding breast)
for 40 years, so it’s hard to know how dangerous it actually is.
“Since we really don’t know the true natural history of DCIS we
do not know if DCIS always progresses to invasive cancer or
not,” says  Colin Wells , a radiologist at the University of
California at  Los Angeles  specializing in breast imaging.
“There are some reasons to think not, but this needs to be
worked out” with further research. If DCIS does spread to
invade breast tissue, the question remains whether that cancer
threatens to go beyond the breast, becoming lethal if untreated.  By contrast, we do know that a lot of prostate cancer isn’t
dangerous. Autopsy studies show it’s quite common in older men
who die from unrelated causes. “Out there in the street, if you
remove the prostates in men over the age of 50, 30 to 40 percent
would have some kind of cancer,” Carroll says, “most likely,
low grade and low volume.”  Distinguishing Tumors  Thanks to more sensitive tests, he notes, the prostate
“cancers we’re detecting today are totally different than the
cancers we saw two decades ago. And our ability to distinguish
these tumors is much better. We have the wherewithal now to be
able to tell a patient that your cancer is highly likely
confined to your prostate, of small volume, slow growing, and
something that may not need immediate treatment at all.”  Carroll has more than 1,000 patients under “active
surveillance,” getting regular PSA tests, imaging and biopsies.
Only about one in three turns out to need treatment within five
to 10 years. (An additional 10 percent opt for surgery simply
because they get tired of all the tests or can’t take the
anxiety.) The program is also working, Carroll says, to
“decrease the burden of testing,” ideally by eliminating the
need for repeated biopsies.  Prostate cancer illustrates the cultural barriers to
abandoning what Esserman calls today’s “scorched earth
policy.” Despite the widespread awareness that many prostate
cancers aren’t life-threatening, many physicians are determined
to find and treat it any time a PSA score comes in a little
high. “I saw a gentleman this week who had had 12 biopsies, no
cancer, and they said there must be cancer in there and they did
24,” says  Ian Thompson  of the University of Texas Health
Science Center at  San Antonio , who is one of the JAMA authors.  A prostate-cancer diagnosis is still terrifying to patients
and their families. Thompson describes many of his conversations
with patients -- and especially with their wives -- as “talking
them off the ledge.” When he tells patients they’re likely to
be fine without immediate treatment, they often worry how
they’ll explain the good news to their children or neighbors.
People expect a cancer diagnosis to entail trauma.  Although Carroll thinks calling slow-growing prostate
tumors “cancer” is important to encourage vigilance, Thompson
wants to change the nomenclature, using the term IDLE (indolent
lesions of epithelial origin) to describe low-risk cases where
waiting isn’t likely to make a difference. Just using the word
“cancer,” he argues, creates unnecessary suffering.  “The number of people that will die from those slow-growing prostate cancers is really low,” he says, but the
unacknowledged costs of giving them a cancer diagnosis are huge:
“the person who can’t sleep for two weeks before his next test
results, and all the follow-up biopsies and all the lost wages,
and the people who can’t get  life insurance  because they now
have a new cancer diagnosis, the person whose firm says, ‘Well,
we’re concerned you have cancer and therefore you can’t be
promoted to this job.’”  It’s a compelling case, but changing the vocabulary
finesses the fundamental cultural issue: the widespread and
incorrect belief that “cancer” is a single condition, defined
only by site in the body, rather than a broad category like
“infectious disease.” Someone doesn’t develop “cancer” but,
rather, “a cancer.” How frightening that diagnosis should be
depends on which one.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies,” “The Substance of
Style” and the forthcoming “The Power of Glamour.” Follow her
on Twitter at  @vpostrel .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Virginia Postrel  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 