-- WTI Oil Snaps Six-Day Gain; Goldman Raises Brent Forecast
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-08-19T12:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-18/wti-fluctuates-near-two-week-high-as-discount-to-brent-narrows.html
West Texas Intermediate snapped six
days of gains. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its price
forecasts for  Brent crude , citing supply disruptions in Libya
and  Iraq .  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent in  New York , capping
the longest rising streak since April as unrest in  Egypt  fanned
concern that Middle East shipments may be at risk. Global oil
inventories have “tightened substantially,” according to
Goldman Sachs. U.S. refinery rates fell in the week to Aug. 9, a
fourth weekly drop.  BP Plc (BP/)  said it may start redeploying workers
to platforms in the  Gulf of Mexico  as a storm weakened.  The drop in U.S. refinery runs shows “summer demand is
easing,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
London, said in an e-mail. “Brent is still supported by supply
disruptions and geopolitics.”  WTI for September delivery, which expires tomorrow, dropped
as much as 71 cents to $106.75 a barrel and was at $106.83 as of
1:43 p.m. London time in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It settled at $107.46 on Aug. 16, the
highest close since Aug. 1. The more active October contract was
down 75 cents to $106.54. The volume of all futures traded was
about 11 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for October settlement fell 6 cents to $110.34 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. It was
at a premium of $3.83 to WTI. The spread narrowed for the first
time in a week on Aug. 16 to $3.11.  Libya Supply  Brent, the benchmark crude for more than half the world’s
oil, may rise to about $115 a barrel in the “very near term,”
Goldman Sachs said in a report today. It raised its three-month
and six-month price projections.  “The disruptions in Libyan oil supplies have lasted far
longer than we initially thought, with no near-term resolution
in sight, which was further complicated by the involvement of
the military,” said  Jeffrey Currie , a Goldman analyst in New
York. “Combined with the ongoing problems in Iraq, which we see
extending into the autumn, OPEC outages since the beginning of
the summer have taken 33 million barrels off the market.”  Libya’s crude production has slumped amid a labor dispute
at  oil fields  and ports that started last month. The member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries holds Africa’s
largest reserves.  Suez Canal  Egyptian Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi said
yesterday the military won’t allow the country to be destroyed
after a week of violence left hundreds dead.  “We’ve still got Middle Eastern issues,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in
Sydney who predicts investors may sell WTI contracts at about
$108.60 a barrel. “The Gulf storm was the reason why the market
closed on the topside, because there was a little bit of risk
and nobody wanted to go short over the weekend.”  WTI surged 8.8 percent in July, the most since August 2012,
as Egypt’s army deposed Mohamed Mursi as president. The country
controls the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
through which a combined 4.51 million barrels a day of crude and
refined products were shipped last year, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  The  Middle East  accounted for 35 percent of global oil
output in the first quarter of this year, International Energy
Agency data show.  Bullish Bets  “Tighter global supply should continue to support oil near
term, but we caution against buying crude on the assumption that
outages will persist,” Adam Longson, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in New York, said in a report today.  Money managers reduced WTI net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, by 2,041 futures and options combined, or 0.7
percent, to 308,786, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in its weekly report Aug. 16.  For Brent, money managers raised  bullish bets  to the
highest in more than two years in the week ended Aug. 13,
according to data from ICE Futures Europe. Net-long positions
rose 2.5 percent to 193,527 lots, the most since at least
January 2011, the starting point for the data series.  WTI’s advance may stall as futures approach the 30-day
upper Bollinger Band, a technical indicator at about $108.70 a
barrel today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sell
orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  