-- Accused CIA Imposter Charged Again With Impersonation
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-29T04:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/accused-cia-imposter-charged-again-with-impersonation.html
A  Virginia  man whose charges of
posing as a CIA agent and recruiting people to rob banks were
dropped by prosecutors last month was accused of impersonating a
Homeland Security officer.  Joshua Brady was arrested June 26 after federal agents
swarmed his mother’s home in Matoaca. He was charged in a
criminal complaint in federal court in Richmond with one count
of impersonating a federal officer, which carries a maximum
sentence of three years in prison.  Brady allegedly called two hospitals in the Richmond,
Virginia, area saying he needed rooms for an undercover
operation and identifying himself as a Department of Homeland
Security officer Jacob Attlinger, according to an affidavit
filed in the case.  The charge comes a month after Brady was sentenced to three
years’ supervision in a plea deal where federal prosecutors
dropped charges in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia,
accusing the 27-year-old of being behind at least three
attempted bank robberies in the Washington area last year while
posing as a federal agent who went by the name Theo.  Brady, who pleaded guilty in January to sending a forged
judge’s signature to  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  in a dispute
over an unpaid mobile-phone bill, was ordered by U.S. District
Judge John Gibney to stay away from the Internet for one year
and receive mental health treatment.  No Employee  The Homeland Security probe began on June 23 after the
Virginia State Police alerted the department to “Attlinger.”  Brady, using the alias, had contacted a security manager at
St. Francis Medical Center in Midlothian and the Virginia
Commonwealth University Medical Center, seeking a room that
could be equipped with “audio and video surveillance equipment
for an undercover operation” by June 27, according to an
affidavit by Kevin Hogancamp, a Homeland Security special agent.  Brady, who appeared June 27 in court on the new charge, was
ordered to remain in custody until a detention hearing scheduled
for July 1.  Mary Maguire, Brady’s court-appointed lawyer, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail message seeking
comment. Zachary Terwilliger, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in Alexandria, declined to comment on the new charge.  Mental Illness  In the earlier cases, Brady’s lawyers argued he suffered
from mental illnesses that made him unable to form the intent to
commit his crimes. Brady has post-traumatic stress disorder,
paranoid schizophrenia, and schizotypal personality disorder,
according to the doctor hired by his lawyers.  Through Carolina Villegas, an Army reservist he met on an
online dating website called sugardaddyforme.com, Brady last
year persuaded Herson Torres, then 21, to go into banks in
Alexandria and Fairfax County with handwritten notes demanding
money, prosecutors said.  Both Villegas and Torres believed that Brady, who they only
spoke to by phone, was a federal intelligence agent, according
to prosecutors.  Torres said Brady told him the goal of the operation was to
test the banks’ security and that he could earn $25,000 and a
job with the government by taking part in the mission dubbed
“Operation Downstrike.”  None of the robbery attempts over four days succeeded and
Torres was eventually arrested. Investigators traced phone calls
to Brady, who was charged in August with impersonating a
government official and three counts of attempted bank robbery.  At sentencing, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Michael Moore  said
that if Brady didn’t follow up with his treatment and other
sentencing requirements, additional crimes may be committed by
people at Brady’s behest.  The new case is U.S. v. Brady, 13-mj-00293, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Richmond, Virginia,
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 