-- Alabama’s Abortion Provider Hospital Law Blocked by U.S. Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-29T04:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/alabama-s-abortion-provider-hospital-law-blocked-by-judge-1-.html
An  Alabama  law requiring abortion
doctors to have staff privileges at local hospitals was
temporarily blocked by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Myron H. Thompson in Montgomery issued
a temporary restraining order that bars the state from enforcing
the law until at least July 12. The requirement was set to take
effect July 1.  The American Civil Liberties Union, which filed the lawsuit
this month, said the measure signed into law by Governor Robert Bentley in April would force three of the state’s five clinics
to close, unconstitutionally burdening a woman’s right to an
abortion.  “The court finds that it is in the public interest to
preserve the status quo and give the court an opportunity to
evaluate fully the lawfulness of HB 57 without subjecting the
plaintiffs, their patients or the public at large to any of its
potential harms,” Thompson said in yesterday’s order, referring
to the law by its legislative designation.  “We are disappointed,” Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange said in an e-mailed statement, noting that it was only a
temporary order. “This is an important law to protect the
health and safety of Alabamians, and my office will continue to
vigorously defend the law so that it may be implemented as soon
as possible.”  Under the law, administrators whose clinics violate the law
could face as long as 10 years in prison, according to
yesterday’s ruling.  Part of a Kansas abortion law, including a provision
involving a 24-hour waiting period, was temporarily blocked by a
state judge, the Center for Reproductive rights said yesterday
in a statement. The ruling couldn’t be immediately confirmed in
court records.  Eight Clinics  The ACLU filed its complaint in Alabama on behalf of
Planned Parenthood Southeast Inc., which operates eight health
centers in that state, Georgia and  Mississippi , and Reproductive
Health Services, a licensed abortion provider in Montgomery.  It argued the law threatens the ability of abortion clinics
in Alabama’s three biggest cities -- Montgomery, Mobile and
Birmingham -- to offer that service, leaving just those in
Huntsville and Tuscaloosa.  “We’re grateful that the court stepped in to prevent
politicians from taking away a woman’s ability to make this
personal and private decision,” Susan Watson, executive
director of the ACLU of Alabama, said in a statement. “We will
continue to fight to ensure that these decisions can be made by
a woman with her family and her doctor, not by politicians
sitting in Montgomery.”  Bentley’s Opposition  Bentley’s administration opposed the request for injunctive
relief, arguing in a June 25 filing that the plaintiffs delayed
challenging the legislation signed on April 9 because they knew
they would lose on “an adequately developed record.”  He also said the Huntsville and Tuscaloosa clinics planned
to comply with the law.  “Those clinics appear to have had hospital-admitting
privileges before there even was an HB 57,” according to the
governor’s filing. “Their doctors are not claiming a right to
abandon patients when post-abortion complications arise.”  Bentley, a Republican, faulted the plaintiffs for their
inability to obtain admitting privileges, telling the court if
they can’t it’s because they operate under a business model
“inconsistent” with high standards of care.  Planned Parenthood called that argument “specious,” in a
reply brief filed yesterday.  The case is Planned Parenthood Southeast Inc. v. Bentley,
13-cv-00405, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Alabama
(Montgomery).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  