-- Anastasiades Says Met Merkel, Draghi on Cypriot Bank Woes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-28T13:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/anastasiades-says-met-merkel-draghi-on-cypriot-bank-woes.html
Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades
said he spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi about ways to bolster
confidence in Cyprus’s banks after the international rescue of
the country.  Anastasiades said the meetings took place yesterday before
a European Union summit in Brussels and he will meet Draghi
again next week in  Frankfurt . The Cypriot central bank governor,
Panicos Demetriades, and Finance Minister Haris Georgiades will
also attend the meeting with Draghi on July 3, according to
Anastasiades, who said he will continue on to Berlin that day to
take part in a European jobs summit hosted by Merkel.  “There is understanding,” Anastasiades told reporters
today in Brussels after the final EU summit session. “The
dialogue with Mr. Draghi revolves around the problems that the
banking sector of Cyprus is facing” and “how it is possible
for the European Central Bank to contribute to coping with the
problems.” He declined to elaborate on his discussions with
Draghi and Merkel.  Cyprus is seeking leeway under a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) rescue that euro area and the International Monetary
Fund granted in March in return for losses on uninsured
depositors in the country’s two largest lenders. The Cypriot
government imposed capital controls as it resolved the second-biggest lender, Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl.  Anastasiades said in a June 6 letter to European Commission
President Jose Barroso that the rescue package imposed losses on
bank depositors “without careful preparation,” creating
“pressing issues that need to be addressed.” A significant
number of Cypriot firms have lost their working capital,
Anastasiades said.  In his letter, Anastasiades said Bank of Cyprus Pcl’s
absorption of parts of Cyprus Popular, including a 9 billion-euro liability from the central bank’s Emergency Liquidity
Assistance program, had created a “mega-systemic bank.” The
success of Cyprus’s bailout program depends on the emergence of
a “strong and viable” Bank of Cyprus, he said.  The euro area responded by telling the Cypriot government
to stick to the bailout program.  “It is important to avoid speculation about the commitment
of the Cypriot government to deliver on its undertakings” in the
bailout agreement ‘‘before the program has even had a chance to
take off the ground,’’ Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen
Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of euro-area finance chiefs,
said in a letter to Anastasiades sent June 25.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  