-- Anti-Hacking Bill Aiding Verizon Delayed by Snowden Leaks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/anti-hacking-bill-aiding-verizon-delayed-by-snowden-leaks.html
Legislation to give  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  legal protection for sharing
cyber-attack information with the U.S. government has stalled
after leaks about spy programs showed the companies are already
turning over data.  Lawmakers have stopped advancing cybersecurity legislation
until at least September as they gather more information about
the National Security Agency surveillance programs and hear from
constituents to assess the political fallout, Senate and House
members from both parties said in interviews.  Disclosure of the NSA programs “probably couldn’t have
come at a worse time” for advancing a cybersecurity bill, said
Representative Michael McCaul, chairman of the House  Homeland
Security  Committee. The Texas Republican said he’s postponed
introducing his legislation at least until September.  “There’s very little faith in the institutions of
government right now,” said Representative Tom Cole of
 Oklahoma , a Republican party leader. “If you look like you’re
not sufficiently critical and sufficiently vigilant in defending
people’s liberties I think they’ll express that at the polls.”  Former NSA contract worker Edward Snowden this month
exposed classified programs, authorized by a secret surveillance
court, that collect phone-call records of millions of U.S.
citizens from New York-based Verizon and monitor Internet
communications of suspected foreign terrorists.  ‘Fallout Zone’  Corporate officials have testified before Congress about
the need for legislation, while Verizon,   Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and
McAfee Inc., now part of  Intel Corp. (INTC) , as well as Google Chief
Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt , have written letters in support
of legislation.  Those companies have now become silent in the wake of the
leaks on whether they still support it. Delaying action leaves
the rules unclear about what data can be shared and whether the
companies can be sued by customers for providing data to the
government.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, was among the
Internet companies said to be providing data for the Internet
communications monitoring effort, known as Prism. The company
has asked the surveillance court for permission to disclose
intelligence agencies’ requests for user data.  Prior to Snowden’s leaks, lawmakers and officials from
President  Barack Obama ’s administration were calling with
increasing urgency for legislation to defend banks, utilities
and telecommunication networks from potentially devastating
computer attacks.  “This has become a radioactive fallout zone for a while in
terms of new legislation,” said Stewart Baker, former general
counsel for the NSA, in an interview.  House Measure  The House in April passed a bill, H.R. 624, that would
shield companies from lawsuits for sharing information about
hackers with each other and the government, and authorize
corporations to receive classified data from U.S. intelligence
agencies about threats.  Companies had been asking the Senate, which hasn’t
introduced a bill this year, to follow the House.  Sena Fitzmaurice, spokeswoman for Philadelphia-based
Comcast, declined to comment about whether the company still
supports the House bill. Verizon spokesman Edward McFadden
didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mails for comment.  Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin , chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, said passing a cybersecurity measure has
become more difficult in the Senate.  “People’s demand for transparency has definitely
increased,” said  Jan Schakowsky , of Illinois, the top Democrat
on the House Intelligence Oversight and Investigations
subcommittee.  NSA Role  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and
chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she plans
to introduce similar legislation to the House bill, though
wouldn’t say when.  Feinstein is reviewing whether companies should be allowed
to directly share information about online attacks with the NSA
or be required to interact with a civilian agency, like the
Homeland Security Department.  Legislation is needed “to ensure that voluntary
information sharing is lawful,” Feinstein said an e-mailed
statement. She said it should include liability for companies
and privacy protections for citizens.  McCaul said his bill will require companies to share data
with Homeland Security. Last year, Senate Republicans blocked
cybersecurity legislation in part because of objections that the
department would be the contact point for data sharing and
setting the rules.  “People get spooked by the fact that the NSA has housed
everybody’s phone records,” he said.  Information Sharing  The scope of information companies are sharing with the
government under the spy programs isn’t clear, said Michelle
Richardson, legislative counsel for the  American Civil Liberties
Union  in Washington.  The ACLU has opposed cybersecurity legislation on grounds
that citizens’ personal information might not be protected if
turned over to the government as part of sharing data on cyber
threats. Richardson questioned whether a new law is needed given
the amount of data already being exchanged.  The government can order telecommunications and Internet
companies to provide data related to national security
investigations under sections of the Patriot Act and Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act. The companies are given legal
protections for doing so.  In some cases, data is used to defend  computer networks 
from hacking attacks, according to the  Office of the Director of
National Intelligence . These communications have “provided
significant and unique intelligence regarding potential cyber
threats to the  United States  including specific potential
computer network attacks,” the office said  June 8 .  Lumped Together  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , and Michael Fey, McAfee’s worldwide chief
technology officer, said their companies also voluntarily
provide intelligence agencies additional data on threats to
computer networks.  It’s wrong to lump together the type of information being
shared under the spy programs with what would fall under a
cybersecurity bill, said  Michael Chertoff , Homeland Security
secretary under President  George W. Bush .  “They’re completely different things and they shouldn’t be
confused, although inevitably they will be,” Chertoff said in
an interview.  “What you’re looking for in cyber is information about
what’s in the packets moving across the Internet and the
malicious code,” said Chertoff, who founded a security
consulting company in Washington. “The collection of phone data
doesn’t help you with cyber. The other stuff only looks at
foreign communications.”  Legislation to defend computer networks would enable
automated sharing about new hacking attacks and involve more
companies than are covered under the spy programs, such as
utilities, Chertoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  