-- Arch Coal to Sell Utah Mines for $435 Million
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-06-28T20:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/arch-coal-to-sell-utah-mines-for-435-million.html
Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , one of the most
indebted U.S. coal producers, agreed to sell three Utah mines
from its most profitable division for $435 million as the
company tries to cut costs amid falling coal prices.  The company will sell the Sufco, Skyline and Dugout Canyon
mines and 105 million tons of reserves to closely held Bowie
Resources LLC, Arch said in a statement today. Arch said it will
record a $120 million pretax gain from the deal.  Arch has posted two straight net losses and its debt has
risen after a slump in U.S. consumption of coal to generate
electricity and a slowdown in demand for metallurgical coal used
in steelmaking.  The transaction -- the largest U.S. coal acquisition since
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- will allow St.
Louis-based Arch to focus on the most “value-enhancing” parts
of its business, such as its lower-cost thermal coal operations
and Appalachian metallurgical-coal mines, Chief Executive
Officer John W. Eaves said in the statement.  Arch rose 5 percent to $3.78 in New York.  The company said the the three Utah mines have forecast
2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $90 million. The price paid for them implies an
Ebitda multiple of about 4.8, compared with the median multiple
of 13 from four other U.S. coal-industry deals announced since
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Enhancing Liquidity’  “We view this transaction as a bit of a double-edged sword
for Arch,” Lucas Pipes, an analyst at Brean Capital LLC in New
York, said in a note today. “While enhancing liquidity in this
environment is a welcome reprieve, the company will be forgoing
roughly one-fifth of its current Ebitda, according to our
estimates.”  Bowie, based in Louisville,  Kentucky , said in a separate
statement it will own the mines in a joint venture with Galena
Private Equity Resources Fund, a unit of Amsterdam-based
commodity trader Trafigura Beheer BV. Trafigura will sell the
venture’s coal production.  Bowie has arranged financing for the deal with Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG.  The four Utah and Colorado mines in Arch’s Western
Bituminous division had an operating margin of $8.87 a ton last
year, compared with 84 cents a ton at the company’s Powder River
Basin mines and $2.25 at its Central Appalachian operations,
according to Arch filings.  The Bowie deal will lead to more than $200 million in
cumulative capital and administrative cost savings, Arch said.
Its ratio of debt to Ebitda is 9.13, higher than any U.S. coal
company with a market value of more than $250 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  FBR Capital Markets & Co., Deutsche Bank and Bank of
America Corp. are financial advisers to Arch on the deal and
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett is the coal producer’s legal counsel.
Morgan Stanley is Bowie’s financial adviser and Baker Botts LLP
and Fultz Maddox Hovious & Dickens Plc are providing legal
counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  