-- Asian Stocks Headed for Biggest Advance Since September
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-06-28T08:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/asian-stocks-gain-on-improving-japan-u-s-economic-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index headed for its biggest gain in nine months, amid
signs the Japanese and U.S. economies are improving and
assurances on stimulus efforts by the Federal Reserve.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, rose 1.5
percent, pacing gains among Japanese exporters as the yen
weakened. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 1
lender, climbed 4.1 percent after the nation’s industrial output
and retail sales beat expectations.  China  Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd., the largest mainland property company traded in
Hong Kong, rose 4.6 percent on speculation the government will
remove a ban on refinancing for real-estate development.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 2 percent to 130.84 as
of 5:29 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for its biggest advance since
Sept. 14, a day after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke unveiled a
third round of quantitative easing to boost the U.S. economy.
The gauge is headed for a second month of losses and its first
quarterly slump in a year after China’s money-market rates
surged to a record and Bernanke said this month policy makers
may start dialing down U.S. stimulus.  “The U.S. is recovering, but the rate of growth isn’t
matching expectations,” Peter Esho, investment adviser in
Sydney at Wilson HTM Investment Group, which oversees about
$11.8 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The Fed know
what’s happening on the ground, so I think they will act within
reason. The Japanese government is very serious about getting
their economy back to a reasonable rate of growth.  Japan  will
continue to surprise on the upside over the next few years.”  Shares on the Asia-Pacific gauge traded at 12.5 times
average estimated earnings, compared with 14.6 for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  Japan’s Topix index rose 3.2 percent and the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average jumped 3.5 percent, extending gains for
a second week. Reports today showed the economy strengthened in
May as industrial production rose the most since 2011, retail
sales climbed and consumer prices halted a six-month slide,
bolstering Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s push to end a
deflationary malaise.  A survey published by the Nikkei newspaper this week found
55 percent of respondents approved of Abe’s economic policies,
and 66 percent supported the cabinet. The paper surveyed 918
people by telephone between June 21-23 and did not give a margin
of error.  Taiwan’s Taiex index added 2.3 percent, capping the gauge’s
biggest gain since Nov. 23, as chipmakers advanced. The index
rose the past three days after Taiwanese lawmakers voted this
week to roll back provisions of a capital gains tax on stock
sales of more than NT$1 billion ($33 million).  ‘Rock Bottom’  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.5 percent, its
first advance in eight days, ahead of the release of the June
manufacturing purchasing managers’ index next week. Fitch
Ratings yesterday cut its 2013 growth forecast for the world’s
second-largest economy on concern a surge in money market rates
will curb demand.  “The Chinese market is close to a turnaround as sentiment
is at rock bottom,” HTM Investment’s Esho said. “Even if there
are issues around the financial system, there might be short-term fixes from the government.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index advanced 1.8 percent, while the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies gained
1.7 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index gained 1.6 percent.
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index increased 1.2 percent. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.5 percent, while  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.2 percent.  U.S. Economy  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3
percent. The gauge yesterday advanced 0.6 percent, completing
its biggest three-day rally since January, as reports showed
consumer spending rebounded, pending home sales soared to the
highest level since 2006 and jobless claims declined last week.
Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said the
central bank may prolong its asset-purchase program should the
economy fail to meet the Fed’s forecasts.  Japanese exporters gained as the yen fell against the
dollar for a second day. A weaker yen boosts the value of
overseas income at carmakers and electronics manufacturers when
repatriated.  Toyota gained 1.5 percent to 5,990 yen in Tokyo. Honda
Motor Co., a Japanese carmaker that gets about 83 percent of
sales overseas, rose 2.2 percent to 3,685 yen. Panasonic Corp.,
Japan’s second-biggest television maker, jumped 6.7 percent to
797 yen.  Japanese lenders advanced. Mitsubishi UFJ climbed 4.1
percent to 612 yen.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , the
nation’s second-largest lender by market value, rose 2.9 percent
to 4,550 yen. Mizuho Financial Group Inc. gained 4.6 percent to
206 yen.  India Gas  India ’s biggest energy companies rose after the government
agreed to raise the price of natural gas. Reliance Industries
Ltd., operator of the world’s biggest oil refining complex,
climbed 3.1 percent to 855.2 rupees in Mumbai.  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC)  added 1.7 percent to 325.70 rupees.  Chinese developers rallied after 21st Century Business
Herald reported real-estate companies may be able to apply for
fundraising and restructuring without completely spinning off
their property units. Companies may be allowed to sell new
shares and bonds to ease the cash crunch in the world’s second-largest economy, said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based fund manager at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  China Overseas Land rose 4.6 percent to HK$20.35 in Hong
Kong, and Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., a builder in the
southern Chinese city, gained 3.9 percent to HK$11.22.  China
Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , the second-biggest mainland developer
traded in Hong Kong, gained 4.2 percent to HK$21.20.  Sands China Ltd., a Macau casino operator controlled by
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , added 1.1 percent to HK$36.55 in
Hong Kong. The company’s business is expected to be “very
strong” going forward and the second half is traditionally
better than the first, Sands China Chief Executive Officer
Edward Tracy said. Mainland China holidays in the latter half of
the year will boost growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  