-- Asmussen Says Any QE Discussions at ECB Not Policy Relevant
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-28T08:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/asmussen-says-any-qe-discussions-at-ecb-not-policy-relevant-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen played down a report in  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  that said ECB officials are considering a policy of
quantitative easing in the euro region.  “I can’t rule out that inside a large organization,
someone is thinking about something, but that’s not policy-relevant,” Asmussen said in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News .  Asmussen said that ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s statement
that the central bank is looking “360 degrees” at new policy
options only refers to fixing the transmission mechanism between
monetary policy and the real economy. The Sueddeutsche article,
published today, said ECB staff are considering a new bond-buying plan that would encompass the debt of all 17 euro-area
nations.  “The 360-degree considerations by the ECB are focused on
the question of how to support the credit supply to the real
economy, in particular SMEs, and on nothing else,” he said.  Draghi on June 6 listed a menu of further measures that the
ECB may deploy to aid the euro-area economy, now in its longest-ever recession, including further long-term loans, a negative
deposit rate and stimulating the market for asset-backed
securities. At the same time, Draghi said on June 26 that given
the ECB’s legal set-up, “it would be difficult” to deploy
quantitative easing in the way the U.S. Federal Reserve does.  “Given the current economic data and our forecasts, our
accommodative monetary policy is appropriate,” he said. “An
exit from this policy is too early. If you compare it with
driving a car: The speed is exactly right. One shouldn’t step on
the brakes, neither the accelerator. Suggestions that say
otherwise aren’t correct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  