-- Aussie Set for Worst Quarter Since ’08 on Fed; Kiwi Dollar Gains
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-06-28T06:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/aussie-dollar-set-for-worst-quarter-since-2008-on-fed-prospect.html
The Australian dollar headed for its
biggest quarterly drop since 2008 as prospects for reduced
monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve trimmed demand for
the South Pacific nation’s assets.  New Zealand’s dollar rallied along with Asian stocks.
Losses in the Aussie were limited as a technical indicator
showed its recent drop may have been excessive.  Australia ’s bond
yields fell to a one-week low as traders see a 27 percent chance
the Reserve Bank of Australia will cut interest rates when it
meets July 2. U.S. data today may show improvement in consumer
sentiment and an expansion business activity.  “The prospect of Fed tapering continues to weigh on the
Aussie as the U.S. dollar is bought back,” said Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at Tokyo-based Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s largest currency margin
company. “While expectation for the RBA easing has been pared
back somewhat, Aussie dollar will struggle to rise until we see
more stability in China.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at 92.77 U.S.
cents as of 4:18 p.m. in Sydney. It has lost 3.1 percent this
month, and 11 percent this quarter.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to 78.14 U.S. cents.
The kiwi weakened 1.7 percent this month and 6.7 percent this
quarter against the greenback.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year government bond fell five
basis points to 3.77 percent, after earlier touching 3.74
percent, the lowest since June 21. The three-year rate dropped
six basis points to 2.75 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares surged 1.9 percent,
trimming its monthly loss to about 3 percent. Stocks and growth-sensitive currencies like the Aussie have slid in June amid
concern a cash crunch in  China  and prospects for reduced
stimulus in the U.S. will damp global growth.  Consumer Sentiment  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  index  of U.S.
consumer sentiment was probably at 83 in June, compared with a
prior reading of 82.7 for the month, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It reached an
almost six-year high of 84.5 reached in May.  The MNI Chicago Report’s  business barometer  fell to 55 in
June from 58.7 the previous month, according to a separate poll,
remaining above the 50 level that signals expansion.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled on June 19 the U.S.
central bank may “moderate” its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing, later this year and end
it mid-2014 if economic improvement continues.  Fed Prospect  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley, who has a
permanent vote on the central bank’s panel, said yesterday any
decision to reduce the pace of asset purchases wouldn’t
represent a withdrawal of stimulus, and that an increase in the
benchmark interest rate is “very likely to be a long way off.”  Australia’s dollar has weakened 6.7 percent this year, the
second-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The kiwi has fallen 0.7 percent in the same period.  The Australian dollar’s 14-day relative strength index
versus the greenback was at 34, near the 30 level some traders
see as a sign an asset’s price may reverse direction.  Lending (OZCACRM%)  to businesses and consumers rose 0.3 percent in May
from the previous month, RBA data showed today. That was in line
with the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg poll.  Interest rate swaps compiled by Bloomberg signal about an
86 percent chance the RBA will lower its key rate, already at a
record low 2.75 percent, by its December meeting. The central
bank says it has scope to lower borrowing costs to spur
expansions in the construction, services and manufacturing
sectors, which have been contracting since at least March 2012.  NZ Permits  In New Zealand, building permits increased 1.3 percent to
1,818 in May, the most since April 2008, the statistics office
in Wellington said today. That compared with a 3.9 percent
decline predicted by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Deputy Governor Grant Spencer
said yesterday it isn’t appropriate to raise interest rates at
the moment and the central bank is “seriously considering”
using other tools to curb a housing boom.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive a floating rate, slid three basis points to 3.17
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  