-- Law Firm Satisfaction, Milbank, Goodwin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-28T11:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/law-firm-satisfaction-milbank-goodwin-procter-business-of-law.html
Only 31 percent of clients who
employ corporate counsel recommend their primary law firm, down
from 36 percent last year and 42 percent two years ago, BTI
consulting Group  found .  “Secondary law firms providing better customer service and
showing a willingness to adjust to client needs are gaining
ground the fastest on primary law firm turf,” the consulting
group said.  The conclusions of the survey, in its 13th year, resulted
from 300 interviews with chief legal officers and general
counsel at Fortune 1000 companies and large organizations.  Those surveyed reported their dissatisfaction with their
primary law firm because of their inflexibility and
unwillingness to do anything other than what is asked.  BTI found that 48 percent of corporate clients replaced one
of their two primary firms in 2012, an increase from 39 percent
in 2010. The new work went to a firm that had been in a
secondary role, BTI said.  Firm News  Duane Morris Names Pittsburgh Office Managing Partner  Duane Morris LLP appointed Kenneth M. Argentieri managing
partner of the firm’s Pittsburgh office. Argentieri succeeds
George Medved, who has held the role since the office opened in
2003.  Argentieri, a litigation partner, has been vice-chairman of
the products liability and toxic torts division of the trial
practice group. He’s handled defamation, environmental,
securities, class action and commercial law, the firm said.  The Pittsburgh office handles domestic and international
clients in construction, products liability, commercial and
bankruptcy litigation, as well as corporate legal matters.  “Since joining us in 2007, Ken has played an increasingly
substantial part in shaping the Pittsburgh office’s strategic
focus and has proven himself to be a talented and market-savvy
lawyer,” Duane Morris chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Soroko said in a statement.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in 24 offices in
the U.S.,  London  and Asia.  Cuatrecasas Names Baena to Head Spanish Law Firm’s London Office  Cuatrecasas, Gonçalves Pereira, a Spanish law firm
specializing in corporate clients with about 950 lawyers, named
Antonio Baena to head its office in London.  Baena, who will focus on mergers and acquisitions and
corporate finance, takes over from managing partner Inigo Rubio,
who will return to the firm’s main office in  Madrid , Cuatrecasas
said in a statement.  Baena has worked in the securities markets and has been a
legal adviser for Spain’s Frob bank bailout fund and for Sareb,
its so-called bad bank that absorbed troubled assets from
nationalized banks, according to the statement.  Moves  Transaction and Regulatory Lawyer John Williams Joins Milbank  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP said John Williams, who
focuses on complex transactional and regulatory work in the
derivatives space, has joined as a partner in New York. He was
formerly a partner in the New York office of Allen & Overy LLP,
where he was head of its U.S. derivatives practice.  Williams advises clients on derivatives products and on the
cross-border implications of U.S. derivatives regulations
enacted in response to the financial crisis, the firm said.  “John saw the financial crisis as the game-changing event
it was, and realized that a top-tier transactional practice
would now depend on offering comprehensive regulatory counsel as
well,” Milbank Chairman Scott Edelman said in a statement.  Among his past work, Williams was principal U.S. counsel to
the International Swaps and Derivatives Association in its
revisions to the credit derivatives product in 2009. He has also
advised clearing members of ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear
Europe, as they have dealt with the derivatives clearing mandate
under Dodd-Frank and the related regulation, the firm said.  “As the regulatory ground continues to shift within the
derivatives industry, I looked for a firm with a premier
financial practice that could provide the room for growth that
the derivatives field demands,” Williams said in a statement
about Milbank.  Milbank has 600 lawyers at 11 offices in the Americas,
Europe and Asia.  Goodwin Procter Adds to Securities & White Collar Groups  Grant P. Fondo has joined Goodwin Procter LLP’s Silicon
Valley office as a partner in the securities litigation and
white collar defense group. He was previously with the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of  California , where
he was an assistant U.S. attorney in the criminal division for
almost five years.  Fondo will focus on representing technology, life sciences
and venture capital clients in litigation and investigative
matters.  During his time as an AUSA, Fondo prosecuted white-collar
crime -- including investment, bank and securities fraud -- as
well as drug trafficking.  Goodwin’s Silicon Valley office opened in 2007 and has more
than 50 attorneys who handle business law and litigation
services in private equity, venture capital, technology and life
sciences, intellectual property, SEC investigations, and labor
and employment matters.  Goodwin Procter has 860 lawyers at nine offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Davidoff Hutcher Adds Partner to Head International Practice  Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP said Judith Joan Sullivan
joined the firm as a partner and chairwoman of its international
practice group. She was formerly at Anderson Kill & Olick PC.  Sullivan will continue her New York/New Jersey corporate
law practice which focuses on mergers and acquisitions
counseling, commercial transactions, board governance,
shareholder rights, securities law and private equity
investments, the firm said.  Her past work has included handling matters for Emirates
Airlines, Honeywell International, KPMG, Quest Diagnostics and
TD Bank.  Davidoff Hutcher has over 50 attorneys at four U.S.
offices.  Terance A. Gonsalves Joins Katten’s Litigation Practice  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP announced that Terance A.
Gonsalves joined the firm in  Chicago  as a partner in the
litigation practice. He was formerly vice-president and deputy
general counsel of litigation for Career Education Corp., an
educational services company that provides post-secondary
education options.  Gonsalves will focus his practice on complex litigation,
regulatory and compliance matters.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys at offices in the U.S.,
London and  Shanghai .  Litigation  BP Has Buyer’s Remorse Over Spill Accord as Law Firms Circle  Until this year, Tampa attorney Kevin McLean specialized in
suing nursing homes for neglecting patients. In January he
switched the focus of his practice to a fund  BP Plc (BP/)  established
to compensate business losses from the 2010 oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico, Bloomberg Businessweek’s Paul Barrett reports  In its attempt to dilute a legal and public-relations mess
of epic proportions, BP began paying  claims  within weeks of the
disaster and has so far spent more than $25 billion for cleanup
and compensation. That hasn’t stemmed demands for more.  The installation last year of a particularly generous
claims administrator prompted scores of additional plaintiffs’
attorneys to swarm onto the scene, signing up a new wave of
clients, many located far from the once-sullied shoreline. Just
five months after his pivot, McLean’s three-attorney firm has
260 clients with claims ranging from $20,000 to $4 million each.  “The craziest thing about the settlement,” he wrote in a
solicitation letter, “is that you can be compensated for losses
that are UNRELATED to the spill.”  One of McLean’s clients, a real estate agent in Brandon,
 Florida , an hour from the Gulf of Mexico, wants $80,000 from
London-based BP, reflecting a revenue dip in 2010 that “had
nothing to do with the spill,” the attorney candidly admits.
The culprit was the bursting of the Florida real estate bubble.
Under the settlement, though, “that’s a good claim,” McLean
said, “and we’re going to get paid.”  He has millions of reasons to be confident. A construction
company in northern  Alabama , 200 miles from the coast, was
recently awarded $9.7 million, even though it does no work near
the Gulf, according to court records. Attorneys are submitting
claims on their own behalf. A law office in central Louisiana
that actually enjoyed improved profits in 2010 collected $3.3
million. The compensation process is confidential, so claimants’
identities aren’t a matter of public record, though the amounts
are.  The blowout of the Macondo well cost 11 men their lives
and, according to the government, spewed 4 million barrels of
oil into the Gulf. It shut down fisheries and despoiled beaches.
Oystermen and charter boat captains lost months and, in some
cases, years of work. While much of the Gulf economy has
recovered, degraded oil remains in coastal marshes in Louisiana.
Some ruined small businesses never reopened.  For more, click here.  Video  Lawyers Say They’ll Keep Defending California’s Prop 8  Senior counsel for the Alliance Defending Freedom, Austin
Nimocks, and Andrew Pugno, general counsel for
ProtectMarriage.com speak about the Supreme Court’s ruling on
California’s Proposition 8, which bars same-sex marriage.  With a 5-4 procedural ruling, the court reinstated a trial
judge’s order allowing some gay marriages there. Nimocks and
Pugno speak outside the Supreme Court in  Washington .  For more, click here.  MacEwen: Weil Gotshal Layoffs Start of Wave  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP’s announcement this week it is
firing 60 associates and 110 support staffers, and cutting the
pay of about 30 partners, is the start of a wave of such
downsizings, according to law firm consultant Bruce MacEwen,
publisher of the blog Adam Smith, Esq. The cuts put Weil in a
stronger position, he says, but that’s not always the case. He
discusses how to tell if a firm is making cuts from a position
of strength or from a position of weakness.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
click here.  News  Global Cartel Fines Dip Before Libor, Car-Parts Penalties  Global criminal cartel fines dipped during the first part
of the year in a pause before hefty penalties are likely to be
imposed in probes of Libor and car parts, law firm Allen & Overy
LLP said.  The penalties so far this year have totaled $677 million,
less than a fifth of the more than $5 billion levied during
2012, Allen & Overy said in a report yesterday. The drop-off was
most pronounced at the two biggest antitrust regulators, the
U.S. and European Union.  Allen & Overy partner John Terzaken said the EU is likely
to levy large fines later this year in probes of car parts and
the London interbank offered rate, where it lags behind its U.S.
colleagues. The U.S. and U.K. have already fined three banks
about $2.5 billion in the Libor probes and almost $1 billion in
fines have been issued in the U.S. and  Japan  in the
investigation of auto-parts makers.  “There will be some judgments by the end of the year,”
said Terzaken, a former director of criminal enforcement at the
U.S. Department of Justice’s antitrust division. “They want to
show some momentum and keep the cases moving along.”  U.S. criminal antitrust fines in the first six months of
the year were $192 million, compared with $1.1 billion in all of
2012. The EU fines so far this year totalled $72 million,
compared with $2.3 billion in 2012, according to London-based
Allen & Overy.  While the U.S. and EU fines have slowed, regulators in
 China ,  Australia ,  Brazil  and South Africa are “coming into
their own,” Terzaken said. The South African regulator this
week issued a 1.46 billion rand ($146 million) penalty against
15 construction companies and China prosecuted an international
cartel for the first time, leading to a 353 million  yuan  ($57.4
million) fine against makers of liquid-crystal display panels.  “The antitrust practice has been global for a long time,
but it has become more global as the years have gone by,”
Terzaken said.  California Regulator’s Top Lawyer Recuses Himself From PG&E Case  California Public Utilities Commission General Counsel
Frank Lindh recused himself as chief advisory attorney in
investigations into a  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  pipeline explosion that killed
eight people in 2010.  Lindh will be replaced by retired CPUC assistant general
counsel Arocles Aguilar, according to an e-mailed statement from
the agency. Some CPUC lawyers working on the probes and proposed
penalties for PG&E had asked to be reassigned, the regulator
said June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 