-- Bank of Yokohama Reviews JGB Investments on Abe Yield Risk
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2013-06-28T07:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/bank-of-yokohama-reviews-jgb-investment-plan-on-abe-yield-risk.html
Bank of Yokohama Ltd.  said it’s
reviewing its investment plan for Japanese  government bonds  as
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflationary policies could erode
the value of its holdings.  Japan’s second-largest regional lender by market value cut
its 871 billion yen ($8.8 billion) of sovereign bond assets by
about 100 billion yen in early April, when the central bank
unveiled a stimulus plan aimed at stoking inflation, President
Tatsumaro Terazawa, 66, said in an interview on June 25.  The  Bank of Japan ’s plan to double government bond
purchases has roiled the market, increasing yields and fueling
concern that lenders may incur losses on their holdings. That
firmed Yokohama Bank’s resolve to diversify assets away from the
notes into securities such as foreign bonds, Terazawa said.  “We sold all Japanese government notes with a maturity of
longer than five years to hedge against risks,” he said. “The
policy shift completely changed our plan that we would lengthen
the duration of our JGB holdings to boost interest income.”  Terazawa is a former director-general at the  Finance
Ministry ’s financial bureau, which manages the country’s bonds.
He said he will monitor the market closely and amend the bank’s
bond investment plan, without giving a time frame.  The lender will expand investments into foreign notes,
domestic equity mutual funds and real-estate investment trusts
to about 450 billion yen in the year ending March 2016 from
about 100 billion yen last fiscal year, it said in a  business
plan  on April 1.  Shares Rise  Shares (8332)  of the Yokohama-based bank climbed 6.2 percent, the
most in almost three months, to 512 yen at the close in  Tokyo ,
extending their advance this year to 28 percent. The benchmark
Topix Index jumped 3.2 percent today after government reports
showed  consumer prices  halted a six-month slide in May and
industrial production rose the most since December 2011.  Yields on  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year notes swung between a
record low of 0.315 percent on April 5, the day after the
central bank announced its bond-buying plan, to as high as 1
percent in May. The securities yielded 0.83 percent at 10:17
a.m. in Tokyo.  In contrast with Yokohama Bank, other regional lenders
continued to use their excess deposits to buy government bonds
in April, even as yields surged. Local banks’  holdings  of
sovereign notes increased 1.9 percent that month to 43.8
trillion yen, Bank of Japan data show.  “We have a much higher loan-to-deposit ratio than other
regional banks,” said Terazawa. “That means we’re different
from banks that have no choice but to buy JGBs with their excess
cash.”  Yokohama Bank’s loans amounted to 85 percent of deposits on
March 31, according to the lender’s data. That compares with 69
percent for regional banks overall, BOJ  figures  show.  The BOJ released a  report  in April examining potential
losses at banks from rising yields. If  interest rates  climb 1
percentage point across all maturities, for example, domestic
lenders would incur 3.4 trillion yen of unrealized capital
losses, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  