-- Barclays Plans to Move 4,000 Investment-Bank Jobs to Save Money
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-06-28T14:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/barclays-plans-to-move-4-000-investment-bank-jobs-to-save-money.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  plans to move 4,000
more jobs overseas and to lower cost locations by 2015 to save
as much as 250 million pounds ($381 million), said Eric Bommensath, co-chief executive officer of corporate and
investment banking.  The lender has already shifted 2,000 positions from 2011 to
the end of 2012, Bommensath said in a presentation to analysts
and investors today. The jobs include administration and the
management of the firm’s computers and data. Bommensath didn’t
provide further details about where the jobs will move to.  “Bringing us more in line with our peers, we will have a
greater outsourced and offshore presence,” said Bommensath, who
became head of the division with Tom King, 52, in May after Rich Ricci stepped down. “Fewer people in high-cost locations will
also help us to rationalize excess office capacity, bringing
further savings.”  Chairman David Walker and CEO Antony Jenkins, 51, who took
over after the lender was fined 290 million pounds in June 2012
for rigging the  London  interbank offered rate, are trying to cut
costs by removing layers of management to improve returns.
Britain’s third-largest bank by market value booked a 514
million-pound charge under its Transform program in April after
closing branches in Europe and cutting investment banking
positions in the region and in Asia.  ‘Aggressive Acceleration’  Separately, Jenkins said they bank may have to cut lending
if the Prudential Regulation Authority forces it to speed up its
plans to meet a leverage ratio target of 3 percent by 2015.  “An aggressive acceleration request from the PRA would
require additional actions which could restrict our ability to
extend balance sheet availability to customers including
potentially lending to the U.K. and other economies which is
something we want to avoid,” Jenkins said.  The  bank  will reach agreement with the PRA, the Bank of
England’s new banking supervisor, in the next four weeks and
tell investors more when their plan has been decided, he said.  The PRA on June 20 told British banks they must raise 13.4
billion pounds in capital to withstand possible losses on loans,
fines and other risks. Barclays was told to raise an additional
1.7 billion pounds in fresh capital and then to increase its
leverage ratio from what will be 2.5 percent to 3 percent.  The bank is “well capitalized,” Jenkins said.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Simone Meier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  