-- Batista’s OGX Plunge Overwhelms Ibovespa Index: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/batista-s-ogx-plunge-overwhelms-ibovespa-index-corporate-brazil.html
The sell-off in billionaire  Eike Batista ’s companies is wreaking havoc with  Brazil ’s benchmark
stock gauge.  While this year’s 81 percent tumble in Batista’s oil
producer, OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, has made OGX one
of the 10 smallest companies on the 71-member Ibovespa, the
stock’s daily plunges and rebounds have made it the most
important in the index. OGX had the biggest impact on the
gauge’s direction in 23 of the past 40 trading sessions, a
growing trend caused partly by the exchange’s reliance on
trading volume for determining index weighting in addition to
market value.  OGX, along with Batista’s other two companies included in
the Ibovespa, is having a big effect on the  index (IBX) ’s readings as
the stock posts the most extreme price swings among 823
emerging-market shares  tracked  by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  The Ibovespa’s
three-month volatility has soared 31 percent since mid-April to
21.5, making it the most erratic major benchmark in the
Americas.  “It’s making the index look increasingly irrelevant to
monitor how markets are doing,” Nicholas Cowley, who helps
oversee about $100 billion as an investment manager at Henderson
Global Investors Ltd., said by phone from  London . He said he’s
begun relying on other indexes, including MSCI’s Brazil gauge
and the Brazil IBrX Index, to track  Latin America ’s biggest
stock market. “You’re getting massive swings in the Ibovespa.”  Penny Stock  OGX, which trades for under 1 real ($0.45), had a four-day
 stretch  last week where it alternated between 15 percent
declines and 12 percent advances as traders speculated on the
future of a company whose market value has plunged to just over
$1 billion from a 2010 peak of $42 billion.  Volatility in each of the three Batista companies in the
benchmark has jumped to the highest since at least 2009, more
than four times higher than Ibovespa’s level. The index entered
a  bear market  on June 11, driven lower by OGX’s collapse as well
as slumping economic growth and quickening inflation. The
Ibovespa’s 22 percent decline this year is the biggest among
major equity indexes in the world.  Batista, whose $34.5 billion fortune in early 2012 made him
the world’s eighth-richest person, dropped from the ranks of the
200 wealthiest people this month as all six of his publicly
traded companies fell at least 23 percent in the past year.  Bonds Plunge  OGX has tumbled as it failed to meet output targets. The
company cut production targets for its first oil project off the
coast of Brazil by as much as 75 percent last June. OGX said on
June 26, 2012 that it aimed to stabilize production at each of
its first two wells at 5,000 barrels a day at the Tubarao Azul
field in the Campos Basin, after originally planning to pump as
much as 20,000 barrels a day at each well.  While Rio de Janeiro-based OGX said on June 13 that it
isn’t considering a debt restructuring, investors are losing
confidence that Batista can honor his obligations. OGX’s bonds
due 2018 dropped to a record low of 27.6 cents on the dollar
this week as the company is poised to run out of money by
mid-2014, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX declined to comment on its share performance in an e-mailed response to questions. EBX Group Co., the holding company
that oversees Batista’s energy, mining, logistics and shipping
companies, also declined to comment.  Volume Surge  “I am as disappointed as you are and working to change
this reality with new discipline,” Batista posted on April 13
on  Twitter  in response to a user questioning what he had to say
to shareholders who have lost money betting on his ventures.  Trading has soared in OGX as investors look to profit from
the price swings. OGX’s average daily volume has jumped to 165.9
million shares over the past three months from 28 million a year
ago. That’s more than seven times the 22.5 million-share daily
trading average in Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer and the  Ibovespa (IBOV) ’s heaviest-weighted stock.  Before trading and volatility in OGX began to surge last
year, the stock’s effect on the index was muted. OGX had the
fourth-biggest impact on the Ibovespa in 2011 and 14th biggest
in 2010.  BM&FBovespa SA, the stock exchange operator, declined to
comment in an e-mailed response to questions on OGX’s impact on
the index. The company says on its website that it hasn’t made
changes to the index’s  methodology  since its inception in 1968.  Developing Market  Given the limited number of actively traded Brazilian
stocks, periodic surges in the index’s volatility caused by
developments like OGX’s plunge are inevitable, said Otavio Vieira, a partner at hedge fund Fides Asset Management.  “The fact that a single stock can have a big influence on
the index goes to show how the market still needs to develop
further so other companies are included in it,” Vieira said in
a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  The pickup in Ibovespa’s price swings is part of a broader
jump in global equity volatility triggered by speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will begin withdrawing monetary stimulus
from the  U.S. economy . Three-month volatility in the MSCI World
Index has climbed 8.4 percent this year to 12.  Ibovespa’s volatility is 36 percent higher than it was two
years ago while the MSCI World’s dropped 12 percent over that
time. Volatility in MSCI’s gauge of emerging-market shares fell
2 percent in the span.  ‘Nonsensical Situations’  A rebalancing of the Ibovespa scheduled for August will do
little to mute the swings because the focus on trading volume
will preserve OGX’s importance in the index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BM&FBovespa last rebalanced the index on
May 6, when OGX was given a 5.1 percent weighting, the third
heaviest after state-owned oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA
and Vale.  “You do get these slightly nonsensical situations, where
companies like OGX fall, volume goes up and they suddenly become
a larger part of the benchmark,”  Nick Robinson , the head of
Brazilian equities at Aberdeen Asset Management, which manages
about $15 billion of Latin American equities, said in an
interview in  New York . “The Ibovespa was put together when
Brazil was a much less developed market, and these days, a
liquidity weighted index is perhaps not the most sensible
benchmark to be using.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  