-- Beijing Residents Told to Stay In as Smog Exceeds Exposure Limit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T09:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/beijing-residents-told-to-stay-in-as-smog-exceeds-exposure-limit.html
Beijing told its 20 million
residents to avoid outdoor activities as a U.S. Embassy
 pollution monitor  showed levels of smog surpassing hazardous
levels in the Chinese capital.  Concentrations of PM2.5, fine air particulates that pose
the greatest health risk, rose to 520 micrograms per cubic meter
at 3 p.m. near  Tiananmen Square  from an average of 260 in the
past 24 hours, according to the  Beijing Municipal Environmental
Monitoring Center . That reading was more than 20 times higher
than the World Health Organization recommendations of no higher
than 25 for day-long exposure.  Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has introduced measures
including controls on burning coal and road traffic to assuage
public anger about dirty air and water. Pollution is the main
cause of social unrest in the country, according to Chen Jiping,
a former leading member of the Communist Party’s Committee of
Political and Legislative Affairs.  The air across large parts of the city was “severely
polluted,” the worst rating on the government’s six-level
scale, the center said on its official  microblog  today, adding
that children, the elderly and ill should stay indoors. Rain is
expected later tonight, which should help improve conditions,
the center said.  The U.S. Embassy pollution monitor said PM2.5 levels
reached 432 as of 5 p.m.  Air quality  in Beijing reached hazardous levels for 20 days
in January this year, according to U.S. Embassy readings. The
measure showed average level of PM2.5 pollution in the city
during that period was similar to an airport smoking lounge,
based on comparisons with data from the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  The government should reconsider its growth strategy to
make the environment “an integral part of economic development
decision-making,” the China Daily newspaper said in an
editorial June 24. “It is time the nation made the hard
but necessary choice to seek a better environment at the cost of
economic growth.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  