-- Biogen Rises on Optimism MS Pill May Get EU Protection
-- B y   M a r y   C a m i l l e   I z l a r
-- 2013-06-28T17:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/biogen-rises-on-optimism-ms-pill-may-get-eu-protection.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s
biggest maker of multiple sclerosis drugs, surged the most in 20
months on investor optimism that the company’s Tecfidera pill
may gain protection from generic-drug competition in Europe.  Biogen climbed 4.8 percent to $218.85 at 12:59 p.m. New
York time, after increasing 16 percent in its biggest intraday
gain since October 2011. European regulators may rule later this
year on whether to approve Tecfidera, already cleared in the
U.S., the Weston, Massachusetts-based company said in May.  The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use today granted “new active substance”
status to Sanofi’s MS treatment Aubagio, which protects the
medicine from generic competition for 10 years. The ruling may
help Biogen gain protection for Tecfidera as well, said Brian Abrahams, an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.  The Sanofi ruling shows the European regulator “is open to
a sponsor’s arguments that a new drug should merit some
regulatory exclusivity,” Abrahams said in a note. “We see this
as an indirect, incremental positive.”  Tecfidera was approved in the U.S. in March. Biogen has
asked the European regulator for exclusivity under a process
referred to as the “independent development principle,”
Abrahams said. On May 30, Biogen said a European regulatory
decision on its pill would be delayed until the second half of
this year while the company seeks clarity of the drug’s
exclusivity.  The new status for Aubagio also reduces the chance that a
generic medicine will contribute to price erosion in the
European market for MS therapies, Abrahams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Camille Izlar in  at 
 mizlar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  