-- BlackRock’s Hambro Says Gold Slump May Lead to Bankruptcies
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-06-28T11:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/blackrock-s-hambro-says-gold-slump-may-lead-to-bankruptcies.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s  Evy Hambro , who
manages the $10 billion World Mining Fund, said some gold miners
may be forced out of business after the price of the precious
metal slumped and as they battle rising costs.  “We need to see these costs taken out of the industry, we
need to see the companies stop producing the ounces that don’t
make money and focusing on the ones that do,” Hambro said in an
interview with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” today. “For some it might be too
late and bankruptcy might be around the corner.”  With bullion falling into a  bear market , the 30-member
Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index has tumbled 49
percent this year. Gold for immediate delivery dropped below
$1,200 yesterday for the first time since August 2010, as signs
of improving U.S. economic growth boosted speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will wind down its asset-purchase program. The
metal reached a record $1,921.15 in September 2011.  Hambro said he expects to see “big writedowns” in the
industry. “I think it’s going to lead to major writedowns
within the sector this year because obviously the gold price
assumptions that companies use to value their assets from a
carrying point of view in their books are going to be far lower
than in the past,” Hambro said.  While the collapse in the gold price hurts miners now, it
will lead to management improving how their companies are run as
it’s exposed “bad” operating and reinvestment practices,
Hambro said.  “Obviously it’s been a horrific journey this year,”
Hambro said. “The gold companies are under severe pressure to
make the changes that are needed and I think we’ll end up with a
better investment sector to look at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  