-- Blatter Denies Shirking Responsibility by Leaving Brazil Protest
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-29T03:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/blatter-denies-shirking-responsibility-by-leaving-brazil-protest.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  defended
his decision to temporarily leave  Brazil  during the
Confederations Cup for an international youth soccer tournament
in Turkey, saying he was fulfilling his responsibilities.  Blatter surprised Brazilian officials by leaving after the
opening games of the eight-team Confederations Cup, a test event
for next year’s  World Cup . Blatter, who returned for this week’s
semifinals after attending the opening of the Under-20 World
Cup, left as world soccer governing body FIFA was among the
targets of Brazil’s biggest public protests in two decades.  Blatter and Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff were jeered
at the opening game of the tournament on June 15. Protestors,
whose complaints have included criticism about the amount of
money Brazil is spending on sporting events, have clashed since
then with police in all six cities that have hosted games.  “In no way could it be said that I escaped responsibility,
on the contrary I accepted two responsibilities at the same
time,” Blatter said yesterday at a news conference.  “In
 Turkey  we had same unrest that we had here. Therefore it was
duty and responsibility of the FIFA president to be present at
the opening together with the president of Turkey.”  Protests that started against destruction of an Istanbul
park in May have swelled into broader criticism against the
Turkish government. Brazil’s social unrest began as a revolt
against higher bus fares.  Tear Gas  Brazil’s sports ministry said it had expected Blatter to
remain in the country for the entire tournament and was
surprised when FIFA announced Blatter would be leaving for
Turkey. The FIFA president had been expected to accompany Sports
Minister Aldo Rebelo to games in all six host cities.  As recently as two days ago, police fired tear gas to
disperse protestors who marched on the semifinal match between
Spain and  Italy  in Fortaleza.  Blatter said he didn’t know if Rousseff would be attending
tomorrow’s final between Spain and Brazil at  Rio de Janeiro ’s
Maracana stadium, when further demonstrations are planned.  “I am not a prophet so I can’t say if she’s there or not
there,” he said. “I have not yet been confirmed yes or no but
I would be happy if she came.”  At the 2009 Confederations Cup in Johannesburg, Blatter was
joined by  South Africa ’s president,  Jacob Zuma . The two men
presented the winner’s trophy to Brazil.  FIFA has been accused by critics of not doing enough to
leave a legacy in Brazil after its $5 billion World Cup finishes
in July 2014. In response to a question yesterday, Blatter said
the governing body would create a legacy similar to the $100
million fund it left for 2010 World Cup host South Africa.  “An amount like that or even higher will be possible
here,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  