-- BNP Paribas Polish Unit Suspends Offering on Market Slump
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-06-28T07:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/bnp-paribas-polish-unit-suspends-offering-on-market-slump.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s  Polish unit 
suspended a 300 million-zloty ($91 million) share sale after
Warsaw’s benchmark stock index slumped this month on government
plans to reduce the role of domestic pension funds.  The Warsaw-based bank, which sought to sell new shares to
meet the Polish financial regulator’s requirement to boost the
amount of its stock in trading, will set a new date for the
offering later this year, it said in a  statement  on its website
after bookbuilding for institutional investors ended yesterday.  Poland ’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  has tumbled 12 percent in June,
heading for its steepest monthly decline since February 2009,
after Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government announced plans to
scale down the country’s pension funds system to curb public
debt. The privately run funds are among the biggest investors in
Polish stocks and bonds, with their combined assets exceeding
280 billion zloty ($85 billion) at the end of May.  “The turmoil related to the pension fund changes raised
investors’ concerns and made them stay away from the share
offering,” PKO Bank Polski SA analyst Jaromir Szortyka in
Warsaw said by phone today. “This will continue to have an
impact on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  and BNP plans at least as
long as the pension system’s overhaul is finalized.”  BNP Paribas Bank Polska SA had planned to sell as many as
8.58 million shares at 35 zloty to 45 zloty each, according to a
term sheet obtained by  Bloomberg News  on June 20.  Poland’s cabinet will vote next week on the review of the
pension system, which includes a mandatory “second pillar” of
pension funds set up in 1999. Two of its three alternative
policy courses recommended in the review would transfer the 16.2
million Poles enrolled in second-pillar funds back to the state-run pension system unless they file declarations to remain. The
third would cancel 120 billion zloty of  government bonds  now
held by the funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  