-- BOE Seen Keeping QE on Hold at Carney’s First Policy Meeting
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/boe-seen-keeping-qe-on-hold-at-carney-s-first-policy-meeting.html
The Bank of England will keep its
target for asset purchases unchanged next week as Governor Mark Carney chairs his first policy meeting amid data pointing to an
improving recovery, a survey showed.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will hold
 quantitative easing  at 375 billion pounds ($570 billion),
according to all 44 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The
decision will be announced at noon on July 4, Carney’s fourth
day as governor after taking over from Mervyn King.  While the economy is showing signs of strength after
resuming growth in the  first quarter , data this week showed
Britain suffered a deeper slump after the financial crisis than
previously estimated. Carney has said central banks should help
deliver “escape velocity” for their economies, fanning
speculation he will be more aggressive on stimulus.  “It seems unlikely that Dr. Carney will lead a major
easing offensive just four days into the job,” said Philip Shaw, an economist at Investec Securities in  London . “So for
now we feel that Mark Carney will bide his time. But we find it
difficult to see him sitting still for long.”  The Office for National Statistics said on June 27 the
economy shrank 7.2 percent from its peak in 2008 to the depths
of the recession. That leaves gross domestic product 3.9 percent
below the peak, compared with the 2.6 percent previously
estimated.  Alongside the decision on asset purchases, the MPC will
also keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a record-low 0.5
percent, another Bloomberg poll shows.  While economists don’t see any monetary-policy changes,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said there is a 60 percent chance that
the MPC will release a statement after the meeting.  “If one of Mr. Carney’s goals as governor is to introduce
greater transparency and guidance in BOE policy making, then an
‘easy win’ in this regard would be to introduce a monthly
statement following the completion of MPC meetings,” Goldman
economist Kevin Daly said on June 25. “Such a statement
following the July meeting could minimize any disappointment at
the lack of other actions being taken at the meeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  