-- Bonds Tied to Mortgages Poised for the Biggest Losses Since 1994
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-28T20:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/bonds-tied-to-mortgages-poised-for-the-biggest-losses-since-1994.html
Government-backed U.S. mortgage
bonds are poised for their largest quarterly loss in almost two
decades, with some of the debt extending declines today.  Fannie Mae ’s 3 percent, 30-year securities fell 0.2 cent
today to 97.5 cents on the dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in  New York ,
down from about 103 cents on March 28, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
tracking the more than $5 trillion market lost 2 percent this
quarter through yesterday, the most since the start of 1994.  Mortgage securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac 
and Ginnie Mae have been among the hardest hit as bonds tumbled
amid signals from Federal Reserve officials that the central
bank may be moving closer to slowing the pace of its monthly
debt buying known as  quantitative easing , or QE.  “What just occurred is indicative of just how important QE
is,” Brad Scott, Bank of America’s New York-based head trader
of pass-through agency mortgage securities, said today in a
telephone interview.  The Fed’s current buying provided demand as other investors
retreated and has grown as a percentage of forward sales by
originators tied to new issuance, which is set to fall as higher
rates reduce refinancing, according to Scott.  “The Fed, at times during this period, was the only outlet
in terms of demand for securities,” he said.  Bond Massacre  The mortgage-bond losses rival the 2.3 percent declines in
the first quarter of 1994 amid a slump in debt prices sparked by
the Fed unexpectedly raising its  target  for short-term  interest
rates  on Feb. 4 of that year, the first of seven increases
totaling 3 percentage points. Fortune magazine at the time
 declared  it a “bond market massacre.”  Home-loan debt without government backing has also been
damaged. Subprime-mortgage securities have lost about 2 percent
this quarter, including a 4.9 percent drop this month, according
to Barclays Plc index data. Gains total 6.4 percent this year,
compared with a 2.1 percent loss in agency mortgage debt.  The slump in government-backed bonds has eased in recent
days, after the Fannie Mae 3 percent securities fell as low as
96 cents on June 25.  “It was a bit of an over-reaction so we this week have
turned more positive on mortgages, and the price action has
demonstrated that we’re not the only ones who have done that,”
William Irving, a  money manager  at  Fidelity Investments , which
oversees $1.7 trillion, said in a telephone interview from
Merrimack,  New Hampshire .  Prices Plunge  Certain types of bonds may have pared their gains over the
past two days because of a speech today by Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  that was viewed as reaffirming that the central bank’s
bond buying may slow, Irving said. Still, the notes offer
attractive yields relative to Treasuries, and “there’s a good
chance” that the economy will struggle in the second half of
this year more than the Fed forecasts, he said.  The plunge in mortgage-bond prices has sent borrowing costs
soaring to the highest since July 2011. The average rate for a
30-year fixed mortgage rose this week to 4.46 percent from 3.93
percent, the biggest one-week increase since 1987, according to
Freddie Mac surveys.  The Fed helped push  mortgage rates  to a  record low  3.31
percent in November after beginning its third round of QE by
adding $40 billion of new purchases of mortgage bonds to its
existing program of reinvesting in the market.  Agency Bonds  Agency mortgage bonds have lost 0.95 percent more than
similar-duration government debt this quarter through yesterday,
the most since the third period of 2011, according to Bank of
America index data. The underperformance is tied partly to the
way in which the  lifespan  of mortgage securities extends as
projected refinancing declines, as well as the potential slowing
of the Fed’s buying in the market.  The rout has been exacerbated by sales by real-estate
investment trusts and other firms that rely on borrowed money
that are seeking to pare rising leverage ratios, as well as
adjustments tied to changes in the expected lives of the debt, a
dynamic known as convexity, according to analysts from Credit
Suisse Group AG to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 at a news
conference that the central bank may “moderate” the pace of
its $85 billion of monthly debt buying later this year and end
the purchases around the middle of 2014.  The comments, which accelerated bond declines, came with
some investors speculating that Fed officials would signal that
they would be careful in withdrawing stimulus, and that the
central bank might delay the step amid mixed economic data.  Now, Fidelity’s Irving said, “what was once deemed QE
Infinity is no longer viewed that way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  