-- Boston Bomb Defendant Cited Muslims’ Deaths, U.S. Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-06-28T17:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/boston-bomb-suspect-cited-muslim-deaths-as-motive-u-s-says.html
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the accused
 Boston  Marathon bomber, was charged by a grand jury with setting
off homemade bombs that killed three spectators and then
shooting a university police officer to death.  The indictment filed yesterday in federal court in Boston
offers new details about the April 15 attack, including a list
of files related to al-Qaeda and jihad found on Tsarnaev’s
computer. He also allegedly wrote notes saying he was motivated
by the U.S. military’s killing of Muslim civilians and that he
didn’t want “such evil” to go unpunished.  “The defendant’s alleged conduct forever changed the lives
of the victims” and their families, U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz
said yesterday at a press conference in Boston. “This community
has shown extraordinary resilience in the face of this senseless
violence.”  Tsarnaev, 19, is accused of detonating two bombs made with
pressure cookers and explosive powder from fireworks hidden in
backpacks near the marathon’s finish line, killing two women and
an 8-year-old boy and injuring more than 260. His brother
Tamerlan, 26, who later died after a shootout with police, is
suspected of carrying out the attack with him.  About half the charges in yesterday’s indictment carry a
maximum sentence of life in prison or the death penalty, Ortiz
said. Tsarnaev is scheduled to appear in court for the first
time July 10 for his arraignment.  Public Defender  Federal Public Defender Miriam Conrad, one of Tsarnaev’s
lawyers, said yesterday that she hadn’t read the indictment yet
and couldn’t comment.  The government will now deliberate on whether to seek the
death penalty -- a decision that must be made by Attorney
General Eric Holder, said J. Richard Broughton, a former Justice
Department lawyer who now teaches law at the University of
Detroit Mercy School of Law.  “Based on the seriousness of the charges” in the
indictment and “the strength of the evidence against Tsarnaev,
I think there is a very strong possibility that the government
will choose to seek the death penalty,” said Broughton, who was
in the department’s capital-case unit from 2005 to 2008.  Tsarnaev was initially charged on April 22, based on
information in the sworn statement of Daniel Genck, a special
agent with the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation. The 30-count
federal indictment is based on the decisions of a citizen grand
jury that heard evidence from investigators in secret.  Officer’s Death  The indictment expands the U.S.’s case by charging Tsarnaev
in the death of Sean Collier, a 26-year-old police officer for
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge.
Collier’s shooting at point-blank range on the evening of April
18 set off an overnight manhunt that led to Tsarnaev’s capture
and the death of his brother.  Prosecutors for  Middlesex County , where the campus is
located, also investigated the attack and filed a separate 15-count indictment yesterday against Tsarnaev over Collier’s
death. That case may be tried as a backup measure after the
federal case, since the federal indictment also covers Collier’s
death.  Suffolk County District Attorney Dan Conley, whose
jurisdiction covers Boston, also agreed to let federal
prosecutors lead.  “The most appropriate place to prosecute Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
is right here in the federal court,” Conley said at the press
conference yesterday. “Any further potential prosecution on the
state level would be symbolic.”  Brothers’ Pictures  Three days after the bombing, the FBI released pictures of
the Tsarnaev brothers taken near the scene of the blasts, though
authorities hadn’t yet identified the men. The images showed one
suspect wearing a black hat, and the other a white hat. Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev’s friends recognized him, prosecutors say.  That night, the brothers armed themselves with five
improvised explosive devices, a gun, ammunition, a machete and a
hunting knife and drove their Honda Civic to the MIT campus,
according to the U.S. There, they allegedly shot Collier in the
head at close range and tried to steal his service weapon.  The Tsarnaev brothers then carjacked a Mercedes and stole
$800 from the driver using his ATM card and forced him to drive
them to a gas station, according to the indictment. They told
the driver they planned to drive to  Manhattan  before he escaped,
the U.S. said.  Police later located the Tsarnaevs with the vehicle and
engaged in a shootout, during which the brothers threw four of
the explosive devices at authorities, the U.S. said. Three
officers eventually tackled Tamerlan Tsarnaev after he was shot
and tried to handcuff him.  Car Assault  “Dzhokhar Tsarnaev then re-entered the carjacked vehicle
and drove it directly at the officers, running over his brother
as he managed to escape,” the U.S. said. Tsarnaev almost hit an
officer who was attempting to drag Tamerlan to safety, according
to the indictment.  Tsarnaev eluded police during the ensuing citywide manhunt
by hiding in a dry-docked boat in the backyard of a suburban
Boston home. He wrote messages on the wall and beams of the
boat, the U.S. said.  “The U.S. government is killing our innocent civilians”
and “I can’t stand to see such evil go unpunished,” he wrote,
according to the indictment. He also wrote, “We Muslims are one
body, you hurt one you hurt us all” and “Now I don’t like
killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to said
[unintelligible] it is allowed,” the U.S. said.  Al-Qaeda Magazine  Tsarnaev downloaded to his computer a copy of the al-Qaeda
online magazine Inspire, which had detailed instructions for
building an explosive out of a pressure cooker or sections of
pipe, explosive powder from fireworks and shrapnel, according to
prosecutors.  He also downloaded a digital copy of a book with a foreword
by Anwar Al-Awlaki, the al-Qaeda propagandist killed by a U.S.
drone in Yemen in September 2011, and a publication called
“Defense of Muslim Lands, the First Obligation After Imam,” by
Abdullah Azzman, who is also known as the “Father of the Global
Jihad,” the U.S. said.  According to the indictment, Tamerlan Tsarnaev went to
Phantom Fireworks in Seabrook,  New Hampshire , around Feb. 6 and
purchased 48 mortars that held about eight pounds of low
explosive power.  The next month, the brothers traveled to a firing range in
Manchester, New Hampshire, where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev rented two
9mm handguns and bought 200 rounds of ammunition and engaged in
target practice for about an hour, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  