-- BP Says Adriatic Pipeline Choice for Azeri Gas Driven by Prices
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-06-28T11:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/bp-says-adriatic-pipeline-choice-for-azeri-gas-driven-by-prices.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the lead developer of
Azerbaijan’s Shah Deniz natural-gas field, said its decision to
send the fuel to  Europe  through the proposed Trans-Adriatic
Pipeline was driven by prices.  The move, which ends four years of competition with the
Nabucco pipeline project, was based on “commercial factors,
including the cost to get the gas to the market and the market
prices,” Al Cook, BP Azerbaijan president for Shah Deniz, said
in an interview in Baku, Azerbaijan. “We saw a difference
between the two pipelines measuring in billions of dollars.”  Gas prices in Greece and Italy, on the route of the chosen
TAP link, exceed those in  Bulgaria , Romania and other countries
along Nabucco’s proposed course. The Shah Deniz partners, which
also include  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  State Oil Co. of
Azerbaijan , sought the most profitable shipments from the field,
which is designed to curb Europe’s reliance on Russian supplies.  Azerbaijan plans to export 10 billion cubic meters of gas a
year to the European Union from Shah Deniz. That’s more than
double Greece’s annual consumption. The fuel will flow to the
Turkish-EU border through the South Caucasus Pipeline and the
Trans-Anatolia Pipeline before being fed into TAP.  The decision of BP and its partners ends plans to build the
Nabucco pipeline, led by  Austria ’s  OMV AG. (OMV)   “The Nabucco project is over for us,” OMV Chief Executive
Officer Gerhard Roiss said this week. The Vienna-based company
may eventually build its own pipeline depending on the results
of Black Sea exploration off Romania’s coast, he said.  ITGI, SEEP  The winning project also beat the planned Turkey-Greece- Italy  Interconnector, or ITGI, and the South East Europe
Pipeline, or SEEP, among other transportation options.  TAP’s partners, which include Norway’s Statoil,
Switzerland’s Axpo and Germany’s EON SE, are “very strong
companies,” and may get a further boost should others purchase
stakes, Cook said, adding that BP will complete talks in the
coming weeks to acquire its own equity stake in the pipeline.  The Shah Deniz group has already reached agreements in
principle with gas buyers in Greece and Italy for the fuel, and
those deals will become final in a few weeks, according to Cook.  Greece’s national gas monopoly Depa has made an initial
offer to buy 1 billion cubic meters from TAP, Deputy Energy
Minister Assimakis Papageorgiou said today in  Athens . The Greek
Finance Ministry estimates tax revenue of 320 million euros
($418 million) from the pipeline in the first 15 years, he said.  Shah Deniz holds an estimated 1.2 trillion cubic meters of
gas. The EU is looking to the field and other deposits in the
 Caspian region  to diversify supply away from  Russia , which meets
a quarter of its demand.  “Beyond Shah Deniz, we are confident that Azerbaijan’s gas
exports will increase dramatically as fields like ACG Deep,
Absheron, Umid and Shafaq-Asiman are developed,” said Rovnaq Abdullayev, president of State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, or Socar.
“We see a further increase of exports to Europe both via
potential expansion of TAP and through opening up a second route
through Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary toward Austria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  