-- Brazil Protests Take Aim at Billionaire Batista’s Stadium Lease
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-29T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/brazil-protests-take-aim-at-billionaire-batista-s-stadium-lease.html
Protesters who have paralyzed
 Brazil ’s cities for the past three weeks are being joined by a
group taking aim at billionaire  Eike Batista  as they try to
upstage this weekend’s final of soccer’s Confederations Cup.  Batista holds a minority stake in the consortium that was
awarded last month a 35-year contract to operate Rio de
Janeiro’s Maracana stadium, site of the June 30 final match
between Brazil and world champion  Spain .  The two-week tournament has been magnifying demands for
better public services as Brazil spends 30 billion reais ($13.4
billion) on stadiums and related projects ahead of next year’s
World Cup. While protests have waned since 1 million Brazilians
took to the streets June 20, authorities in Rio are beefing up
security outside the stadium for Sunday’s game in anticipation
of a march that at least 18,000 people signed up to attend on
Facebook. Among their demands: revoking the lease of Maracana,
which they argue is illegal and doesn’t benefit taxpayers.  “The game was rigged from the start, and we knew who was
going to win” the auction, Renato Consentino, a leader of the
Popular Committee for the  World Cup  and Olympics, one of the
organizers of the protest, said in an interview in Rio. “It was
a farce -- Eike’s IMX company presented the project, did the
financial viability analysis and then won.”  A consortium led by Odebrecht SA, Brazil’s largest builder,
offered to pay 5.5 million reais annually to Rio’s state
government to manage the near 79,000-seat Maracana, which
reopened this month after a three-year, $500 million renovation.  Criticism  While IMX has just a 5 percent stake in the consortium,
it’s been the focus of criticism because the company, a joint
venture with IMG Worldwide Inc., first pitched the state on
leasing the facility and then was hired to carry out the
financial viability study. Batista is also a friend of Rio
Governor Sergio Cabral, himself a target of the anti-corruption
movement that’s swept across the country.  IMX, when asked about protesters’ charges that the
privatization process lacked transparency, responded that it has
followed all laws, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
Consorcio Maracana SA declined to comment, referring questions
to the state government, which said the leasing process has
concluded.  FIFA’s Confederations Cup was supposed to be a dry run for
next year’s World Cup. Instead, it’s been re-baptized the
“Demonstrations Cup” in placards and chants as protesters
criticize money spent on stadiums in a nation where 21 percent
of the population lives below the poverty line.  Turning Violent  Protests took place ahead of almost every match, sometimes
turning violent. In  Belo Horizonte , a 21-year-old died of head
injuries June 27 after falling from an overpass as police fired
tear gas and rubber bullets on a crowd of 50,000 demonstrators
outside the stadium where a semifinal match was taking place
between Brazil and Uruguay. Protesters last night blocked the
highway leading to Sao Paulo’s international airport  To maintain calm, authorities will dispatch 6,000 security
officials to the Maracana area for the final, where Brazil will
be seeking it’s third straight Confederations Cup championship.
Police will also reinforce security at hotels where delegations
for the games are staying, airports, tourist locations and other
areas where protests could take place, according to a statement
by the mayor’s office.  President  Dilma Rousseff , who has struggled to stay ahead
of the protests after being jeered at the tournament’s opening
match June 15 in Brasilia, hasn’t said whether she’ll accept a
FIFA invitation to attend the final. Her official agenda e-mailed by the presidential press office last night showed no
official commitments over the weekend.  ‘Not a Prophet’  “I am not a prophet so I can’t say if she’s there or not
there,” FIFA head Sepp Blatter said at a press conference in
Rio  South Africa’s President Jacob Zuma attended the final of
the 2009 tournament in Johannesburg and alongside Blatter
presented Brazil the championship trophy after its squad
defeated the U.S.  Maracana’s privatization, and Batista’s role in it, have
been questioned before.  Echoing complaints of protesters, Rio’s public prosecutor
last month obtained an injunction blocking the stadium’s lease,
arguing that IMX, as author of the feasibility study, had access
to privileged information and that the state’s financial
interests weren’t being defended.  Days later a judge suspended the injunction on the grounds
that upholding the ruling would compromise Rio’s ability to
organize events and expose it to “serious consequences” for
breaking an international commitment.  Shares Fell  Batista owns several companies including oil company OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) ,
both of whose share prices fell more than 80 percent over the
past year. Batista, whose $34.5 billion fortune in early 2012
made him the world’s eighth-richest person, this month dropped
from the ranks of the 200 wealthiest people.  Protesters this weekend also want to call attention to the
plight of residents being forcibly evicted from their home to
revitalize urban areas ahead of the World Cup and the city’s
hosting of the 2016 Olympics.  Amnesty International , in a 2013
report on the state of human rights around the world, said
Brazilian authorities have failed to engage communities affected
by the building spree.  Rio’s Mayor Eduardo Paes says only one community is being
evicted due to the Olympics and residents would’ve been uprooted
anyways because their homes were built in an environmentally-protected area. Other resettlement projects under way are aimed
at improving services and access for hillside slums, with all
residents offered compensation, the mayor’s press office said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  