-- Business Activity in U.S. Cools More Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-28T15:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/business-activity-in-u-s-cooled-more-than-forecast-in-june.html
Business activity in the U.S. cooled
more than projected in June, a regional report showed, as fiscal
constraints and stagnant export markets buffeted manufacturers.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  dropped to 51.6
this month from 58.7 in May, which was the highest in more than
a year. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. The  median forecast  of 56 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 55.  The Chicago index has been out of synch with other regional
factory reports, surging in May when others pointed to a slump,
and dropping this month as measures from the Federal Reserve
Banks of New York and Philadelphia point to a rebound.
Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the economy,
might be feeling the effects of federal government spending cuts
that went into effect in March.  “It’s going to be an uneven path toward growth,” said
Thomas Simons, money market economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in
 New York. (EMPRGBCI)  “Manufacturing should gain steam in the second half”
of 2013.  Economists’ forecasts for the Chicago group’s gauge ranged
from 51.5 to 58.5.  Consumer sentiment held in June near an almost six-year
high as Americans grew more upbeat about the economic outlook,
another report today showed. The Thomson Reuters/University of
 Michigan  final  confidence index  for this month eased to 84.1
from 84.5 at the end of May, which was the highest since July
2007. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists
called for 83 in the gauge after a preliminary reading of 82.7.  Shares Rebound  Stocks were little changed as a rally in shares of utility,
consumer and commodity companies helped pare earlier losses. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to
1,613.95 at 11:18 a.m. in  New York .  The Chicago report’s measure of new orders declined to 54.6
after reaching a three-month high of 58.1 in May. Backlogs
slumped to 38.4, the lowest level since September 2009. The
decrease from the prior month’s 53.1 was the biggest decrease
since March 1974. A gauge of inventories improved to 41.4 from
40.4.  A measure of production decreased to 57 from 62.7, which
was its highest reading since March 2012.  Employment Improves  The employment measure climbed to 57.8, the highest since
January, from 56.9, today’s report showed.  The index of prices paid rose to 59.9 in June from 55.3 a
month earlier.  Defense companies, service providers and other contractors
are starting to feel the effects of the  federal budget  cuts that
began in March.  One of those companies is Herman Miller Inc., a maker of
office furnishings based in Zeeland, Michigan. While North
American sales grew 9 percent from a year ago, new orders
dropped, Chief Executive Officer Brian Walker said.  “We again experienced relative weakness in the U.S.
federal government sector this quarter, which saw sales and
orders declines of approximately 12 percent from last year,”
Walker said on a June 27 earnings call. “Activity levels
outside of the federal government remained generally strong.”  A rebound in  consumer spending  last month signals
households may be able to contribute more to growth in the
second half of the year. Purchases rose 0.3 percent after a 0.3
percent decline in April that was the biggest since September
2009, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.  Home Prices  Rising home prices, a better job market and bigger income
gains may be helping households overcome a payroll-tax increase
that took effect in January.  Americans signed more existing-home  contracts  in May
than at any time in more than six years, the National
Association of Realtors reported yesterday. The growing health
of the housing market is giving a lift to materials and
equipment suppliers, as well as home furnishing manufacturers.  Economists monitor the Chicago index and other regional
reports for an early reading on the national outlook. The
Chicago group says its membership includes both manufacturers
and service providers, making the gauge a measure of overall
growth. Its members have operations across the U.S. and abroad.  Other regional activity showed improvement this month. The
Empire State index from the New York Fed climbed to 7.8 from
minus 1.4, and the  Philadelphia (OUTFGAF)  Fed’s index climbed to 12.5, its
highest reading since April 2011, from minus 5.2.  The ISM’s national factory  index , due July 1, probably
showed manufacturing eked out a gain this month after
contracting in May, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  