-- CA Strategy Head Jaffe Takes CEO Post at Syncsort
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-06-28T18:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/ca-strategy-head-jaffe-takes-ceo-post-at-syncsort.html
Lonne Jaffe, who ran strategy for  CA
Technologies Inc. (CA) , has joined Syncsort Inc. as chief executive
officer of its data integration business, where he will focus on
expanding the company’s big-data service through acquisition.  Jaffe will help the 45-year-old company capture a larger
slice of businesses that let customers mine vast troves of
information to make better decisions, Deven Parekh, a managing
director of Insight Venture Partners, said in an interview.
Before he joined CA, Jaffe was vice president of software
technology while at  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   “He has a skill set to be a chief technology officer, but
at the same time has an understanding of mergers and
acquisitions and he executed on M&A strategy at both IBM and
CA,” said Parekh. “We have not been particularly M&A oriented
and have not looked at much from the standpoint of inorganic
growth and Lonne clearly brings that to the table.”  Parekh points to Jaffe’s experience at CA, which is
undergoing a mix of acquisitions and divestitures to help
compete with younger technology rivals. The company this month
purchased Layer 7 Technologies, which helps businesses manage
application programming interfaces. In April, the Islandia, New
York-based company acquired Nolio, which provides tools for
software developers.  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based  Syncsort  had more than
$100 million in revenue last year. The company, which is owned
by Insight, Bessemer Venture Partners, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Georgian Partners and co-founder Aso Tavitian, is being split
into two operating parts, with Jaffe overseeing the data
integration business, which represents about 70 percent of
revenue. Flavio Santoni, who previously was CEO of the entire
company, will oversee the data-security unit.  Data Protection  Jaffe said the data-protection business will eventually
become a separate company. He will also focus on expanding the
company’s Hadoop service, an open-source software that helps
process large sets of data.  “We want to scale up the Hadoop business, the mainframe
business, and also use acquisitions to grow inorganically,”
Jaffe said.  Josh Rogers, who helped developed the company’s big data
strategy, has been promoted to president of the data integration
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  