-- Canada April Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-28T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/canada-april-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the April GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product grew 0.1% in April, a fourth
consecutive monthly increase.  Service industries  led the gain in
April.  The output of service industries expanded 0.3% in April,
with almost all major industrial groups recording increases.
There were gains in wholesale and retail trade, the finance and
insurance sector, the arts and entertainment sector, as well as
the transportation and warehousing sector, while public
administration edged down. In contrast, goods production
decreased 0.3% as a result of a notable decline in mining,
quarrying, and oil and gas extraction. Declines were also
recorded in construction, while manufacturing, utilities and the
agriculture and forestry sector rose.  Wholesale and retail trade increase  Wholesale trade was up 0.6% in April, after declining 0.5%
in March. The wholesaling of machinery, equipment and supplies
was the main contributor to wholesale growth in April. In
contrast, food, beverage and tobacco wholesaling declined.  Retail trade increased 0.5% on the strength of motor
vehicles and parts dealers and, to a lesser extent, health and
personal care stores as well as miscellaneous store retailers.
On the other hand, retailing activity at clothing and clothing
accessories stores as well as building material and garden
equipment and supplies dealers was down.  The finance and insurance sector grows  The finance and insurance sector grew 0.6% in April.
Banking, financial investment services and, to a lesser extent,
insurance services all increased.  Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction contracts  Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction contracted
1.5% in April, down for the first time in seven months.  Oil and gas extraction fell 2.7% in April, as a result of
declines in both oil and gas production. This follows increases
of 1.7% in March and 1.1% in February.  Mining and quarrying (excluding oil and gas extraction)
decreased 0.6%, as a result of declines in output at potash and
coal mines. In contrast, metallic mineral mining was up 1.0% in
April.  Support activities for mining and oil and gas extraction
rose 3.2% in April, on the strength of drilling services.  Manufacturing output increases  Manufacturing output grew 0.2% in April. Durable goods
production increased 0.5%, led by gains in computer and
electronic products and non-metallic mineral products. In
contrast, primary metal and machinery manufacturing declined.
Non-durable goods production fell 0.3% in April. Declines in
petroleum and coal products, as well as chemical and food
manufacturing more than offset gains in printing and related
support activities, and textile, clothing and leather products
manufacturing.  Construction decreases  Construction decreased 0.4% in April. Residential and non-residential building construction declined, as did engineering
and repair construction.  The output of real estate agents and brokers rose 1.0% in
April, up for a second consecutive month, as activity in the
home resale market increased.  Other industries  The arts and entertainment sector increased 3.4% in April,
mainly the result of an extended season following the end of a
labour dispute in professional hockey.  The public sector (education, health and public
administration combined) was unchanged in April, as gains in
education and health care offset the decline in public
administration.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2007 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2007. The monthly
data are benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume indexes
of GDP obtained from the constant-price input-output tables up
to the latest input-output tables year (2009).  For the period starting with January 2010, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2009 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=eng ) .  For more information about monthly national GDP by industry,
see the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module on our
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  