-- Canada’s Economy Grew 0.1% in April as Services Expand
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-28T14:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/canada-s-economy-grew-0-1-in-april-as-services-expand.html
Canada ’s  gross domestic product  grew
for a fourth straight month in April as services expanded while
goods output declined, government figures showed.  Output rose 0.1 percent to an annualized C$1.57 trillion
($1.49 trillion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa,
matching the median forecast in a Bloomberg economist  survey 
with 21 responses.  The gain marks the longest string of monthly expansions
since September 2011, signaling a further revival from a slump
in the second half of last year that was led by investment and
exports. Gains this quarter may be hampered after flooding in
 Alberta  this month disrupted energy output and transportation.  “To see growth is an encouraging outcome,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit.  “Some of the pronounced fears that Canada
would fall off the rails at this point in the recovery can maybe
be put to the side.”  Tulk still said growth will slow to a 1.6 percent
annualized pace from 2.5 percent in the first three months of
the year, while  Doug Porter  of BMO Capital Markets today cut his
second-quarter forecast to 1.5 percent from 1.8 percent, citing
the Alberta floods and a Quebec construction strike.  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.4 percent to C$1.0516 at
10.13 a.m. in Toronto. One dollar buys 95.09 U.S. cents.  Finance Gains  Service-industry output rose 0.3 percent in April to an
annualized C$1.10 trillion, while goods production fell 0.3
percent to C$473 billion,  Statistics Canada  said.  Finance and insurance advanced 0.6 percent, as did
wholesaling to lead gains within the services category. Arts and
entertainment rose 3.4 percent with an extended National Hockey
League season following the end of a labor dispute, according to
the report.  Declines in goods production included a 1.5 percent drop in
mining and oil and gas, and a 0.4 percent fall in construction.  The report’s mismatch between goods and services output
follows comments this month by new Bank of Canada Governor
Stephen Poloz that exports and investment need to lead the
expansion as indebted consumers and governments pull back.  From a year earlier, the economy grew 1.4 percent in April.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said its  index  of
raw-materials prices paid by manufacturers rose 0.2 percent in
May from the month before. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
a median prediction of a 0.4 percent increase.  The industrial product price index was unchanged in May,
while economists forecast the measure of prices received by
manufacturers for their goods would rise 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  