-- Carbon Falls for Fourth Quarter Before Parliament’s Supply Vote
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-28T17:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/carbon-heads-for-fourth-quarterly-decline-before-supply-fix-vote.html
European Union carbon fell for a
fourth quarter as lawmakers prepared to vote next week on
measures that could allow regulators to temporarily cut an
oversupply of allowances.  Allowances for December declined as much as 7.5 percent to
4.10 euros ($5.33) a metric ton and closed at 4.21 euros on
 London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract lost 12
percent in the second quarter. The European Parliament is
scheduled to vote July 3 on a proposal allowing the European
Commission to delay the sale some permits.  Prices plunged as much as 92 percent from a record 29.69
euros a ton in 2008 as the global recession cut industrial
output, damping demand for allowances. The oversupply grew to
about 1.8 billion tons, or approximately one year’s cap on
climate pollution in the market, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “Fundamentally the market is oversupplied, even after a
delay of 900 million permits,” Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst at
Nomisma Energia Srl in Bologna,  Italy , said today by phone.
“Nine hundred million permits is only 50 percent of the
problem.”  While prices may increase in the short term if the
Parliament approves the so-called backloading proposal next
week, they’re unlikely to rise above 6 euros, Mazzoni said.  “There’s no real driver to bring the price above 6
euros,” he said. “The Parliamentary vote is just one step in
the process.”  Proposed Measure  The Parliament rejected a proposed measure on backloading
on April 16. The new plan would require the Commission to begin
reintroducing the 900 million permits to the market immediately
after it has finished withdrawing them, though it’s unclear how
this would be carried out, according to Fred Payne, a carbon
trader at CF Partners U.K. LLP in London.  “Even if parliament next week votes for the compromise,
that won’t make the backloading framework clear,” Payne said
today by phone. “We still don’t know the details of how supply
will be returned to market, complicating price forecasts.”  United Nation carbon offsets rose 52 percent this quarter
after an EU ban on the most common type of permit went into
effect April 30. That’s the first quarterly increase since the
contract began trading in 2011, according to ICE Futures data.  Certified Emission Reductions for December climbed 2
percent to close at 50 euro cents a ton, the highest in more
than six months.  The ban affects CERs generated at projects that destroy
hydrofluorocarbon-23 and nitrous oxide, two of the most powerful
greenhouse gases. So-called “grey CERs” from these projects
represented more than half the total supply of offsets from 2005
through 2012, according to UN data.  “The market is free of the shackles of grey CERs and huge
ERU issuances that forced prices below 1 euro at the end of last
year,” Richard Chatterton, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London, said in an interview June 19. “The price
won’t rise back above 1 euro, but movements are likely to become
more correlated with EUAs in the short-term.”  Trading in all CER futures dropped 46 percent to 94.6
million tons on ICE Futures. That’s the least since the first
quarter of 2008, according to ICE data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  