-- Carmike’s Valuation Seen Luring Theater Buyers: Real M&A
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-06-28T20:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/carmike-s-valuation-seen-luring-theater-buyers-real-m-a.html
Carmike Cinemas Inc. (CKEC)  may offer the
best value for U.S. movie-theater owners from  Regal (RGC) 
Entertainment Group to  Cinemark (CNK)  Holdings Inc. that have
stockpiled cash for takeovers.  Carmike, a Columbus, Georgia-based operator of about 2,500
screens, has the lowest enterprise value relative to earnings
among the biggest publicly traded U.S. theater chains, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A buyer would get a state-of-the-art chain already converted to digital and 3-D technologies plus
entry into small-town markets so far ignored by larger players.  “Carmike would be a very attractive target” for the
largest competitors,  Eric Wold , a San Francisco-based analyst at
B. Riley & Co., said in a telephone interview. “You’d
immediately be getting top-quality screens” and there’s little
chance of regulatory opposition because “their territories
don’t overlap.”  Regal and Cinemark, the two largest publicly traded U.S.
operators, say they’re on the prowl for deals to gain leverage
with suppliers and studios. Regal’s  cash  rose to a 2 1/2-year
high last quarter and Cinemark’s balance climbed to a record at
the end of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. AMC
Entertainment Holdings Inc., which has the second-most screens
among U.S. chains, already sold to  China ’s Dalian Wanda Group
last year.  Tickets Dwindle  Carmike Chief Executive Officer David Passman declined to
comment on the company’s takeover prospects. Representatives of
Regal, Cinemark and AMC declined to comment on whether they
would be interested in Carmike.  Although box-office sales rose to a record $10.8 billion
last year, helped by higher prices for 3-D movies, the number of
tickets sold was down 16 percent since peaking in 2002,
according to  Hollywood.com Box-Office .  Consumers are turning to cheaper, in-home entertainment,
fueling the decline. For instance,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s online service
costs $7.99 a month and provides unlimited access to streaming
videos of mostly older television shows and films. That compares
with an average movie ticket price in 2013 of $7.94, according
to the  National Association of Theatre Owners .  Regal Chief Financial Officer David Ownby said that’s
curbing ticket price increases and prompting his company and
others to seek acquisitions.  “We know we’re competing with other ways to view
content,” Ownby said during a June 6 phone interview from
Regal’s headquarters in Knoxville,  Tennessee . “We have to keep
our customer in mind.”  Negotiating Leverage  By expanding, theater chains boost their bargaining
leverage, helping them improve margins by winning better movie-rental rates from film studios and contracts with food vendors.  “Growth comes through getting bigger in a mature market,”
Brett Harriss, a Rye, New York-based analyst with Gamco
Investors Inc.’s Gabelli & Co., said in a phone interview. With
theater deals, “they’re buying synergies, higher negotiating
powers.”  Carmike offers potential buyers the lowest valuation among
peers even after its shares surged 22 percent in 2013 through
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Its  enterprise value  stood at $476 million yesterday,
compared with more than $4.4 billion at both Regal and Plano,
Texas-based Cinemark. At that level, Carmike fetched 5.5 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
versus the median of 8.3 in the peer group, which also includes
Milwaukee-based  Marcus Corp. (MCS) , the data show.  Accumulating Cash  Today, Carmike shares rallied 6 percent, the most in three
months, to a five-year high of $19.36. Regal slumped 3.8 percent
and Cinemark fell 0.6 percent.  Regal and Cinemark have accumulated cash to bolster their
capacity for deals, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Regal’s
balance stood at $395 million at the end of the first quarter,
the most since September 2010. Cinemark had a record $743
million as of Dec. 31.  Last year, billionaire real-estate developer Wang Jianlin’s
Dalian Wanda Group purchased AMC Entertainment, creating the
world’s biggest cinema owner.  Regal, AMC or Cinemark “could eat Carmike without risk,”
said Scott Grzankowski, an analyst for KDP Investment Advisors
Inc. in Montpelier,  Vermont .  Carmike CEO Passman may prefer to buy rather than get
bought. On a May 6 conference call, he said he plans to build
the chain from 244 theaters with 2,464 screens to 300 facilities
and 3,000 screens through acquisitions and construction. Carmike
has no plans to pay a dividend and will instead keep money for
takeovers, he said.  Considering Options  “We are actively evaluating potential acquisitions and new
builds,” Passman said on the call.  His larger peers are doing the same.  “As we look out over the next 12 months to 24 months, I do
believe it’s a good environment for consolidation in our
industry,” Regal CEO Amy Miles said during an April 30
conference call. On June 11, Cinemark CEO Timothy Warner said
his company is “always on the lookout” for deals.  Gabelli’s Harriss agrees that the time is right for
takeovers. “The industry is ripe for consolidation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  