-- CBRE Expects Record $2 Billion Cross-Border Property Investments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T02:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/cbre-expects-record-2-billion-cross-border-property-investments.html
CBRE Global Investors, which manages
more than $90 billion of property assets, expects cross-border
real estate acquisitions to reach a record this year as Asian
investors diversify abroad.  Transactions sourced from one region and invested in
another will reach as much as $2 billion in 2013, CBRE Global
Chief Executive Officer Matthew Khourie said. Much of the money
will come from Asian investors, such as sovereign wealth funds,
buying property in the U.S. or  Europe , he said.  “Over the next 12 to 18 months, we will see increased
demand from the U.S. and European investors in the  emerging
markets ,” Khourie said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.
“ Asia  is also becoming a very big source of capital for other
parts of the world. They are a big group that’s actually very
competitive and trying to buy trophy assets in the U.S.”  Asian investors are after assets with lower risks and
moderate yields, while U.S. investors are looking for greater
returns in emerging markets with slightly higher risks, said
Khourie. International investors made $7.97 billion in U.S.
commercial-property purchases this year through April, a 25
percent jump from the same period in 2012, according to Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  Buying Spree  The families of Chinese real estate developer Zhang Xin and
Brazilian banking billionaire Moise Safra last month bought a 40
percent stake in  New York ’s General Motors Building. In March,
Overseas Union Enterprises Ltd., a Singapore-based commercial
landlord and developer, agreed to buy the U.S. Bank Tower in Los
Angeles, the West Coast’s tallest office building, for $367.5
million.  Sovereign wealth funds made 38 property investments valued
at almost $10 billion in 2012, according to the Sovereign
Investment Lab at  Bocconi University  in Milan, which has data
going back to 1985. Such deals were 21 percent of all sovereign
fund investments last year, the highest percentage on record and
topping the 2011 high of 16 percent.  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. invested in a 48-story, glass-and-granite cylindrical building in San Francisco’s
financial district in December, while  China  Investment Corp.
purchased Winchester House, leased by Deutsche Bank for its City
of London headquarters, from KanAm Grund KAG, the seller
announced in November.  Getting Bigger  Los Angeles-based CBRE Global acquired a majority of ING
Groep NV’s real estate investment business in 2011. CBRE Global
managed about $3.7 billion of assets in the Asia-Pacific region
as of the end of the first quarter, according to its  website .  “We need to be much bigger than that in Asia,” Khourie
said. “Our intention is to really grow that substantially.”  Asia will have the highest growth rate for CBRE Global
among all the regions in the world over the next five to 10
years, Khourie said. The office market in  Japan , which is
showing signs of a recovery, and  Australia ’s property market are
attractive investments for the long term, he said.  In China, CBRE Global is looking for projects in Beijing,
 Shanghai , Guangzhou and in as many as 10 second-tier cities,
including Chengdu, Wuhan and Suzhou, the fund’s Greater China
Country Manager Richard van den Berg said at a conference in
 Hong Kong  last week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  