-- Cedi Heads for Record Low in 3rd Quarterly Loss: Accra Mover
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-06-28T15:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/cedi-heads-for-record-low-in-3rd-quarterly-loss-accra-mover.html
Ghana ’s cedi headed for a record low
against the dollar and posted the third straight quarterly loss
as manufacturers sought dollars to bring raw material and
equipment into West Africa’s second-biggest economy.  The currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 2.04 per dollar by
2:54 p.m. in Accra, the lowest on a closing basis since June
1994 when Bloomberg began compiling the data. In the three
months since April 1, the cedi weakened 5 percent.  “Manufacturers need the dollars to pay for their goods but
we can’t meet their demand,” Nikoi Kotey, a currency trader at
CAL Bank Ltd., said by phone today. “The market is dry. Traders
are also seeking the dollars.”  Growth in Ghana’s import-dependent economy is forecast to
reach 8 percent this year, faster than the 5.6 percent pace for
sub-Saharan Africa estimated by the  International Monetary Fund .
The weaker cedi, down 6.6 percent this year against the dollar,
pushed inflation to 11.1 percent in May from 10.9 percent in
April, the Ghana Statistical Service said June 26.  The  Bank of Ghana  offered dollars to banks today, “but it
wasn’t adequate to meet the level of demand,” Sadiq Abubakar, a
currency trader at International Commercial Bank Ltd. in Accra,
said by phone. “Inflows that we get from exporters are also not
coming in as they used to.”  Adams Nyinaku, the head of treasury at the central bank,
wasn’t available to comment, said a man who answered the phone
at Nyinaku’s office and didn’t give his name. Ghana is the
world’s second-biggest cocoa grower and  Africa ’s second-largest
gold producer. The bank sells foreign exchange to lenders at
irregular intervals to shore up the cedi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  