-- China’s Securities Regulator Says Market Operations Stabilized
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T15:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/china-s-securities-regulator-says-market-operations-stabilized.html
China’s financial-market operations
have regained stability, with the impact of “sudden and
temporary factors” fading, the China Securities Regulatory
Commission said.  The nation’s economy is stable, with economic growth still
in a reasonable range, the CSRC said in a statement posted on
its website about a press briefing today, after a record cash
squeeze hit the world’s second-largest economy.  Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  earlier today sought
to soothe concerns that the credit crunch will harm economic
expansion, saying the nation will continue to implement a
prudent monetary policy. Financial markets were rattled after
the country’s overnight repurchase rate leaped to 12.85 percent
on June 20, the most in Bloomberg-compiled data going back to
2003. It was at 5.05 percent as of June 28, more than double the
average of 2.32 percent in the past five years.  “The State Council has very clearly stated they would
ensure the continuity and stability of government policies,
steady market expectations, and continue to press on with
important monetary policies,” the CSRC said today. These
measures, coupled with the government’s moves to transform and
strengthen financial markets, create good conditions for healthy
growth in  capital markets , it said.  The CSRC also said it will take action against property
developers that hoard land, engage in speculation and drive up
housing prices by suspending their listing, refinancing and
asset restructuring plans.  Big Banks  The  People’s Bank of China , in a statement on June 25,
called on the nation’s big banks to further their roles as
market stabilizers. The central bank said it would take steps to
safeguard stability in money markets, and that tight liquidity
was set to ease.  China’s stocks rebounded from a four-year low today, led by
financial companies, with the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  climbing 1.5
percent to 1,979.21 at the close, paring losses to 4.5 percent
this week, the biggest retreat since the five days ended Feb.
22. It closed at the lowest level since January 2009 yesterday.  The credit crunch, aimed at wringing speculative lending
out of the banking system, has increased chances that the
government will miss its annual target for economic growth this
year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Goldman Sachs,  China  International Capital Corp., Barclays
Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc this month pared their growth
projections for this year to 7.4 percent, below the government’s
7.5 percent goal set at a March conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  