-- China Regulator Pledges No Retreat in Securities Fraud Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T06:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/china-regulator-pledges-no-retreat-in-securities-fraud-crackdown.html
China ’s securities regulator pledged
to intensify its battle against  securities fraud , extracting a
“heavy price” from those who break the rules, as a freeze on
new stock sales stretches into its ninth month.  “We will strictly enforce the regulations, stepping up the
crackdown on fraud and violations,” Zhuang Xinyi, vice chairman
of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said at a
conference in  Shanghai  today. “We will consistently and
relentlessly enforce the law, we won’t make this a one-off
campaign. We will maintain zero tolerance toward misconduct such
as market manipulation and  insider trading .”  Zhuang’s comments follow the CSRC rebuke or punishment of
at least three brokerages in the past two months for inadequate
due diligence on initial public offerings. The regulator is
planning tougher rules for IPOs to beef up investor protection,
including stricter standards for profitability and restrictions
on sales by controlling shareholders.  The CSRC fined Ping An Securities Co. and barred the firm
from underwriting for three months, while Minsheng Securities
Co. was given a warning and fined. Nanjing Securities Co. was
censured and bankers at all three firms were barred from the
industry for life.  China hasn’t had a new listing since Oct. 11, when Org
Packaging Co. and Fujian Tengxin Foods Co. started trading in
Shenzhen.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has slumped 15 percent this
month, heading for the biggest monthly loss since August 2009,
amid concern that economic growth will be curbed by attempts to
rein in the use of interbank financing to fund shadow lending.  “Market confidence has been weakened recently because of
concerns about the banks,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Phillip Securities Group, said by telephone today. If
enforcement “is implemented consistently, it will bring
positive effects for shares in securities firms and banks.”  China appointed Xiao Gang, a former central banker and
chairman of  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  as head of the securities
regulator in March as the nation transitioned to a new
government under President Xi Jinping and Premier  Li Keqiang .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  