-- China Development Bank to Keep Zero Bond Risk, Li Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-01T00:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/china-development-bank-bonds-to-keep-zero-risk-status-li-says.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph of story originally published
June 28 to show  Chen Yuan  is former chairman.)  China Development Bank  Corp.’s bonds
will keep their zero risk weighting on the books of Chinese
commercial banks, Vice President Li Jiping said, holding down
borrowing costs for the world’s largest policy lender.  There is a debate over whether CDB should become a
commercial bank or a development bank with commercial
operations, senior adviser Di Weiping said in April. CDB doesn’t
take deposits and the zero risk weighting means holders of its
bonds don’t need to set aside additional capital to cover
potential losses.  “Our bonds will continue to have zero risk weighting,” Li
said on the sidelines of the Lujiazui Forum in Shanghai today.
“I can’t say whether that will be the case forever, but it
should remain so for the foreseeable future.  Former Chairman Chen  Yuan , son of one of Communist China’s
founding fathers, built an institution bigger than the World
Bank and created a system of local financing for infrastructure
projects that helped cushion China from the global financial
crisis. Premier  Li Keqiang  is relying on CDB to achieve the
government’s policies of urbanization and cutting pollution.  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  said last April
that investors may continue to categorize the bank’s debt as
zero risk until the end of this year.  China Development Bank sold the most bonds of any policy
bank last year, raising 1.23 trillion yuan, according to data
from Chinabond, the nation’s bond clearinghouse.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  