-- China to Increase Natural Gas Prices for Non-Residential Use
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T13:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/china-to-increase-natural-gas-prices-for-non-residential-use.html
China  will raise natural  gas prices 
for non-residential users to reflect demand for and supply of
the fuel and to conserve resources, the National Development and
Reform Commission said today.  The average natural gas price will rise to 1.95  yuan  a
cubic meter from 1.69 yuan effective July 10, the NDRC said in a
 statement  on its website today. Authorities will refrain from
raising residential prices this time to avoid affecting the
daily lives of the people, the commission said.  Today’s changes comes a month after China’s largest oil
producer, China National Petroleum Corp., said the nation’s
natural gas reform has entered a “good period” and the time
was right to decide on a pricing mechanism for the resource.
Premier  Li Keqiang  has encouraged the use of cleaner fuels such
as natural gas and renewable energy to reduce reliance on coal
and keep air pollution in check.  Natural gas import prices climbed 69 percent between 2010
and 2012, CNPC said on May 10, while average domestic gas retail
prices in provincial cities gained only 24 percent in the five
years to 2012. The resource currently accounts for 5.4 percent
of China’s energy mix, the company said.  Higher prices will also encourage companies to increase
natural gas imports and put more effort into exploration and
extraction, the NDRC said in a separate  statement  on its
website.  China will give subsidies to the taxi industry or raise
fares to reduce the impact of the price adjustment, according to
today’s statement. The government will also give Subsidies to
gas-fired power companies and heat suppliers to offset higher
costs, the NDRC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  