-- CIBC Pressured as Aimia Picks TD Bank for Aeroplan
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-28T20:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/cibc-pressured-as-aimia-picks-td-bank-for-aeroplan.html
Aimia (AIM)  Inc.’s decision to move its
Aeroplan reward-partnership to  Toronto-Dominion (TD)  Bank is a blow
to  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , which stands to lose
customers and as much as C$3 billion ($2.9 billion) in credit-card balances.  Toronto-Dominion,  Canada ’s second-largest bank,
conditionally agreed yesterday to become the primary credit-card
partner for Aimia’s Aeroplan program starting Jan. 1, replacing
an accord with Canadian Imperial that expires at year end. CIBC,
Canada’s fifth-largest lender, has the right to match the terms
of the new agreement by Aug. 9 to retain the partnership.  “It hamstrings CIBC,” Cameron Webster, who helps manage
C$250 million including Toronto-Dominion shares at Sandstone
Asset Management Inc. in Calgary, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “It’s a bit of a dent to CIBC and it creates the
potential for them to lose some customers.”  Canadian Imperial (CM)  said it’s being shut out in the new
agreement. The deal “appears to have been intentionally
structured in a way that attempts to nullify CIBC’s right of
first refusal and any ability to match,” the bank said
yesterday in a statement. “Given the structuring of the
document and our contractual rights, we are exploring our
options.”  Aerogold Visa  The bank’s 22-year partnership with Aimia has made the CIBC
Aerogold Visa its most popular credit card. Toronto-based CIBC
buys Aeroplan miles from Montreal-based Aimia to give to
cardholders on purchases, including flights with  Air Canada (AC/A) , the
country’s biggest carrier. Aimia, which owns and manages rewards
programs including Nectar in the U.K. and  Italy , counts CIBC as
its biggest partner.  “The effect on CIBC, whether the bank renews or not, is
negative,”  Mario Mendonca , an analyst with Canaccord Genuity in
Toronto, said yesterday in a note.  CIBC’s adjusted per-share earnings may fall 40 cents to 65
cents next year -- or as much as 7.5 percent -- as it loses as
much as C$3 billion in card balances to Toronto-Dominion and
other card providers, Mendonca said. He estimates that half of
CIBC’s card balances are tied to Aeroplan and that 50 percent to
60 percent of the cardholders would move to the new provider if
they didn’t renew.  Shares Rise  CIBC fell 0.9 percent to close at C$74.64 at 16:07 a.m. in
Toronto today, while Toronto-Dominion gained 0.7 percent. Aimia
rose 2.2 percent to C$15.74 after surging 11 percent yesterday,
the biggest gain in about four years. CIBC is the  worst
performer  on the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial
Banks Index this year, falling 6.1 percent.  CIBC is Canada’s largest credit-card issuer based on
outstanding balances, according to an April 2013 issue of the
Nilson Report, a credit-card industry publication. Toronto-Dominion is the second-largest.  Aeroplan began in 1984 as a promotional tool for business
travelers on Air Canada. CIBC Aerogold Visa was started in 1991,
according to Aimia. The card allows users to collect Aeroplan
points for travel on Air Canada and get goods from retailers.  The Aerogold program accounts for 8 percent to 10 percent
of CIBC’s earnings,  Robert Sedran , an analyst at CIBC World
Markets in Toronto, said yesterday in a note.  “Some of this business will no doubt be lost -- and not
just by TD,” Sedran said. “The Aerogold program has been very
successful and contributes a meaningful amount of earnings to
CIBC.”  Marketing Spending  Kevin Dove, a CIBC spokesman, and TD’s Ali Duncan Martin
declined further comment from the bank statements.  Toronto-Dominion would commit C$100 million to the loyalty
program and agree to minimum annual miles purchases as part of a
10-year agreement. The two companies also agreed to spend about
C$140 million over four years on marketing. TD is entitled to an
C$80 million fee to cover costs if CIBC agrees to match the
terms of the agreement and continues as Aimia’s partner.  “The tone of the press release and Aimia’s conference call
suggest that the likelihood of CIBC matching the terms is low,”
CIBC’s Sedran said. “CIBC will choose not to renew its deal
with Aimia, preferring to build its own travel card.”  The agreement Aimia negotiated with TD brings the price for
the Aeroplan loyalty points much closer to market rates than the
current pact with CIBC, according to Aimia Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Duchesne.  Pay More  “With the existing agreement with CIBC, we’ve made a
reasonable level of profit out of it, nothing extraordinary,”
Duchesne, 53, said yesterday in a phone interview. “For CIBC is
was an extremely profitable relationship.”  There are “well more than a million” Aeroplan members who
accumulate points with Aimia’s two card partners, CIBC and
 American Express Co. (AXP) , according to Duchesne. Aeroplan has almost
five million members, he said.  Aimia’s new agreement would see its bank partner pay at
least 15 percent more for Aeroplan miles, and the extra money
will go to improving its rewards program, Duchesne said.  CIBC has been preparing to go it alone with its own card.
CEO Gerald McCaughey, 57, said on a May 30 conference call that
the bank is spending more than C$50 million over four quarters
to create an alternative card if the Aimia agreement isn’t
renewed. Canadian Imperial also has its Aventura Gold Visa card,
which it introduced in 2003 to offer lifestyle and travel
rewards with purchases.  Maximum Return  CIBC investor Anil Tahiliani of McLean & Partners Wealth
Management Ltd. said the bank shouldn’t be held hostage to the
Aimia agreement.  “I prefer they stick to their guns on where they can get
the maximum return,” Tahiliani, who helps manage C$1 billion at
the Calgary-based firm, said yesterday in an interview. “If
they think they can do better having their own card or their own
rewards program rather than be married to Aimia, I’m fine with
that.”  TD has increased its push into cards through acquisitions,
including its purchase of Bank of America Corp.’s MBNA Canada
unit to gain its MasterCard portfolio in December 2011.  “I don’t think this will be instant riches for TD,” said
 David Cockfield , a fund manager with Northland Wealth Management
in Toronto, who helps manage C$225 million at the firm including
TD shares. “It’s not an area free of competition, but it’s a
step in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  