-- CME Pulls Plan to Update Wash Trade Rule Amid CFTC Criticism
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-06-28T23:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/cme-pulls-plan-to-update-wash-trade-rule-amid-cftc-criticism.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the owner of the
world’s largest derivatives market, withdrew an updated rule
interpretation that bars traders from engaging in transactions
with themselves amid criticism from a Commodity Futures Trading
Commission official.  The Chicago-based exchange operator told traders in a
 notice  on its website today that it won’t implement the system
on July 1, following discussions with the CFTC’s division of
market oversight. The  June 17 proposal  clarified the
circumstances that define wash trades.  Bart Chilton, a CFTC commissioner, said this week that
CME’s proposal for the transactions needed more review. Chilton,
one of three Democrats on the commission, said the agency should
take additional steps to vet the CME guidance and determine if
other exchanges will have similar or better policies.  “Right now there are simply too many unanswered questions
that need to be addressed from an oversight and surveillance
perspective, and potentially from an enforcement perspective,”
Chilton said in a June 24 speech. “We need to take a deep
breath and ensure that we know, to the best of our ability, what
might occur.”  Transactions in securities and futures markets are
increasingly dominated by trading firms using computers to win
the fastest executions. Chilton has said high-frequency firms
sometimes place trades with themselves in ways that distort
liquidity and transparency in derivatives markets and warrant
more regulatory oversight.  ‘Fantasy Liquidity’  Earlier this week, Chilton said he’d asked the agency to
review whether high-frequency firms are engaging in the trades
to create “fantasy liquidity” and entice others into the
market.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission increased
their focus on high-frequency and algorithmic trading after May
6, 2010, when a rout erased about $862 billion from U.S. stocks
in 20 minutes.  The CFTC is improving its capability to oversee high-frequency traders and can analyze trades occurring in
milliseconds, Chilton said this week. The agency’s staff have
focused on activity at the start and close of trading sessions,
analyzing millions of executions. During those periods, high-frequency traders engaged in between 100 and 500 trades per
second in commodity markets.  CME Group is a self-regulatory organization under CFTC
guidelines, meaning it can approve changes to its rules without
the government agency’s pre-approval. This has allowed futures
markets to adapt more quickly to changing trading and market
practices versus regulatory systems where government approval is
needed prior to adoption of new standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  