-- Cohen Is Said to Remain Silent as SAC Managers Summoned
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-07-01T14:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/cohen-silent-as-sac-executives-called-before-grand-jury.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager Steven A. Cohen declined to testify before a grand jury about
allegations of insider trading at his SAC Capital Advisors LP,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Cohen, 57, made use of his Fifth Amendment right not to
incriminate himself after being summoned, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
He was excused from appearing before the grand jury after
informing prosecutors through his lawyers that he planned to use
the right, said one of the people.  “I wouldn’t have recommended that he go in to testify
given how this looks like the government is trying to build a
case around Cohen, rather than investigate one,” said Thomas Gorman, a partner at law firm Dorsey & Whitney LLP in
 Washington . “It just seems that the government is reaching for
a theory to support their beliefs.”  The $15 billion hedge-fund firm, based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , and its founder have moved to the center of a U.S.
multi-year investigation of insider trading on Wall Street since
former portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was charged in November
in what prosecutors called the biggest insider-trading scheme in
history. The investigation has hurt SAC’s business, with clients
asking to pull billions of dollars from the fund last month.  Amid the redemptions, the firm’s 14-member investor-relations team is being cut by half, with 7 employees leaving,
according to two people briefed on the matter. The group handles
the firm’s relationship with outside clients.  Client Redemptions  “We have reduced our staffing consistent with our present
needs,” said Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital
at Sard Verbinnen & Co.  SAC, in a June 4 e-mail, told employees it received
“significant” redemptions for the second quarter, though it
had no plans to give up managing other peoples’ money. Cohen and
employees currently account for about $9 billion of the firm’s
assets.  SAC President Tom Conheeney said in the e-mail that the
firm still has a stable capital base and some key investors said
they may reconsider their redemption requests once they have
greater clarity of legal issues surrounding the firm.  While SAC paid a record $602 million to settle a civil case
related to Martoma’s trades, the government has shown no sign of
ending its scrutiny of the firm. SAC in May told clients it will
no longer cooperate unconditionally with the government.  Martoma’s Trades  Five SAC employees also received subpoenas in May to appear
before a grand jury.Conheeney; Chief Operating Officer Solomon Kumin; Steve Kessler, head of compliance; Phillipp Villhauer,
head trader; and portfolio manager Anthony Vaccarino were
recently interviewed by prosecutors at their offices in lower
 Manhattan , said the people.  Last year, the Securities and Exchange Commission deposed
Cohen about trades made close to news that generated profits for
his firm, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The five-year statute of limitations covering Martoma’s
2008 trades, in which the hedge fund netted $276 million in
profits and averted losses from alleged inside information
concerning a drug trial, expires in late July.  Gasthalter declined to comment on whether Cohen had invoked
his Fifth Amendment right, as did Jerika Richardson, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. Cohen
hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing and has said he acted
appropriately. Martoma has pleaded not guilty and is scheduled
for trial on Nov. 4.  SAC Compliance  If a “target” of a government investigation refuses to
testify on Fifth Amendment grounds, they don’t normally need to
appear before a grand jury, according to government manual. A
“target” is a person as to whom the prosecutor or the grand
jury has substantial evidence linking him or her to a crime and
who is considered to be is a putative defendant, the manual
says.  All the executives called before the grand jury are long-time SAC employees who would be in a position to know about
compliance policies at the firm. Conheeney has worked at SAC
since in 1999 and was made president in 2008, according to fund
documents. Kessler and Kumin both joined in 2005, while
Villhauer, who has worked at SAC since 2002, executed the trades
at the center of Martoma’s case. Vaccarino is a portfolio
manager who specializes in consumer companies.  The U.S. has linked at least nine current or former
employees to allegations of insider trading while at the hedge
fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  