-- Colorado’s Binz Picked as Obama Nominee for FERC
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/colorado-s-binz-picked-as-obama-nominee-for-ferc.html
Clean-energy advocate and former
Colorado utility regulator Ron Binz has been picked by President
 Barack Obama  to lead the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  The White House said in a statement yesterday that Obama
intends to nominate Binz, who served as chairman of the Colorado
Public Utilities Commission from January 2007 until April 2011.
He is now a consultant on energy and telecommunications issues.  If confirmed by the Senate, Binz would replace Jon Wellinghoff, the FERC chairman whose term expires June 30.  “In the energy area my focus is on climate, clean tech,
integrated resource planning and smart grid,” Binz said on his
 page  on the LinkedIn online professional-networking service. He
didn’t return e-mail and phone requests for comment yesterday.  Binz would join an agency that has gained visibility from
its policing of energy trading and efforts to secure the
electricity distribution network from attacks by computer
hackers. Since January 2011, FERC has disclosed 13 probes of
alleged market gaming, including investigations of traders for
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “The electric industry is experiencing rapid change and
technological advances and Ron Binz is a strong and timely
choice to lead FERC,” Ralph Izzo, chief executive officer of
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc., said in a statement
yesterday. “Ron has both the experience and intellect to hit
the ground running and ensure thoughtful consideration of
emerging opportunities,” he said.  Consumer Advocates  Binz and Wellinghoff, 64, are both former consumer
advocates from the Western U.S. who are proponents of clean-energy technologies.  Wellinghoff, a FERC commissioner since 2006 and appointed
chairman in 2009, has said he will stay in office until his
successor is confirmed.  Binz is now principal at Public Policy Consulting in Denver
and a policy adviser for the Center for the New Energy Economy
at Colorado State University in Fort Collins. He has also served
as chairman of the climate policy task force for the National
Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, which
represents state agencies.  As a consultant, Binz’s clients included Tendril Networks
Inc., a Boulder, Colorado-based energy management software
company; Qwest Communications International Inc., now owned by
 CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  of Monroe, Louisiana; the New York-based
Environmental Defense Fund; and the U.S. Department of Energy.  Separately, the Senate yesterday confirmed Obama’s
nomination of Allison Macfarlane for a full five-year term as
chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Macfarlane, a
geologist and environmental science professor, took over the
agency last year following her predecessor’s resignation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  