-- U.S. Refuses to Expand Birth Control Religious Exemption
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/companies-must-cover-contraception-under-final-u-s-health-rule.html
An exemption allowing religious
groups to avoid covering the cost of  birth control  as required
by the U.S. Affordable Care Act won’t be expanded, the Obama
administration said.  Churches and religious groups don’t have to comply with a
provision of the law requiring that most employer health plans
cover the cost of contraceptives. Universities, hospitals and
other nonprofits associated with faith groups also are exempt
from paying for the coverage. The administration, in its  final
regulation  issued yesterday, rejected a request by some
businesses for a similar accommodation.  Companies including Hobby Lobby Stores Inc. have challenged
the government over the provision of the 2010 U.S. health law
requiring employers and insurers to provide preventive  health
services  without charge to their workers, a category the
administration said includes birth control. The final rule
largely adheres to a proposal made in February that was designed
to dispel concerns of companies and organizations that objected
on religious grounds.  The decision “reinforces our commitment to respect the
concerns of houses of worship and other nonprofit religious
organizations that object to contraceptive coverage, while
helping to ensure that women get the care they need, regardless
of where they work,” Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  said in a  statement .  The rule was issued by HHS, the Labor Department and the
 Internal Revenue Service .  Lawsuits Filed  The administration has been sued 65 times over the birth
control requirement, including 33 cases filed by for-profit
companies, according to the National Women’s Law Center, a
nonprofit in Washington, D.C., that supports insurance coverage
for contraception. Twenty companies have been granted an
injunction or other temporary relief from the requirement while
the cases wind their way through court, according to the NWLC.  A federal appeals court in Denver ruled June 27 that Hobby
Lobby and another company, Mardel Inc., were likely to succeed
at challenging the requirement by arguing that it violates their
religious freedom. The ruling granted the companies an
injunction against having to cover birth control, reversing a
lower court’s decision.  Hobby Lobby’s owner,  David Green , has said he doesn’t
object to providing preventive birth control. He refuses to
cover two emergency birth-control pills,  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Plan B One-Step and  Actavis Inc. (ACT) ’s Ella, which
are taken after sex, because he believes they cause abortions.  Legal Situation  The Becket Fund for Religious Liberty , a nonprofit in
Washington representing Hobby Lobby and eight other groups suing
the government over the birth control issue, said the final rule
doesn’t change the legal landscape.  “There’s a fundamental conflict that’s really just going
to get resolved in court,” Eric Rassbach, deputy general
counsel at the Becket Fund, said in a conference call with
reporters.  Under the rule, workers at Catholic universities and
hospitals, or similar institutions associated with other faiths,
will get birth control coverage with minimal involvement in the
process by their employers.  A nonprofit associated with a religious group that doesn’t
want to pay for the coverage must inform its insurer or the
company that administers its health plan, if it is self-insured,
the government said. The insurer then pays for the services
without using any money received from the nonprofit.  Insufficient Protection  That process doesn’t sufficiently protect religious
nonprofits from having to provide access to morning-after pills
like Plan B and Ella, Rassbach said. Four of the fund’s clients
are colleges and universities with religious affiliations that
are suing the government over the requirement.  “They’re being asked to be the gatekeepers to these
services,” Rassbach said.  The government said it doesn’t know of any self-insuring
nonprofits that don’t employ a separate company, called a third-party administrator, to handle their benefits. If there are
nonprofits without such an administrator, the rule provides a
“safe harbor” from enforcement of the birth control
requirement, meaning they wouldn’t have to comply with it.  The rule is unlikely to add costs for insurers who have to
pay for the services, said Chiquita Brooks-Lasure, deputy
director of policy and regulation at the  Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight  at HHS, which is
implementing much of the Affordable Care Act.  “We do strongly believe that the cost of contraceptive
services will be absolutely cost-neutral and offset by
improvements to women’s health as well as reduced pregnancies,”
she said at a briefing with reporters.  Third-party administrators, which won’t financially benefit
from reduced births, will be reimbursed for the coverage by the
government. The administration offered no estimate of what those
reimbursements would cost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  