-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Declines Less Than Forecast
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-06-28T16:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-fell-less-than-forecast-in-june-1-.html
Consumer sentiment held close to a
six-year high in June as higher home values gave Americans more
reason to be optimistic about the economy.  Thomson Reuters/ University of Michigan  said today its  final
confidence index  for this month eased to 84.1, higher than the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, from 84.5 at the end of
May. The group’s measure of the economic outlook climbed to an
eight-month high. Other data from the MNI Chicago Report showed
manufacturing is struggling to gain traction.  An improving housing market is sustaining sentiment and
making up for the hit to household wealth from a recent setback
in stock prices. Further strides in employment and housing will
help provide more fuel for an economy beset this quarter by
 federal budget  cuts.  “Consumers are more attuned to the labor market gradually
getting better and the rise in  house prices ” rather than
declining stock prices or increasing mortgage rates, said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , who projected a sentiment reading of 84. “Growth
in the second half is going to be a little better than it is in
the first half.”  Stocks fell as investors weighed the economic data. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1 percent to 1,611.79 at
12:54 p.m. in New York.  The MNI Chicago Report’s  business barometer  dropped to 51.6
this month from 58.7 in May, which was the highest in more than
a year. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. The median forecast of 56 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 55.  Regional Reports  The index has been out of sync with other regional factory
reports, surging in May when others pointed to a slump, and
dropping this month as measures from the Federal Reserve Banks
of  New York  and Philadelphia point to a rebound.  The Chicago group’s measure of new orders fell in June from
a three-month high, while backlogs slumped to the lowest level
since September 2009. Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of
the economy.  “It’s going to be an uneven path toward growth,” said
Thomas Simons, money market economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in
New York. “Manufacturing should gain steam in the second half”
of 2013.  American factories stand to gain as economies in  Europe  and
 Japan  stabilize. German retail sales rose in May more than
economists forecast, adding to signs that a recovery in Europe’s
largest economy has gathered pace amid record-low  interest
rates .  In Japan, the economy strengthened in May as factory output
rose the most since December 2011 and retail sales climbed.  Current Conditions  The drop in the Michigan survey this month was centered in
the  current conditions  index, which takes stock of Americans’
views of their personal finances. The measure decreased to 93.8
from 98 in May, which was the highest since August 2007. It
compared with a preliminary June reading of 92.1.  The index of  expectations  six months from now climbed to an
eight-month high of 77.8 from 75.8 in May. The preliminary June
figure was 76.7.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists
called for 83 in the overall gauge after a preliminary reading
of 82.7. The index in May was the highest since July 2007.
Estimates of the 68 economists for sentiment in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 80.5 to 85.3.  Upper Income  Resilient sentiment this month was concentrated among
households with incomes above $75,000 a year, the report showed.
At the same time, all income groups expected “continued modest
gains in the overall economy as well as continued declines in
the national  unemployment rate ,” the group said in a statement.  Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO) , based in Forest City,  Iowa , is
among companies boosting production of its recreational vehicles
to meet improving demand.  “This is a reflection of our dealer network’s confidence
in our motorhome products, as well as a confidence in the
overall industry as they prepare for the summer season,” Randy
Potts, chairman and chief executive officer, said on a June 27
earnings call.  A report yesterday showed  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, increased in May following
the largest drop in more than three years. Purchases rose 0.3
percent after a 0.3 percent decline the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed. Incomes advanced 0.5 percent, more
than projected.  Home Values  Home purchases also kept improving this month, according to
those surveyed by the University of Michigan. Rising home values
were reported by the highest share of consumers since 2007, and
fewer than 1 in 10 homeowners said they would lose money if they
sold their house.  Property prices in the 12 months through April rose by the
most in more than seven years. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
 property values  increased 12.1 percent from April 2012, the
biggest year-over-year gain since March 2006, after advancing
10.9 percent a month earlier, according to the June 25 report.  Rising real estate values are helping offset a drop in
share prices. Global stocks and bonds retreated after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19 outlined the
conditions that would prompt the Fed to reduce and eventually
end $85 billion in monthly asset purchases.  “As market participants gain additional insight from the
words of Federal Reserve officials or by policy actions in
coming quarters, further asset price volatility seems likely,”
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker , who
doesn’t vote on policy this year, said in a speech today. “This
type of volatility is a normal part of the process of
incorporating new information into financial asset prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  