-- Corzine Sued, Shifting Bank Losses, Imaging3: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/corzine-sued-shifting-bank-losses-imaging3-compliance.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission sued former MF Global Holdings Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Jon Corzine for failing to properly oversee the company
as it spiraled toward bankruptcy in 2011.  The regulator also sued MF Global’s former assistant
treasurer Edith O’Brien and said it reached a settlement with a
unit of the company, MF Global Inc., to pay all funds due to
customers and impose a $100 million penalty. The settlement is
subject to court approval.  MF Global’s collapse led to billions of dollars in missing
client funds at the broker dealer and the eighth-biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Corzine, who once served as a New Jersey senator and
governor and was a co-chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
presided over MF Global before it filed for bankruptcy on Oct.
31, 2011. Wrong-way $6.3 billion trades on bonds of some of
Europe’s most-indebted nations helped destroy the company and
its brokerage unit, MF Global Inc.  Corzine, 66, has been faulted by members of Congress,
former customers and the trustees overseeing the wind-down of MF
Global. While the Federal Bureau of Investigation started a
probe of the events leading to the bankruptcy, no charges were
filed in the case.  Steve Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, said before the
complaint was filed that Corzine wasn’t informed customer funds
were at risk or were being used improperly. There is no evidence
he failed to work with management to try and turn around a
failing company, he said.  Goldberg said Corzine was subject to “political pressure
to hold someone liable” for the failure of the firm.  The CFTC itself has been blamed at times for contributing
to MF Global’s downfall. The regulator, chaired by Corzine’s ex-Goldman Sachs colleague Gary Gensler at the time of MF Global’s
collapse, failed to coordinate with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to a 101-page report last November by U.S.
House Republicans.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Key Features of Bank Resolution Rules Deal Reached by EU Nations  EU nations agreed on a framework for bank restructuring and
resolution. The deal, which now must be negotiated with the
European Parliament, spells out private-investor losses and
conditions for receiving aid.  Regulators will be required to write down creditors in
order of seniority until losses reach 8 percent of the
distressed bank’s liabilities, with some ability to shift losses
among private investors. Above that threshold, they could grant
exemptions and turn to national backstops instead of following
the formula.  The deal offers room for regulators, after notifying the
European Commission, to exempt some creditors and shift the
burden to others.  Among the rules, nations will be required to set up funds,
financed through levies on banks that are big enough to cover
1.3 percent of insured deposits of each country’s banks.
Resolution funds will be treated differently than deposit
guarantee funds, in terms of conditions for when governments can
deploy the money.  If a nation’s resolution fund is twice the size required by
the new rules, nations can take advantage of emergency rules
that change the loss threshold to 20 percent of risk-weighted
assets.  EU financial services chief Michel Barnier wants to see a
year-end finish. The new rules would take effect in 2018.  Parliament and nations disagree on when countries can
nationalize their banks, when to start the new bail-in rules,
and when national deposit-guarantee funds should be in line to
absorb losses.  Compliance Action  Global Cartel Fines Dip; Libor Probe May Bring Results Soon  Global criminal cartel fines dipped during the first part
of the year in a pause before hefty penalties are likely to be
imposed in probes of Libor and car parts, law firm Allen & Overy
LLP said.  The penalties so far this year have totaled $677 million,
less than a fifth of the more than $5 billion levied during
2012, the firm said in a report yesterday. The drop-off was most
pronounced at the two biggest antitrust regulators, the U.S. and
European Union.  Allen & Overy partner John Terzaken said the EU is likely
to levy large fines later this year in probes of car parts and
the London interbank offered rate, where it lags behind its U.S.
colleagues. The U.S. and U.K. have already fined three banks
about $2.5 billion in the Libor probes and almost $1 billion in
fines have been issued in the U.S. and  Japan  in the
investigation of auto-parts makers.  Separately, the European Union’s antitrust chief said a
probe into rigging of benchmark interest rates may bring results
soon, warning that manipulating benchmarks such as Libor and oil
reference prices risks “systemic damage.”  The European Commission treats the rigging allegations as
“a priority” because, “if confirmed, they cause systemic
damage to the economy,” EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin
Almunia said in a speech in  Madrid  yesterday.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  are among banks and brokerages that have been
quizzed by the EU in a probe about manipulation of lending rates
that may have helped them and others generate profits from
derivatives trades.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts, the
oil-price data collector owned by  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ,
are being investigated by Almunia’s antitrust department at the
European Commission on price fixing concerns.  Mark Carney, the next Bank of  England  governor, said global
regulators will set up a task force with banks in a bid to
repair or replace tarnished benchmarks in the wake of Libor and
other rate-rigging scandals.  U.S. Bank to Reimburse Military Customers as CFPB Cracks Down  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  and a partner company will reimburse about
$6.5 million to members of the military who used an auto loan
program under terms of a settlement announced yesterday with the
U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The program “failed to properly disclose costs associated
with repaying auto loans” made to service members, the CFPB’s
director, Richard Cordray, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case involves a lending program at U.S. Bancorp called
Military Installment Loans and Educational Services, or Miles,
that allows young service members with minimal credit history to
finance an auto purchase.  The Minneapolis-based bank will reimburse customers $3.2
million, while its partner, Lexington, Kentucky-based Dealers’
Financial Services will pay $3.3 million. The CFPB said the
money will go to more than 50,000 service members, providing an
average reimbursement of less than $130 per customer.  Tom Joyce, a spokesman for U.S. Bancorp, said the bank will
end its program, while noting that it wasn’t fined by CFPB. “At
U.S. Bank, we have high expectations for ourselves and our
company’s product offerings, and we apologize for any confusion
this program may have caused our customers,” Joyce said in an
e-mail.  DFS didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment.  Courts  Imaging3 Sued by SEC for Misleading Investors About FDA Denial  Imaging3 Inc. (IMGGQ) , a medical-imaging device firm, and its
founder were sued by U.S. regulators over claims they misled
investors about Federal Drug Administration rejection of a
scanner that produced 3-D images.  Dean Janes, founder and chief executive officer of Burbank,
California-based Imaging3, falsely told investors in a November
2010 conference call that the FDA didn’t raise safety and
quality concerns in denying approval for the scanner, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a complaint
filed in U.S. District Court in California.  After an investor obtained the FDA’s denial letter and
posted it on the Internet in early 2011, Janes used his personal
social media page to mischaracterize the regulator’s position,
the SEC said. Janes and his company didn’t officially issue the
full text of the FDA’s denial letter until earlier this year,
the SEC said.  A phone call to Mark Richardson, an attorney for Imaging3
and Janes, wasn’t immediately returned. A phone call to Janes’s
office at Imaging3 wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Imaging3 Inc., et al., 13-cv-04616, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  (Los Angeles).  Comings and Goings  FHFA Nominee Faces Senate Skepticism of Skills to Oversee GSEs  U.S. Representative Mel Watt faced lawmakers skeptical of
his knowledge of housing-finance issues yesterday when he
appeared at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on his nomination
to oversee Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   Watt, 67, a North Carolina Democrat, offered a bipartisan
plan to eliminate the two U.S.-owned companies and replace them
with a government reinsurer.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  has explicit authority
to help low-income buyers, he told the Senate Banking Committee
panel. The agency shouldn’t make or guarantee loans that can’t
be paid, he said.  He added that Fannie and Freddie should be subject to the
qualified residential mortgage rule, if they are ongoing, and
the two should only back loans meeting the qualified mortgage
rule.  The Watt nomination is President  Barack Obama ’s second
attempt to fill the FHFA post held since 2009 by Acting Director
Edward J. DeMarco, who has been criticized by Democratic
lawmakers and consumer-advocacy groups for doing too little to
help homeowners struggling in the wake of the financial crisis.
The president’s first choice, former North Carolina banking
commissioner Joseph Smith, withdrew in 2011 amid Republican
opposition.  Watt’s chances of gaining confirmation remain unclear. He
would need support from at least five Republicans to gain the 60
votes needed for Senate confirmation if he’s backed by all 55
lawmakers who caucus with the Democrats in the 100-member body.
Only one Republican, Senator Richard Burr from North Carolina,
has endorsed him.  Senate Banking Committee’s top Republican, Mike Crapo of
 Idaho , said his concerns about Obama’s choice of Watt, to lead
the FHFA reflect the “political nature” of the nomination.  His concern isn’t a reflection on Watt, who has had a
“long and successful” career in Congress and is “well
liked,” Crapo said in opening comments at the hearing. His
concerns “reflect the unique position of the FHFA director,”
who has almost “unchecked power” over mortgage market, Crapo
said.  Watt, 67, backed a measure that would let bankruptcy judges
force lenders to cut principal owed on mortgages -- a tactic
that he called a legal “sledgehammer” against banks.
Republicans say they will attack that position, his past support
for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, and his qualifications for the
job. Watt has served in Congress since 1992.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 