-- Detroit Retirees Fret About Medicine in Orr Benefit Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-06-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/detroit-s-retirees-fret-about-medicine-as-orr-targets-benefits.html
Detroit  city retiree Rose Roots
worries about the cost of  prescription drugs , gasoline and house
repairs. She never imagined anyone would cut her pension.  “It’s unbelievable that this day and time, in 2013,
workers are threatened with being stripped of part of their
pension and health benefits,” said Roots, a 76-year-old who
worked three decades for the employment and training department.
“Bankruptcy is one thing, but to start a remedy going after
retirees?”  Shrinking benefits for 30,000 employees and retirees is
part of Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr’s plan to avoid the largest
U.S. municipal bankruptcy by erasing a $386 million deficit and
reducing long-term debt of at least $17 billion. Orr proposes
switching many retirees to federal health-care programs and
eliminating pensions for employees with less than 10 years of
service. His plan would also mean undetermined cuts to
retirement checks.  The notion that pensions could be trimmed or wiped out is
culture shock in the birthplace of the U.S. auto industry, where
union strength dominates politics and negotiated benefits gave
workers comfortable, middle-class lives over decades.  “That’s the way it’s always been,” said retiree Catherine
Phillips, 55, who said she went to work for the city at 22 on
her mother’s advice because of superior benefits. “I’m the
first generation in my family who will not be comfortable. I’m
going to be on edge.  ‘‘Are they going to stiff me of my pension, of my health
care?”  Union Made  Roots said she learned about unions as a youngster. Her
father worked at the  Ford Motor Co. (F)  plant in Dearborn,  Michigan ,
in 1937 when United Auto Workers organizers were attacked by
company security men. The so-called “Battle of the Overpass”
led to the company’s unionization.  “I know what the unions mean to employees, or the lack of
them,” she said.  On June 14, Orr proposed borrowing $2 billion, putting it
toward $11.4 billion in unsecured debt and leaving creditors
with losses on the rest. The debt includes unfunded pension
liabilities Orr said may reach $3.5 billion.  Retirees would receive $100 to $250 a month to defray
health-care costs. Detroit has about 20,100 retirees, about
twice the number of active employees.  Orr, who was appointed by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder ,
said that if he can’t strike a deal with creditors and
employees, he’ll seek a Chapter 9 bankruptcy in federal court.
Meanwhile, he’s ordered an investigation of all benefit
programs, including pension systems.  No Vultures  The emergency manager believes Michigan’s constitutional
protection of pension benefits wouldn’t stand in  bankruptcy
court , said his spokesman, Bill Nowling. Union leaders say their
members may fare better before a judge.  Don’t bet on it, said Doug Bernstein, a bankruptcy lawyer
with Plunkett Cooney PC in  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan. The
potential for a judge to rule Detroit pensions are unsecured
debt -- thus vulnerable to deeper cuts --should be incentive for
unions and retirees to settle with Orr, Bernstein said.  Roots said she shouldn’t be treated like bondholders who
sought profits as the city sank.  “We are not speculators,” she said. “We put money into
building our future.”  Pension officials have set aside $5 million to fight Orr in
court.  Cut Loose  Orr also plans to switch employees with less than 10 years
of service to a 401(k)-style retirement savings plan, and freeze
pension benefits for workers who are vested. Already, new hires
for the police and fire departments are placed in so-called
defined-contribution plans.  That follows a trend among private U.S. companies, where
the percentage of workers with a pension fell to 8 percent from
22 percent between 1989 and 2010, according to the Center for
Retirement Research at  Boston College . The percentage of workers
under 401(k)-style plans rose to 31 percent from 15 percent
during the same period.  However, 78 percent of local-government employees were
covered by pensions in 2011, according to the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics .  The average pension for Detroit’s retiring police and
firefighters is about $30,000 a year, said Matt Gnatek, chairman
of the police and fire pension board. Thanks to federal rules
and local contracts meant to secure more money for younger
retirees, they don’t get Social Security benefits and those
hired before 1986 don’t qualify for Medicare.  Lucky Life  “You better have done everything right in life to survive
on $30,000 in retirement,” said Gnatek, 39, a homicide
detective who works the overnight shift. “It’s very
disheartening for me, in the last leg of my career, to know I
won’t be able to retire after 25 years, or if I do it’s going to
be such a big difference from what I anticipated.”  Former police Investigator John Day, 52, said he fears Orr
will cut his $2,900-a-month pension and health benefits. With a
six-year-old car and a post-retirement security job, “I’m not
living large,” said Day.  He said retiring police officers are traumatized by mayhem
they confront on Detroit’s streets. Older retirees with smaller
pensions can’t pay more for health care, he said.  “When you start attacking pensions, it’s going to kill
some people,” Day said. “I know one guy who’s 68. He has a
$1,200-a-month pension and he’s looking for quarters in vending
machines.”  Art Vardiman, 62, a retired bus driver, said he lives on a
pension of less than $2,000 a month, plus  Social Security  and
investments. Vardiman said he agrees with Orr that the city
should have restructured long ago to adapt to a population
that’s now one-third of its peak of 1.8 million in the 1950s.  Vardiman, whose wife died in 2007, views his retirement
benefits as due recompense for 32 years of work.  “I played by the rules, did everything I was supposed to
do, and then, boom,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net . 