-- Deutsche Bank Supports Comparable Bank Leverage Rules
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-06-28T13:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/deutsche-bank-supports-comparable-bank-leverage-rules.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
Europe’s biggest bank, said it supports a plan by global
regulators to create equal standards for lenders on capital
holdings versus the value of their assets.  “We think a globally standardized definition of the
leverage ratio is reasonable,”  Stefan Krause , chief financial
officer of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “It allows to compare apples with apples.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  this week
proposed revamping standards for the leverage ratio to ensure
that the rule would be applied consistently worldwide. Unlike
European lenders such as Deutsche Bank, U.S. banks are able to
reduce their total assets by excluding the value of some
derivatives.  Deutsche Bank’s  assets  were 36 times the value of its
equity at the end of March under the International Financial
Reporting Standards, which apply to European banks, and 21 times
under a method similar to the Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles followed by U.S. banks, company filings show.  Under the Basel plan, banks would have to hold Tier 1
capital equivalent to 3 percent of their assets. While the
 leverage ratio  won’t be binding until 2018, lenders would be
obliged to start publishing how well they measure up to it by
the start of 2015, according to the committee.  U.K., U.S. and Swiss regulators are increasingly looking at
leverage, in addition to measures based on risk weightings
assigned to different assets, to gauge banks’ financial
strength. Their focus intensified as some banks improved  capital
ratios  following the financial crisis by altering internal
models or cutting risk-weighted assets without correspondingly
shrinking their balance sheets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  