-- Dow, Cadila, Lancome, Wendy’s, Sinovel: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/dow-cadila-lancome-wendy-s-sinovel-intellectual-property.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  accused  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S. chemical maker, of misusing confidential
information to seek two patents for coatings technology.  Dow entered a development agreement with a U.S. unit of
Amsterdam-based Akzo in 2010, ended the agreement the following
year, and in 2012, without Akzo’s permission, said it would file
the patent applications, according to a lawsuit filed June 25 in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  By using confidential information, Midland, Michigan-based
Dow is responsible for wrongly “usurping to itself and for its
own benefit  intellectual property  entrusted to it by Akzo,”
according to the complaint.  Akzo is seeking a ruling that Dow violated the contract, an
order forcing Dow to sign over rights to the inventions and an
award of unspecified damages and legal fees.  “Dow is aware of the new complaint,” Nancy Lamb, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. Dow
“believes it has acted in compliance with terms of the
referenced joint development agreement” and will fight the
lawsuit, she said.  The case is Akzo v. Dow, CA8666, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  Cadila Sued by Alpex Over Patent for Obesity Drug Suprenza  Cadila Healthcare Ltd. (CDH)  a generic-drug maker based in
Ahmedabad,  India , was sued by Alpex Pharma SA for infringing a
U.S. patent for the obesity drug Suprenza.  Alpex, based in Mezzovico,  Switzerland , contends Cadila,
doing business as Zydus Cadila, wrongly applied to the U.S. Food
& Drug Administration to sell low-cost copies of the medicine
before patent 6,149,938 expires in 2018, according to a lawsuit
filed June 26 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Unless blocked by a judge, premature sales of the generic
drug in the U.S. will cause “substantial and irreparable harm”
to Alpex, the company said in court papers.  Sujatha Rajesh, a Cadila spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Alpex v. Zydus, 13-cv-01143, U.S. District
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Lancome’s ‘La Vie Est Belle’ Trademark Rejected by  Taiwan  Court  Lancome Parfums Et Beaute Et Cie. SNC, the Paris-based
parfumerie, won’t be permitted to register “La Vie Est Belle”
as a trademark in Taiwan, the Focus Taiwan website reported.  The company had filed an appeal of the Nov. 2011, rejection
of its trademark application by Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic
Affairs, according to  Focus Taiwan .  Taiwan’s Supreme Administrative Court rejected the appeal,
saying the phrase, which translates to “Life Is Beautiful,”
isn’t distinctive enough to qualify for trademark protection,
Focus Taiwan reported.  Lancome had hired actress  Julia Roberts  to promote its  La
Vie Est Belle brand , and argued unsuccessfully that the mark was
totally distinctive because it represented her own wonderful
life and perfect marriage, according to the news website.  Wendy’s Sued  Ohio  Dairy Over Claims ‘Frosty’ Mark Is Infringed  Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , the Dublin, Ohio-based fast-food chain, sued
an Ohio-based dairy company for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint file June 21 in federal court in
Columbus, Ohio, United  Dairy Farmers  Inc. of Cincinnati, Ohio,
is accused of infringing Wendy’s “Frosty” trademark and the
trade dress used for that product.  Wendy’s said it has used the “Frosty” mark since 1969 for
a product by the same name that is a cross between a milkshake
and soft-serve ice cream.  The product , which contains a
proprietary cocoa formula, hasn’t changed significantly since it
was first placed on the restaurant chain’s menu.  The company objects to the Frosties product produced by the
dairy company. According to court papers and Wendy’s statements,
the United Dairy Farmers’ product uses a red and yellow
packaging that is confusingly similar to the containers in which
the Frosty is served.  Wendy’s claims the infringement is deliberate and is aimed
at causing consumers to assume falsely that an affiliation
exists between the two companies’ products.  United Dairy Farmers didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Wendy’s asked the court to order United Dairy Farmers to
halt the infringing actions and to engage in corrective
advertising to correct what Wendy’s says is confusion in the
marketplace. The company requests awards of the dairy company’s
profits related to the alleged infringement, together with money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  The case is Wendy’s International Inc., v. United Dairy
Farmers Inc., 2:13-cv-00596-ALM-NMK, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  China’s Sinovel Charged by U.S. With Stealing Trade Secrets  Sinovel Wind Group Co., a Chinese wind-turbine company, was
charged with stealing trade secrets from its former U.S.
partner, a case of industrial espionage that may heighten
tensions in  U.S.-China relations  in the wake of the Edward
Snowden affair.  U.S. prosecutors secured an indictment of the company and
two of its executives in federal court yesterday in Madison,
 Wisconsin . Also charged was Dejan Karabasevic, who pleaded
guilty in Klagenfurt,  Austria , to stealing source code for the
turbine controllers made by  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , his
former employer. The company lost more than $1 billion in market
value after the theft.  The timing of the indictment is likely to give it
prominence in U.S. dispute with  China  over economic espionage.
That conflict has only been inflamed by Snowden’s disclosures of
U.S. computer-based spying and China’s decision to allow the ex-National Security Agency contractor to fly to Russia from  Hong
Kong , where he had fled.  “My 5-year-old understands that this is wrong,” AMSC
Chief Executive Officer Daniel McGahn said by telephone.  The indictment is the latest development in a legal
struggle between AMSC, a maker of small industrial computers
that fit inside  wind turbines , and the company that was formerly
its largest customer. AMSC, based in Devens,  Massachusetts , is
seeking more than $1.2 billion in damages from Sinovel in
Chinese courts, accusing Sinovel of putting the stolen source
code in more than 1,000 turbines that it sold in China.  Prosecutors allege that Sinovel, which was charged with
conspiracy, theft of trade secrets and fraud, cheated AMSC out
of more than $800 million.  The case is U.S. v.  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  Ltd., 13-cr-00084, U.S. District Court, Western District of Wisconsin
(Madison).  Lofgren Introduced Private Trade-Secret Section to EEA  Democratic Representative Zoe Lofgren of California
introduced  legislation  to allow individuals to recover damages
under the Economic Espionage Act.  HR2466 would give “any person who suffers injury” under a
violation of this act to purse a civil case against the violator
in order to be compensated. Under this legislation, a case must
be brought within two years of the date of the action or the
discovery of damage.  The legislation doesn’t cover reverse engineering. In fact,
it specifically states that those who obtain information without
authorization who have worked backward “from a lawfully
obtained known product or service to divine the process that
aided its development or manufacture” may not be charged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 