-- DSM to License Technology After Biofuel Production Starts
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-28T20:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/dsm-to-license-technology-after-biofuel-production-starts.html
Royal DSM NV (DSM) , the Heerlen,
Netherlands-based chemicals company, plans to license cellulosic
ethanol technology after completing its first commercial plant,
Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma said.  The Iowa plant will be able to make 20 million to 25
million gallons of fuel a year from corn waste and will begin
production by early next year, Sijbesma said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s offices in  New York .  DSM expects the facility to be one of the first sites to
turn corn husks and other types of crop waste into fuel at
commercial volume, and demand is ensured by U.S. regulations
that require oil companies to blend it with gasoline. The
company is still tweaking the production process and will pursue
licensing contracts once it’s ready for commercial production
and yields are more predictable, Sijbesma said.  “We believe we can make better deals in half a year,”
Sijbesma said.  DSM has been approached about licensing deals by companies
that are already producing biofuel from food crops and
“newcomers” to the industry, he said.  The company is developing the $250 million plant in
Emmetsburg,  Iowa , with Poet LLC, the second-biggest U.S. ethanol
producer. He doesn’t expect it to reach full capacity in 2014.
Once it’s up and running, DSM will consider building one or two
more, he said.  Cellulosic ethanol is considered a second generation
biofuel, an evolutionary step beyond fuel produced from food
crops such as corn and sugar cane.  Federal Requirements  Under the U.S.  Renewable Fuel Standard , gasoline and diesel
producers are required to blend 36 billion gallons of biofuel a
year into their products by 2022, including 16 billion gallons
of cellulosic fuel. The policy is designed to promote energy
independence in the U.S. and reduce the use of fossil fuels,
Sijbesma said.  Oil companies  have urged lawmakers to revise or repeal the
policy, saying that it’s driving up food prices.  That claim is short-sighted, and using organic material to
produce fuel is a better strategy than relying on fossil fuels
that will eventually run out, Sijbesma said.  “We didn’t get out of the Stone Age because all the stones
were gone,” he said. “We had better alternatives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  