-- Dutch Tax Hampers Banks From Recapitalizing, Committee Says
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-06-28T11:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/dutch-tax-hampers-banks-from-recapitalizing-committee-says.html
The Netherlands’ bank tax has made
it harder for lenders to rebuild their capital and should be
scrapped, according to a commission that studied the levy.  “Reconsider the banking tax, because it has an adverse
effect on the accumulation of equity for banks,” Herman Wijffels, a professor and lawmaker who led the government-commissioned inquiry into the structure of Dutch lenders, said
in a report published today. The bank tax will also restrain
banks from making loans, the report said.  The Dutch parliament’s upper house approved the bank tax
almost a year ago, aiming to raise 600 million euros ($515
million) annually, trim its  budget deficit  to meet European
Union rules and force lenders to share the burden of ensuring
financial stability. The Netherlands is grappling with how to
regulate a financial industry that’s more than four times the
size of the economy, even after the splintering of  ABN Amro 
Holding NV, the nationalization of SNS Reaal NV and the global
credit crisis left it diminished in size and importance.  The best way to improve the stability of Dutch banks is to
strengthen their capital positions to increase the “distance to
default,” the report said. Systemically important banks that
will be supervised by the  European Central Bank  should meet
Basel III capital rules by 2014 instead of 2019, the committee
advised.  Since 2008, the Dutch state provided more than 95 billion
euros of rescue funds for the industry, including guarantees and
capital injections. In February, it spent 3.7 billion euros to
rescue SNS Reaal, the nation’s fourth-biggest bank.  Surging Debt  The government will comment on the Wijffels commission’s
recommendations after the summer recess, Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said in a letter to parliament today. At the same
time, he will present a plan about the future of ABN Amro NV,
SNS Reaal and ASR Nederland NV, it said.  In the fourth quarter, ABN Amro took a 112 million-euro
charge to pay the bank tax, while Rabobank Groep took a 179
million-euro charge.  Bank bailouts helped drive Dutch government debt to 71
percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2013,
up from 45 percent in 2007, according to figures from the
Central Planning Agency. The nationalization of ABN Amro and aid
to  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in 2008 contributed more than 10 percentage
points to the debt-to-GDP ratio that year.  The nationalization of SNS Reaal in February increased debt
by 1.6 percentage points, Dijsselbloem said at the time.  EU Commission  The Dutch report comes as EU regulators consider how far to
go in breaking up large banks and splitting riskier activities
from traditional banking in a bid to take taxpayers off the hook
for bailouts and protect depositors.  The EU is examining options for how big a proportion of
banks’ trading activities should be shifted into separately
capitalized units, according to plans published by the European
Commission in May in the wake of proposals by a group led by
Bank of Finland governor  Erkki Liikanen .  The Wijffels committee echoed the Liikanen group in
recommending banks avoid proprietary trading. It also said the
universal banking model, combining investment, corporate and
 consumer banking , should be maintained as it’s necessary to
“finance international activities of Dutch companies and to
support them with a broad palette of services.”  The committee also examined the possibility of new entrants
to the banking market, given that the four biggest Dutch lenders
account for more than 80 percent of the industry.  Bailouts  Wijffels, a former chairman of Rabobank, was appointed to
head the committee last year. He’s professor of sustainability
and societal change at the University of Utrecht, and a member
of the Christian Democrat party, or CDA.  ABN Amro, which was one of  Europe ’s biggest banks a decade
ago, was broken up after its record 71.9 billion-euro takeover
by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Fortis and Banco Santander
SA in 2007. A year later, the credit crunch drove Fortis to the
verge of collapse, forcing the Netherlands to take over its
Dutch banking and insurance units, including the former assets
of ABN Amro, for 16.8 billion euros. Costs of that rescue later
swelled to about 30 billion euros.  In the same year, the Dutch state provided a 10 billion-euro bailout to ING, the country’s biggest financial-services
company, and a first round of 750 million euros in aid to SNS
Reaal. Rabobank, a cooperative lender, was the only one of four
Dutch banks designated as “too big to fail” by the central
bank that didn’t need a government lifeline.  ABN Amro’s workforce fell to 23,059 at the end of last year
from 30,000 in 2008. It now operates in 25 countries, down from
56 before its break-up, and relies on the Netherlands for 82
percent of operating income. ING was ordered by the EU to shrink
its balance sheet by 45 percent and sell its insurance arm,
helping shrink its workforce to about 83,000 from 130,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  