-- Eaglestone to Invest in Angola, Mozambique Clean Energy
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-28T15:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/eaglestone-to-invest-in-angola-mozambique-clean-energy.html
Eaglestone NV intends to invest as
much as 40 percent of a planned 100-million euro renewable
energy fund in projects in Angola and  Mozambique , using local
knowledge to tap new markets.  While opportunities are bigger in  South Africa , other
nations in sub-Saharan  Africa  where there’s a growing appetite
for renewables include the two former Portuguese colonies as
well as  Namibia  and Botswana, Eaglestone Chief Executive Officer
Pedro Neto said today in an interview in  London .  “Sub-Saharan Africa is about to take off,” he said. “The
growth can be huge, but the size of the projects will be
different from South Africa because they don’t have the same
needs.”  Africa and the  Middle East  had the biggest regional growth
in renewable energy investment last year, with spending growing
228 percent to $12 billion, according to a June 12 report by the
United Nations Environment Program and Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The gap in clean energy spending between industrialized
and developing countries shrank to 18 percent last year from 250
percent in 2007, it said.  Neto said Mozambique is studying two possible wind energy
projects now, while Angola may develop as much as 200 megawatts
each of wind and solar power by 2017 as part of an “ambitious”
plan to increase the country’s total generation capacity to at
least 6.2 gigawatts from 1.2 gigawatts now.  South Africa  The  International Energy Agency  two days ago published a
report saying that Namibia, Mozambique and South Africa will be
among the five countries to experience the biggest percentage
increase in power from onshore wind farms between now and 2018.  Deputy Chief Executive Officer Nigel Purse said there will
also be opportunities in South Africa as investors in the
country’s first two rounds of renewable energy projects start to
sell off their stakes. South Africa plans to add 3,725 megawatts
in renewable capacity by the end of 2016 and another 3,200
megawatts by 2020.  “There will be a really exciting opportunity in South
Africa for the next 3 to 5 years,” Purse said. “There will be
a magnificent amount of activity down there.”  Eaglestone two months ago began raising an intended 100-million-euro fund in a joint venture with Infraventus Capital
Partners. Purse said he aims for a first close by the end of
2013, and a second close in 2014, and that the fund could
“easily” rise to 150 million euros.  ‘Frontier Markets’  While initial investments are likely to be outside Africa,
including a 5 percent share in a portfolio of Australian wind
assets and investments in three Finnish wind farms, the ultimate
aim is to put about half the fund into Africa, Purse said. Of
that half, 30-40 percent would be invested in each of  Angola  and
Mozambique, with the remainder in South Africa, Namibia and
other nations in the region, Neto said.  “They’d be known as frontier markets in the industry,”
Purse said. “We’ve got local people on the ground in Angola and
Mozambique, we’ve got huge amounts of experience, expertise and
contacts relevant to those local marketplaces, so it makes
sense” to invest there.  Eaglestone, founded in December 2011 and based in
Amsterdam, has offices in London, Lisbon, and  Cape Town , as well
as Luanda and Maputo, the capitals of Angola and Mozambique.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  