-- Embraer Headed to Best First Half Rally Since ’01 as Real Sinks
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-28T17:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/embraer-headed-to-best-first-half-rally-since-01-as-real-sinks.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the world’s top
regional-jet maker, headed to the biggest first-half gain since
2001 as a plunging Brazilian currency and increasing orders
boosted the outlook for profit growth.  The shares rose 0.9 percent today to 20.54 reais in Sao
Paulo, extending this year’s advance to 42 percent. That’s the
best first-half performance since a 45 percent gain in 2001.
Embraer has been the best performer this year in  Brazil ’s
Ibovespa  benchmark , which has slumped 22 percent.  The Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil-based planemaker received
jet orders from companies including Japan Airlines Co., SkyWest
Inc.,  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  and the U.S. Air Force this
year, and expanded a pact that lets Boeing Co. sell its military
aircraft globally. The orders could help further improve the
company’s backlog after a “light” 2012, according to Peter Skibitski, an analyst at Drexel Hamilton LLC.  “The regional jet market had been soft for a while, and
there’s been a tremendous replacement demand that has come
through to Embraer,” Skibitski said. “The U.S. market has
certainly picked up for Embraer, and they have good growth
prospects in all three of their core segments. I think that’s
what has led to the great share performance this year.”  Embraer booked more than 365 firm orders and commitments
for the so-called E2 versions of its E-Jets regional lineup,
introduced this month at the Paris expo, the industry’s biggest
trade event. The planemaker’s backlog totaled 211 planes and
$13.3 billion on March 31, up from 185 aircrafts and $12.5
billion at the end of last year.  Real Plunge  The 8.7 percent plunge in the real in the second quarter
has also helped Embraer, which drove up the local currency
proceeds from the company’s dollar revenue. Embraer received
about 86 percent of its revenue last year from outside Brazil,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The real is the worst performer among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the second quarter. The
currency is poised for its biggest loss since the second quarter
of 2012 as stagnant economic growth, violent street protests and
speculation the Federal Reserve will curtail U.S. monetary
stimulus eroded demand for Brazilian assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  