-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Bond Yields Decline on China
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-28T21:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/emerging-stocks-pare-biggest-monthly-drop-in-year-as-china-gains.html
Emerging-market stocks capped the
biggest weekly advance in nine months and bond yields slumped as
 China ’s cash crunch eased. India’s rupee rose the most since
September, extending its rebound from a record low.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 2.3 percent to 940.33,
extending its rally for the week to 4.4 percent. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and  PetroChina Co. (601857) , which have the
two biggest weightings on the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , gained
the most since 2010. India’s rupee added 1.4 percent, while the
nation’s bonds jumped the most in a year. The premium investors
demand to own emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries slid for
a fourth straight day, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  China’s money-market rates fell and speculation grew that
the government will ease financing for developers to alleviate a
credit crunch. Central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the
nation will maintain market stability, his first comment since a
record cash crunch that spurred concern growth will ease.  “The emerging-markets group was oversold, so you expect a
bounce back,”  Timothy Ghriskey , the chief investment officer at
Solaris Group LLC in New York, which manages over $1.5 billion,
said by phone. “There’s also been a number of positive comments
in China. They appear to have dealt with the short-term
liquidity squeeze and stabilize that situation very quickly and
very proactively.”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose today
led by health-care and telephone shares. The broad measure has
slumped 9.1 percent since the end of March, its second quarterly
drop, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19
outlined the conditions that would prompt the Fed to reduce and
eventually end $85 billion in monthly asset purchases.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund rose 0.6 percent to $38.50. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 2.4 percent to 27.61.  Mexico’s IPC index rose the most among major stock
benchmarks in the Americas today, capping its biggest weekly
advance since 2009 after plunging on June 20 to a one-year low.  Brazil’s Ibovespa snapped a three-day gain as B2W Cia.
Digital led retailers lower amid concern a weaker currency will
stoke inflation and derail Brazil’s economic recovery. The real
slid on concern President Dilma Rousseff’s attempt to placate
street protesters will widen the government’s budget deficit.  The Micex Index added 1.3 percent in Moscow, trimming its
quarterly drop to 7.5 percent. OAO Lukoil gained, while United
Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, slumped.  Poland, Turkey  Poland’s WIG20 Index surged 3.2 percent led by coal miner
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA. Benchmark gauges in Hungary and
the  Czech Republic  added at least 0.7 percent. Turkish stocks
rallied, while the lira weakened as the nation’s trade gap
widened from last year and the central bank raised the amount of
funding offered at one-week repo auctions at its lowest rate.  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 1.5 percent, paring
losses to 4.5 percent this week. The gauge erased gains in the
afternoon before rebounding in the last 15 minutes of trading,
fueled by rallies for  ICBC (601398) , the nation’s biggest lender, and
PetroChina, the largest energy company. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index climbed 1.7 percent.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,
India’s biggest energy explorers, led Indian stocks higher as
the nation’s cabinet agreed to lift the price of natural gas.
The rupee posted the biggest quarterly drop since 2011.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  surged 3.1 percent, while the
Taiex index climbed 2.3 percent. Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., which has the biggest weighting on the gauge,
rose 6.2 percent.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over  U.S.
Treasuries  declined seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 341 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  