-- Energy Rigs in U.S. Slide to Lowest Level in Two Months
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-06-28T19:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/energy-rigs-in-u-s-slide-to-lowest-level-in-two-months.html
Oil and gas  rigs  in the U.S. tumbled
to the lowest level in two months as energy producers used
drilling efficiencies to cut the time it takes to bore wells,
weakening demand for more equipment.  The  total count  fell by 11 to 1,748, the lowest since April
5,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) ’s website shows.  Oil rigs  dropped by 15 to
1,390, a nine-week low, the Houston-based field services company
said on its website. Gas rigs rose for the first time in six
weeks, gaining four to 353.  A resurgence in U.S. gas and oil output, driven largely by
hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, helped the nation
meet 89 percent of its energy needs in March, the highest
monthly rate since April 1986, Energy Information Administration
data show. Soaring supplies and more efficient techniques such
as pad drilling have driven the energy rig count down from more
than 2,000 in early 2012.  “You’re seeing a little bit more rig efficiency, more
directional rigs for gas and some normal weekly variation,”
 James Williams , president of energy consulting company WTRG
Economics in  London ,  Arkansas , said by telephone. “At current
prices, it’s always surprising to see any increase of any sort
in natural gas drilling.”  Natural gas for August delivery settled at $3.565 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , up 31 percent from a year ago.  Pad Drilling  Exploration and production companies in the U.S. were
expected to cut  capital expenditures  by 2.1 percent this quarter
from a year ago “driven by a focus on pad drilling and cost
cutting, as well as lower levels of natural gas drilling,”
according to a Bloomberg Industries analysis released yesterday.  Producers use pad drilling to add multiple wells on a
single site with rigs that are more mobile and can bore into the
ground at different angles. Directional rigs targeting gas rose
by seven this week to 70, the highest count since December,
while horizontal and vertical rigs focused on gas plays fell.  “The directional rigs in gas make some sense,” Williams
said. “That is a move for efficiency.”  U.S. gas stockpiles  rose 95 billion cubic feet in the week
ended June 21 to 2.533 trillion cubic feet, 17.1 percent below a
year earlier, the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm,
said yesterday. Supply gains have topped five-year averages for
four straight weeks as mild weather reduced demand.  Oil Output  U.S. oil output gained 1.9 percent to 7.26 million barrels
a day last week, EIA data show. Production reached 7.37 million
barrels a day in the week ended May 3, the most since 1992.
Stockpiles climbed 18,000 barrels to 394.1 million, according to
the EIA.  Crude for August delivery fell 49 cents to $96.56 a barrel
today on the Nymex, up 24 percent in the past year.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , an independent oil and gas
producer, will increase its U.S. onshore production by 10
percent to 570,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, according to
a presentation the company made at the Global Hunter Securities
Energy Conference in Chicago June 26.  “And what’s stunning about it is we’re able to do this
with 45 rigs,” John Colglazier, vice president of  investor
relations  for the Woodlands, Texas-based company, said at the
conference. “It’s extraordinarily capital-efficient.”  Should gas recover to $4.50, Anadarko has “tens of
thousands of identified drilling locations” to invest in,
Colglazier said.  ‘Increased Efficiency’  Gas wells are more competitive against oil wells than they
were two years ago, Biliana Pehlivanova, an analyst for  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s investment-banking unit in  New York , said in a research
note June 25.  “Only the best gas wells are drilled today, and those have
benefited from an increasing efficiency of drilling,”
Pehlivanova said. “In contrast, as oil-directed drilling has
accelerated, the economics of the marginal oil wells that are
being drilled currently are worse than the economics of the
marginal oil wells drilled two years ago.”  At current oil and gas prices, Barclays’s proxy wet and dry
gas wells in the Marcellus formation of the eastern U.S.
“compete favorably” with a proxy marginal oil well in  North
Dakota ’s Bakken play, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  