-- Energy Tax Fraud Poses Risk to German Utilities, BDEW Says
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-06-28T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/energy-tax-fraud-poses-risk-to-german-utilities-bdew-says-1-.html
German utilities can’t rule out
becoming embroiled in  tax fraud  in the power and natural gas
industries similar to the scams that hit the region’s  emission
market  four years ago, the head of lobby group BDEW said.  The nation’s more than 1,800 power and gas companies won’t
be able to eliminate the risk of becoming victims of fraudsters
if a trading partner is acting with criminal intent, Hildegard Mueller, head of the managing board of the Berlin-based utility
group, said in an interview. Tax regulators in states from
Hamburg in the north to Baden-Wuerttemberg in the south have in
the past two months said they’ve discovered indications of
value-added-tax scams in energy trading.  “It is hard to take action against fraud,” said Mueller,
whose members include EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s biggest
utilities. “If someone acts with criminal intentions, it might
be discovered too late.”  German tax authorities have found cases similar to an
emissions market fraud that led to Europe-wide tax losses of at
least 5 billion euros ($6.54 billion) in 2009, according to
Europol, the region’s law enforcement agency. Fraudsters are
damaging the legitimacy of  Europe ’s biggest energy market and
are jeopardizing the nation’s security of supply, the German
Federal Central Tax Office said last month in a  letter  to
traders.  New Loopholes  Utilities can take precautions against fraud by checking if
counterparts have been active long enough to be reliable and
scrutinizing unusually attractive deals, Mueller said. BDEW’s
members sell 90 percent of Germany’s power and gas, according to
the group’s website.  Criminals will try to find new loopholes even as regulators
are pushing for new laws to protect markets, Mueller said.
European finance ministers last week agreed on a proposal to
combat VAT fraud in the region. Brussels-based  Eurelectric ,
which represents utility lobbies in 32 European countries,
including BDEW, said the  decision  will help prevent crime.  “Sometimes one lags one step behind, unfortunately,”
Mueller said on June 21. “But traders are experienced in that
respect and do all they can.”  EON has not been involved in any fraudulent trading and
wasn’t contacted by authorities after the May warning letter,
Georg Oppermann, a company spokesman in Dusseldorf, said June 24
by e-mail.  Suspicious Traders  “We have in place one of the most stringent counterparty
approval and compliance regimes in the industry,” he said. “We
expect the same vigilance from all other market participants.”  Internal procedures at RWE’s trading unit have been
effective so far, Michael Murphy, a company spokesman based in
Essen, said June 24 by e-mail. The company reported 35
potentially suspicious emission trading firms between 2009 and
April 2010, Murphy said.  The power producer’s measures to protect itself against
fraud include “continuously checking and evaluating
counterparties and working together with the authorities,”
Murphy said.  Traders report “several dozens” of dishonest companies
each year to the regional state offices of criminal
investigation, said Barbara Lempp, head of EFET Deutschland, the
nation’s energy trading association.  The German power and gas markets were liberalized in 1998
as companies that produced and distributed energy were broken up
while also giving foreign producers and marketers access to
grids and customers.  Role Model  German power trading last year accounted for about 45
percent of the European total and 7.1 times the nation’s annual
consumption, according to data from London-based Prospex
Research Ltd. That compares with an average European churn rate
of 3.4.  “It is important to have a liquid market. It means one can
choose from a large number of trading parties,” Mueller said.
“And in that respect,  Germany  is a role model.”  Under German tax law, finance ministries in the federal
states are responsible for collecting taxes and investigating
cases of fraud.  One case of fraud in German power last year cost Baden-Wuerttemberg about 2.8 million euros, Frank Kupferschmidt, a
spokesman for the state’s finance ministry, said June 3. There
are probably other cases yet to be discovered, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  