-- Lennar Gets Investment in San Francisco Project From TPG
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/lennar-gets-investment-in-san-francisco-project.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-biggest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, received an investment from TPG Credit
Management LP in its Hunters Point project in San Francisco.  TPG Credit purchased a “significant minority stake” in
the project, the Miami-based builder’s Lennar Urban unit in San
Francisco said in a statement yesterday. It didn’t disclose the
amount of the investment.  Lennar broke ground two days ago on 480 studios and
townhomes at the development, on the site of a former naval
shipyard. Construction of as many as 10,500 residences,
commercial buildings, job-training centers, parks, trails and
open space is envisioned over two decades, under the plan by the
Lennar-led group that controls the site.  “This public/private partnership is exciting because San
Francisco needs housing and it needs jobs,” Lennar Urban
President Kofi Bonner said in the statement. “Investors
understand that the time is right for this project.”  TPG Credit, based in  Minneapolis , invests in real estate
through purchases of properties and debt. The independent
company was founded in 2005 with private-equity firm TPG Capital
as a silent minority partner, according to its  website .  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG Credit, said the
company had no immediate comment on the transaction.  The San Francisco area topped the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
 home prices  in 20 major cities, with a 24 percent jump in April
from a year earlier. Values have been bolstered by a tight
supply of home listings and growth at technology, health-care
and hospitality companies. Employment has increased for 34
months on a year-over-year basis, according to California state
labor data.  Prices Surge  The median price of a San Francisco single-family home in
May surged 32 percent from a year earlier to a record $947,260,
while condominiums gained 27 percent to $881,020, also a record,
data from the California Association of Realtors show. San
Francisco was the only county in the state to surpass its prior
peak, according to the Los Angeles-based trade group.  “San Francisco is attractive to foreign investors and
you’ve got low rates, low inventory and the Silicon Valley
economy,” Leslie Appleton-Young, chief economist for the state
Realtors, said in an interview.  Condo developers such as Lennar and Tishman Speyer
Properties LP are benefiting from the supply shortage, luring
both homebuyers and investors to their projects as heated demand
shows no sign of slowing. A luxury high-rise with 655 units, a
joint venture of New York-based Tishman and Shenzhen, China-based developer  China Vanke Co. (200002) , broke ground near San
Francisco’s financial district the same day as Hunters Point.  Largest Redevelopment  The Lennar site covers 750 acres (300 hectares) and is the
city’s largest redevelopment project, according to Mayor Edwin Lee, who spoke at the groundbreaking. About a third of
residential units in the development’s first phase, which may
total as many as 1,400 homes built over five years, will be
priced below market, according to the builder.  “We are moving forward without delay to transform the
blighted former shipyard to bring new housing, parks and
thousands of construction and permanent jobs to San Francisco in
the next three decades,” Lee said at the event.  TPG Credit’s investment with Lennar only applies to Hunters
Point and not the Treasure Island location that is Lennar’s
other  San Francisco  housing site, according to the builder.
Talks between Lennar and China Development Bank Corp. for $1.7
billion in financing for both projects ended earlier this year,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter said in April.  Lennar’s fiscal second-quarter orders climbed 27 percent
from a year earlier to 5,705 homes, the company reported earlier
this week. Earnings of 43 cents a share, which excluded a tax-related gain, beat analysts’ estimates. U.S. new-home sales in
May climbed 29 percent from a year earlier to the highest since
July 2008, according to the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  