-- Merkel Says She Blocked Car Carbon Curbs to Shield Auto Jobs
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-28T15:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/merkel-says-she-blocked-car-carbon-curbs-to-shield-auto-industry.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
that she blocked a draft  European Union law  aimed at reducing
carbon-dioxide emissions from cars over concerns the measure
would cost jobs in the  auto industry .  A coalition of EU states led by  Germany  prevented approval
of the measure at a meeting of diplomats in Brussels earlier
this week. Merkel said that she moved to delay the proposal --
which would cap average carbon discharges by passenger vehicles
in the bloc at 95 grams a kilometer in 2020 -- to defend jobs.  “This is also about employment,” Merkel told reporters in
Brussels today after a European Union summit. “That’s why we
need time to review and evaluate and decide what we will do.
That’s why the vote didn’t happen.”  Merkel’s intervention, made less than three months before
federal elections, collided with EU efforts to cap pollution by
cars through varying targets for individual manufacturers
ranging from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to  General Motors Co. (GM)  Current EU
legislation requires carmakers to cut discharges to 130 grams a
kilometer on average in 2015 and sets a non-binding goal of 95
grams for 2020.  “With such an important policy decision, it’s important
that prudence trumps speed,” German auto-industry lobby VDA
said in a statement. “Therefore, it’s correct that sufficient
time to review compromise suggestions are allowed.”  ‘Take Care’  Ireland, representing the EU governments, and negotiators
from the European Parliament reached a  preliminary deal  on the
draft emissions law on June 24. The proposal needs qualified-majority support from national governments. That failed to
materialize at a two-day meeting of EU leaders billed as a jobs
summit that ended today.  While the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
said earlier today that it was disappointed about the delay,
Merkel rebuffed any such criticism on economic grounds.  “At a time when we’re spending days sitting here talking
about employment, we have to take care that, notwithstanding the
need to make progress on environmental protection, we don’t
weaken our own industrial base,” Merkel said.  It now falls to  Lithuania , which takes over the bloc’s
rotating presidency from Ireland next week, to propose a new
date for a decision on the matter.  Ford’s Disappointment  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which has developed clean-running engines
like the 1.0-liter EcoBoost Motor, said it was “disappointed”
that a minority of member states was able “to delay a well-balanced agreement,” the company said in a e-mailed statement.
“We will now have to re-group within the industry to determine
the next steps.”  The deal made between Ireland and the Parliament includes
the continued use of so-called supercredits, or incentives, to
encourage car producers to develop clean technologies.  The supercredits need to be applied in a “more meaningful
way,” according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association. Greenpeace said in an e-mail that any further
weakening of the proposal would be “pure greed” and the cost
would be borne by European drivers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  