-- Tesco’s Former Chairman MacLaurin Hits Out Over Leahy Legacy
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-06-28T16:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/tesco-s-clarke-keeps-shareholders-guessing-over-u-s-withdrawal.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s former Chairman Ian MacLaurin publicly criticized the legacy left by Terry Leahy and
asked for his successor as chief executive officer to be given
more time to turn around the U.K.’s largest grocer.  “When you judge the performance of a chief executive, you
not only judge the performance of the day-to-day, but also his
legacy,” MacLaurin, 76, said from the floor of the retailer’s
annual general meeting in London today. “I think we’re all very
sad in this hall to see the legacy Terry Leahy left.”  MacLaurin retired as chairman of Tesco in June 1997, only
months after Leahy began a 14-year spell as CEO. Leahy stepped
down in 2011, leaving his successor Philip Clarke to contend
with a faltering domestic business and an unprofitable venture
in the U.S. Tesco said in April that it planned to exit the U.S.
after investing about 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) in
building up the West Coast chain to about 200 stores.  “It’s a very sad situation, the enormous write downs, the
situation in America,” MacLaurin said at the meeting.  The planned withdrawal from the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain is
“well under way,” Clarke said at today’s meeting. No update on
plans to offload the unit will be given today, he said.  Asked about what lessons management had learned from the
U.S., Tesco Chairman Richard Broadbent said: “It may be a good
idea to pilot ideas before rolling out on a large scale” and to
alter the original plan if it’s not working.  Biggest Issues  Tesco said April 17 it would leave the U.S. in a process
that would take at least three months. Billionaire Ron Burkle is
in talks to buy Fresh & Easy and would use the stores to
relaunch the Wild Oats brand, people familiar with the matter
said this month.  Tesco has now come to grips with its biggest issues, Clarke
said. The retailer is scaling back its domestic and
international expansion and concentrating on making its existing
stores more attractive after profit fell for the first time in
almost two decades last year. As its domestic market share
shrinks, same-store sales fell in eight of the retailer’s 10
international markets in the first quarter of this year.  Still, returning the home and international businesses
won’t happen “overnight” and could take as long as two or
three years, MacLaurin said, pleading with the board and
“institutions that are looking at investing in this company”
to be patient.  “I ask you sincerely to give Philip and the team a lot of
time, they’ll do it,” MacLaurin said “What they’re doing now
is very good.”  Resolutions Passed  According to current chairman Broadbent “there are clearly
opportunities to create value internationally,” as Tesco will
benefit from “higher growth rates” and changing shopping
habits in some of the markets Tesco is operating in.  Tesco will continue to open stores in the U.K., though new
stores will be much smaller than in the past, Clarke said today.  Shareholders passed all resolutions put to the meeting,
with 95 percent approval of the directors’ remuneration.
Investors applauded when the meeting heard that senior managers,
including Clarke, didn’t receive a bonus last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  