-- EU Leaders Set to Slow Support for Ailing Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-28T13:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/eu-leaders-set-to-slow-support-for-ailing-banks.html
European Union leaders said their
plan to forge a banking union remained on track even as they
muted promises to support ailing lenders when central euro-area
supervision starts next year.  At a summit in Brussels, the political leaders promised to
make “all appropriate arrangements, including the establishment
of national backstops” for the restructuring and
recapitalization of banks before the  European Central Bank 
conducts asset-quality reviews. That’s a step toward the ECB
taking oversight of lenders in the currency bloc in 2014.  They’d earlier considered a commitment to the stronger
“comprehensive plans and credible backstops,” according to a
draft statement dated June 24. The final statement also left out
language describing the ECB balance-sheet reviews and stress
tests as “particularly important to complete the process,”
while noting that the euro area’s firewall fund will eventually
have the “possibility” of helping banks directly.  “The banking union, which was decided a year ago, is ready
to be activated,” French President  Francois Hollande  told
reporters today after the two-day summit ended. “The
capabilities -- supervision, resolution, re-capitalization --
will be ready mid-2014 to protect  Europe  from future banking
crises.”  The summit began less than 24 hours after finance ministers
struck a deal on when and how to help troubled banks.  Germany 
led calls to limit recourse to government funds, securing
commitments that private investors should absorb losses before
governments or the European Stability Mechanism, the euro zone’s
rescue fund, are tapped.  Youth Unemployment  As the banking ambitions ebbed, the leaders played up a
decision made during the first day of talks to spend 8 billion
euros ($10.4 billion) on fighting youth unemployment and pledged
to enlist the  European Investment Bank , the EU’s project-finance
arm, in efforts to steer more loans to credit-starved small and
midsized companies, especially in southern Europe.  The summit marked the first anniversary of a commitment to
break the cycle of contagion between banks and sovereign
borrowers. The leaders said they’ll try this year to reach
agreement among nations on a single resolution mechanism for
banks under ECB supervision. They also want to conclude talks
with the European Parliament on legislation to standardize
national deposit-insurance schemes.  Speaking yesterday in Hachenburg, Germany, as leaders
debated their statement in Brussels, ECB Executive Board member
Yves Mersch warned political leaders against steps to weaken or
delay progress toward a banking union.  “The different elements of banking union are bound
symbiotically with each other,” Mersch said. “Forgetting or
watering down individual parts endangers the success of the
whole project.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  