-- EU Seeks Monitoring of Ship Emissions to Spur Global Curbs
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-28T16:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/eu-monitoring-of-ship-emissions-proposed-to-spur-global-curbs.html
European Union regulators proposed
monitoring  greenhouse gases  from ships starting in 2018 in a
plan to encourage global curbs on maritime pollution tied to
 climate change .  The draft law would oblige the owners of ships larger than
5,000 gross tons using EU ports to report annual discharges of
carbon dioxide, the main gas blamed for global warming. The
European measure is meant to be a “building block” for elusive
worldwide emission curbs.  The proposal by the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s
regulatory arm, takes place amid a decade-long deadlock in the
 International Maritime Organization  over agreeing a global
framework to reduce ship emissions. In addition to supporting
any United Nations system, the EU rules would encourage the
maritime industry to cut CO2 discharges by increasing
transparency, the commission said.  “We recognize that shipping must contribute efforts to
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, preferably through global
measures which are the most environmentally effective and make
economic sense,” EU Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said in
a statement today in Brussels. The draft legislation needs the
support of EU governments and the European Parliament in a
process that can take at least a year.  Global maritime transport accounts for 3 percent of
international CO2 discharges, and emissions from ships are
expected to more than double by 2050, according to the
commission. The proposed European system would cut pollution
from the journeys covered by as much as 2 percent compared with
a “business as usual” scenario and reduce net costs to ship
owners by as much as 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) a year in
2030, the commission said.  Clear Course  The IMO has already introduced mandatory efficiency
measures and established a group to evaluate proposals on
market-based mechanisms. The EU law would be adapted to any
global standards, the commission said.  “We are charting a clear course toward reducing maritime
greenhouse-gas emissions,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in the statement. “Robust monitoring, reporting
and verification of emissions is an essential precondition for
informed discussions in  Europe  and worldwide on reduction
targets for the sector.”  The reporting obligation would apply to ships on voyages
to, from and between EU ports, regardless of where the vessels
are registered. Owners would also be required to provide other
information such as data to determine the ships’ energy
efficiency, according to the commission.  The environmental lobbies Transport & Environment and Seas
at Risk called on European policy makers to craft a more robust
and effective monitoring system and propose a market-based
measure to cut emissions in the industry. The EU should also
tackle emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxide from ships, they
said.  “The Commission has completely missed the important
opportunity to kill two birds with one stone and include SOx and
NOx in this proposal,” Antoine Kedzierski of Transport &
Environment said in an e-mailed statement. “We therefore call
on the European Parliament to strengthen the proposal to ensure
that all harmful pollutants can be more effectively
controlled.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  