-- European Stocks Drop After U.S. Business Activity Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-28T16:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/european-stock-futures-little-changed-peugeot-may-move.html
European stocks  dropped, paring
their biggest weekly gain in almost two months, as technology
companies retreated and a measure of business activity in the
U.S. fell more than economists had projected.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline by
sales, retreated 2.8 percent. Mediaset SpA climbed 2.8 percent
after Credit Suisse Group AG raised its price target on the
Italian broadcaster. Serco Group Plc added 2.7 percent after
predicting that its revenue growth in the first half will exceed
its previous estimates.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.5 percent to 285.02 at the close
of trading, after earlier advancing as much as 0.4 percent. The
equity benchmark has increased 1.7 percent this week, halting a
five-week decline. The gauge has still dropped 5.3 percent in
June, paring its gain this year to 1.9 percent.  “Each and every U.S. economic report is an indication of
money policy and investors are still cautious,”  Robert Halver ,
head of capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt,
said in a telephone interview. “I have spoken to many asset
managers who have had a remarkable performance in the first five
months and now they are holding off.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in 14 of the 18
western-European markets today. France’s CAC 40 Index dropped
0.6 percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index slipped 0.4 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 declined 0.5 percent, while  Greece ’s ASE Index
jumped 2.5 percent.  U.S. Economy  A release from the MNI Chicago Report showed that business
activity in the U.S. declined this month. The business barometer
fell to 51.6 in June from 58.7 in May, missing the median
estimate in a  poll of economists . The gauge stayed above the 50
level that separates expansion from contraction.  A separate report showed that  consumer confidence  in the
world’s largest economy rose faster than expected. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan gauge of  consumer sentiment 
climbed to 84.1 from 82.7 in May, beating the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey for a reading of 83.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart ,
who has supported stimulus, said investors may have overreacted
to Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s announcement that the central bank
could start scaling back its  bond purchases  this year.  “In my view, the comments by the chairman do not
constitute an enormous shift in policy,” Lockhart said in
Marietta,  Georgia . “I still anticipate that the very low
interest-rate policy will remain in place for a considerable
time after the end of asset purchases, and thus policy will
remain highly accommodative.”  Industrial Production  A report today showed that  Japanese industrial output  rose
2 percent in May, the most since December 2011. Economists had
projected that  industrial production  would climb 0.2 percent
from the previous month, according to the  median estimate  in a
Bloomberg News survey.  In Europe, German retail  sales (GRFRIAMM)  rose in May more than
economists had forecast. Sales adjusted for inflation and
seasonal swings climbed 0.8 percent from April, when they fell a
revised 0.1 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said. Economists had predicted an increase of 0.4 percent,
according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Air France-KLM retreated 2.8 percent to 6.89 euros. La
Tribune reported that short- and medium-haul flights will weigh
heavily on the airline’s  second-quarter results , according to La
Tribune. The French newspaper did not identify its source.  Hannover Re  Hannover Re  lost 1.3 percent to 55.32 euros after Exane BNP
Paribas SA downgraded the world’s fourth-largest reinsurer to
neutral from outperform, meaning that investors should not buy
more of the shares. The brokerage cited deteriorating short-term
trading conditions.  SAP AG, the largest maker of business-management software,
declined 3 percent to 56.26 euros. European technology companies
posted the biggest decline of the 19 industry groups on the
Stoxx 600 after Accenture forecast fourth-quarter revenue that
missed the  average analyst estimate  of $7.36 billion. The
world’s second-biggest technology-consulting company projected
sales of $6.7 billion to $7 billion.  Mediaset (MS)  climbed 2.8 percent to 2.90 euros after Credit
Suisse raised its price target on the broadcaster to 4.40 euros
from 2.65 euros. The brokerage cited growing evidence that the
television-advertising markets in Italy and Spain have bottomed.  Serco jumped 2.7 percent to 616.5 pence after the U.K.
services company said its investment in bidding for contracts
and new market development activity has increased.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  gained 1.3 percent to 2,183 pence after Exane
raised its recommendation on Europe’s biggest independent money
manager to outperform, which is similar to a buy rating, from
neutral. The brokerage said that the  fund manager  will benefit
from its brand and its distribution network among retail and
institutional clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  