-- Mexico’s Peso Set for Worst Quarter Since ’11 on Fed Speculation
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-28T15:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/mexico-s-peso-set-for-worst-quarter-since-11-on-fed-speculation.html
Mexico’s peso headed for its worst
quarterly decline since 2011 as speculation increased that the
 Federal Reserve  will curtail stimulus that fueled gains in
higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 13.0485 per  U.S. dollar  at
9:55 a.m. in Mexico City, bringing the quarterly slump to 5.5
percent, the most since the three months ended September 2011.
Yields on benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.91 percent today,
trimming the quarterly increase to 0.90 percentage point.  Growing speculation that U.S. policy makers may start
tapering the stimulus program known as quantitative easing has
sapped demand for emerging-market securities, including the
peso, which topped the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
in the first quarter with a 4.2 percent rally. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that policy makers may start
tapering the bond buying program later this year if the world’s
largest economy keeps improving.  “The main factor of influence has been the change in
expectations for Fed monetary policy,” Juan Carlos Alderete, a
strategist at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. The peso “was a crowded consensus
trade, and we’ve seen said positioning strongly reduced since
mid-April.”  William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , said yesterday any decision to reduce the pace of
asset purchases wouldn’t represent a withdrawal of stimulus, and
that an increase in the Fed’s benchmark interest rate is “very
likely to be a long way off.”  Mexico  sends 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  