-- Lacker Says Markets to Stay Volatile as Fed Debates Tapering
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-06-28T17:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/fed-s-lacker-says-he-doubts-more-monetary-stimulus-effective.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker, who dissented against additional
stimulus at every Fed meeting last year, predicted financial
markets will remain volatile as policy makers debate how and
when to curtail the central bank’s asset purchases.  “As market participants gain additional insight from the
words of Federal Reserve officials or by policy actions in
coming quarters, further asset price volatility seems likely,”
Lacker, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, said in a speech
today in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia. “This type of
volatility is a normal part of the process of incorporating new
information into financial asset prices.”  Global stocks and bonds retreated after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on June 19 outlined the conditions that would prompt
the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee to reduce and
eventually end $85 billion in monthly asset purchases. The
benchmark 10-year Treasury fell, pushing the yield to a 22-month
high of  2.66 percent  this week.  The reaction by investors since Bernanke’s comments is
“evidence that they had built in expectations of more asset
purchases than I think the committee taken as a whole was
anticipating,” Lacker told reporters after his speech. Recent
asset price declines “should not be too surprising,” he said
in the speech. Other Fed officials said markets overreacted.  Bond Yields  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note increased 0.04
percentage point to  2.51 percent  at 12:30 p.m. in New York,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,610.04. The S&P 500 has risen 1.1 percent  this week , paring
its first monthly drop since October. It is up 2.8 percent in
the second quarter, bringing the 2013 rally to 13 percent.  Volatility in the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market
as measured by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index
has jumped 36 percent in 2013 and touched the highest in a year
on June 24. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
a gauge of expected  S&P 500 swings  derived from contracts to
protect stocks against losses, soared to a 2013 high of  20.49 (VIX) 
last week, almost double its  six-year low  of 11.30 in March.  “We’re entering a period now where risks are going to be
more two-sided about policy, and I think that’s naturally going
to be a period where fixed-income markets are going to be more
volatile,” Lacker told reporters. “When tightening becomes
closer in time, you’re going to get more fixed-income
volatility.”  September Meeting  The FOMC’s September meeting, the next to be accompanied by
a press conference by Bernanke, is “certainly a candidate” for
when the Fed “could first reduce the pace” of its asset
purchases, Lacker told reporters. He repeated that any decision
“is going to depend on the data” about the economy.  Fed Governor Jeremy Stein, who has backed record stimulus,
said in New York today that officials should “be clear that in
making a decision in, say, September, it will give primary
weight to the large stock of news that has accumulated since the
inception of the program,” last September, rather than looking
only at the most recent figures.  Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart yesterday used a
smoking metaphor to suggest investors had misinterpreted the
Chairman’s remarks. “It seems to me the chairman said we’ll use
the patch, and use it flexibly, and some in the markets reacted
as if he said ‘cold turkey,’ ” Lockhart said in a speech to the
Kiwanis Club of Marietta in  Georgia .  “Market adjustments since May have been larger than would
be justified by any reasonable reassessment of the path of
policy,” Fed Governor Jerome Powell said yesterday in a  speech 
at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington.  Purchases Unwarranted  Lacker said today more bond purchases are unwarranted
because the four-year economic expansion is being limited by
structural elements beyond the Fed’s control, and continued
growth in the  balance sheet  increases the risks accompanying the
eventual withdrawal of the stimulus. The Fed said this week its
holdings have climbed to a record  $3.48 trillion .  “The benefit-cost trade-off for further monetary stimulus
does not look promising,” Lacker said at a judicial conference
held by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. “I
seriously doubt additional monetary stimulus can provide much
impetus to real growth right now.”  Bernanke told reporters last week the FOMC may taper the
monthly bond buying later this year and halt purchases around
mid-2014 as long as the economy performs in line with Fed
 projections . Officials estimate the jobless rate, 7.6 percent in
May, will fall to 7.2 percent to 7.3 percent by year-end.  ‘Punch Bowl’  “Over the course of the next 12 months, the committee will
be reducing only the pace at which it is adding accommodation,”
Lacker said. “The Federal Reserve is not only leaving the punch
bowl in place, we’re continuing to spike the punch, though at a
decreasing rate over the next year.”  While low economic growth rates “are likely to persist for
several years,” one of the biggest bright spots in the outlook
has been in the housing market, Lacker said.  Housing “is finally on a solid growth path,” the Fed
district bank chief said. The improvement “has bolstered the
confidence of many households in the market value of their most
important asset.”  Lacker, 57, doesn’t vote again until 2015. He became
president of the Richmond Fed in 2004 after five years as
director of the regional bank’s research department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  