-- First Copy of J&J’s $6 Billion Remicade Wins EMA Backing
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2013-07-01T15:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/first-copy-of-j-j-s-6-billion-remicade-wins-ema-backing.html
(Corrects 11th paragraph to clarify that Hospira’s
biosimilar is called Inflectra in story published June 28.)  Celltrion Inc. (068270)  and  Hospira Inc. (HSP)  won
European backing to sell the first copies of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Remicade, a $6 billion arthritis therapy, as regulators open the
door to cheaper versions of the world’s best-selling medicines.  The European Commission should give the two companies
approval to market their versions, called Remsima and Inflectra,
for the same medical conditions for which Remicade is marketed,
the  European Medicines Agency  said in a statement today.  Remsima and Inflectra are the first biosimilar versions of
a monoclonal antibody, a biotechnology medicine produced using
the body’s own cells, to be recommended in a major market,
according to Bloomberg Industries. Remicade is  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based J&J’s top-selling product. The decision clears
the way for biosimilar versions of other monoclonal antibodies,
which account for some of the world’s best-selling medicines.  “This is a landmark occasion, not just for Celltrion, but
also for others developing biosimilar monoclonal antibodies,”
said Asthika Goonewardene, an analyst for Bloomberg Industries
in  London .  Shares of Incheon, South Korea-based Celltrion rose 6.8
percent to close at 41,800 won in  Seoul  before the EMA
announcement. Hospira rose 3.5 percent to $37.42 as of 9:53 a.m.
in New York.  Remsima and Inflectra are recommended as treatments for
rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis, ankylosing
spondylitis, Crohn’s disease, psoriasis, and psoriatic
arthritis, the EMA said.  Lower Price  “The price of Remsima will be more than 30 percent cheaper
than those of the original drugs,” Kim Hyoung Ki, senior vice
president and chief financial officer at Celltrion, told
reporters in Seoul today. “We’re confident in Remsima as it has
price competitiveness, while it has the same effect as the
original drugs.”  Even with regulatory approval, doctors may resist using the
untested biosimilars, Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a note to investors today.  “The task is now at hand to convince skeptical physicians
to change their mind,” Gal said, citing conversations with
gastroenterologists.  Secondary Patents  J&J has extended Remicade’s patent protection to February
2015 in the majority of European Union countries, meaning that
Celltrion and  Lake Forest , Illinois-based Hospira will introduce
Remsima in a limited number of markets in 2014,  Mark Purcell , an
analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a note to investors yesterday.
Remicade has U.S. patent protection until September 2018,
according to J&J.  Remicade is also protected by secondary patents, and J&J
and partner  Merck & Co. (MRK)  may initiate a patent infringement case
against Hospira and Celltrion should they introduce Inflectra
and Remsima in Europe, Purcell said. Under an optimistic
scenario, the biosimilar could generate $560 million in Europe
sales, he said.  Other biologics manufacturers have taken steps to block
approval of biosimilars.  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  asked the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  last year to reject any biosimilar of its
rheumatoid arthritis drug Humira because approving a copy would
require the FDA to disclose Humira-related  trade secrets . The
drug had $9.27 billion in sales last year, making it the world’s
best-selling medicine.  Celltrion is also developing a biosimilar version of Roche
Holding AG’s best-selling Rituxan drug for rheumatoid arthritis.
Other companies working on Rituxan copies are Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH and Novartis AG.  The EMA’s recommendations are the final stage before the
European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm,
approves or rejects a drug for sale to patients in the 27-nation
region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  