-- Foreign Funds Sell Most Indian Equities in Two Years in June
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-28T13:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/foreign-funds-sell-most-indian-equities-in-two-years-in-june.html
Foreign investors withdrew the most
money from Indian stocks in June in about two years on concern
the nation’s public finances will worsen when the U.S. Federal
Reserve starts tapering its monetary stimulus.  Overseas funds sold a net $1.76 billion of domestic stocks
this month through June 27, the  highest  since the $2.1 billion
withdrawn in August 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They
cut debt  holdings  by $5.4 billion after adding to them for the
previous six months, the data show.  The selloff pushed  India ’s rupee to a record low on June
26, stoking concern the drop will fan import costs in a country
with the second-highest consumer inflation in the Group of 20
nations and deter overseas investment in an economy that  grew  a
decade-low 5 percent in the year ended March. Global equities
have lost more than almost $3 trillion this month after the Fed
said its monthly bond-buying program, which has fueled demand
for emerging-market assets, may end next year.  “What has rattled foreign investors most is the rupee,
plus the lack of policy action in proactively handling it,”
U.R. Bhat, managing director of Dalton Capital Advisors India
Pvt., a unit of U.K.-based Dalton Strategic Partnership LLP that
has about $2 billion in assets globally, said by phone from
Mumbai today. “The talks of quantitative easing tapering by the
Fed added fuel to the fire.”  The rupee surged 1.4 percent today to 59.39 per dollar at
the close, the steepest since Sept. 21, as investors reassessed
expectations for a reduction in U.S. stimulus. Confidence was
also boosted as India’s Cabinet agreed to increase natural-gas
prices, part of policy overhaul since mid-September to revive
economic growth. That cut the rupee’s drop this quarter to 8.6
percent, still the largest since June 2012. The currency has
weakened 4.6 percent this month.  Biggest Risk  The imbalance in India’s current account, the broadest
gauge of trade, is the biggest risk to an economy, according to
the central bank. The  International Monetary Fund  estimates the
gap at 4.9 percent of GDP this year, compared with 3.3 percent
in Indonesia and a surplus of 2.6 percent in  China . The  Reserve
Bank  of India left  interest rates  unchanged this month, ending
three straight reductions, and said inflation, economic growth
and the balance of payments will guide policy.  The outflows halted 12 months of buying spree by foreign
investors pared this year’s inflows into Indian stocks to $13.3
billion, still the highest in  Asia  after  Japan , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors pulled $2.1 billion from
Indonesian stocks this month, $4.5 billion from  South Korea  and
$1.8 billion from  Thailand , the data show. The S&P BSE Sensex,
India’s benchmark stock measure, soared 2.8 percent today, the
most in 18 months.  “I don’t believe we are going to see $10 billion to $15
billion coming out of Indian stocks,”  Jeff Chowdhry , head of
emerging-market equities at U.K.-based  F&C Asset Management
Plc. (FCAM) , which oversees about $150 billion, told Bloomberg TV India
on June 26. “I don’t see a 20 percent correction in the Indian
market from here. The fundamentals of the Indian economy aren’t
any worse than they were six months ago.”  Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in just
two of the past 13 years, the data going back to 2000 show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  