-- Former NBA Player Popeye Jones’s Son Is Top NHL Draft Prospect
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/former-nba-player-popeye-jones-s-son-is-top-nhl-draft-prospect.html
Seth Jones fell in love with hockey
watching Joe Sakic and Patrick Roy win a  Stanley Cup  in Colorado
when he was 6 years old. Twelve years later, Jones is the
possible No. 1 pick of the Avalanche and Sakic in this weekend’s
 National Hockey League  draft.  The son of former National Basketball Association player
Popeye Jones is the  top-ranked prospect  among North American
skaters, according to NHL Central Scouting. At 6-foot-4 and 205
pounds, he had 14 goals and 42 assists in 61 games for the
Portland Winterhawks during the 2012-13 season to lead Western
Hockey League defensemen in points.  The Avalanche hold the top pick in tomorrow’s draft and
their choice probably will come down to a defense-versus-offense
decision between Jones or center Nathan MacKinnon, who was the
No. 2-rated North American draft-eligible player after totaling
32 goals and 43 assists in 75 games for the Halifax Mooseheads.
Sakic, the 43-year-old former Avalanche captain and now the
team’s vice president of hockey operations, will announce the
No. 1 pick at the Prudential Center in Newark,  New Jersey .  “We’ll be selecting the prospect that is the best player
available,” Rick Pracey, Colorado’s director of amateur
scouting, said on a conference call this week. “We see an
opportunity here to potentially add a core player. This is a
building block, we’re hoping for 10- or 15-year type of
investment and a type of player that we believe is NHL ready.”  If Jones is the top choice, he’d be the first American to
go No. 1 since  Patrick Kane  in 2007.  ‘Individual Goals’  “Everyone wants to be the best in the world, that’s why
you play the game,” said Jones, who could also be the first
black player selected with the first pick in the NHL draft.
“You have your individual goals and you get put on a team and
you have your team goals as well.”  Jones said he knew he wanted to become a professional
hockey player when he sat at center ice for the decisive Game 7
of the Stanley Cup Final in 2001 and the Avalanche beat the  New
Jersey Devils  for their second title in five years.  Popeye Jones was playing then for the NBA’s Denver Nuggets,
who shared their arena with the city’s NHL team that included
Sakic and Roy, the goaltender who won the Conn Smythe Trophy as
the postseason’s Most Valuable Player. Sakic now runs the
Avalanche’s front office, while Roy is the coach and vice
president of hockey operations.  The Avalanche had the NHL’s second-worst record last season
at 16-27-5 and have the first pick in the draft for the first
time since moving from  Quebec City  in 1995.  Athletic Pedigree  “Seth has a very good understanding of the game and his
position,” said Dan Marr, the NHL’s director of central
scouting. “He inherited an athletic pedigree from his father.
He’s been a winner at every level that he’s played. He’s one of
those few players that scouts can say, ‘You know, we think this
guy’s got potential to be a real game-changer.’”  While affirming the Avalanche have a “high amount of
interest” in Jones, Pracey said the organization may be leaning
toward taking a forward. The last defensemen taken with the top
pick in the draft were Erik Johnson by the  St. Louis Blues  in
2006 and  Chris Phillips  by the  Ottawa Senators  in 1996.  “In terms of point production in the league, four of the
top five were first overall picks,” Pracey said. “If we look
at the last five years in the top 20 scoring, around 48 to 50
percent of players were top five picks in the draft. That is
something in particular that helps the forwards’ cause.”  Top Picks  The  Florida Panthers  have the second pick in the  seven-round draft , followed by the  Tampa Bay Lightning , Nashville
Predators,  Carolina Hurricanes , Calgary Flames, Edmonton Oilers,
 Buffalo Sabres  and New Jersey Devils. The  New York Islanders 
have the 15th pick, while the  New York Rangers  don’t have a
selection in the first two rounds.  The draft’s No. 3-rated prospect is left wing Jonathan
Drouin, who played alongside MacKinnon in Halifax and had 41
goals and 64 assists while helping lead the Mooseheads to the
2013 Memorial Cup. Defenseman Darnell Nurse of the Sault Ste.
Marie Greyhounds and center Sean Monahan of the Ottawa 67’s are
other top prospects, according to NHL Central Scouting.  “These are players you can build your team around, so what
kind of player do you want to build with?” Marr said. “Do you
want to build from the back-end out, or do you want to build up
the middle? There’s no steadfast answer, so the projection is
what the player will mean to the team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  