-- Gap Wins Alexsam Patent Trial Over Prepaid Gift Cards
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-06-28T19:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/gap-wins-alexsam-patent-trial-over-prepaid-gift-cards.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  didn’t infringe a  Texas 
company’s patents for prepaid gift cards, a U.S. jury said today
in the second case this month in which a retailer fended off
royalty demands from the licensing company.  The jury in Marshall, Texas, rebuffed Alexsam Inc.’s
request for $34.5 million in damages. San Francisco-based Gap,
the largest U.S. specialty apparel retailer, claimed it didn’t
use the technology and the jury agreed.  Closely held Alexsam owns patents that cover systems to
activate and recharge stored-value cards, and has claimed it’s
entitled to royalties on every gift card sold. The retailers
joined together to try to invalidate the patents. A jury sided
with Alexsam in May, setting the stage for a series of trials on
the different non-infringement arguments.  Best Buy Co. settled before trial.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  won
a non-infringement ruling from a different Marshall jury on June
7 in which Alexsam sought more than $72 million. Trials against
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , JC Penney Co. and Toys “R” Us Inc. are
scheduled for October, said Alan Fisch of Fisch Hoffman Sigler
in  Washington , who represented Gap and Barnes & Noble at their
trials.  Though it’s reached a number of settlements, Alexsam has
had less luck in courts.  It won a $9 million verdict against  IDT Corp. (IDT)  that
 overturned  by an appeals court in May. In 2011,  Pier 1 Imports
Inc. (PIR)  won a case in which Alexsam was seeking $26.1 million in
damages. Alexsam’s appeal in that case is pending.  The case is Alexsam Inc. v. The Gap Inc., 12-4, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 