-- Garnett in Brooklyn Scores Win for YES Network With Advertisers
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-06-29T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/garnett-in-brooklyn-scores-win-for-yes-network-with-advertisers.html
No one should be happier about the
Brooklyn Nets’ pending acquisition of  Kevin Garnett  and  Paul Pierce  than the sales force at the YES Network, where ratings
for the basketball team’s telecasts more than doubled last
season from the year before.  The addition of Garnett, a former National Basketball
Association Most Valuable Player, and Pierce, a 10-time All-Star, is expected to drive interest among sports fans in the
nation’s No. 1 media market, enabling the Yankees Entertainment
& Sports Network to raise ad rates, said Lee Berke, president of
Scarsdale, New York-based LHB Sports, Entertainment & Media.  Garnett and Pierce led the Boston Celtics to the 2007-08
NBA championship. In a deal that can’t be formally completed
until July 10 under league rules, they are headed for  Brooklyn 
as part of a trade that will send five players and three first-round draft picks to Boston, ESPN reported, citing unidentified
people.  “It’s like adding movie stars to a great TV show -- you
get more people to tune in,” Berke, who has worked with the
Nets, said in a telephone interview. “You sell based off of
expectations, and you’ve got a lot of expectations for this team
next year. That will improve their ability to sell
advertising.”  YES spokesman Eric Handler declined to comment immediately.  Ratings Up  The Nets posted a 0.92 household rating over 73 games on
YES last season, the team’s first in Brooklyn since relocating
from New Jersey, up 130 percent from the year before. The New
York Knicks posted a 3.07 rating over 67 games on the MSG
Network, which, like the team, is a unit of MSG Co. Excluded are
three games that weren’t rated because of Hurricane Sandy.  News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company led by  Rupert Murdoch , agreed
last year to buy 49 percent of the YES Network in a deal that
valued the regional sports channel at about $3 billion. News
Corp. acquired the stake from the New York Yankees, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and other investors. Murdoch can raise the
stake to 80 percent after three years.  Brooklyn’s odds for winning the 2014 NBA championship
dropped to 10-1 yesterday from 40-1 on June 21, according to the
online sportsbook Bovada.lv. The Knicks are 22-1.  Garnett, 37, and Pierce, 35, bring veteran leadership and
championship know-how to a team that announced  Jason Kidd  as
coach this month. Kidd, 40, second in both assists and steals in
NBA history, retired after spending last season with the Knicks
and has no coaching experience.  NBA teams can’t complete trades until July 10, when the
league’s moratorium on player signings and swaps is lifted.  Playoff Results  The Nets were eliminated in seven games by the Chicago
Bulls in the opening round of the playoffs. The Knicks beat the
Celtics in five games in the opening round, then were eliminated
by the Indiana Pacers.  The Nets will also get veteran  Jason Terry  in the trade,
which, according to ESPN, will result in the 2014, 2016 and 2018
first-round draft picks going to Boston along with  Kris Humphries ,  Gerald Wallace , Kris Joseph, MarShon Brooks and Keith Bogans.  Garnett and Pierce would join a Brooklyn team that has
guards  Deron Williams  and  Joe Johnson  and center Brook Lopez.  “Nets ratings had a dramatic uptick this past year and I
would expect that the addition of Garnett and Pierce would
continue that momentum,” Chris Bevilacqua, an industry
consultant, said in an e-mail. “However, like all things in
NYC, continued ratings success will ultimately come down to
winning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  