-- Gazprom Eases Stance on LNG Monopoly as Putin Urges Competition
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-06-28T12:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/gazprom-eases-stance-on-lng-monopoly-as-putin-urges-competition.html
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural gas
export monopoly, conceded some arguments for allowing
competition in shipping liquefied natural gas abroad after
President Vladimir Putin called for easing.  “Arguments can be found, concerning LNG and the monopoly,
on the possibility of preparing a program with Gazprom’s
participation,” Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Medvedev told reporters today in Moscow.  Putin has told the government to gradually open LNG exports
as Russia targets a larger share of growing Asian LNG markets.
He presided over China National Petroleum Corp.’s agreement to
enter the Yamal LNG project, led by Russia’s second largest gas
producer Novatek, and buy the fuel, at an investment forum in
St. Petersburg on June 21.  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, is coming under
increasing pressure as Novatek and state-run OAO Rosneft, the
world’s biggest publicly traded oil producer by volume, plan to
ramp up natural gas output and develop LNG production.  It may be the first time Gazprom has publicly acknowledged
the idea, Alexander Kornilov, an oil and gas analyst at Alfa
Bank, said by e-mail today. Gazprom “didn’t support this idea”
previously, he said.  Gazprom opposes any liberalization in pipeline exports as a
risk to Russia and the company itself, Medvedev said. The
company, which owns the national pipeline network, forecast its
European exports will rise to 160 billion cubic meters in 2013
after a 10 percent increase in the first half from the same
period last year, CEO Alexey Miller  Gazprom controls Russia’s only LNG plant on Sakhalin
Island, north of  Japan . Rosneft is looking at building a
facility in that region, while Novatek’s project is in the
northern Yamal region.  Gazprom shares fell 0.4 percent to 107.36 rubles by 3:31
p.m. in Moscow, after dropping as low as 106.60 rubles, the
weakest on a closing basis since January 2009. Novatek gained
0.9 percent to 348 rubles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  