-- Italian Bonds Gain for First Week in Two Months on Stimulus View
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-28T16:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/german-10-year-bonds-advance-for-fourth-day-as-retail-sales-rise.html
Italian and Spanish government bonds
posted their first weekly gains in almost two months as
speculation U.S. and European central banks will keep pursuing
monetary stimulus boosted the appeal of fixed-income assets.  Italy’s 10-year securities gained for a third day and
Spain’s for a fourth after the Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported ECB
President  Mario Draghi  has asked his team to study ways out of
the debt crisis, without saying how it obtained the information.
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said the Fed didn’t signal
a policy change by saying it plans to wind down $85 billion in
monthly bond buying as unemployment falls. German bunds were
little changed this week.  “There is a steady stream of central-bank commentary
trying to reassure markets that there will be no liquidity
withdrawal anytime soon,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “That’s
what markets are listening to right now.”  Italy’s 10-year  yield  dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, this week to 4.54 percent at the 5 p.m. close
of trading in  London . The 4.5 percent bond due May 2023 gained
0.565, or 5.65 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,305) face amount, to
100.025. The yield declined two basis points today.  Spain’s 10-year yield fell 15 basis points in the week to
4.77 percent. The rate slipped one basis point today.  ECB Study  Draghi asked his team to do a 360-degree study of ways out
of the debt crisis, including debating the idea of additional
quantitative-easing type bond purchases covering all 17 euro-area states,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported.  “I can’t rule out that inside a large organization, someone
is thinking about something, but that’s not policy-relevant,”
ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen wrote in an e-mail to
 Bloomberg News .  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said yesterday any decision to reduce the pace of asset
purchases wouldn’t represent a withdrawal of stimulus and an
increase in the Fed’s benchmark interest rate is “very likely to
be a long way off.”  German 10-year yields were little changed this week at 1.73
percent. The rate climbed to 1.85 percent on June 24, the
 highest  since April 2012, amid a global selloff in fixed-income
securities after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19
the U.S. central bank may reduce asset purchases this year.  German Inflation  German bunds fell earlier today after a government report
showed the annual  inflation rate  accelerated to 1.9 percent in
June from 1.6 percent in May. Economists forecast a rate of 1.8
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Quicker inflation
reduces the purchasing power of the fixed income from bonds.  Germany’s 10-year  break-even  rate, a measure of inflation
expectations, rose three basis points to 1.57 percentage points
after dropping to 1.43 percentage points on June 24, the lowest
since June 2012.  Government securities  around the world are poised for their
worst quarter since the three months ended December 2010,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Belgian
securities declined 2.1 percent, the worst performer among
European peers, the data showed.  Italian securities handed investors a return of 1.7 percent
this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Spanish bonds gained 5.2 percent, while German
securities lost 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  