-- German Inflation Accelerated for a Second Month in June
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-28T12:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/german-inflation-accelerated-for-a-second-month-in-june.html
German  inflation (ECCPEST)  accelerated more
than forecast in June, climbing for a second month after falling
to the lowest level since 2010 in April.  The  consumer price index  in  Europe ’s largest economy,
calculated using a harmonized European Union method, rose 1.9
percent from a year ago, compared with 1.6 percent in May.
Economists forecast an inflation rate of 1.8 percent, according
to the median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Prices
climbed 0.1 percent on the month.  “Overall price developments in  Germany  are moderate,”
said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  in
Bonn. “With the second rise in a row the downward trend in the
inflation rate has finally come to an end, and it should in the
coming months stabilize under 2 percent.”  The Bundesbank forecasts German inflation will average 1.6
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014.  Inflation in the euro area accelerated to 1.4 percent in
May from 1.2 percent the previous month, the EU’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said June 14. Data for June will be
published on July 2. The  European Central Bank  this month cut
its 2013 inflation forecast for the region to 1.4 percent from
1.6 percent and left the 2014 estimate unchanged at 1.3 percent.  Growth Projection  The ECB on June 6 kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent as the 17-member
currency bloc tries to emerge from six quarters of contraction,
its longest-ever recession. The Bundesbank on June 7 reduced its
2013 growth projection for Germany to 0.3 percent from the 0.4
percent predicted in December, citing a worse-than-expected
first quarter and warning that the still-unsolved sovereign debt
crisis poses risks to the recovery.  ECB policy makers including President  Mario Draghi  said
this week that an end to the accommodative monetary stance is
distant and that the Frankfurt-based central bank stands ready
to act if economic conditions worsen.  “A slight increase in the inflation rate is no reason for
concern at the moment,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover. “It is still under 2 percent and we are
convinced it will stay there for the months to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  