-- Glaxo’s Melanoma Drug Tafinlar Recommended by EU Agency
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-28T11:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/glaxo-s-melanoma-drug-tafinlar-recommended-by-eu-agency.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tafinlar
treatment for melanoma was recommended for approval by the
European Union’s drug regulator.  The medicine, also known as dabrafenib, may be used for
metastatic or unresectable melanoma with a BRAF V600 gene
mutation, the European Medicines Agency said in a  statement 
today.  The product works by blocking BRAF, a mutant gene that
spurs cancer-cell growth in about half of melanoma patients. The
drug, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on May
29, will compete with Roche Holding AG’s Zelboraf and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Yervoy.  Tafinlar may generate $183 million in sales by 2016,
according to the average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The drug is among six new medicines London-based
Glaxo has been counting on to gain regulatory approval this year
to revive growth.  Glaxo has filed with regulators for approval of the lung
drugs Anoro and Relvar, dolutegravir for HIV and albiglutide for
Type 2 diabetes. The FDA approved trametinib, also for skin
cancer, on May 29. Glaxo submitted that drug to the EMA in
February.  Separately, the European agency recommended Glaxo’s
lapatinib for use in combination with Roche’s Herceptin for
patients with metastatic breast cancer who don’t respond to
Herceptin alone.  Lapatinib, known as Tyverb in Europe and Tykerb in the
U.S., was recommended by the EMA as a single therapy in 2007.  The agency’s recommendations are the final stage before the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, approves or rejects
a drug for sale to patients in the 27-nation region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  