-- GM’s New Chevy Head to Spend Time Developing Models
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-06-28T16:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/gm-s-new-chevy-head-to-spend-time-developing-models.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s new worldwide
 Chevrolet  brand chief, Alan Batey, said he will spend more time
on product development to help establish the brand globally.  “There will be changes in the way we look at product and
the way we look at our global programs,” Batey said today in a
telephone interview.  Batey was named senior vice president of global Chevrolet
on June 25, a new position. The move is part of Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson’s strategy to build Chevrolet and Cadillac
into GM’s worldwide volume and luxury brands as the company
competes against Toyota Motor Corp. and Volkswagen AG.  In the previous 11 months, Batey had been interim global
chief marketing officer in addition to being GM’s U.S. sales
chief, a job he’s essentially keeping. In his marketing role, he
oversaw the creation of a new global advertising tagline, Find
New Roads, and worked to implement a consolidation of
advertising and media buying.  The automaker is trying to increase Chevrolet appeal to
international markets.  Sixty-three percent of Chevy sales were outside of the U.S.
last year up from 27 percent a decade earlier, Batey has said.
The brand’s top five markets now include China and  Russia 
replacing Canada and Venezuela from a decade ago, according to
GM. Yet with all of the growth, Chevy isn’t among  Interbrand’s 
top 100 global brands while competitors, including  Toyota (7203)  and
 VW (VOW) , are.  “We’ve grown so fast over the last decade that the brand
is very, very young in a lot of these markets,” Batey said.
“It has an awareness opportunity.”  GM rose 0.4 percent to $33.24 at 12:22 p.m.  New York  Time.
The shares climbed 15 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 13 percent rise for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  