-- Gold’s Slump Fails to Excite Indian Shoppers After April Frenzy
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-06-28T08:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/gold-s-slump-fails-to-excite-indian-shoppers-after-april-frenzy.html
The plunge in gold to an almost
three-year low has failed to lure shoppers in  India , the world’s
largest consumer, as state curbs and a decline in the rupee to a
record bolster the costs of imported metal.  Inbound shipments may tumble 52 percent to 150 metric tons
in the three months starting July 1 from a quarter earlier as
buyers keep away from stores, Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at
the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, said in an
interview yesterday. Prices in India have fallen 14 percent this
quarter, less than the 25 percent drop in  London  after the rupee
lost 8.9 percent against the dollar to an all-time low.  “I will wait for prices to fall further and stabilize
before buying anything,” Niranjan Sahoo, 41, an engineer by
profession, said by phone from Angul in the eastern state of
Odisha. “Prices will fall further between July and August and
if they fall to 20,000 rupees per 10 grams I plan to buy 50
grams and keep it for my daughter’s marriage.”  While a 14 percent slump in prices in two days in April led
to a buying frenzy from  China  to India and the U.S., shoppers
are now waiting for bullion to extend the decline from near the
lowest level since August 2010. That may accelerate the biggest
quarterly slide since at least 1920 after investors cut bullion
holdings to a three-year low.  India Disappointment  “The most obvious disappointment is India, as buyers there
struggle to cope with both a weaker currency and recent
government measures,” UBS AG analysts Edel Tully and Joni Teves
wrote in report yesterday. “In addition to muted appetite on
the back of the latest developments, the lack of clarity on what
the new restrictions on the Indian gold market mean exactly for
all those involved is also a contributing factor to the
weakness.”  Futures tumbled to as low as 24,970 rupees ($419) per 10
grams on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX)  today, the
cheapest since August 2011. The contract for delivery in August
fell 1 percent to 25,112 rupees at 1:48 p.m. in Mumbai.
Immediate delivery gold in London was 0.3 percent higher at
$1,204.15 an ounce, 28 percent down this year.  Gold is heading for its worst year since 1981 after some
investors lost faith in it as a store of value amid speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve will curb debt-buying. Demand in India
has fallen after the government increased taxes on imports twice
this year to try and rein in a record current-account deficit.
The central bank has curbed overseas purchases on a consignment
basis and limited imports for local consumption against cash
only, prompting retailers to halt sales of coins and bars.  Suspending Sales  “Sales have fallen after we requested our jewelers to stop
selling coins and bars,” said Haresh Soni, chairman of the
federation. “There would be about 15 percent fall in gold
consumption this year.”  Shares of  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG) ,  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN) ,
 Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Ltd. (TBZL)  and Shree Ganesh Jewellery House
Ltd. are headed for quarterly declines as retail demand weakens
and costs of importing gold increases. Gitanjali will change its
product mix to focus less on gold jewelry because of the state
curbs, Chairman Mehul Choksi said June 25.  Gitimaya Rath, a lawyer in Talcher in Odisha, who bought
jewelry worth 100,000 rupees in April, said he would wait for
prices to fall further before making fresh purchases. “I should
have waited as prices are still falling. I bought in April as my
wife asked me to buy and keep it to gift my son’s bride.”  More Measures  India could take more measures to curb imports, Economic
Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said June 18. Purchases were
117 tons in April after bullion entered a bear market, according
to the federation. Imports were estimated at 162 tons in May,
according to the Finance Ministry.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, is the biggest risk to the $1.9 trillion economy,
according to the central bank. The gap was $18.1 billion in
January through March, compared with a revised $31.9 billion in
the previous quarter, the  Reserve Bank of India  said yesterday.
The deficit last quarter was 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product, from an unprecedented 6.7 percent of the gross domestic
product in October to December.  “Given gold buying over the past couple of months largely
reflected frontloaded festival demand to take advantage of
falling global gold prices, imports of gold are likely to have
staged a retreat in June,” Mole Hau, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA, wrote in a research note yesterday.  Bridal Trousseau  Gold is bought during festivals and marriages as part of
the bridal trousseau or gifted in the form of jewelry by
relatives. The festival season in India runs from August to
October followed by the wedding season from November to December
and from late March through early May.  “The fall in rupee against the dollar has negated the
decline in international prices of gold, making imports less
attractive,” federation’s Bamalwa said.  The rupee is down 7.7 percent against the dollar in 2013,
the most after the yen in a basket of 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It slumped to an all-time low of 60.765
per dollar on June 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  