-- Goodwin Procter to Close San Diego Office, Fire Staff
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-28T13:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/goodwin-procter-to-close-san-diego-office-fire-staff.html
Goodwin Procter LLP is closing its
San Diego office at the end of the law firm’s fiscal year,
leaving about two-thirds of the 34 lawyers and staff without a
job on Sept. 30.  Four partners, six other lawyers and 12 staff members will
be let go, Lee Feldman, a firm spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The remainder will be offered opportunities to relocate or
pursue other work arrangements. The office has six partners, 12
associates and 16 staff members, according to a memo by Chairman
Regina M. Pisa and managing partner Robert S. Insolia.  “When we opened the office in March 2007, we envisioned
that the San Diego office would be a significant source of
corporate transactional work, particularly in the life sciences
and biotech areas,” Pisa and Insolia said in the memo. “While
this was the case initially, and while these practices have
continued to grow nationally at the firm, we haven’t been able
to realize our initial vision.”  Some law firms are trimming payrolls because of a slowdown
in business since the 2008 financial meltdown and competition
from lower-cost legal-service providers. Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP, based in  New York , said this week that it will fire 60
salaried lawyers and 110 staff and cut some partners’ pay.
Patton Boggs LLP, based in  Washington , fired 65 employees in
March, including 22 associates.  California Sites  Goodwin Procter said in the memo that it plans to build the
firm’s life sciences and biotechnology practice in  California 
through its three other offices in the state -- in  Los Angeles ,
 San Francisco  and Silicon Valley.  The Boston-based firm was ranked 39th on the  American
Lawyer  magazine’s list of wealthiest U.S. law firms with
$715.5 million in gross revenue last year, a 2.9 percent
increase from the previous year.  The San Diego closing will leave Goodwin Procter with about
800 lawyers at eight offices in the U.S.,  London  and  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  