-- Li’s Pacific Century Said in Second Round of AMMB Insurance Bids
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-06-28T04:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/li-s-pacific-century-said-in-second-round-of-ammb-insurance-bids.html
AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , a Malaysian
bank, invited four companies including Hong Kong tycoon  Richard Li ’s Pacific Century Group to make second-round bids for its
life insurance units, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  Metlife Inc. (MET)  and Zurich-based  ACE
Ltd. (ACE)  were also invited to submit binding offers for as much as
70 percent of AmLife Insurance Bhd. and AmTakaful Family Bhd.,
the people said, asking not to be named because the information
is private.  Insurers from Canada’s Sun Life Financial Inc. to Japan’s
Dai-ichi Life Insurance are making acquisitions in Southeast
Asia to bolster returns as economic growth drives demand for
policies. More than $5.9 billion of purchases of insurance
assets in the region have been announced in the past year,
compared with just $910 million in the previous 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  AMMB hired Morgan Stanley to sell a stake in its life
insurance operations as it seeks a new partner to develop the
business, two people said in February. The Kuala Lumpur-based
bank said in January that it bought back 30 percent of the units
from U.K. insurer  Resolution Ltd. (RSL)   A deal for the insurance assets could be worth as much as
$600 million, the Wall Street Journal reported this week, citing
unidentified people.  Officials at AMMB didn’t respond to phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment. Representatives of Metlife, Manulife, ACE
and Pacific Century declined to comment or weren’t immediately
available.  Khazanah, Dai-ichi  Shares of AMMB have  gained  6 percent to 7.21 ringgit this
year, outperforming the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index, which climbed 4.2 percent.  AmLife had 3 billion ringgit of assets at the end of
September, and earned gross premiums of 214.5 million ringgit
for the half-year ended that month, according to data published
on the company’s  website . AmTakaful, which offers insurance that
complies with Islam’s ban on interest, had assets of 116.2
million ringgit and gross premiums of 14.2 million ringgit in
the same period, the data show.  Sun Life and Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund Khazanah
Nasional Bhd. said in January they would acquire an insurance
joint venture between Aviva Plc and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. for
about $600 million. This month, Dai-ichi Life said it will buy a
stake in the life insurance unit of Indonesia’s PT Panin
Financial Tbk for about $330 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  