-- Ibovespa Posts World’s Biggest Quarterly Drop as Currency Slumps
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-28T21:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/ibovespa-futures-fall-as-weaker-real-rekindles-inflation-concern.html
The Ibovespa posted the biggest
quarterly drop among major equity benchmarks as consumer stocks
sank amid mounting concern that a weaker currency will stoke
inflation and squelch  Brazil ’s recovery.  B2W Cia Digital led retailers lower today. MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes SA fell the most among homebuilders as Brazilian
swap rates, a gauge of expectations for central bank interest-rate moves, rose. Oil producer  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA (OGXP3)  extended its quarterly drop to 66 percent.  The Ibovespa fell 0.3 percent to 47,457.13 at the close in
Sao Paulo. The gauge fell 16 percent this quarter, the most
among the world’s 20 biggest benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazilian stocks have tumbled as raw-material exporters
sank with commodities amid concern the  Federal Reserve  will
scale back U.S. monetary stimulus and as the biggest street
demonstrations in two decades spurred by an increase in Sao
Paulo bus fares prompted local governments to postpone or cancel
utility-rate and toll-road increases.  “The protests makes things more complicated for the
economy,” Marcio Cardoso, a partner at brokerage Titulo
Corretora de Valores SA, said in a phone interview. “At the
very least, it erodes the people’s confidence, so we might see
consumption falling. We also have to keep an eye on how the
government will react.”  Bear Market  The real depreciated 1.5 percent to 2.2317 per dollar,
extending the quarterly decline to 9.4 percent, the most among
24 major  emerging markets , on concern government attempts to
placate street protesters will widen Brazil’s budget deficit.
The Ibovespa slumped into a  bear market  on June 11 after falling
more than 20 percent from this year’s peak on Jan. 3.  Consumer prices  climbed 6.67 percent on an annual basis
through mid-June, above the 6.50 percent upper level of the
central bank’s target range. Above-target inflation prompted
policy makers to boost the benchmark lending rate by 0.75
percentage point this year to 8 percent after lowering it by
5.25 percentage points in cuts that began in August 2011.  “There are too many problems with Brazil’s economic
policies, which is leading to higher inflation, weaker currency,
slower growth,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at hedge fund
Teorica Investimentos, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro . “Any
problem you can imagine, Brazil’s got it. Until there’s a sign
that something is being done to tackle these issues, Brazilian
assets -- equities, currency, everything -- will keep performing
poorly.”  Rate Outlook  Brazil will raise the target rate to 9 percent this year,
according to the most recent central bank survey of about 100
analysts, even as the economy will probably grow below the
average estimated for  Latin America . Gross domestic product will
expand 2.5 percent this year, below a 2.92 percent regional
forecast, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  B2W dropped 7.7 percent to 6.55 reais. OGX fell 6 percent
to 79 centavos. MRV sank 7.1 percent to 6.46 reais.  Pulp producer Fibria Celulose SA jumped 4.3 percent to
24.75 reais as exporters gained amid speculation that a weaker
real will boost revenue for companies selling outside Brazil.
Beef producer JBS SA, whose  sales  to the U.S. accounted for 74
percent of its 2012 revenues, rose 4.5 percent to 6.47 reais.  The Ibovespa trades at 12 times analysts’  earnings
estimates  for the next four quarters, compared with 10.2 for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 9.07 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.93 billion reais this year
through June 25, according  data  from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  