-- IMF Says Reserve Holdings of Aussie, Canada at $194 Billion
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2013-06-28T13:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/imf-says-reserve-holdings-of-aussie-canada-at-194-billion.html
Reserve managers around the world
held about $194 billion in Australian and Canadian currencies,
according to the first International Monetary Fund data on the
global holdings of the two currencies.  The Australian dollar was 1.63 percent of $6.05 trillion in
identified official foreign-exchange reserves in the first
quarter and the Canadian currency was 1.57 percent of the total,
the IMF data showed.  The  U.S. dollar  was 62.2 percent of allocated reserves in
the January-March period, compared with 61.2 percent the prior
quarter, today’s report showed. The euro’s share was 23.7
percent, compared with 24.2 percent in the fourth quarter of
2012, it showed.  The share of Aussie holdings in the January-March period
was greater than 1.48 percent the prior quarter, and Canadian
currency share was higher than the 1.48 percent share in the
final three months of 2012, the report showed. Today’s figures
for the first time specified official reserves of Australian and
Canadian dollars, which previously had been indistinguishable in
the “other currencies” category of the IMF’s quarterly report.  Central bank reserve managers are diversifying away from
the U.S. dollar, the yen and euro after policy makers in the
U.S.,  Japan  and the euro area lowered benchmark borrowing costs
to almost zero. Allocated Aussie holdings last quarter totaled
$98.7 billion, and Canadian currency holdings were $94.9
billion, today’s report showed.  Currency Appeal  The appeal of assets from  Australia  and  Canada , among only
11 sovereign markets with the top credit score from all three
major ratings companies, increased as the two nations’
currencies offered buyers both safety and relatively higher
yields.  A report released on April 8 by Central Banking
Publications and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc showed more
than 75 percent of the 60 central banks polled had bought the
Australian or Canadian currencies. The IMF’s decision to add the
Aussie and loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, to the
currencies reported in its data on central bank holdings will
affect those organizations’ decisions on reserves, according to
38 of those surveyed.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in February the
country’s currency is held by as many as 34 central banks. The
central banks of Slovakia and Slovenia were recent additions in
a list of 16 economies that publicly hold the Aussie, according
to papers prepared in the second half of 2012 and released Feb.
28 under a Freedom of Information Act  request  by  Bloomberg News .
Newcomers on a list of 18 possible holders included  China ,
 France ,  India , South Korea,  Thailand  and  South Africa .  Market Drop  An 11 percent slump in the Aussie this quarter spurred the
biggest sovereign debt decline among top-rated countries tracked
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The loonie’s 2.5
percent drop helped deliver a 5.4 percent loss to bond
investors, the figures show.  The IMF lists reserves as allocated -- those whose currency
composition has been identified -- and unallocated. Allocated
reserves in the first quarter totaled $6.05 trillion, or 54.6
percent of the total, leaving $5.04 trillion as unallocated.  According to the IMF’s website, 34 advanced nations and 109
emerging and developing economies report to the fund’s currency
composition of official foreign exchange reserves, or COFER,
database.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Washington at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  