-- India’s Nifty Futures Advance on Gas Prices, U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-28T02:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/india-s-nifty-futures-advance-on-gas-prices-u-s-economic-data.html
Indian stock-index futures gained
after the government agreed to double natural  gas prices  and as
global stocks advanced on U.S. economic data.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for July delivery rose 1.7
percent to 5,774 at 10:29 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index surged 1.7 percent to 5,682.35 yesterday. The S&P
BSE Sensex jumped 1.8 percent, paring its June loss to 6.6
percent, poised for the biggest monthly decline since November
2011. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded
shares advanced 2.1 percent.  Shares of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC)  may be active after India’s cabinet agreed to double the
price of natural gas to $8.4 per million British thermal unit
starting April 2014. Reliance and partner BP Plc have been
seeking higher prices even as slumping domestic output forces
the country to import expensive gas, contributing to a widening
current account deficit and a weakening currency.  “The gas pricing is one of the biggest bullets the
government has bitten,” Surya Narayan Nayak, an analyst at
Networth Stock Broking Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai today.
“This will boost foreign investment in the energy sector and
reduce our dependence on oil imports. It’s very positive not
only for companies like Reliance and ONGC but also for the rupee
and market sentiment.”  Current-Account Gap  Futures also rose as U.S. and Japanese data boosted the
outlook for the global economy and Federal Reserve officials
downplayed investor speculation they will curb stimulus soon.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained, heading for its biggest
three-day advance since July.  The rupee strengthened the most in two weeks yesterday,
rebounding from a record low, after a report showed the nation’s
current-account deficit narrowed last quarter.  India ’s current-account gap narrowed to 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product in the March quarter from a record 6.7
percent in the preceding three months, the central bank said
yesterday. The data’s release a day before expected was aimed at
calming nerves after the rupee touched an all-time low on June
26, Yes Bank Ltd. said.  Overseas investors pulled $94 million from domestic shares
yesterday, a 12th day of net sales and the longest run of
outflows since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Foreign funds offloaded a net $1.63 billion of Indian stocks
this month through June 26, heading for the biggest monthly
outflow since August 2011.  Foreigners have still bought a net $13.5 billion of  Indian (SENSEX) 
stocks this year, a record for the period, the data show.  The Sensex has dropped 2.8 percent this year, reversing
gains after reaching a two-year high May 17, as the prospect of
reduced U.S. monetary stimulus prompted global investors to pull
money from emerging-market assets. The gauge is valued at 12.6
times  projected 12-month profits , compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.7 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  