-- India Bonds Head for Worst Month in a Year on Rate Outlook
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-28T05:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/india-bonds-head-for-worst-month-in-a-year-on-rate-outlook.html
Indian bonds are poised to post
their worst monthly performance in a year on concern the local
currency’s plunge to a record low will prevent the central bank
from cutting interest rates.  Reserve Bank of  India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao kept the
repurchase  rate  steady at 7.25 percent on June 17, citing
inflation risks, even as wholesale prices rose at their slowest
in nearly four years in May. The rupee touched an all-time low
of 60.765 per dollar on June 26 and is headed for its worst
quarter since 1992 on worries India’s balance of payments will
worsen once the Federal Reserve cuts $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases that have driven flows to  emerging markets .  “The recent moves in the rupee can put upside pressures on
both headline inflation and the fiscal deficit,”  Tushar Poddar ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Mumbai, wrote in a
research note. “We revise our rate call for the end-July
central bank policy meeting from a rate cut of 25 basis points
to no cut. We expect no further cuts for the remainder of the
year ending March 2014.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 slid
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.67 percent as
of 10:47 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate has climbed 22 basis points this month, the
most since the securities were issued in June 2012.  India’s monetary-policy stance will be determined by the
evolution of economic growth, inflation and the balance of
payments in the months ahead, the central bank said in its
policy statement last week, adding that “it is only a  durable
receding  of inflation that will open up the space for monetary
policy to continue to address risks to growth. The RBI will hold
its next rate-setting meeting on July 30.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell six basis
points to 7.51 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
rupee tumbled 9.3 percent this quarter, the biggest drop since
the three months through March 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  