-- Indonesia’s Coffee Deliveries Seen Surging on Drier Conditions
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-28T12:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/indonesia-s-coffee-deliveries-seen-surging-on-drier-conditions.html
Coffee deliveries from farms in
 Indonesia , the third-largest producer of the robusta variety,
surged this week because of drier weather, Volcafe said.  Beans delivered to Lampung, where the country’s main coffee
export port is located, surged to about 16,000 metric tons this
week, “much higher than the last weeks,” the Winterthur,
Switzerland-based coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man
Holdings Ltd. said in a report e-mailed today. That compares
with daily deliveries of about 1,400 tons last week.  Growing regions in Indonesia got lighter rains this week,
MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in report
e-mailed yesterday. Rain fell in most growing regions last week,
with amounts ranging from 0.25 inch to 1.5 inch in Sumatra,
where the nation’s main robusta-growing region is located.  “The good flow is due to the drier weather since last
weekend,” Volcafe said in the report. The local industry and
exporters are “taking advantage and covering shorts.”  Local prices are at 17,000 rupiah ($1.70) to 18,200 rupiah
a kilogram (2.2 pounds), with “good volume” traded at 17,800
rupiah, the trader said. Beans for shipment in July and August
were at a premium of $230 a ton to the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange, unchanged from a week earlier, Volcafe data showed.  Farmers are set to increase sales from now until the Muslim
holiday of Eid, which marks the end of the fasting month of
Ramadan in August, according to Volcafe. Deliveries from farms
usually increase before the start of Ramadan and farmers boost
sales before Eid “to pay for the celebrations and the school
fees of their children,” the trader said.  In  Vietnam , the world’s biggest robusta grower, beans for
shipment in July and August were at a premium of $140 a ton to
the exchange price, Volcafe data showed. That’s down from $160 a
ton last week, according to the report.  Robusta coffee for delivery in September was unchanged at
$1,745 a ton by 1:35 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 