-- Intel CEO Krzanich Prioritizing Atom Chip in Mobile Push
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-06-28T21:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/intel-ceo-krzanich-accepts-mobile-transition-as-pcs-ebb.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  Chief Executive Officer
Brian Krzanich is devoting more resources to processors for
smartphones and tablets as he works to speed the transition to
mobile chips amid a global personal-computer slump.  The company will use the same advanced manufacturing for
the Atom line of low-power, cheaper chips for smartphones and
tablets that had previously been set aside for the more robust
Core processors for desktops and laptops, Krzanich told
reporters in San Francisco today. Intel had resisted the shift
in consumer tastes to mobile gadgets in an attempt to maintain
its dominance in the PC market, he said.  “As companies get bigger and more and more successful,
accepting big changes gets harder,” he said.  Krzanich is working to reverse declining sales at the
world’s largest chipmaker with faster, more energy-efficient
processors for handheld machines. As people increasingly turn to
mobile devices to surf the Web, send e-mail and watch video, the
PC business is set to contract for a second straight year.  To hasten the shift to mobile, Krzanich said Intel is
holding weekly meetings on Atom to speed development of new
versions. Intel has gone years between major updates for Atom in
the past.  “We haven’t been as clear about Atom’s position prior to
this,” Krzanich said.  New Business  Intel also is open to manufacturing chips designed by other
companies as a way to lure new business, Krzanich said. Those
sorts of deals will be considered on a case by case basis.  “It depends on how strategic they are,” he said.  Krzanich is continuing to evaluate Intel’s role in the
television business. The company has said it plans to begin
selling a set-top box offering Internet-based TV this year.
Negotiations with media companies are ongoing, and Krzanich said
he hasn’t determined what the business model should be.  “We are not experts in the content industry and we’re
being careful,” he said. “From a technical standpoint we’ve
built a game-changing device.”  Shares of Intel increased less than 1 percent to $24.23 in
 New York . They have advanced 18 percent this year, compared with
a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Intel’s sales won’t start growing again until next year,
according to the average of analysts’s  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. This year, they will be little changed at $53.6
billion, analysts project. By contrast, revenue for  Qualcomm
Inc (QCOM) , the biggest maker of mobile chips, will surge 28 percent in
2013.  Management Changes  Krzanich, a former factory manager, was  promoted  to the top
job at the  Santa Clara , California-based chipmaker in May,
succeeding  Paul Otellini , who retired. To keep tabs on the
latest technology, Krzanich said he’s using a different
smartphone or computer almost every month. He’s also testing out
Google Inc.’s wearable computing device, called Glass. Such
gadgets for the wrist, eyes and ears will be increasingly
common, he said, creating an opportunity for Intel.  On May 21 Krzanich made his first public personnel moves
when he took direct control of the Intel Architecture Group.
Under Otellini, the unit was run by David Perlmutter, who will
now lead a “management transition effort.” When Krzanich was
made CEO, Renee James was promoted to president, making her the
number two executive in the company.  Intel said yesterday that Justin Rattner is stepping down
as chief technology officer and director of Intel Labs.  Global tablet shipments are expected to eclipse PCs by 2015
as consumers flock to smaller, more affordable machines,
according to researcher IDC. Intel ended 2012 with less than 1
percent market share in tablets and phones, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  