-- Hiring Need Spurs CEO Push for College-Graduate Diversity
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k ,   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/hiring-need-spurs-ceo-push-for-college-graduate-diversity.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Xerox Corp. (XRX) 
and  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  have a message for U.S. courts: Hiring
more women and minorities is good for profits.  That trio was among 57 large corporations that urged the
U.S. Supreme Court to uphold affirmative action in college
admissions this week. Now, with the University of Texas case
handed back to a federal appeals court, they want to protect the
programs that have provided an increasingly diverse talent pool.  Chief executive officers are weighing in as they try to
build workforces to match shifting U.S. demographics. Private
employers account for more than 80 percent of U.S. jobs, and
they will fill future positions from a population that the U.S.
Census Bureau projects will tip to a non-white majority by 2043.  “It’s very important for the company to capture and have
within our ranks employees who really understand the broad
spectrum of American society in order for us to be an effective
consumer goods company,” General Mills CEO Ken Powell said in
an interview. “We strongly believe in that.”  The  Supreme Court  voted 7-1 this week in a case involving
the University of Texas to leave intact a 2003 decision allowing
the use of race in considering student applications. At the same
time, justices told the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  to
review whether diversity can be achieved without taking race
into account, leaving the ultimate outcome in doubt.  Interests Aligned  Universities’ “interest here is to achieve a diverse
student population,” said  Yolanda Seals-Coffield , an attorney
for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who led the firm’s involvement
in a so-called amicus brief to the Supreme Court. “Our
interests are aligned that way.”  While GE said this week that it was “pleased” that the
Supreme Court left its 2003 affirmative action ruling in place,
most corporations that sided with the  University of Texas 
declined to comment on the specifics of the justices’ ruling.  “Our focus in joining the amicus brief was on the benefits
that U.S.-based global companies like P&G gain from fostering a
diverse workforce and inclusive culture,” said Mary Ralles, a
spokeswoman for  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   Since 1976, the share of non-white students enrolled at
degree-granting institutions has climbed to 39 percent last year
from less than 16 percent, according to Education Department
statistics. Hispanics gained the most, jumping to 14 percent of
total enrollment from 3.6 percent in 1976.  Educational Attainment  Department data from 2011 show the  gaps  that remain in
educational attainment by race: Of whites 25 and older, 34
percent had obtained a bachelor’s degree or higher, compared
with 20 percent for blacks and 14 percent for Hispanics. For
Asians, the figure was 51 percent.  Not all companies are equal on inclusiveness, said  Patrick
McKay , who leads the Human Resource Management Department at
 Rutgers University  in  New Jersey . Many still meet only minimum
affirmative-action requirements to bid on federal contracts, and
U.S. corporate leadership remains overwhelmingly white and male,
he said.  “Decisions are made in the boardroom, and there’s gross
underrepresentation of women and minorities in the upper
echelons of companies,” McKay said.  Women comprised 17 percent of independent corporate
directors last year, up from 12 percent in 2002, according to a
study by New York-based consultant  Spencer Stuart . For the top
200 companies on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , 16 percent of
board members were minorities, excluding foreigners.  Tensions Persist  Recent legal history also shows the continuing tensions at
the intersection of hiring, promotions and race.  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  reached a $3 million settlement last year with
the U.S. Labor Department in a hiring practices case without
admitting wrongdoing. The department said it found evidence of
discrimination against 21,635 rejected applicants based on sex,
race and national origin at 23 facilities in 15 states. A FedEx
spokeswoman, Bonny Harrison, said the company had no comment on
the case.  In 2012, 16  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  employees in  New York  filed a
discrimination lawsuit that was transferred from state to
federal court. That was more than a decade after the Atlanta-based company agreed to pay $192.5 million and create an
independent review panel to settle a racial-bias lawsuit brought
by about 2,200 minority workers.  “Coca-Cola does not tolerate discrimination, harassment or
retaliation,” a spokesman, Scott Williamson, said in an e-mail
while declining to comment specifically on the 2012 suit. “We
have a culture that welcomes and supports diversity.”  Review Board  Xerox is among the companies trying to signal the
importance of diversity with an internal review board. Its
members include executives who report directly to CEO  Ursula Burns , the first black woman to lead an S&P 500 company.  “This isn’t a stand-alone silo, it’s integrated into our
management,” said  Damika Arnold , manager of global diversity
and inclusion at Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox. “We see it
as a competitive advantage.”  An inclusive workforce helps in recruiting and retaining
minority employees, said Lucy Sorrentini, chief of the office of
diversity and inclusion for consultant  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH) , which didn’t file a court brief in the University
of Texas case.  “By having more and more of these role models, that’s
directly impacting our attrition levels favorably,” Sorrentini
said. “As we’re showcasing more of these diverse leaders, we
have more people saying, ‘Hey, this is definitely the place
where I want to stick around and grow my career.’”  McKay of Rutgers called the Supreme Court’s ruling a “near
miss” on scrapping affirmative action for college enrollment.
While U.S. business have a long way to go in ensuring diversity
at all levels, support from some of the country’s largest
corporations sets a good tone for the rest, McKay said.  “It’s good that they’re sensitive to the issue. I’m
encouraged, actually,” he said. “It shows that they’re
thinking in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  