-- Hisamitsu Wins U.S. Approval for Drug to Ease Hot Flashes
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-28T21:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/hisamitsu-wins-u-s-approval-for-drug-to-ease-hot-flashes-1-.html
Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical Co. (4530) ’s Noven
unit won U.S. approval for its drug to ease hot flashes
associated with menopause.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said today it cleared the
drug, to be called Brisdelle, as the first non-hormonal
alternative approved to help women avoid sweating and feverish
feelings linked to menopause. The active ingredient in the
treatment, paroxetine, is currently sold in the U.S. by Saga,
Japan-based Hisamitsu’s Noven Pharmaceuticals unit as Pexeva for
depression, panic disorder and other conditions.  Hot flashes , which can cause women’s faces and upper bodies
to become flushed and lead to sweating, may affect as many as 75
percent of women going through the transition that causes their
menstrual periods to stop, according to the  National Institutes
of Health . The FDA in May rejected a non-hormonal hot flash
treatment from  Depomed Inc. (DEPO)   “There are a significant number of women who suffer from
hot flashes associated with menopause and who cannot or do not
want to use hormonal treatments,” Hylton Joffe, director of the
FDA’s Division of Bone, Reproductive and Urologic Products, said
today in a  statement  announcing the approval.  Existing hormonal medications for menopause have been found
to increase the risk of heart attack,  breast cancer  and stroke.
Women who don’t want hormone therapies use depression drugs that
aren’t approved to treat menopause symptoms, such as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Paxil, which also contains paroxetine.  Daily Dose  Brisdelle is taken once daily at bedtime. The 7.5
milligrams of paroxetine in the drug is less than the amount in
Paxil and Pexeva, the agency said. Brisdelle will carry a boxed
warning about an increased suicide risk similar to Paxil and
Pexeva.  The most common side effects of the drug were headache,
fatigue and nausea or vomiting.  An estimated 24 million women in the U.S. are affected by
hot flashes and night sweats associated with menopause and two-thirds aren’t taking any treatments for their symptoms, Joel Lippman, Noven’s executive vice president for product
development and chief medical officer, said in a statement. The
company said it expects Brisdelle to be available in November.  FDA staff raised concerns ahead of a February meeting of
agency advisers that the drug didn’t exhibit enough of a benefit
to risk side effects such as suicidal thoughts.  The agency is supposed to decide by Oct. 3 on a similar
drug from Pfizer Inc. and  Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. (LGND)  The
medication, bazedoxifene combined with a blend of estrogens,
would treat hot flashes and vulvar and vaginal atrophy and
prevent osteoporosis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  