-- J&J-Bayer’s Xarelto Fail to Win Expanded Use Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-28T20:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/j-j-bayer-s-xarelto-fail-to-win-expanded-use-approval.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) 
failed to gain U.S. approval to expand the use of the blood
thinner Xarelto to prevent blood clots from developing on stents
used in some heart-disease patients.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked for more information
about Xarelto’s use to reduce the risk of the dangerous clots in
acute coronary syndrome patients. The company is confident in
clinical trial results and is continuing talks with the FDA,
Christopher Nessel, the cardiovascular franchise medical leader
at J&J’s Janssen unit, said in a statement today.  Xarelto, the most-prescribed novel oral anticoagulant in
the U.S., was approved in July 2011 to prevent blood clots in
patients undergoing knee and hip surgeries and its use has since
been expanded to patients with irregular heartbeats and deadly
leg and lung blood clots.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
owns rights to the medicine while Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer sells the drug in  Europe .  J&J declined less than 1 percent to $85.86 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The shares have gained 28 percent in the past 12
months.  The new use sought by the companies was to treat stent
thrombosis, where blood pools at the site of a stent typically
used to keep arteries open. The condition can result in a heart
attack or death. About 1.5 million people each year are
implanted with coronary stents, J&J said.  Support Use  Data from the same trial referred to by Nessel also support
the use of Xarelto to prevent heart attack and strokes in
patients with acute coronary syndrome, which the FDA rejected in
March. Xarelto was approved for the condition in the EU in May.  Acute coronary syndrome is an umbrella term for situations
when the blood supplied to the heart is blocked, according to
the  American Heart Association . The condition leads to 1.2
million hospitalizations each year.  Xarelto is one of the medicines being promoted to replace
warfarin, a more than 50-year-old drug that requires constant
monitoring and dose adjustments to keep blood from getting too
thin and putting patients at risk of severe bleeding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  