-- Kerry to Assure Asia on Pivot Armed With Stronger Economy
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-06-28T02:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/kerry-to-assure-asia-on-pivot-armed-with-stronger-economy.html
When  John Kerry  makes his first trip
to Southeast  Asia  as secretary of state this weekend, he’ll have
an easier time convincing allies of a message his colleagues
often repeat: The U.S. military shift to the region is
sustainable.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month
the central bank will probably start reducing stimulus this
year, prompting the dollar to surge against Asian currencies.
Kerry will visit Brunei from June 30 to July 2 to attend a
regional security forum with more than 20 counterparts from
countries including  China ,  Japan  and North Korea.  “There is polite skepticism in some parts of the region
concerning America’s financial staying power long term,” said
Ian Storey, a senior fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian
Studies in  Singapore . “That skepticism may be misplaced given
that it looks like the U.S. economy is recovering, and the dire
predictions over huge defense cutbacks may not transpire.”  President  Barack Obama  has sought to demonstrate the U.S.
can sustain a shift in resources even as it faces as much as
$500 billion in defense budget cuts over nine years. Territorial
spats in the  South China Sea , North Korea’s nuclear ambitions
and the U.S. quest to detain whistle blower Edward Snowden have
escalated regional tensions. China has also shown concern over a
stronger U.S. presence in Asia, which it views as a bid to
contain its own military expansion.  Brunei will be Kerry’s last stop on a trip that included
visits to  India , Israel and Saudi Arabia. The Vietnam War
veteran and five-term senator took over from  Hillary Clinton  in
February.  Clinton, Hagel  On her last trip to Asia as secretary of state in November,
Clinton sought to allay concerns over U.S. economic leadership
with a  speech  in Singapore titled: “Delivering on the Promise
of Economic Statecraft.” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel repeated
that message this month in a visit to the city-state.  “It is true that the  Department of Defense  will have fewer
resources than in the recent past,” Hagel said in remarks to a
security forum on June 1. “It would be unwise and short-sighted
to conclude, however, that our commitment to the rebalance
cannot be sustained.”  The Federal Reserve bank will probably taper its $85
billion in monthly bond buying later this year and halt
purchases around mid-2014 as long as the economy performs in
line with its projections, Bernanke said on June 19. In May,
purchases of new homes jumped to a five-year high, and
automobile sales indicated the industry is on course for the
best year since 2007.  Dollar Gains  Since June 19, the dollar has gained against all of the 11
most-traded Asian currencies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In that time it has gained 1.6 percent against the
South Korean won, 2.3 percent against the Indian rupee and 3.4
percent against the Japanese yen, the data show.  To be sure, not all the data are rosy. The  U.S. economy 
grew less than previously calculated in the first quarter,
reflecting less spending on services by consumers who were
trying to make ends meet after taxes rose, the Commerce
Department said this week.  Chinese Patrols  U.S. allies in Asia including Japan and the Philippines
have opposed increased Chinese patrols in waters off their
shores. The U.S. military rebalance will mean that 60 percent of
the Navy’s fleet will be based in the Pacific by 2020, from
about 50 percent.  The  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , which is
hosting the meetings, has struggled to reach an agreement with
China on rules for operating in the South China Sea, where six
claimants are vying for oil, gas and fish. The U.S.’s declared
interest in maintaining freedom of navigation in the waters has
irked China.  China is willing through direct dialogue to resolve
disputes in the seas, Foreign Minister Wang Yi said at a forum,
according to a statement on the ministry website yesterday. “If
countries try to rely on external forces to advocate claims
without legitimacy, then this is futile and will eventually
prove to be a strategic misjudgment where the loss will outweigh
the gain,” Wang said.  U.S.-China tensions have risen after Snowden, who faces
espionage charges for disclosing surveillance secrets, left Hong
Kong for Russia on June 23 even as America issued an arrest
warrant. Kerry this week warned China and Russia of
“consequences” for their actions.  Kerry plans to meet Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
in Brunei to discuss plans for  Syria , Interfax news service
reported on June 25, citing Russian Deputy Foreign Minister
Gennady Gatilov.  North Korea  Kerry may also hold a trilateral meeting with foreign
ministers from Japan and  South Korea , State Department spokesman
Patrick Ventrell said on June 24, which would be the first such
meeting since September. As of June 25, South Korea had no plan
to meet separately with North Korea, which participates each
year in the Asean Regional Forum, the South’s foreign ministry
spokesman Cho Tai Young said.  Chinese President Xi Jinping, speaking yesterday after a
meeting with South Korean President Park Geun Hye in Beijing,
said the situation on the Korean peninsula is headed in a more
“positive” direction and called for a resumption of six-party
talks “as soon as possible.” Those talks, aimed at ending
North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, have stalled since late
2008, and in January the North appeared to abandon them for
good, with the official Korean Central News Agency saying there
can be “no talks for the denuclearization of the peninsula.”  Indonesia Haze  Other participants at the Brunei meetings include top
diplomats from the 10-member Asean, India,  Pakistan , Australia,
New Zealand,  Bangladesh ,  Sri Lanka , Canada and the European
Union.  Brunei, a Muslim-majority monarchy roughly the size of
Connecticut, is among countries affected by haze stemming from
fires in  Indonesia  to clear land. Jakarta is sending in its
military to fight the fires, which have been blamed for
hazardous air pollution in neighboring Malaysia and Singapore.  “We need to put in place a permanent solution to prevent
this problem from recurring annually,” Singapore Prime Minister
Lee Hsien Loong said in a June 25 statement. “Singapore stands
ready to work very closely with Indonesia, Malaysia and others
in the region to bring an end to the haze-related problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  