-- Kerry Extends Mideast Shuttle Diplomacy With More Stops
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-29T14:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/kerry-meets-netanyahu-on-reviving-mideast-peace-process.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry 
extended his Mideast shuttle diplomacy today with another round
of talks with Palestinian and Israeli officials.  The top U.S. diplomat met with Palestinian President
 Mahmoud Abbas  for two hours today in Amman, Jordan. He then
headed back to  Jerusalem , where he planned to hold a third
session in three days with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , according to a State Department official who asked
not to be identified discussing the itinerary.  While Kerry has given no hints publicly about whether the
talks were fruitful, the addition of more meetings indicated he
saw value in extending the hours of conversations that were
punctuated by hours of travel. Kerry canceled plans to travel to
 Abu Dhabi  this evening to accommodate the added meetings.  “Working hard,” Kerry said in Amman, when asked by a
reporter if he was making progress on his fifth peace mission in
the region since taking office in February. Kerry is trying to
bring Israeli and Palestinian officials back to the negotiating
table for the first time in almost three years.  The discussions began June 27 with an almost four-hour
dinner with Netanyahu that ended early yesterday morning in
Jerusalem. Later yesterday, Kerry met with Abbas in Amman and
then flew back to Jerusalem for three more hours of talks with
Netanyahu at the David Citadel Hotel.  He ended the day visiting at the presidential residence
with Israeli President  Shimon Peres , who told him, “All of us
admire your investment in creating really the right
environment.”  Before September  While Kerry has said he will set no deadlines for starting
a new round of talks, he said June 26 that some progress toward
reviving the process needs to be made “long before September,”
when the next session of the  United Nations General Assembly 
begins. The assembly recognized a state of  Palestine  last year,
and the Palestinians have threatened to use this status to
pursue war-crimes charges against Israel.  Kerry’s efforts have been complicated by Israel’s continued
moves to build settlements in the  West Bank  and east Jerusalem,
which the U.S. State Department has called “unproductive.”  Israel  approved plans on June 26 for 69 new homes in a
section of Jerusalem captured from Jordan in the 1967 Middle
East War. Palestinians consider it occupied territory. A
municipal building committee approved the permits, city
spokeswoman Brachie Sprung said by telephone.  Settlement Dispute  The latest move to add housing is unhelpful as the U.S. is
urging all parties to help create a climate for peace, a State
Department official said, speaking on condition of not being
identified.  The Palestinians have refused to return to talks without a
freeze in settlement construction, and they have signaled they
might resume their quest at the UN to join the  International
Criminal Court .  Abbas said in a June 26 interview on Al Jazeera television
that he hopes Kerry brings “something important” and new that
will help narrow the gaps with Israel and lead to fresh talks.
Netanyahu said this week that he’ll engage in peace negotiations
if Palestinians indicate they’re willing to address all
substantial issues and resolve the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Amman at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  