-- Kingsman Sees World Sugar Surplus 4% Lower on Australia, Ukraine
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-28T12:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/kingsman-sees-world-sugar-surplus-4-lower-on-australia-ukraine.html
The global sugar surplus may be 4
percent lower than a previous forecast partly because of smaller
crops in  Australia  and Ukraine, according to Kingsman SA, a unit
of  McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s Platts.  Sugar supplies will be 4.7 million metric tons higher than
demand in the 12 months starting in September, the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based researcher said in a report e-mailed today,
referring to its interim forecasts. That compares with its May
24 estimate for a 4.9-million-ton surplus. On a national crop-year basis, which starts when the harvest begins in each of the
countries, excess supplies will amount to 3.9 million tons from
the second estimate of 4.6 million tons, it said.  “This reduced surplus is being portrayed by some as
bullish but although it is a step in the right direction, a
surplus is still a surplus,”  Kingsman  said. “The past
surpluses have not disappeared; the excess sugar is sitting in
warehouses in  China , India,  Mexico  and  Argentina .”  Australia, the world’s third-biggest sugar exporter, will
harvest a smaller crop due to heavy rainfall and disease that
attacked the crop in northern Queesland, Kingsman said. Millers
there will produce 4.1 million tons in the 2013-14 season from a
previous estimate of 4.65 million tons, the researcher said.  Growers in Ukraine, who make sugar from beets, have
switched to other crops because of lower prices, resulting in
less area being planted, according to the report. Production
there will be 1.24 million tons, 420,000 tons lower than
previously forecast, the researcher said. Sugar futures, down 13
percent in 2013, are heading for a third year of declines on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York , the longest slump since 1992.  Brazil Record  “Reductions in Ukraine and Australia have only been
partially offset by increases in other producing areas
estimates,” said Kingsman, which increased its forecast for
sugar production in  Belarus , El Salvador and  South Africa .  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, will process a record
585 million tons of cane in the 2013-14 season started there in
April, according to Kingsman. This forecast may need to be
reduced if rains continue to hamper harvesting and crushing in
the South American nation. While a weakening Brazilian real has
made sugar again more profitable than ethanol, millers in the
South American nation will still use more of the cane harvested
to make the biofuel, it said.  “We need to consider other factors: ethanol revenues are
mainly in reais, ethanol demand remains pretty strong and the
hydrous domestic market is very liquid,” Kingsman said,
referring to the kind of ethanol used in flex-fuel cars. “We
therefore prefer to keep our sugar mix unchanged at 45 percent,
corresponding to total sugar output of 34.4 million tons.”  Indian Millers  Millers in  India , the world’s second-biggest producer, may
make more sugar than forecast as monsoon rains are moving faster
than usual, according to the report. Output there may reach 23
million to 24 million tons in 2013-14 from a current forecast of
22.3 million tons, it said.  The global sugar surplus will be bigger than forecast in
the 12 months ending in September, according to the report.
Excess supplies may amount to 11.87 million tons compared with
the researcher’s sixth estimate of 11.8 million tons. The
surplus this season will be bigger because crops in Mexico, El
Salvador and  Pakistan  will be larger than forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  