-- Natural Gas Falls in Survey as Moderating Heat Crimps Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-06-28T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/natural-gas-falls-in-survey-as-moderating-heat-crimps-demand.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week as moderating summer heat curbs demand from  power plants , a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Eight of 15 analysts, or 53 percent, predicted that futures
will drop on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through July 5.
Six, or 40 percent, said gas will increase and one said prices
will stay the same. Last week, 45 percent of participants said
gas would advance.  Temperatures will be seasonal across most of the eastern
two-thirds of the U.S. next week with the lowest readings in the
South and Central states, according Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Gas prices  have tumbled 19 percent from a
21-month high on May 1 after  inventory gains  topped five-year
weekly averages in four straight weeks amid mild weather.  “We are going to grind lower,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Without seasonal demand to support the market, we are
continuing to look for a bottom.”  Natural gas futures fell 18.9 cents, 5 percent, to $3.582
per million British thermal units during the first four days of
this week on the Nymex, heading for the fourth drop in five
weeks. The futures are down 11 percent since March, heading for
the first decline in five quarters.  Falling Temperatures  The high temperature in Dallas on July 5 may be 84 degrees
Fahrenheit (29 Celsius), 11 lower than the usual reading, after
rising to 10 degrees above normal at 104 today, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. Washington’s
high a week from today may be 86 degrees, 2 below normal.  Power plants will account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
consumption this year, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  U.S.  gas stockpiles  rose 95 billion cubic feet to 2.533
trillion in the week ended June 21, above the five-year average
gain for the period of 79 billion, EIA data show.  A  deficit  to the average narrowed to 1.2 percent from 1.9
percent the previous week. Supplies were 17.1 percent below
 year-earlier levels , the least since March 1.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6      8      1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  