-- Netflix Said to Renew Women’s Prison Comedy Before Debut
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-06-28T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/netflix-said-to-renew-women-s-prison-comedy-before-debut.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the leading online
subscription-video service, ordered more episodes of the
exclusive prison comedy series “Orange Is the New Black”
before the program’s debut.  “We’re eager to get a second season to our viewers,”
Cindy Holland, Vice President of Original Content at  Los Gatos ,
California-based Netflix, said yesterday in a statement. Work on
the show, produced by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , will begin
this summer.  The renewal highlights the confidence Netflix has in
original and exclusive content to win and keep subscribers.
Chief Content Officer  Ted Sarandos  said in May at a conference
in  New York  the company is spending around 5 percent of its $2
billion annual content budget on originals, and aims for as much
as 15 percent within the next few years. The company is also
upgrading its technology to make finding programs easier.  “Orange Is the New Black” is from  Jenji Kohan , creator of
the Showtime program “Weeds.” The series is based on the
memoir of a young communications executive sentenced to women’s
prison for drug trafficking and becomes available on Netflix
July 11.  Netflix mixes exclusive and first-run programs, along with
a library of films and TV shows, in an Internet streaming
service that costs $7.99 a month, competing with services
offered by Amazon.com Inc. and Hulu LLC.  On May 26, customers could begin streaming the revived Fox
TV show “Arrested Development” on the Netflix service. The
company released the Kevin Spacey series “House of Cards” on
Feb. 1 during the first quarter. Netflix had more than 36
million streaming customers in 40 countries as of March 31.  ‘Max’ Guide  Netflix rose 1.4 percent to $214.97 yesterday in New York.
The stock has more than doubled this year and is the second best
 performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year behind
 Best Buy Co. (BBY)   The company announced today that U.S. subscribers who use
the service on  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation 3 game consoles will get
access to a talking program guide. Called “Max,” the guide is
billed as a talking concierge that uses game-like queries based
on themes to let people choose movies and shows.  Subscribers click on the “Max” panel, hear a short tune
and listen to a male voice that looks through a user’s history
and offers categories such as “robots or magic?” to offer
viewing options.  Max eventually will be expanded beyond the PlayStation to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads and other devices, said Todd Yellin, vice
president of product innovation at Netflix.  Netflix is “weeks away” from introducing individual user
accounts that will let people in a household keep separate lists
of show recommendations and items they want to watch, Yellin
said in an interview.  “We were doing great personalization at a household level,
now we want to do it at a user level,” Yellin said. “The
better we get at personalization, the better we are at targeting
our different Netflix originals, the better we are at curating
our content and becoming a cost-efficient programmer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  