-- Nevada Regulator Says Macau VIP Rooms Make Compliance Harder
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-06-28T20:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/nevada-regulator-says-macau-vip-rooms-make-compliance-harder.html
The use of outside VIP room
operators by casino companies in Macau limits their ability to
prevent money-laundering and other illegal activities, one of
 Nevada ’s top regulators said.  “Criminal transactions are widely alleged to take place
just out of the direct purview of the casino,” A.G. Burnett,
chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, said in
 testimony  before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review
Commission in Washington yesterday.  VIP room operators run gambling parlors for high-rollers
within larger casinos and provide credit as well as organize
trips for mainland gamblers to Macau. The Chinese city, the
world’s largest gambling hub with $38 billion in revenue last
year, gets most of its revenue from Chinese high-stake bettors.
Burnett didn’t name any individual operators.  I. Nelson Rose, a professor at Whittier Law School in Costa
Mesa, California,  testified  that Chinese government limits on
money transfers from the mainland to Macau, at 20,000  yuan  or
$3,150, create a market for VIP room operators to lend money to
gamblers.  “The structure of the casino system in Macau effectively
allows people to use the casinos to circumvent these capital
controls,”  William Reinsch , chairman of the commission, said in
his  opening remarks .  The commission was created by the U.S. Congress in 2000 to
report to legislators on trade and economic issues between the
two countries, according to its  website .  Spokesmen for  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , MGM Resorts
International and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the three Las Vegas-based
companies with operations in Macau, declined to comment on the
hearing. Sands rose 0.1 percent to $52.93 at the close in New
York. MGM gained 2.1 percent to $14.78 and Wynn fell 0.5 percent
to $127.97.  Director Manuel Neves at Macau’s Gaming Inspection and
Coordination Bureau, the city’s regulatory body, didn’t return
two phone calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  