-- New York Office Prices May Be Too High, Bruce Ratner Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-06-28T20:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/new-york-office-prices-may-be-too-high-bruce-ratner-says.html
New York City office building prices
may have risen too high, given sluggish demand for space, Forest
City Ratner Cos. Chairman Bruce Ratner said today.  “The office market is OK,” he said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Adam Johnson  and
 Trish Regan . “It’s holding its own. But I’d be concerned about
these  trophy prices  for some of the office buildings.”  A partnership including Crown Acquisitions Inc. agreed to
pay about $2,100 a square foot, a record, for 650 Madison Ave.,
a 600,000-square-foot (55,700-square-meter) tower in the heart
of midtown  Manhattan ’s Plaza district. The price was driven
largely by the building’s retail space. Across the street, the
families of Chinese real estate developer Zhang Xin and
Brazilian banking billionaire Moise Safra bought a 40 percent
stake in the General Motors Building at about $1,700 a square
foot. The record had been $1,583 a square foot, set in 2007.  Midtown office prices jumped 4 percent in May after being
stable for several months, according to a report this month from
Green Street Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach , California-based
real estate research firm. “Gathering momentum” should boost
prices in coming months, the firm said.  Buyers shouldn’t expect a big increase in office demand,
said Ratner, who built New York Times Co.’s headquarters tower
on Manhattan’s west side. He is also the developer of  Brooklyn ’s
Atlantic Yards apartment project and its centerpiece, the
Barclays Center sports arena, as well as  Frank Gehry ’s New York
by Gehry residential tower in lower Manhattan.  ‘Iffy’ Economy  Tenants “are using less square feet per person,” he said.
“And the economy is still iffy. All of us real estate people,
all of us in business, are wondering what’s happening in this
country. While New York is doing great by comparison, we still
get affected” by troubles beyond the city.  Ratner said he is bullish on New York’s residential market.
Apartment rentals are “going crazy,” while condominium prices
are rising and will continue to be strong, he said.  “It’s happened so many times before,” he said. “When the
world gets unsettled, we get foreign money coming here. We have
a situation where we’re probably the only place in the world
that people look at as safe. And in this country, we’re the
strongest place right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  