-- Nissan Targets Doubling of Sub-Sahara Sales on Small Cars
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y   a n d   J o h n   B o w k e r
-- 2013-06-28T11:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/nissan-targets-doubling-of-sub-sahara-sales-on-small-cars.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-biggest carmaker, said its small passenger models will lead
sales gains in Africa south of the Sahara as economic growth
makes people wealthier and enables countries to upgrade roads.  Nissan wants to double vehicle sales in sub-Saharan Africa
to 220,000 units by 2016, Mike Whitfield, managing director of
Nissan’s South African business, said in a phone interview. The
Micra, Almera and Sentra cars will be added to the existing
range that also includes sport-utility vehicles, commercial vans
and  pickup trucks  to meet rising demand in Ghana, Nigeria,
Angola and eastern Africa, he said.  “What we see in Africa is a very strong emerging middle
class, which creates a lot of opportunity and strong growth in
areas of the market, such as small, B-segment passenger cars,”
Whitfield said from his office in Pretoria on June 25.  Nissan is seeking growth elsewhere in Africa as  consumer
spending  slows in  South Africa , the continent’s biggest economy,
amid rising unemployment. The country’s car market will probably
increase 4 percent to 5 percent this year, Whitfield said. That
compares with growth of 9.2 percent in 2012, the slowest gain
since 2009.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the world’s
biggest and third-ranked carmakers, are the largest sellers in
South Africa.  Export Production  Nissan has an assembly plant with a workforce of about
2,500 people in Pretoria, South Africa’s capital. The factory
assembles 1-ton pickups, in both left-hand and right hand-drive
versions, for sale domestically as well as across Africa and to
the Middle East and  Russia .  “Our primary focus is to produce for export,” Whitfield
said. “And obviously the No. 1 choice for us is  Africa .”  The plant produced 51,000 vehicles last year, about one-third of capacity, with one shift of workers. Yokohama-based
Nissan is considering how to add carmaking at the Pretoria site,
though it has no plan for a physical expansion because it
already can build more vehicles, he said.  “There is a lack of skills” to expand manufacturing at
the factory, Whitfield said. “As we move forward to grow
competitiveness and to grow production, we are going to be faced
with a shortage of skills.”  “The other challenge is stability” in the local labor
market amid unrest in other industries, he said. “We need to
work together with labor to ensure we can grow both productivity
and flexibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net ;
John Bowker in Johannesburg at 
 jbowker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  