-- Noodles & Co. Doubles in Debut After Pricing IPO Above Range
-- B y   C h e l s e y   D u l a n e y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-28T20:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/noodles-doubles-in-trading-debut-after-pricing-ipo-above-range.html
Noodles & Co. (NDLS) , the restaurant chain
that serves pastas and soups in 26 U.S. states, more than
doubled in its first day of trading after pricing its initial
public offering above an increased price range.  The  shares  surged to $36.75 as of 4 p.m. in New York after
Noodles sold 5.36 million shares yesterday for $18 each. The
company had earlier increased its proposed price range to $15 to
$17 from $13 to $15, filings show.  Noodles is the first company to double in a U.S. IPO
trading debut since April 2012, when  Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , the web-analytics software maker, surged 109 percent in its first day,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Noodles gained after the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  this week posted its first three-day
gain in more than a month, recovering from a selloff spurred by
concern the U.S. may curb economic stimulus measures.  “We’ve been delivering some of the best results in the
restaurant industry in the last five years, and the market
understands that and respects that,” Chief Executive Officer Kevin Reddy said in a telephone interview today. Investors
“recognize the tremendous white space and growth that we
have.”  Noodles, based in Broomfield,  Colorado , raised $96.4
million in its IPO and planned to use proceeds to reduce long-term debt. The company sold stock equivalent to a 19 percent
stake in the offering, while Catterton Partners, the private-equity firm that purchased Noodles in December 2010 for an
undisclosed amount, planned to retain a 37 percent stake
following the sale, filings show.  Noodles, founded in 1995, is the first restaurant company
to complete a U.S. public offering this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley and UBS AG led the offering. The shares are
listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol NDLS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  