-- Norilsk to Focus on Arctic Circle Mines as CEO Builds Team
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-06-28T12:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/norilsk-to-focus-on-polar-circle-mines-after-ceo-builds-new-team.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , the largest
nickel and palladium producer, plans to focus on developing its
operations in northern  Russia  over international assets after
installing a new chief executive officer and management team.  “We will be looking at opportunities to optimize our
portfolio of assets, including our international operations,
with a key strategic focus on the sustainable increase of the
firm’s return on capital,” Norilsk Deputy CEO Pavel Fedorov,
head of strategy and business development, said in an interview
in Moscow. “Enhancing the efficiency and capitalization of our
key Polar Division would be at the heart of the new strategy.”  The division has seven mines north of the Arctic Circle,
producing nickel, copper, platinum, palladium, cobalt and gold
above the 69th parallel. Plants processing ore from these mines
achieve an extraction rate of 83 percent of nickel from each ton
of ore after the first phase of enrichment, compared with 70
percent and below for Norilsk’s assets in Africa and  Australia ,
according to its annual report.  Billionaire  Vladimir Potanin  replaced Vladimir
Strzhalkovsky as CEO at the end of 2012 as part of a truce to
end a conflict between Norilsk shareholders Interros and United
Co. Rusal over how the company was run. In April, Potanin hired
Fedorov, a former mergers-and-acquisitions banker, for the 12-member management board among nine newly appointed executives.  Enormous Potential  Strzhalkovsky pushed the company to diversify, adding
copper, coal and iron ore assets in  Indonesia  and  Latin America 
to purchases in Africa and Australia. The reorganized executive
team is due to present a new development plan to investors in
the fourth quarter, subject to board approval.  “The resource potential of the Polar Division is enormous
and we will aim to take full advantage of it,” said Fedorov,
38, who served as a Russian deputy energy minister for a year
before joining Norilsk. He also worked as first vice president
for economy, strategy and finance at oil producer OAO Rosneft,
and held positions at Morgan Stanley and UBS AG.  Norilsk gained most of its international assets in 2007
after buying LionOre Mining International Ltd. They include an
85 percent stake in the Tati Nickel project in Botswana and 50
percent of the Nkomati nickel mine in  South Africa . The company
also controls four units in Australia, all of which are idled
because of a drop in prices and increased production costs.  “Norilsk has better opportunities at home due to a lower
cost of production,”  George Buzhenitsa , a Deutsche Bank
analyst, said by phone from Moscow. “The former LionOre assets
have no chance of performing well at current prices so a
decision to sell would be the correct one.”  Nickel prices have fallen almost 20 percent in 2013 to
$13,700 a ton in  London , the lowest level in three years.
Palladium has dropped more than 7 percent and platinum in excess
of 13 percent.  Norilsk shares rose as much as 1 percent after Fedorov’s
comments on strategy and traded up 0.3 percent at 4,715 rubles
at 3:29 p.m. in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  