-- NuStar May Receive Canadian Oil at New St. James Terminal
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-28T21:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/nustar-may-receive-canadian-oil-at-new-st-james-terminal.html
NuStar Energy LP (NS) , the second-largest
independent liquids terminal operator in the U.S., may unload
heavy Canadian oil at a new train terminal in St. James,
 Louisiana , this year.  The San Antonio-based company is seeking contracts for a
second 70,000-barrel-a-day unit train terminal in St. James,
which it expects to be in service in the fourth quarter. A
three-year commitment has been signed with Great Northern Oil
Co., which will move Bakken crude from  North Dakota , the company
said.  NuStar is increasing rail unloading, storage, and dock
capacity in St. James as production booms in  Canada  and North
Dakota. An additional 799,000 barrels a day of output in those
areas is due to come online in 2013 and 2014, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers and U.S. Energy
Information Administration. Canadian companies are seeking
additional outlets for heavy bitumen from oil-sands formations.  “We’re trying to be accessible to as many types of crude
as we can be,” Danny Oliver, senior vice president of marketing
and business development, said in a phone interview. “We’re
talking with Bakken producers but we’re also talking with
Canadian producers about moving dilbit.”  The company is converting one dock to handle exports and
adding another, both of which will be in service next year. In
the past, the terminal only accepted inbound shipments of crude.  “The flow is reversing,” Oliver said. “We’ve got more
crude coming in by rail and it wants to go out by water.”  At the same time, storage capacity will increase to about
11 million barrels from the current 9 million.  More Blending  The influx of extra-light crudes from the Bakken and Eagle
Ford formation in  Texas  is increasing the need for storage.  Customers are seeking more space in  storage tanks  as they
are looking to do additional blending with the lighter crude
oil, Oliver said.  The first unit train at St. James came online in April 2012
and construction of the second began early this year, according
to the company.  The new terminal has a nameplate capacity of about 70,000
but may be able to offload more than two trains in 24 hours,
boosting capacity to more than 100,000, according to Oliver. New
contracts that are signed for the second unit train terminal may
also include commitments for shipping and storage of certain
amounts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  