-- Obama Ties Economic Message in Africa to Mandela Legacy
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-06-29T09:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/obama-ties-economic-message-in-africa-to-mandela-legacy.html
President  Barack Obama , in South
Africa for a three-day visit to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela’s
legacy, will meet privately with his family instead of going to
see the 94-year-old anti-apartheid leader in the hospital, the
White House said.  The U.S. president and first lady Michelle Obama will meet
privately later today with family members “to offer their
thoughts and prayers at this difficult time,” the White House
said in a statement. “Out of deference to Nelson Mandela’s
peace and comfort and the family’s wishes, they will not be
visiting the hospital.”  Obama, who has called Mandela a personal hero, arrived in
Johannesburg last night from Dakar, Senegal, where he kicked off
a mission to promote trade and investment across the African
continent by underscoring the importance of democratic values to
economic growth.  While Mandela’s condition has weighed on the entire trip,
it will be most felt in the South African icon’s home country,
which Obama plans to draw on as a symbol of what’s possible.  “If we focus on what  Africa  as a continent can do together
and what these countries can do when they’re unified as opposed
to when they’re divided by tribe or race or religion, then
Africa’s rise will continue,” Obama told reporters traveling
aboard Air Force One to South Africa.  Diplomatic Tightrope  “That’s one of the essential lessons of what Nelson
Mandela accomplished not just as president but in the struggle
to overcome apartheid and his years in prison,” he said.  Obama, who had just one face-to-face meeting with Mandela,
in 2005, said he would defer to the family on a potential visit
with the ailing leader, who lies in a Pretoria hospital after
weeks of treatment for a lung infection.  “I don’t need a photo-op,” Obama said. “The main message
we’ll want to deliver if not directly to him, but to his family,
is simply a profound gratitude for his leadership all these
years and that the thoughts and prayers of the American people
are with him and his family and his country.”  Obama is forging ahead with the trip even with the visit’s
potentially uncomfortable, albeit profound, timing.  Given the delicacy of the situation, Obama will have to
walk a “diplomatic tightrope” with his events in Johannesburg,
 Pretoria  and Cape Town, said Richard Downie, deputy director of
the Africa Program at the  Center for Strategic and International
Studies  in  Washington .  “The U.S.-South Africa relationship is prickly at the best
of times,” he said. “His visit is likely to be a distraction
for South Africans and one poorly chosen word or misstep runs
the risk of causing grave offense to his hosts.”  Traveling with his family, Obama will visit landmarks and
meet with representatives of Mandela’s life and struggles. He
holds a news conference today with President Jacob Zuma in
Pretoria and later makes remarks and answers questions from
young Africans at the University of Johannesburg Soweto.  Robben Island  Tomorrow he goes to Cape Town for a scheduled visit to
Robben Island off the city’s coast, where Mandela spent 18 of
his 27 years in prison for opposing white-minority rule.  From there, Obama has a planned visit to a community center
that focuses on health and HIV/AIDS prevention with Archbishop
Desmond Tutu, who greeted Mandela the day he was released from
prison in 1990.  “Diplomatic life has to go on,” said Daryl Glaser, a
politics professor at the University of Witwatersrand.  “The Mandela news event is both domestically and
internationally a much bigger story than Obama’s trip to
Africa,” Glaser said in an interview. “I don’t think Africa
looms as large in people’s imagination around the world,
including Americans, as Mandela the person does.”  Youth Engagement  Obama has made a point throughout his presidency to engage
directly with local youth when he travels abroad. Young African
leaders from Uganda, Nigeria and  Kenya  -- three countries Obama
is skipping on this trip -- will join via satellite in the event
at the University of Johannesburg in Soweto.  The location was chosen for the town’s significance in the
anti-apartheid movement, said Ben Rhodes, Obama’s deputy
national security adviser.  The town hall-style event, like those that have become a
regular part of U.S. political campaigns, will be broadcast on
television stations throughout Africa, he said.  “By bringing in these virtual locations, we’ll be able to
reach hundreds of millions of people through the broadcast of
this town hall,” he said.  Rhodes called Zuma a strategic partner on economic and
national security issues including efforts to deal with the
political upheaval in Central Africa, the situation in South
Sudan and promoting democracy across the continent.  ‘Rainbow Nation’  The visit by a sitting U.S. president, notably its first
black president, is important for the South African leader,
Glaser said. The country has the continent’s largest  economy  and
has been “the post-apartheid rainbow nation darling of the
world” since 1994, when Mandela was elected president.  “It wanted to maintain good relations for the West, for
reasons of investment, tourism,” Glaser said. Of the 49
countries of sub-Saharan Africa, South Africa is the top market
for U.S. goods, receiving roughly one-third of U.S. exports to
the region.  South Africa is the 36th largest goods  trading  partner for
the U.S. with a total of $16.8 billion in 2011. Exports totaled
$7.3 billion, up 29 percent from year before, and imports were
$9.5 billion.  Obama is using stops in three African democracies --
 Senegal , South Africa and Tanzania -- to highlight progress
being made on the continent and point to the economic
opportunities that can come as a result.  Business Confidence  “Those countries where businesses can feel confident that
there will be peaceful transitions of power, that corruption is
prosecuted, where there’s rule of law, where there’s protection
of private property, where the government is practical and not
wildly ideological -- that is what will attract American
businesses,” Obama said.  When he talks to chief executive officers of U.S.
companies, they see the potential in Africa, still “what they
don’t want to do is find themselves five years out suddenly with
a different government, suddenly their money’s stuck, their
workers are being shaken down,” Obama said. The progress being
made in Africa is “the kind of thing that we want to make sure
we emphasize throughout this trip.”  Obama said he’ll convey that message over the next several
days as he prays for Mandela and his family.  “The message will be consistent because it draws on the
lessons of Nelson Mandela’s own life,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  