-- Obama Seeks to Advance African Agenda in Food Security Plan
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-28T11:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/obama-seeks-to-advance-african-agenda-with-food-security-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  highlighted
U.S. and private-sector financial commitments for  food security 
efforts at a summit today in Senegal as he wrapped up the first
stop of a three-country tour of sub-Saharan Africa.  The U.S. will increase by $47 million its assistance for
seeds and agricultural technology, while private companies will
commit to invest $134 million in Senegal’s agricultural system.  “When people ask what’s happening to their taxpayer
dollars and foreign aid, I want people to know this money is not
being wasted,” Obama said today as he toured a food security
exposition in Dakar, Senegal. The assistance is “helping people
to become more self-sufficient, and it’s creating new markets
for U.S. companies.”  Obama was joined by business leaders and agriculture
ministers from West Africa and other parts of the continent to
focus on bolstering Africa’s farm output. It is Obama’s last
event in Senegal before he is scheduled to depart for  South
Africa  and Tanzania.  Obama, who arrived on the continent on June 26, has
proceeded with the long-planned trip as the health of  Nelson Mandela , 94, the former South African president and anti-apartheid icon, has deteriorated. Mandela has been placed on
life support while hospitalized for a lung infection.  Yesterday, Obama used reminiscences about Mandela’s
struggle against apartheid and a visit to a former slave house
to underscore a message that African nations have made strides
in democratic governance and human rights protections that
should be recognized as the continent seeks more investment and
trade. Aides said boosting food security is part of the same
effort.  Signature Effort  Food security is “one of our signature development efforts
here in Africa and one that is directly relevant not just to
lifting people out of poverty but to promoting economic
growth,”  White House Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  said.  Senegal is the latest country to join the New Alliance for
Food Security and Nutrition, said Raj Shah, administrator for
the U.S. Agency for International Development. The program was
organized last year by the U.S. with other Group of Eight member
countries, the  African Union , African heads of state and the
private sector.  Facilitating Investment  The alliance seeks nations’ changes in  tax policy  and
pledges to tackle corruption in exchange for facilitating
private investment commitments with a goal of lifting 50 million
people from poverty by 2022. Before today’s announcement, more
than 70 companies had committed to assisting countries through
$3.7 billion for seed and agricultural processing and marketing,
according to a fact sheet distributed by the White House.  Other countries in the alliance include Tanzania, Ethiopia,
Ghana,  Burkina Faso , Ivory Coast, Mozambique,  Benin , Malawi and
Nigeria.  As part of its participation, Senegal is pledging to expand
access to credit for small farmers, better target seed and
fertilizer subsidies, tackle corruption and offer tax exemptions
to its value-added tax system.  Also today, the Obama administration will release a report
on its “Feed the Future” program in 19 countries, showing that
the program has reached 7 million households, increased  food
production  by as much as 70 percent for some participants and
improved nutrition for 12 million children, Shah said.  Hunger Remains  In a separate report, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said today that the number of people in 76 low- and middle-income countries who experience food insecurity -- defined as
consuming less than 2,100 calories per person per day -- will
rise 23 percent to 868 million by 2023. In 26 of the nations
studied, more than 40 percent of the population faces hunger,
with the biggest concentration in Sub-Saharan Africa.  In a news conference yesterday with Senegalese President
 Macky Sall , Obama called the times “a moment of great progress
and great promise for the continent.”  He described Mandela as a “personal hero” who inspired
his own political activism in college and after.  Obama traveled by ferry to Goree Island off the coast of
Senegal, where he toured the Slave House before a meeting with
civil society advocates.  With cramped rooms labeled as prison cells and a portal
dubbed the Door of No Return overlooking the water, the museum
draws thousands of tourists each year to learn about the
Atlantic slave trade.  Obama described looking out of the portal with first lady
 Michelle Obama  and family members as a “very powerful moment.”  Even as historians have disputed the details of the
island’s history and role in slavery, the location has drawn
civil rights leaders, celebrities and U.S. presidents, including
 Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush .  “For an African-American and African-American president to
be able to visit this site, I think, gives me even greater
motivation in terms of the defense of human rights around the
world,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Dakar, Senegal at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Dakar, Senegal at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  