-- Obama Unsure He'll See Mandela During South Africa Visit
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-06-28T18:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/obama-unsure-he-ll-see-mandela-during-south-africa-visit.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’ll
defer to the wishes of  Nelson Mandela ’s family in deciding
whether to visit the 94-year-old anti-apartheid leader in the
hospital, where he is in critical condition.  “I don’t need a photo-op, and the last thing I want to do
is to be in any way obtrusive at a time when the family is
concerned with Nelson Mandela’s condition,” Obama told
reporters traveling with him today en route to  South Africa , the
second country of a three-nation African tour. He arrived there
this evening from  Senegal  and has no public events on his
schedule for the rest of the night.  South Africans  are maintaining a vigil for Mandela, the
nation’s first black president, who’s in critical condition in a
Pretoria hospital where he has spent the past three weeks
battling a lung infection.  Obama considers Mandela a personal hero for his fight
against apartheid policies, and has said the former South
African president was an inspiration for his own activism.  Obama met Mandela once, in 2005, in Washington, when the
U.S president was a Democratic senator from Illinois.  Obama told reporters today that the message he’d deliver to
Mandela or his family would be one of “simply profound
gratitude for his leadership for all these years.”  Concern over Mandela’s health heightened after President
 Jacob Zuma  canceled a trip to a regional summit in  Mozambique 
late on June 26. Mandela’s condition improved overnight and was
stable, though still critical, the presidency said yesterday.  Mandela Vigil  Crowds have gathered outside the hospital to deliver cards
and flowers, as well as at Mandela’s homes in Johannesburg and
the village of Qunu in the southeast of the country.  Obama has to maintain a delicate balance in continuing his
trip while attention is focused on Mandela’s condition, Daryl
Glaser, a politics professor at the University of Witwatersrand,
said.  “Diplomatic life has to go on,” he said in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg today. “There was no obviously
right thing to do.”  The president’s trip, which is overshadowed by the
attention drawn by Mandela, an international icon, has been
conducted with sensitivity, Glaser said. “He will no doubt say
all the right things.”  Obama’s arrival is of some importance to Zuma, according to
Glaser. The nation is seeking to maintain good relations with
the West to expand investment and tourism.  South Africa also is an important point of engagement for
the U.S. in Africa, he said.  “South Africa despite all its problems will still be one
of the countries that are selected as an example of a
functioning democracy, which I think is symbolically important
for the U.S.,” Glaser said. “China’s interest in Africa gives
the U.S. an incentive to remain involved in the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Centurion, South Africa at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  