-- Andy Murray Advances to Fourth Round as Rain Affects Wimbledon
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-06-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/tommy-haas-joins-robson-in-third-round-at-rain-delayed-wimbledon.html
Second-seeded Andy Murray won in
straight sets to reach the fourth round at Wimbledon, where rain
once again disrupted the grass-court tennis championship.  Men’s No. 4 David Ferrer also advanced while Sergiy Stakhovsky, who upset defending champion Roger Federer this
week, and women’s No. 7 seed Angelique Kerber were knocked out.  Rain yesterday morning in  London  delayed the start of most
of the play on Day 5 at the All England Club. That followed rain
two days ago that forced the postponement or suspension of eight
matches. While the weather cleared to allow some action, showers
returned yesterday afternoon and stopped matches around 5:30
p.m. for about two hours.  American Sloane Stephens, the women’s 17th seed, was tied
at one set apiece with Petra Cetkovska of the Czech Republic
when their third-round match was suspended by darkness. Stephens
dropped the second set 6-0 after winning the first in a
tiebreaker.  Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic, the 2011 women’s
champion and the eighth seed this year, was down a service break
in the third set to  Russia ’s Ekaterina Makarova, the 25th seed,
when their third-round match was suspended.  The Kvitova-Makarova and Stephens-Cetkovska matches are set
to resume today, when the top seeds -- Novak Djokovic and Serena Williams -- are scheduled for third-round matches.  Djokovic Today  Djokovic, from  Serbia , plays No. 28 Jeremy Chardy of
 France . Williams, an American, faces 42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm of  Japan . Also today, women’s No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska of
 Poland  meets American Madison Keys.  Murray of Britain wasn’t affected by the weather as he beat
No. 32 Tommy Robredo of Spain 6-2, 6-4, 7-5 under the closed
roof of Centre Court. He has yet to lose a set in reaching the
fourth round for the seventh straight time at Wimbledon.  “I hope I can keep playing better,” said Murray, the U.S.
Open champion. “I have to try to stay focused. There are a lot
of very tough players and young players coming through and
looking to prove themselves.”  Ferrer beat fellow Spaniard Roberto Bautista Agut 6-3, 3-6,
7-6 (7-4), 7-5, in a second-round match. Jurgen Melzer of
 Austria  defeated Stakhovsky of Ukraine 6-2, 2-6, 7-5, 6-3 in
third-round play.  Ferrer, who lost to Rafael Nadal in the French Open final
this month, needed almost three hours to beat Bautista Agut in a
match postponed from a day earlier. He’ll next face 26th-seeded
Alexandr Dolgopolov of Ukraine, who beat Colombia’s Santiago
Giraldo in straight sets.  ‘More Rallies’  “I’m trying to do my best on grass court,” Ferrer, whose
best performance at Wimbledon came as a quarterfinalist last
year, told reporters. “It’s more difficult in grass court, I’m
trying to play more rallies with my game.”  Melzer beat Stakhovsky to move into the fourth round.
Stakhovsky, ranked 116th on the ATP World Tour, handed Federer,
a seven-time champion, his earliest Wimbledon loss since 2002
three days ago.  “I’m just a little disappointed that I got so blinded by
the game I produced with Roger that I kept going with the same
game I played against Jurgen, which was just not right,”
Stakhovsky told reporters. “If I would be just a bit more
smarter on that court, I could have been a winner today, I
think.”  Kerber of  Germany  lost in three sets to Kaia Kanepi of
 Estonia  in the second round. That loss means that only half of
the top-10 men’s and women’s seeds reached the third round,
matching Wimbledon in 1996 and the French Open in 1998 for the
worst performance for high seeds at a Grand Slam since tennis
turned professional in 1968. Six of the top 10 men and four of
the women are still in the tournament.  Robson Wins  Laura Robson, the last British woman in the singles draw,
moved into the third round in straight sets over Colombia’s
Mariana Duque-Marino, and Alison Riske of the U.S. beat Urszula Radwanska of Poland in three sets.  Michelle Larcher De Brito of  Portugal , the unseeded player
who knocked out third-seeded Maria Sharapova in the second
round, lost her third-round match yesterday to  Italy ’s Karin
Knapp, 7-5, 6-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  