-- Orchard Supply Gets Approval to Hold Store Closing Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-06-28T18:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/orchard-supply-gets-approval-to-hold-store-closing-sales.html
Orchard Supply Hardware Stores
Corp. (OSHWQ) , the operator of 91 hardware stores with a $205 million
offer from  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  for at least 60 of them, won court
approval to hold going-out-of-business sales at eight
underperforming stores and potentially another 22.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi , at a hearing
today in Wilmington, Delaware, approved the company’s agreement
with liquidator Great American Group, which yesterday won an
auction for the right to run the store closing sales.  A joint venture of liquidators Hilco Merchant Resources LLC
and Gordon Brothers Retail Partners LLC made an initial offer
for a 74 percent recovery on assets to be sold, according to
court papers.  Two other bidders made offers at the auction, and after 16
rounds of bidding Great American prevailed with an offer for an
82.5 percent recovery. The liquidator’s bid represents an
increase of at least $1 million to the estate, Richard Chesley,
a lawyer for Orchard Supply, told the judge.  The hardware retailer needed to choose a liquidator quickly
to prepare the sales in advance of the U.S. Independence Day
holiday on July 4, in order to maximize the value of the assets,
Chesley said at a June 18 hearing. The holiday is an important
sales weekend for the home improvement and gardening industries.  More Sales  Orchard Supply will have the option, until July 31, to
conduct going-out-of-business sales at another 22 stores,
according to court documents.  Lowe’s, the second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
has offered $205 million for at least 60 Orchard Supply stores,
the company said in a June 17 statement. Lowe’s will also take
on amounts owed to almost all of Orchard’s suppliers.  Orchard Supply, based in  San Jose , California, said it
sought  bankruptcy protection  after sales declined as the economy
of the state, where 89 of its stores are located, deteriorated
and the U.S. slipped into the recession in late 2007. It was
unable to weather the storm like its larger rivals Home Depot
Inc. and Lowe’s, and sales dropped 21 percent from 2007 to 2010.  The case is In re Orchard Supply Hardware Stores Corp., 13-11565,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 