-- Egypt Unrest Claims 8 Lives as Obama Monitors Protests
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-06-29T14:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/thousands-rally-in-cairo-as-violence-flares-in-alexandria.html
Demonstrations in  Egypt  erupted into
clashes, killing at least eight people and leaving more than 600
injured since June 26, the Health Ministry and state-run media
reported.  Violence broke out in cities including Alexandria and Port
Said, as opposition protesters battled supporters of President
Mohamed Mursi. Hundreds of thousands of Egyptians plan to stage
nationwide protests tomorrow seeking Mursi’s resignation, in
what may be the biggest challenge to the Islamist leader since
he took office a year ago. Troops have been deployed in Cairo
and other major cities.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in  South Africa  that he’s
monitoring the protests in Egypt “with concern” and that his
“most immediate” priority is making sure U.S. embassies and
consulates are protected. A U.S. citizen, Kenyon College student
Andrew Pochter, was among at least three people killed in
Alexandria.   Five cases of mob sexual assaults in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square 
were reported to women’s rights group Nazra for Feminist
Studies, Mozn Hassan, the group’s director said on her Facebook
page today.  Since taking office, Mursi has faced a nation increasingly
impatient for the change that the overthrow of former President
 Hosni Mubarak  had promised. Unemployment has soared beyond 13
percent and foreign reserves have dropped by more than half
since the uprising. Growth is near its lowest in two decades.  Mursi’s detractors paint his first year in power as one of
turmoil and uncertainty, deepening poverty, sectarian violence,
and political polarization.  Signature Campaign  The grassroots Tamarud, or Rebel, movement collected 22
million signatures in a campaign seeking to force an early
election, the state-run Ahram Gate newspaper reported today.
That exceeded the group’s goal of 15 million signatures, more
than the number of votes Mursi won in last year’s vote.  The U.S. military has put Marines stationed in southern
 Europe  on alert in case the violence in Egypt intensifies and
imperils American citizens,  CNN  reported, citing unidentified
U.S. officials. The contingent of about 200 Marines would deploy
to Egypt to protect the embassy and U.S. citizens in the
country, according to CNN. The State Department issued a travel
warning urging U.S. citizens to defer all but essential trips to
Egypt.  Pochter, the American student killed in Alexandria, was in
the city on an internship with AMIDEAST, an American non-profit
organization, studying Arabic, Gambier, Ohio-based  Kenyon said  
late yesterday in a statement on its web site. He was 21 and
lived in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland .   ‘Constructive Conversation’  Patrick Ventrell, a State Department spokesman, confirmed
in a statement that a U.S. citizen was killed in Alexandria and
that appropriate consular services were being provided.  Obama, while saying he would like to see Morsi engaged in a
“more constructive conversation,” called on all parties to
refrain from violence and urged police and military to show
“appropriate restraint.”  “The entire region is concerned that if Egypt continues
with this constant instability, that that has adverse effects
more broadly,” Obama said in  Pretoria , where he met with South
African President  Jacob Zuma .  Obama’s emphasis on protecting U.S. diplomats comes in the
wake of the September attack on a U.S. outpost in Benghazi,
 Libya , that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
Americans. The Obama administration has been criticized by
Republicans for failing to ensure adequate security at the
facility.  Mursi’s Supporters  Instead of tackling Egypt’s economic woes, Mursi’s critics
charge, he has put the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood at
the top of his priorities, appointing Islamists to influential
positions. He has spent his time mired in power struggles,
including frequent conflicts with a justice system Islamists say
is biased against them. Mursi’s detractors accuse his backers of
trying to stack the courts.  Tens of thousands of Mursi’s supporters gathered yesterday
in Cairo, as opposition protesters met in the capital’s Tahrir
Square, state-run Ahram online said.  As members of the  Muslim Brotherhood  flocked to Nasr City’s
Rabaa Al-Adawiya mosque, Egyptian national songs blared from
loudspeakers as government supporters sat down for picnics,
according to the report. Volunteers armed with sticks were
checking identity papers at checkpoints, it said.  Meanwhile, anti-government protesters accompanied by
security forces and an ambulance, held up red cards chanting
“Down with Mursi and the Brotherhood.”  The Suez Canal Authority said 57 vessels passed through the
waterway yesterday and the traffic flow was normal. Forty-one
ships passed through the canal today, according to the
authority, which is working with the Egyptian military and
intelligence services to protect the artery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  