-- IRS’s Lerner Waived Right to Silence, House Panel Votes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-28T16:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/house-panel-readies-vote-on-lerner-s-refusal-to-testify.html
A House panel determined that
Internal Revenue Service official Lois Lerner waived her right
against self-incrimination by making a statement professing
innocence before refusing to answer questions.  The Oversight and Government Reform Committee voted 22-17
today. The committee’s action sets up a confrontation with
Lerner that may land in federal court if she still refuses to
respond to questions about her role in applying tougher scrutiny
to Tea Party groups seeking tax-exempt status.  “Lois Lerner is in fact the poster child for thumbing her
nose” at Congress, said Representative  John Mica , a Florida
Republican. “Today’s a showdown, really, on who’s in control of
the government.”  Committee members in both parties said Lerner has
information that’s crucial to the panel’s inquiry into the IRS.
They parted over how far they were willing to go to force her to
testify.  Lerner appeared before the committee May 22 and invoked her
right to avoid incriminating herself under the Constitution’s
Fifth Amendment. Before she did that, Lerner asserted her
innocence and said she broke no laws.  “I am very proud of the work that I have done in
government,” she said at the time, reading a statement at the
oversight committee hearing. “I have not done anything wrong. I
have not broken any laws.”  Representative  Darrell Issa , the committee chairman, said
Lerner had waived her rights by making the statement and then
refusing to answer questions.  ‘Entire Range’  “Her statement covers almost the entire range of questions
we wanted to ask,” Issa, a California Republican, said today.  Issa can now require Lerner to reappear before the
committee. If she refuses to testify, he could seek to hold her
in contempt, sending the matter to court, said Representative
 Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the top Democrat on the committee.  “We must respect the constitutional rights of every
witness who comes before the committee,” said Cummings, who
requested a hearing on the legal issues before voting.  Virginia Democrat Gerry Connolly said, “We are trampling
on the rights of an American citizen, and that trumps
everything.”  Lerner, the former director of exempt organizations, was in
charge of the IRS office that applied tougher scrutiny to Tea
Party groups. She has since been placed on administrative leave.  Still Employed  Without speaking specifically about Lerner, Danny Werfel,
the interim leader of the IRS, confirmed yesterday that she is
still employed. During a House Ways and Means Committee hearing,
he was asked whether anyone involved had been fired.  “Has anyone been fired yet as a procedural matter?”
Werfel said. “No. But all of these options are being pursued
where appropriate.”  Issa has said Lerner provided false or misleading
information to Congress in staff briefings over the past year.
The  Justice Department  is pursuing a criminal investigation.  Lerner’s lawyer,  William Taylor  of Zuckerman Spaeder LLP in
 Washington , didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  