-- P&G to Pfizer Profit Seen Taking Hit on Weaker Bolivar
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/p-g-to-pfizer-profit-seen-taking-hit-on-weaker-bolivar.html
U.S. companies from  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  to  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  are facing a hit to earnings as Venezuela’s
government limits access to dollars and the currency falls
further.  BlackBerry said yesterday that currency restrictions in the
Latin American country contributed to a  surprise loss  in the
quarter ended June 1. Venezuela’s government has limited access
to dollars because of currency controls during the past decade,
making it difficult for companies with foreign headquarters to
repatriate cash at the official exchange rate.  The losses are likely to continue as analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg estimate the bolivar will fall an additional 16
percent against the dollar by the end of 2014.  Clorox Co. (CLX)  and
Pfizer have said their earnings will continue to show the impact
in the coming quarters.  “That’s the challenge of emerging markets -- when it’s
good, it’s great, when it gets bad, it can get really bad, and
we’re certainly seeing that in  Venezuela ,” Clorox Chief
Financial Officer Steve Robb said in interview at Bloomberg last
month. Oakland, California-based Clorox recorded a $3 million
loss in the three months ended March 31 from the devaluation.  Venezuela has devalued its currency five times in the past
nine years, most recently when it weakened the exchange rate by
32 percent to 6.3 bolivars per dollar on Feb. 8. The changes
have increased pressure on President Nicolas Maduro’s government
to accelerate the approval of foreign currency for imports after
the upheaval left behind by Hugo Chavez, who died of cancer in
March, sparked the Western Hemisphere’s fastest surge in
consumer prices, leaving Venezuelans with shortages of
everything from toilet paper to soap.  Weaken Bolivar  The country will look to weaken the bolivar this year
without making an official devaluation of the currency, as it
tries to boost revenue and narrow the budget deficit, according
to a survey of analysts. South America’s biggest crude producer
will step back from formally devaluing the bolivar for the sixth
time in nine years, said eight out of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Currency restrictions in Venezuela, a key market for
 BlackBerry (BB) , contributed to a 6 percent decline in Latin American
revenue, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company said yesterday. It
also reduced earnings per share by 10 cents.  BlackBerry Contracts  BlackBerry’s contracts with Venezuelan carriers require
that the company is paid in dollars. The carriers can only pay
in bolivars due to Venezuela’s restrictions on the availability
of dollars. BlackBerry won’t accept the local currency and isn’t
recognizing the revenue it received from the carriers because
accounting requirements mandate the company recognize sales in
the U.S. currency, the company said on a  conference call 
yesterday.  “We have strong relationships in the region and are
working to improve the cash flows in this government-controlled
process,” Chief Financial Officer Brian Bidulka said on the
call.  A stronger dollar also makes it more expensive to
repatriate profits from abroad. The greenback is gaining favor,
with economic growth in the U.S. forecast to exceed that of the
Group of 10 through at least 2015. For companies with a big
overseas presence, a stronger dollar reduces the value of
international profits and makes their products more expensive in
foreign countries.  Consumer Products  Consumer-products companies with a large presence in the
market are recording losses. Cincinnati-based P&G said in
February that it would record a charge of as much as $275
million to revalue its Venezuelan balance sheet after the
devaluation that month.  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the beauty products
manufacturer, saw revenue in Venezuela decline 15 percent in
part because of the devaluation in the first quarter, the
company said in an April filing.  Clorox, with about one-third of its international business
in Argentina and Venezuela, is projecting losses in its
Venezuela business in its fiscal 2014, Robb said on a conference
call last month.  Energy companies operating in the oil-producing nation are
also facing losses.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest
oilfield-service provider, reported a $92 million pretax cost in
the first quarter due the currency devaluation, and service
provider  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  said it had a $23 million loss.  Large U.S. pharmaceutical companies that sell their drugs
in Venezuela are divided on the long-term impact of the currency
on earnings. Merck & Co. in February said it had $140 million of
exchange losses in its Venezuelan business in the first quarter.
That reduced earnings by 5 cents a share without changing the
company’s full-year outlook.  Pfizer reported an $80 million loss from the devaluation
and said it expects the currency to have an ongoing impact on
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  