-- PBOC’s Zhou Reiterates Pledge to Maintain Stability in Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T03:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/pboc-s-zhou-reiterates-pledge-to-maintain-stability-in-markets.html
Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the nation will maintain market stability and
adjust policies at the right time, his first comments since a
record cash squeeze hit the world’s second-largest economy.  China ’s  growth  slowdown remains in a “reasonable” range
and the economy is stable, Zhou, head of the People’s Bank of
China, said today in a speech at the annual Lujiazui Forum
financial conference in  Shanghai . The nation will continue to
implement a prudent monetary policy, which has shown to be
appropriate with good results, Zhou said.  Chinese stocks rose as Zhou said he’s fully confident in
the nation’s economic prospects and financial system. He
reiterated points in the central bank’s June 25 statement that
it will use tools to safeguard stability in money markets, after
China’s overnight repurchase  rate  surged to a record high last
week.  The PBOC “will use all kinds of tools to appropriately
adjust liquidity in the market and maintain the overall
stability of the market,” Zhou said in his first public remarks
since the liquidity squeeze that sent money-market rates to the
highest in at least 10 years.  He made the points on the economy and markets at the end of
a 30-minute speech devoted mostly to discussing how Shanghai can
develop into a global financial center.  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.9 percent as of 10:40
a.m. local time, headed for the first increase since June 18.  The credit crunch, aimed at wringing speculative lending
out of the banking system, has increased chances that the
government will miss its annual target for economic growth this
year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  