-- PBOC’s Zhou Maintains Pledge to Keep Stability in Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T05:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/pboc-s-zhou-maintains-pledge-to-keep-stability-in-markets-1-.html
Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the nation will maintain market stability and
adjust policies at the right time, his first comments since a
record cash squeeze hit the world’s second-largest economy.  China’s  growth  slowdown remains in a “reasonable” range
and the economy is stable, Zhou, head of the People’s Bank of
China, said today in a speech at the annual Lujiazui Forum
financial conference in  Shanghai . The nation will continue to
implement a prudent monetary policy, which has shown to be
appropriate with good results, Zhou said.  Zhou is trying to soothe concerns that the credit crunch
will harm growth, saying today that he’s fully confident in the
nation’s economic prospects and financial system. He reiterated
points in the central bank’s June 25 statement that it will use
tools to safeguard stability in money markets, after the
overnight repurchase  rate  surged to a record high last week.  The PBOC “will use all kinds of tools to appropriately
adjust liquidity in the market and maintain the overall
stability of the market,” Zhou said in his first public remarks
since the liquidity squeeze that sent money-market rates to the
highest in at least 10 years.  The central bank will “create good monetary conditions for
stable operation of financial markets and economic
development,” Zhou said. Markets are “very sensitive” and
will have a “fast response to any signals,” he said.  He made the points on the economy and markets at the end of
a 30-minute speech devoted mostly to discussing how Shanghai can
develop into a global financial center.  Stocks Gain  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.8 percent at the 11:30
a.m. local-time break, headed for the first increase since June
18. The overnight repurchase  rate  fell for a sixth day, dropping
49 basis points, or 0.49 percentage points, to 4.96 percent.  “Zhou just reinforced the message that China would use all
tools to ensure that the interbank market won’t seize up,” said
Tim Condon, head of Asian research at ING Groep NV in  Singapore .
A lack of additional comment on the liquidity squeeze may be
“designed to keep the threat in place that banks cannot be
confident that there will be uninterrupted abundant liquidity in
the interbank market,” said Condon, who formerly worked at the
World Bank.  The credit crunch, aimed at wringing speculative lending
out of the banking system, has increased chances that the
government will miss its annual target for economic growth this
year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Forecasts Cut  Goldman Sachs,  China  International Capital Corp. Barclays
Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc this month pared their growth
projections for this year to 7.4 percent, below the government’s
7.5 percent goal set at a March conference where Li Keqiang
became premier.  “China’s economy is still an important driving force for
global growth,” Zhou said. “We have full confidence in China’s
economic development in the future. We have full confidence in
China’s financial industry and financial markets.”  Bank of America Corp. said in a report today that the worst
is over for China’s credit crunch and interbank lending rates
are likely to “gradually moderate in the next couple of
weeks.”  “A seasonal decline in liquidity demand in early July will
also facilitate this process,” Lu Ting, head of Greater China
economics in Hong Kong, said in the report.  Today’s remarks were Zhou’s most extensive on the economy
since April, when he said the nation needs to “sacrifice short-term growth” to make reforms. Zhou, 65, was reappointed as
governor in March, adding to a record decade in office.  China will expand cross-border use of the  yuan  and
encourage multinational companies to include the currency in
their asset portfolios, Zhou said. The country will allow direct
trading between the yuan and additional currencies and push
forward convertibility in the capital account without giving up
control of capital flows, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  