-- Asian Currencies Advance in Week on Fed Optimism; Dong Devalued
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-06-29T00:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/peso-leads-weekly-gain-in-asia-currencies-vietnam-devalues-dong.html
Asian currencies advanced, snapping
a two-week slump, on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will hold
off from paring asset purchases after U.S. first-quarter growth
trailed an earlier estimate.  The world’s largest economy expanded 1.8 percent in the
first three months, less than a prior assessment of 2.4 percent,
official data showed June 26. Fed Bank of  New York  President
William C. Dudley said on June 27 the monthly debt-buying
program, which has boosted dollar supply, could be prolonged
should growth miss forecasts.  India ’s rupee rebounded from a
record low of 60.7650 per dollar reached June 26 while  Vietnam 
devalued its currency for the first time since 2011.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar  Index (PCOMP)  of 10 regional
currencies rose 0.4 percent this week to 115.79. The Philippine
peso strengthened 1.2 percent since June 21 to 43.205 per dollar,
the best weekly gain in a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit jumped 1.2 percent to 3.1648 and
the South Korean won climbed 1.1 percent 1,142.06. Taiwan’s
dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to NT$30.12.  “The reaction to the possible Fed tapering is a bit
overdone,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president and
head of financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in Manila. “We
should see some interest in Philippine assets as investors
realize that our economic fundamentals are intact.”  The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds each month to keep
borrowing costs low and spur growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said June 19 the central bank may taper the stimulus
measures this year and end them in 2014 as long as the economy
performs in line with its projections.  Regional Growth  The peso pared a monthly drop as the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index rallied almost 12 percent in the past three days.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said June
26 that Philippine economic fundamentals remain intact and the
central bank’s low-interest-rate policy will continue.  The won advanced for a fourth day after South Korean
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said June 25 the government stands
ready to stabilize financial markets and manage risks, including
concerns about the unwinding of U.S. monetary stimulus. The
ministry on June 27 raised its annual growth forecast to 2.7
percent from 2.3 percent, and the central bank reported the
surplus in the current account increased to a record $8.64
billion in May.  “The authorities gave a signal this week that they may
intervene,” said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank
in  Seoul . “South Korea’s current-account surplus seemed to be
sound and the government suggested the nation’s economic
fundamentals improved.”  Indian Rupee  The rupee surged 1.4 percent today, the most since
September 2012, to 59.39 per dollar. That almost erased its
losses for the week and pared a monthly drop to 4.7 percent. It
sank 8.5 percent this quarter, the most since the three months
through June 2012, on concern capital outflows will accelerate
if the Fed cuts its debt purchases. Global funds pulled $571
million from Indian shares in the first three days of the week,
taking outflows in June to $1.6 billion, exchange data show.  “We should see more voices from the U.S. downplaying
global concerns and the rupee should see a more steady
correction from here,” said Harihar Krishnamoorthy, Mumbai-based treasurer at the Indian unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)   The  Reserve Bank  of India has sold dollars in the past two
weeks to curb the rupee’s decline, traders said, asking not to
be named as the information isn’t public.  China, Vietnam  China ’s  yuan  strengthened the most in a month today after
central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the nation will
maintain market stability, his first comment since a record cash
crunch that spurred concern growth will slow. Borrowing costs
for Chinese banks surged the most in at least six years in June
as rating companies said the funding shortage threatens to swell
bad loans.  “The panic is over as investors now have better clarity of
the PBOC’s intention,” said Banny Lam, the Hong Kong-based co-head of research at Agricultural Bank of China International
Securities Ltd., a unit of the nation’s third-largest lender.
“The prospect of allowing more global usage of the yuan will
support the  exchange rate  in the longer term.”  The yuan rose 0.19 percent to 6.1376 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
the biggest one-day gain since May 27, according to China
Foreign Exchange Trade System prices. The currency lost 0.06
percent this week and advanced 1.2 percent this quarter.  Vietnam’s central bank devalued its currency and cut the
interest-rate cap on dollar deposits to help “improve” the
balance of payments and boost foreign-exchange reserves.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam weakened its  reference rate  for
the currency by 1 percent to 21,036 dong per dollar, effective
today, according to a statement released on June 27. The
currency, which is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on
either side of the fixing, fell 0.9 percent to 21,205 in Hanoi,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in Asia, Thailand’s baht rose 0.4 percent from a
week earlier to 31 per dollar while Indonesia’s rupiah climbed
0.1 percent to 9,925. Singapore’s dollar rose 0.5 percent to
S$1.2655 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  