-- Philippine Peso Heads for Best Week in a Year on Growth Optimism
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-06-28T04:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/philippine-peso-heads-for-best-week-in-a-year-on-growth-optimism.html
The Philippine peso headed for the
best week in a year as the nation’s economic growth attracted
investors amid bets the U.S. will hold off from paring stimulus
measures that have boosted dollar supply.  The currency pared a monthly drop as the  Philippine Stock
Exchange (PCOMP)  Index rallied more than 11 percent in the past three
days after entering a  bear market  this week. Philippine  gross
domestic product  expanded 7.8 percent in the first quarter, the
most in the region. The peso rose for a fourth day today after a
report this week showed the  U.S. economy  expanded less than
previously estimated, boosting optimism the  Federal Reserve  will
delay a plan to cut asset purchases. Global funds  bought  $65
million more local shares than they sold in the last two days.  “The reaction to the possible Fed tapering is a bit
overdone and we should see some interest in Philippine assets as
investors realize that our economic fundamentals are intact,”
said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president and head of
financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in  Manila .  The peso rose 0.3 percent today and 1.1 percent in the week
to 43.257 per dollar at 11:48 a.m. in Manila, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. That’s the biggest five-day advance since
June 2012, which pared this month’s loss to 2.3 percent.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 7.94 percent. The measure
slid 147 basis points since June 21.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the central bank
may trim its $85 billion a month of debt buying this year and
end it in 2014 as long as the economy performs in line with its
projections.  Inflation, Rates  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco told a
forum on June 26 that Philippine economic fundamentals remain
intact and the central bank’s low-interest-rate policy will
continue as inflation is near the bottom end of the 3 percent to
5 percent target. Consumer prices may have risen 2 percent to
2.9 percent this month, Tetangco said yesterday.  Bangko Sentral cut the rate on its special deposit accounts
thrice this year to 2 percent and kept its overnight borrowing
rate at a record low 3.5 percent. Inflation in May at 2.6
percent was unchanged from a 13-month low in April.  “Low inflation and  interest rates  will continue to support
growth,” Security Bank’s Algarra said.  Auction Plan  The  Philippines ’s Bureau of the Treasury kept the size of
its debt auction plan for the next quarter unchanged and said on
June 25 it will offer 10-year securities targeting individuals
along with three- and five-year notes in the three months ending
September.  The yield on the 6.125 percent bond due October 2037 fell
10 basis points today and 30 basis points this week to 5.20
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate
climbed to 6.25 percent on June 24, the highest since the notes
were first sold in October.  “It’s probably a stretch to think asset prices will go
back to record levels but we will be seeing some interest after
the recent rout,” Algarra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  