-- Pimco’s Emerging-Market Equity Research Head Leaves Firm
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-28T17:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/pimco-s-emerging-market-equity-research-head-leaves-firm.html
Pacific Investment Management Co., a
bond fund company that started expanding into stocks more than
three years ago, said its head of  emerging-markets  equity
research John Longhurst has left the firm.  “After a 28-year career in the industry, Mr. Longhurst has
decided to step back from the industry for personal reasons,”
Michael Reid, a spokesman for Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco, said in an e-mailed statement. “Mr. Longhurst’s primary
research coverage of industrial companies has been assumed by
Martin Moorman, who has extensive research experience of over 20
years in this area.”  Longhurst joined Pimco in October 2011 when the firm added
five investment professionals to complete its emerging-markets
stock group. His exit comes five months after  Neel Kashkari , who
joined Pimco in December 2009 to help oversee its expansion into
stocks and served as head of global equities, said he was
leaving to consider returning to public service. Pimco, which
has more than 90 percent of its assets in bond-related
strategies, has been seeking to reduce its dependence on the
fixed-income market. Co-founder  Bill Gross  has said that the
three-decade bull market in bonds probably ended two months ago.  The $568 million  Pimco EqS Emerging Markets Fund (PEQWX) , which
began in March 2011, declined 7.4 percent this year through
yesterday and gained 7.6 percent in the past 12 months, beating
64 percent of peers in both periods, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The fund uses tail-risk hedging to protect
investors from losses during extreme market volatility.  Longhurst’s exit was reported June 24 by Financial News.
Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , managed $2
trillion in assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  