-- Gilts Climb Third Day as Fed Officials Seek to Limit Yield Jump
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-06-28T11:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/pound-little-changed-after-u-k-confidence-house-price-reports.html
U.K. government bonds rose for a
third day after Federal Reserve officials intensified their
efforts to limit an increase in U.S. long-term interest rates,
boosting the appeal of fixed-income assets.  Benchmark  10-year gilts  headed for a weekly advance after a
British report yesterday showed gross domestic product shrank
more than previously estimated from its peak in 2008 to the
depths of the recession. U.K. government securities still headed
for their  worst quarter  in five years amid concern central banks
around the world will curtail stimulus. The pound weakened
against the euro and the dollar before the  Bank of England ’s
monetary policy decision next week.  “Gilts have come back at bit, driven by the soothing
comments from several Fed speakers,” said Simon Peck, a rates
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “The
market is still very worried that the Fed has embarked on a
regime change. If we get weakness in data, it will back up the
soothing words. There are risks toward a further rally.”  The 10-year gilt yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.40 percent at 12:54 p.m. London time,
having dropped two basis points this week. The 1.75 percent
security due in September 2022 rose 0.25, or 2.50 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,525) face amount, to 94.69.  The yield has still increased 63 basis points  this quarter ,
the most since the three months ended June 2008.  Fed Purchases  Any decision to reduce the pace of asset purchases wouldn’t
represent a withdrawal of stimulus, William C. Dudley, president
of the Fed Bank of  New York , said yesterday. Bond purchases may
be prolonged if economic performance fails to meet the Fed’s
forecasts, he said.  Gilts rose even as U.K. reports today showed  consumer
confidence  climbed to the highest level in more than two years
and house prices increased.  U.K. government securities handed investors a loss of 3.4
percent this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg
World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped 1.7 percent and
Treasuries declined 2.4 percent, the indexes show.  Former Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  replaces  Mervyn
King  as governor of the Bank of  England  on July 1, and the
London-based central bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee announces its decision on July 4.  Policy makers will maintain the asset-purchase  target 
unchanged at 375 billion pounds and keep the benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent at the meeting, according to
Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said on June 26
that growth in the U.K. remains “pretty weak and anemic” as he
renewed his call for more asset purchases.  U.K. ‘Overshot’  “As many MPC members have been keen to tell us in the last
couple of weeks, the U.K. economy is not in the same place as
the U.S.,” Michael Amey, a  money manager  at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in London said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson .
“The U.K. has overshot and rate hikes here are a long way
off.”  The pound depreciated 0.3 percent to 85.73 pence per euro,
extending this week’s decline to 0.7 percent. Sterling fell 0.l
percent to $1.5245 after sliding to $1.5202 yesterday, the
lowest level since June 3.  The pound has dropped 1.3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro gained 5 percent and the
dollar climbed 6.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  