-- Probe of Contractor Vetting Snowden Sees Falsified Data
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-06-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/probe-of-contractor-vetting-snowden-sees-falsified-data.html
U.S. investigators have uncovered
evidence the federal contractor that did a background check on
Edward Snowden falsified its work dating to 2008, according to
two people familiar with the situation.  The company, USIS, told the government it had completed
primary and secondary background investigations between 2008 and
2011 when evidence suggests otherwise, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak about the investigation. The  Washington  Post reported the
findings yesterday.  The company conducted at least one review of Snowden, the
former National Security Agency contractor who this month
exposed U.S. classified programs to collect phone records of
Americans and monitor Internet communications of suspected
foreign terrorists.  Patrick McFarland, inspector general for the U.S. Office of
Personnel Management, said during a congressional hearing last
week his agency is investigating USIS. He said he believes there
may have been shortcomings in the company’s vetting of Snowden.  Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, said during
the hearing that the company is under criminal investigation and
the inspector general’s probe is tied to “systemic failure to
adequately conduct investigations.”  USIS is the government’s top provider of federal background
check investigations, handling about 45 percent of the reviews
that the Office of Personnel Management hires contractors to
perform. The company is part of Falls Church, Virginia-based
Altegrity Inc., owned by Providence Equity Partners LLC.  USIS Investigation  Ray Howell, a USIS spokesman, didn’t respond to questions
about whether the company skipped required steps. “USIS has
been fully cooperating with the government throughout this
process,” Howell said in an e-mail.  The inspector general works with the Justice Department to
conduct investigations as soon as it finds evidence of
wrongdoing, Susan Ruge, spokeswoman for the inspector general,
said in a phone interview. She declined to comment further.  USIS was responsible for a “re-investigation” of Snowden
that was tied to his clearance renewal, McFarland said. It isn’t
clear who conducted Snowden’s original background check, which
wasn’t done by the personnel office, according to the inspector
general’s office.  The company has been under investigation since late 2011 by
the IG’s office, Michelle Schmitz, assistant inspector general
for investigations, said at last week’s hearing.  Vetting Process  Snowden’s disclosures have drawn attention to the
government’s vetting process and to the companies that gain from
reviewing the backgrounds of some 4.9 million workers authorized
to access classified materials.  USIS received a subpoena in January 2012 from the inspector
general and “has cooperated fully with the government’s civil
investigative efforts,” it said in  a June 26 statement . The
company said it has never been informed that it is under
criminal investigation.  Passing a background check is required before a federal
employee or contractor can be granted a security clearance. The
Office of Personnel Management is responsible for most of them,
conducting more than 2 million investigations a year.  It wouldn’t make sense for the personnel office to suspend
or cancel its work with USIS before an investigation is
complete, said Steve Ryan, the head of government contracts at
the law firm McDermott Will & Emery LLP in Washington.  “They have to make a finding that a company lacks current
responsibility for its work in order to trigger that kind of
outcome,” Ryan said in a phone interview.  Background Checks  The government would need to significantly grow to end its
reliance on contractors for background checks, Ryan said. “The
question is, does Congress want to pay for that?” he asked.  USIS received $253 million under contract work for the
personnel management office in fiscal year 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That represented 67 percent of the
office’s spending on contracts for investigations that year.  Contractors are under tremendous pressure to complete a
growing number of security clearances as quickly as possible,
said Larry Allen, president of Allen Federal Business Partners,
a consulting firm in McLean, Virginia.  “Investigators are overworked, they don’t always feel they
are compensated fairly, and there is a lot of pressure put on
them by the Office of Personnel Management to get things done in
a timely manner,” Allen said in a telephone interview.
“Ultimately some people slip through the cracks.”  Barring USIS from doing background investigations would
have a “major impact” on the company’s profits, even though it
performs other security-related work, Allen said.  The government’s investigation of the company it pays to
check out people it wants to hire has created a “somewhat
circular situation,” he said.  “Like in any game of musical chairs, someone is left
without a seat when the music stops and it’s usually the
contractor,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  