-- Puerto Rico Losses at ’08 Drop Poised to Keep Value: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-28T14:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/puerto-rico-losses-at-08-drop-poised-to-keep-value-muni-credit.html
Debt from  Puerto Rico , with a credit
rating lower than any U.S. state, is set for the worst month in
almost five years. The losses signal a potential rebound as
rising interest rates lure back investors.  In a sign that demand is already returning to the riskiest
local bonds,  Illinois  had to spurn buyers at an offer of $1.3
billion of general obligations this week, even as the state
faces the nation’s biggest pension liability.  Puerto Rico securities are tax-exempt nationwide. That
status underscored the appeal as yields on its debt reached 5.22
percent on June 24, the highest since at least 2011 and about
8.6 percent on a taxable basis for top earners,  Standard &
Poor’s  data show. Commonwealth bonds have still lost  5.3 percent 
this month, the most since September 2008, according to S&P.
Munis have joined broader fixed-income declines on bets the
Federal Reserve will slow its bond purchases as the economy
improves.  “Our retail clients have certainly been interested in the
higher yields that Puerto Rico’s been offering,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income research in Philadelphia at
Janney Montgomery Scott.  Held Nationwide  The island’s debt is held by bond funds across the U.S.
because of its tax-free status. The self-governing commonwealth
of 3.7 million people had $53 billion of net tax-supported debt
in 2012, more than all but two states --  California  and New York
-- according to Moody’s Investors Service. The debt load is a
reason the three major  credit rating  agencies grade Puerto Rico
one level above junk, with a negative outlook.  Prices of Puerto Rico obligations are stabilizing as
lawmakers this week are poised to pass a budget for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, Maria Martinez, spokeswoman for senate
President Eduardo Bhatia, said by telephone. The commonwealth
also enacted higher taxes on petroleum products that will help
the Puerto Rico Highways & Transportation Authority repay $2.2
billion to the Government Development Bank, which handles the
island’s capital-markets transactions.  “There’s been some good news in Puerto Rico,” Schankel
said.  Puerto Rico debt will also benefit as the broader tax-exempt market has begun to rebound, Schankel said.  Rebound Reach  Yields on benchmark 10-year munis fell 0.12 percentage
point yesterday to  2.8 percent , the biggest drop since May 2009,
and dropped again today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Also
this week, an index of Puerto Rico yields fell the most since at
least 2011.  Individuals buying Puerto Rico bonds through a broker
increased their purchases as muni trades set a daily record this
week, said John Bagley, president of New York-based BondDesk
Trading, a platform for transactions in munis and other fixed-income securities.  The system recorded 11,590 muni trades on June 25, a
record, Bagley said. The platform began trading munis in 2002.
While in early June sales of commonwealth bonds matched the
amount purchased, that dynamic has shifted, Bagley said.  “At the end of June in Puerto Rico, it was really like
two-thirds of the business was buying and one-third was
selling,” Bagley said.  The volatility hasn’t changed Puerto Rico’s borrowing
plans. It is set to refinance commonwealth debt and highway
authority bonds in the next three months, the GDB said in an e-mail through Joele Frank, a New York communications firm.  Hurdles Ahead  Puerto Rico still faces hurdles. An index measuring its
economy dropped 3.5 percent in April compared with a year
earlier, according to the GDB. The island’s jobless rate was
 13.4 percent  in May, higher than in any state.  “Puerto Rico’s economy is not faring well at all,”
William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York, said at a press briefing in New York this week.  While the island’s spending plan is balanced through a new
business tax and an expanded sales levy, achieving its targets
will be a challenge, said Joseph Pangallozzi, managing director
at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which oversees $114 billion of
munis.  “They have to meet those revenue targets,” he said by
phone. “They have to stay within their spending projections.”  For some buyers, the risk is worth it. The 5.03 percent
yield on Puerto Rico bonds due in 18 years is 1.33 percentage
points more than benchmark munis.  The rebound of the past few days wasn’t enough to prevent
historic outflows from municipal-bond funds. Investors withdrew
$4.5 billion for the week through June 26, the most since at
least 1992, when Lipper US Fund Flows began tracking the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  