-- Putin Allies Buy Finnish Hockey Team to Play for Russian Title
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-06-28T14:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/putin-allies-buy-finnish-hockey-team-to-play-for-russian-title.html
Gennady Timchenko  and two other
billionaire acquaintances of President  Vladimir Putin  bought a
stake in Jokerit ice hockey team, moving the club from Finland’s
top league to Russia’s answer to the NHL.  Timchenko, Arkady Rotenberg and Boris Rotenberg will also
buy Hartwall Areena in Helsinki, Jokerit’s home rink and
Finland’s largest event venue, with a seating capacity of about
13,500, according to an e-mailed statement from the business
partners’ Arena Events Oy venture. The price wasn’t disclosed.  Finland’s SM-liiga has lost some of its best players to the
Kontinental Hockey League in recent years as big-spending
Russian owners pay better salaries with generous transfer fees.
Jokerit’s wage budget of 3 million euros ($3.9 million),
Finland’s largest last season, would place it last in the KHL,
tying Metallurg Novokuznetsk in a spending  table  led by Ak Bars
Kazan with 24.7 million euros.  “Jokerit will regularly be playing against the best teams
in  Europe ,” the partners said in the statement. “The new
shareholders believe that interest in ice hockey in Finland will
increase further.”  Timchenko, the billionaire co-founder of energy trader
Gunvor Group, is also president of hockey club SKA in  St.
Petersburg , a 3.5-hour train ride from Helsinki. Boris Rotenberg
and his son Roman hold Finnish citizenship, according to the
statement, as does Timchenko, the country’s richest man.  Arkady Rotenberg, a former judo partner of Putin, is the
chairman of reigning KHL champion Dynamo Moscow. Putin
 congratulated  him personally after last season’s victory. Roman
Rotenberg is vice president of marketing at SKA St. Petersburg.  Five Championships  Harry Harkimo, the Finnish real estate developer and sports
investor, sold the stakes in Jokerit and the arena after taking
charge of the struggling team 23 years ago and managed the club
to five domestic championships in 1992 to 2002.  “Our budget will become much bigger upon entering the
KHL,” Harkimo told reporters today in Helsinki. “I don’t want
to participate, I want us to win.”  The club’s former players include Teemu Selanne, the leader
in points scored in the Olympics, and five-time Stanley Cup
champion Jari Kurri.  The previous general manager of Jokerit, Jarmo Kekalainen,
left his post in February to become the first European general
manager in the  National Hockey League  as the  Columbus Blue
Jackets  hired him for the position.  Eurovision, Cats  Hartwall Areena, Harkimo’s brainchild and a venue named
after a brewer owned by  Heineken NV (HEIA) , was built to be ready for
the ice hockey world championships in 1997. The venue has hosted
concerts from artists including  Snoop Dogg , Red Hot Chili
Peppers and Prince as well as events such as the Eurovision song
contest and Cats musical.  Publisher  Sanoma Oyj (SAA1V)  sold its 18 percent stake in Helsinki
Halli Oy, Harkimo’s holding company for the team and arena, it
said in a statement two weeks ago. Jokerit’s local rival HIFK is
currently studying plans to build a new multipurpose arena
Helsinki Garden in the coming years.  A total of  40 Finnish players  played in the KHL last
season, its fourth most common nationality before Canada,
according to quanthockey.com.  The KHL, which was set up in 2008 with the support of Putin
and OAO Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Alexander
Medvedev , includes teams from Russia, Ukraine, Latvia,
Kazakhstan, Belarus,  Czech Republic , Slovakia and Croatia.
Danish TV package provider Viasat A/S this week announced it
will start broadcasting KHL matches in Finland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  