-- Transneft Seeks to Resolve Dispute at Baltic Oil Port
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-06-28T11:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/transneft-seeks-to-resolve-dispute-at-baltic-oil-port.html
OAO Transneft,  Russia ’s pipeline
operator, and OAO Rosneft, the nation’s biggest oil company, are
trying to resolve a tug boat dispute that disrupted exports at
Primorsk port, a Transneft spokesman said.  Some tankers are loading again, after a halt yesterday at
the Baltic port, one of two handling Russia’s seaborne crude
exports to northwest Europe, though the dispute wasn’t yet
settled as of noon Moscow time, Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for OAO
Transneft, said by phone.  One crude tanker was loading this morning and another was
waiting to be loaded, while refined oil products were transfered
onto two other tankers at the terminal during last night and
this morning, as expected, Dyomin said. Decisions on which ships
may berth were made on an ad-hoc basis, he said.  Russia plans to ship less than 1 million barrels a day of
Urals crude from Primorsk port for a second month in July, a
loading program showed yesterday. The tally is little changed
from June, which was the lowest loading rate in more than five
years.  The port halted loadings because Rosnefteflot tug boats
didn’t have the necessary approvals, Dyomin said yesterday.
Rosneft, which co-owns Rosnefteflot with Sovcomflot, said in an
e-mailed statement today that the tug boats in Primorsk “have
all the rights” to conduct operations.  The tug boats, used to guide vessels to their loading
positions, had been certified according to relevant laws and
requirements, according to Rosneft.  The Urals grade in northwest  Europe  cost 25 cents a barrel
more than North Sea benchmark Dated Brent today, compared with a
16-cent premium yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  