-- REIT Rout Seen Curtailing Deals as Rising Rates Cut Share Sales
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/reit-rout-seen-curtailing-deals-as-rising-rates-cut-share-sales.html
Property purchases by U.S. real
estate investment  trusts  are likely to be curtailed after almost
$36 billion of deals this year as a tumble in share  prices  makes
a key source of capital costlier.  The Bloomberg REIT Index has dropped 11 percent from an
almost six-year high in May as the yield on 10-year Treasury
 notes  surged amid speculation the Federal Reserve would reduce
bond purchases, which have kept borrowing costs low. The decline
was three times the slump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Just five U.S. property REITs have sold shares this month,
down from 14 in May and eight in April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and  Tom Barrack ’s house-rental trust
Colony American Homes Inc. postponed an initial public offering
in early June. Because federal tax laws require REITs to
distribute most of their earnings to investors through
dividends, the companies rely on stock and debt sales to raise
money for real estate purchases.  “For most property types, I think we’ve hit the pause
button,” said  Jim Sullivan , a managing director at Green Street
Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach , California-based real estate
research firm. “We’re going to see a period here where REIT
executives are very careful in what they do with respect to new
acquisitions.”  Purchases completed by U.S. REITs through June 27 were
double the $17.6 billion in the year-earlier period, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year’s total was boosted by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s sale of apartment owner
Archstone Inc. to Equity Residential and AvalonBay Communities
Inc. for $16 billion, including $9.5 billion in assumed debt.
The deal was completed in February.  Pending Deals  REITs also have $17.5 billion in pending acquisitions
announced this year, led by Mid-America Apartment Communities
Inc.’s planned purchase of Colonial Properties Trust for about
$2.2 billion in stock.  A decline in deals may limit a rebound in commercial-property values. A Green Street index of prices, compiled from
estimates of REIT holdings, had recovered all of its losses from
the real estate collapse and as of May was 4 percent higher than
its previous peak in August 2007.  With bond yields low, REITs have been an attractive
investment alternative with their higher, steady returns -- an
advantage disappearing with rising  interest rates . Since REITs
rely on the equity and debt markets to raise money for
acquisitions, they are vulnerable to jumps in interest rates.
They have access to capital through credit agreements that they
can use for short-term funding obligations, said Keven Lindemann, real estate group director at SNL Financial in
Charlottesville, Virginia.  Market Turmoil  “The near-term impact of the market turmoil is that we
won’t see any significant equity issuance until the market
stabilizes,” he said in a telephone interview.  REITs will be reluctant to take on debt as a replacement
for stock sales because they won’t want to boost leverage and
make themselves even less attractive to investors, said Craig Guttenplan, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London . Tapping
into existing property would be a better source of new capital
for the companies, he said.  “They’re not going to leverage themselves to the hilt,”
Guttenplan said. “They’re going to look at asset sales.”  Single-tenant and health-care REITs have been among the
most active issuers of equity this year. The sectors have been
attractive to investors because of the stable cash flows offered
by the long duration of their tenants’ leases, making them
comparable to bonds.  Single Tenant  Since the slide in REIT shares began, the two groups have
been hit harder than other types of landlords. The Bloomberg
single-tenant index has  dropped  19 percent since May 21, and the
health-care REIT  index  has slumped 16 percent.  One of the biggest REIT buyouts completed this year was in
the single-tenant industry, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Escondido, California-based  Realty Income Corp. (O) , the
largest landlord in the sector, purchased American Realty
Capital Trust Inc. for about $2 billion excluding debt, in a
deal completed in January.  Health Care REIT Inc. (HCN) , the third-largest REIT in its sector
by market value, had the largest property-trust equity offering
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In May, it
 sold  $1.5 billion in shares, excluding underwriter allotments,
at $73.50 each to pay debt and for general purposes, including
acquisitions. The Toledo, Ohio-based company also last month
completed a $697 million investment in a joint venture to own a
majority stake in 47 Canadian housing properties for the
elderly.  On Sidelines  Such purchases may become less common now, said Paul Adornato, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  New York .  “The REITs are probably just going to sit on the sidelines
for the dust to settle before they do the math and make the
decision if an acquisition makes sense,” he said in a telephone
interview. “It’ll take some time for the dust to settle to see
where REITs stand relative to the broader market and what the
implications are for the cost of capital.”  Health-care and single-tenant REITs historically have grown
through acquisitions to boost dividends, said Sam Lieber, chief
executive officer of Purchase, New York-based Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC, which manages the Alpine Funds. The
return from their acquisitions is the spread between the cost of
raising capital and the yield from property purchases. Share-price declines and rising interest rates tend to increase the
cost of capital, reducing returns.  “They don’t offer a lot of growth,” Lieber said.  Lease Lengths  Single-tenant and health-care REITs have less flexibility
to raise rents because of their lease lengths, which are making
other REIT types more appealing to investors. Apartment,
industrial and regional-mall landlords are attractive because
they have a greater ability to raise rents and grow internally,
said Paul Curbo, a portfolio manager in  Dallas  with  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ) , which had $752 billion under management as of May.  “Internal growth starts to matter more,” he said in a
telephone interview. “We still favor those kinds of
companies.”  Even the more desirable REIT types are cutting back on
equity sales. This week,  UDR Inc. (UDR) , a Highlands Ranch, Colorado-based apartment owner, reduced its 2013 forecast for equity
offerings to zero from a previous estimate of as much as $125
million. UDR, whose shares are trading at a discount to what its
properties are worth, won’t sell any shares until its stock gets
back to at least the company’s net asset value, according to
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Herzog.  No Shares  “At current  price levels  we would not issue shares, but
that does not preclude us in the future if our share price were
higher,” he said.  REIT shares have gained 5 percent in the past three days as
10-year Treasury yields fell to the lowest in a week.  Federal
Reserve  officials said yesterday that investors may have
overreacted to prospects for a reduction in the central bank’s
bond-buying program.  Demand from investors across the commercial real estate
industry remains strong, said Raymond Torto, global chief
economist at CBRE Group Inc., the world’s biggest commercial-property services firm.  “If someone said to you two months ago, ‘I will sell you
the building at this price,’ he’ll stick to that price today,”
Torto said yesterday at a conference in New York. “The buyer
may have higher borrowing costs. That will slow things down, but
I don’t see the seller changing his price. If that guy can’t get
the money, there’s 10 guys behind him with the cash.”  Improving Economy  Rising interest rates probably would be the result of an
improving economy, which would in turn benefit REIT shares,
according to  Sheila McGrath  and Nathan Crossett of Evercore
Partners in New York.  “We expect a bounce-back for REIT stocks and believe the
recent selloff should provide investors an attractive entry
point,” the analysts wrote in a June 23 report. “If rates are
going up given an improving economic outlook and a bounce-back
from unsustainably low interest rates, like it appears, we
believe this short-term correction should be viewed as an
opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  