-- Reliance, ONGC Surge After India Raises Gas Price: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-06-28T07:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/reliance-ongc-surge-after-india-raises-gas-price-mumbai-mover.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  India ’s biggest energy explorers, led Indian
stocks higher after the nation’s cabinet agreed to increase the
price of natural gas.  Reliance rose as much as 5.2 percent to 873 rupees, headed
for its steepest gain since Feb. 20, and traded 2.6 percent
higher at 851.50 rupees as of 12:03 p.m. in Mumbai. ONGC surged
as much as 10 percent and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  9.2 percent. The
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  climbed 1.9 percent.  The cabinet approved a pricing formula recommended in
December by a panel led by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the
prime minister’s Economic Advisory Council, Oil Minister
Veerappa Moily told reporters in  New Delhi  today. The new rates
will be effective from April 1, 2014, as a weighted average of
traded gas prices in the U.S. and U.K. and imports by Japan and
India in 2013, Oil Secretary Vivek Rae said. The price may be as
high as $8 per million British thermal units next year from $4.2
per million Btu at present, he said.  “Apart from improving our profitability, this will also
encourage more investments in India’s oil and gas sector,” T.K. Ananth Kumar, finance director at Oil India, said in a phone
interview. “It will encourage companies to become much more
aggressive in exploring for new gas.”  The higher price will increase Reliance’s earnings per
share by 5.3 rupees at the current rate of output, Niraj Mansingka and Kiran Tulasi, Mumbai-based analysts at Edelweiss
Securities Ltd., said in a report today. Each dollar increase in
gas rates will raise Oil India’s annual net income by about 2.5
billion rupees ($41.8 million), Kumar said.  Output Falls  Reliance, controlled by India’s richest man  Mukesh Ambani ,
and partner  BP Plc (BP/)  have been seeking higher prices of natural
gas even as production from their field in India, the nation’s
biggest, has slumped in the past three years. The drop in output
and aging fields operated by ONGC have forced the country to
import expensive gas, which has contributed to a widening
 current account deficit  and a drop in the rupee to a record low.  “Higher gas prices will encourage more investments in
exploration and make smaller pools of gas economically viable to
produce,” said Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-based analyst at BOB
Capital Markets Ltd. “Higher gas price will also increase cost
of power generation and fertilizer production and the government
will have to take care of that.”  Every $1 increase in the price of gas will make an
additional 10 trillion cubic feet of natural gas economically
viable to produce, Sharma said. India had 47 trillion cubic feet
of proven gas reserves at the end of 2012, according to BP data.  Selling Price  Reliance has been selling gas from the KG-D6 block off
India’s east coast at $4.2 per million Btu since it started
production in April 2009. The government more than doubled ONGC
and Oil India’s selling price to $4.2 per million Btu in May
2010.  Output from the KG-D6 block slid more than 75 percent since
2010 as the reserves proved geologically difficult to recover.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is seeking to boost energy
exploration and production and cut an import bill that widened
the current account deficit to a record in the three months
ended Dec. 31. The deficit narrowed to $18.1 billion in January
through March, compared with $31.9 billion in the preceding
three months, the  Reserve Bank  of India said yesterday.  India’s gas imports increased to 30 percent of total
consumption in the year ended March 31 from 20 percent two years
ago, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in New Delhi
today. Overseas purchases may rise to 234 million cubic meters a
day in 2017 from 50 million last year if local output is not
increased, he said.  “We believe these new prices will increase investment and
then production,” Chidambaram said.  The rupee slumped to a record 60.7650 per dollar on June
26. The currency has dropped 6.1 percent this month, the worst
performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  