-- Republicans Eye Splitting Farms, Food Stamps for Measure
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-28T19:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/republicans-eye-splitting-farms-food-stamps-for-measure.html
Republican leaders in the U.S. House
are exploring divorcing  farm subsidies  from  food stamps  to
revive an agriculture bill, breaking up a political alliance
that for decades expanded spending on farmers and hungry
families.  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a  Virginia  Republican, is
considering the possibility of advancing a slimmer, farm-only
plan that can win enough Republican votes to pass, according to
a party aide who spoke yesterday on condition of anonymity. A
bill without food stamps wouldn’t need support from Democrats,
who have championed the nutrition program for more than three
decades and joined Republicans to defeat the bill last week.  The effort is backed by House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , the 2012 Republican vice presidential
nominee, and Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, a former Agriculture
Committee chairman, both of whom voted against the legislation.  “I believe we should” split the bill, Goodlatte said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for
“Capitol Gains” to be broadcast June 30. The non-food-stamp
part of the bill “would face a good fate,” he said, while the
proposed $20.5 billion in cuts to food stamps “are not
sufficient, and we need to do more work on that.”  The farm legislation, which benefits crop-buyers such as
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , grocers including  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  and
insurers including  Wells Fargo & Co ., has been working through
Congress for almost two years. The Senate on June 10 passed a
plan that would cost $955 billion over a decade. Current
legislation begins to expire Sept. 30.  Bill Defeated  The House, which refused to take up the Senate bill last
year, defeated a $939 billion re-authorization of U.S.
Department of Agriculture programs in a 195-234 vote on June 20.
Democrats opposed a 2.5 percent cut in food-stamp spending and
an  amendment  backed by Cantor that would have let states set
work requirements for recipients, while more than one-quarter of
the Republicans deserted their leadership over objections to its
cost.  Food assistance has been part of farm legislation since
1977, when  Jimmy Carter  was president, marrying the interests of
urban and rural lawmakers. Since then, the number of
participants in what’s officially called the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program has more than doubled to more than
47 million from  17 million , while the ranks of rural lawmakers
has declined, making them more dependent on representatives of
urban districts with needy constituents to back farm subsidies.  Fresh Scrutiny  Mounting federal debt has brought fresh scrutiny to both
types of aid, as agriculture profits are projected to reach a
record  $128.2 billion  this year and food-stamp costs more than
doubled from 2008 to  $78.4 billion  last year. The  House
Republican Study Committee , the party’s largest caucus, has
pushed leaders to treat the issues separately, as has a
coalition of small-government groups that consider food-assistance and crop-subsidy spending wasteful.  “We are encouraged to hear reports that House Republican
leaders are actively considering the separation of the so-called
farm bill,” said Michael Needham, chief executive officer of
Heritage Action, an advocacy organization tied to the  Heritage
Foundation , led by former South Carolina Republican Senator  Jim DeMint , in a statement yesterday. “This is an important first
step to restoring fiscal sanity and transparency to this
debate.”  Different Policies  “Farm policy and food-stamp policy are different,” said
Representative Marlin Stutzman, an Indiana Republican who has
proposed separate amendments that would remove nutrition
programs from the farm bill. “We have an opportunity to make
common-sense reforms by splitting the bill into a real, farm-only farm bill and having an honest conversation about how
 Washington  spends taxpayer money.”  Considering food stamps separately from farm subsidies
presents a quandary to supporters of funding for either, said
David Beckmann, president of Bread for the World, a Washington-based organization that fights hunger.  The two constituencies may not agree on each issue -- Bread
for the World opposed the House bill because of cuts to food
stamps and subsidies for wealthy farmers, Beckmann said. Still,
as an alliance the groups are able to get the programs through
Congress. Without each other, both groups become more vulnerable
to spending reductions, he said.  Staying Together  “Historically, when the nutrition interests and the farm
interests get together, then we’ve been able to get increases,”
he said. “I’m concerned for both hungry people and for farm
policy. I’m interested in the production of healthy food, and
that’s a reason to keep them together.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , told
reporters yesterday no path has been set on how to reconsider
farm and food legislation. “There’s a lot of conversations
going on about the farm bill and a way forward,” he said.
“There have been no decisions.”  Farmer groups are seeking to salvage a plan, either by
largely sticking with the proposal defeated by the House or by
crafting a compromise to gain a majority of votes.  “Separating farm and nutrition programs is simply a recipe
to kill the bill,”  Roger Johnson , president of the National
Farmers Union, the second-biggest U.S. farmer group, said today
in a statement.  Two bills would “be a disruption to the historic coalition
between urban, rural and conservation groups,” he said. “The
farm bill has historically been a bipartisan effort, and must
remain a bipartisan effort. It is a shame that politics are
getting in the way of providing for so many people.”  The Senate has passed a bill that would change farm-subsidy
programs and reauthorize the food-stamp program, though with
eligibility restrictions.  Senate Agriculture  Chairman  Debbie Stabenow , Democrat of  Michigan , has said a farm bill without
food stamps is a non-starter in her chamber.  The House bill is H.R. 1947; the Senate bill is S. 954.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  