-- Rising U.S. Stock Trading Faces Russell Boost: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/rising-u-s-stock-trading-faces-russell-boost-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. stock trading, already poised
for the busiest month in a year, may get another boost in volume
today as Russell Investments concludes the annual revisions to
its equity benchmark gauges.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that U.S. trading volume is on
track for the strongest month since May 2012, with approximately
7 billion shares changing hands on average each day in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Russell’s annual
revisions usually spur one of the busiest sessions of the year.
Last year’s reconstitution on June 22 helped fuel a jump in
volume to 9.73 billion shares, the highest total of the year.  “We expect the net trade is about $42 billion” solely
from the Russell changes, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. analysts
Melissa Roberts and Kelly Motta wrote in a research note this
week. The revision to the indexes “is a liquidity opportunity,
which may offer attractive exit and entry points for stocks with
net recon buy and sell imbalances, respectively,” the analysts
wrote. Much of the trading will occur in the last few minutes of
today’s session, they wrote.  Trading in U.S. stocks is picking up from a four-year
slowdown, after investors sold shares amid concern the  Federal
Reserve  may start paring monetary stimulus this year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 3.4 percent from a
record on May 21 and is down 1.1 percent in June, poised for the
first monthly loss since October.  Russell’s global stock indexes, including the Russell 1000
Index and the Russell 2000 Index, are used as benchmarks for
$4.1 trillion in assets, according to the company’s web site. In
three of the previous four years, the reconstitution day ranked
in the top 20 busiest trading sessions, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Russell, a Seattle-based company owned by Northwestern
Mutual Life Insurance Co., adds and subtracts companies from
gauges and reclassifies companies as  growth stocks , value stocks
or blends of the two based on changes in their valuation,
historic sales growth and projected earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  