-- Roberts Back to Reagan Roots in Guiding Court on Rulings
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-28T04:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/roberts-back-to-reagan-roots-in-guiding-court-on-rulings.html
Last June, U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts abandoned his fellow Republican appointees to cast the
vote that saved President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  This year, Roberts returned to his roots, pushing for a
color-blind Constitution and trying to forestall the Supreme
Court’s embrace of same-sex marriage.  The historic civil rights rulings from the court this week
helped round out the picture of Roberts, 58, as he completed his
eighth term as chief justice. He underscored the depth of his
conservative views on social issues -- taking a stand on gay
marriage for the first time and winning a landmark victory on
voting rights -- while offering glimpses of the pragmatism that
distinguishes him from colleagues such as Justice Antonin Scalia.  “I view this term as a reversion back to the person he was
before,” said David Strauss, a constitutional law professor at
the University of Chicago Law School. “He’s doing the kinds of
things we would have expected him to do, based on his earlier
years on the court.”  Roberts’ imprint was everywhere -- even if he wasn’t always
in full control -- as the court ended its nine-month term with a
wave of major decisions. He wrote two of the big four rulings,
decisions that struck down a core part of the Voting Rights Act,
the 1965 law aimed at barriers that had blocked millions of
Southern blacks from voting, and steered the court away from a
sweeping verdict on constitutional gay-marriage rights.  Never Left  Even in dissent, Roberts worked to influence the impact of
the rulings. He contended that the decision striking down part
of the U.S. Defense of Marriage Act, which has denied federal
benefits to legally married same-sex couples, didn’t necessarily
mean the nine-member court would eventually declare a
constitutional right to gay weddings.  “I never thought the conservative Roberts left,” said
Kermit Roosevelt, a constitutional law professor at the
University of Pennsylvania Law School. “I’ve always thought he
was playing a long game.”  Some Republicans had their doubts last year after Roberts’s
health-care vote drew the wrath of opponents of the measure,
Obama’s signature legislative accomplishment during his first
term. The criticism escalated after  CBS News , citing unnamed
people, said Roberts had originally voted to strike down the
provision at the center of the case before switching sides.  Reagan’s Man  Yet Roberts’s conservative credentials date back decades.
He made his mark in President Ronald Reagan’s Justice
Department, where he argued against racial preferences. He went
to  Florida  to help George W. Bush in the legal battle over the
disputed 2000 presidential election.  His views on race -- and his rejection of special
constitutional protections for minorities -- have been clear
virtually since the day he joined the court in 2005 as an
appointee of President Bush.  In a 2006 redistricting case, he said, “It is a sordid
business, this divvying up by race.” A year later, he wrote in
a school-integration case, “The way to stop discrimination on
the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of
race.”  The just-completed term let Roberts turn those views into
the blockbuster ruling in the Voting Rights Act case, which
rejected the method used by Congress to force some parts of the
country to get federal clearance before changing their voting
rules or election districts.  Things Change  Writing for the court, Roberts said those barriers had
largely disappeared. Blacks and whites vote at comparable rates
in covered jurisdictions, minorities hold office at
unprecedented levels, and the country has long since abolished
the literacy and knowledge tests once used to keep blacks away
from the polls, Roberts said.  “Nearly 50 years later, things have changed
dramatically,” Roberts wrote in Shelby County v. Holder. The
decision was a follow-through on his warning in a 2009 case that
the Voting Rights Act provision was constitutionally suspect,
and might be invalidated if Congress didn’t make changes.  This week’s ruling left open the possibility that Congress
could enact an updated method for determining which states
warrant being covered by the preclearance requirement. Even so,
the partisan divide in Congress makes that unlikely to occur.  The court was less bold in its affirmative action case,
Fisher v. University of  Texas . It ordered stricter court
scrutiny of race-based university admissions policies, while
stopping well short of declaring them unconstitutional.  Surface Consensus  The 7-1 ruling, at least on the surface, was the type of
“consensus” decision that Roberts promised during his 2005
confirmation that he would seek. The opinion by Justice Anthony Kennedy drew the support of both of the court’s affirmative
action beneficiaries: Clarence Thomas, who opposes race-based
admissions, and Sonia Sotomayor, who supports them.  “I expected Fisher to go farther,” Roosevelt said. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if in a few years we got a decision saying
that any consideration of race is impermissible.”  Roberts then doused speculation that he might join Kennedy
and the court’s four Democratic appointees in support of gay
weddings. In United States v. Windsor he voted to uphold DOMA,
the 1996 law denying federal benefits to married gays, saying it
was justified by an interest in preserving what at that time was
the universal definition of marriage.  “At least without some more convincing evidence that the
act’s principal purpose was to codify malice, and that it
furthered no legitimate government interests, I would not tar
the political branches with the brush of bigotry,” he wrote.  Limiting Kennedy  The chief justice also sought to limit the impact of
Kennedy’s majority opinion, saying he didn’t read it as laying
the legal groundwork for a declaration that the Constitution
guarantees same-sex marriage rights. The “dominant theme” of
Kennedy’s opinion was a concern that the federal government was
intruding into the realm of the states to define marriage,
Roberts said.  “It is undeniable that its judgment is based on
federalism,” Roberts wrote. He parted on that point with fellow
dissenter Scalia, who wrote that the majority’s reasoning all
but guaranteed those justices would eventually make gay marriage
a constitutional right.  Tactics might also help explain Roberts’ approach toward
 California ’s Proposition 8, the ballot initiative that banned
same-sex marriage there.  Procedural Grounds  Faced with the prospect that the court might issue a broad
ruling conferring gay-marriage rights, Roberts wrote a 5-4
decision that used procedural grounds to resolve the case,
Hollingsworth v. Perry. That let the court duck the
constitutional question, at least for now.  Roberts’s opinion said the defenders of Proposition 8
lacked the legal right to file an appeal. The decision had the
effect of restoring a trial judge’s decision that struck down
Proposition 8. Gay marriage is set to go forward in California
within a month.  “It just seemed like a very appealing way for the court,
and the chief justice in particular, to rule.” Strauss said.
“It’s a restrained, modest decision. It gets the courts out of
the picture, but at the same time proponents of gay rights get
to claim victory. It’s sort of a win all around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 