-- Rousseff Party Wants Millionaires to Pay Brazil Protest Demands
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-06-28T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/rousseff-party-wants-millionaires-to-pay-brazil-protest-demands.html
Brazil ’s ruling party is reviving a
proposal to tax millionaires to help pay for improvements in
public services being demanded by protesters staging the largest
demonstrations in two decades.  The move is part of a rush to pass laws that placate
demands for cheaper transportation, better education and an end
to corruption by the more than 1 million Brazilians who have
filled streets nationwide over the past three weeks. The
proposal has been under consideration for at least 25 years,
though it was brought back to life this week by President Dilma Rousseff’s Workers’ Party as pressure mounted for more spending
at a time when budgets are stretched.  “We need to offset the costs of new measures being
approved in response to the protests,” Candido Vaccarezza, a
lower house lawmaker for the party, known as the PT, said in a
phone interview. “We’ve granted businesses tax breaks to help
economic growth, now it’s time to get some of that back. The
U.S. and  Germany  have similar taxes.”  About 5,000 anti-government protesters battled police
yesterday near a stadium hosting a semi-final match of the
Confederations Cup soccer tournament. The demonstration in the
city of Fortaleza was the latest in a wave of protests that have
left six dead and hundreds injured across Brazil even after
authorities in dozens of cities scrapped bus fare increases that
sparked the unrest.  Marches also took place yesterday in Rio de Janeiro and  Sao
Paulo , though they were smaller and less disruptive than those
held in recent days. The one in Rio got started as Brazil’s
national team arrived under tight security ahead of this
weekend’s final against  Spain .  World Cup  The game is also expected to attract protests by those
denouncing the billions of dollars Brazil is spending on
stadiums to host next year’s  World Cup .  Amid the threat of further unrest, lawmakers are taking up
a number of bills that have languished for years. In a little
more than 24 hours, the lower house this week approved tax cuts
for urban transportation and a 2007 bill that earmarks oil
royalties for education and health care. As part of a marathon
session that may delay Congress’s July holidays, the Senate also
classified corruption in the same category as murder.  The lower house’s Constitutional Affairs Committee this
week approved in less than 10 minutes, with no debate or
dissent, a six-year-old bill that bars secret voting when
legislators are being impeached.  “That’s what the power of the people does,” said Senator
Alvaro Dias, author of the bill and a member of the opposition
PSDB party.  Legislative Frenzy  The frenzy of legislative activity comes as Congress, which
has been the target of anti-corruption protests, seek to
showcase results, said Ricardo Ribeiro, political analyst at MCM
Consultores Associados, a Sao Paulo-based business consulting
company.  “Congress is trying to do in a few days what they haven’t
done in 10 years,”Ribeiro said. “The problem is they are
approving measures they’re not sure how to pay for.”  Three bills awaiting final approval by Congress to deal
with transportation, health and education issues would cost the
federal government 115 billion reais ($52 billion) per year,
Valor Economico newspaper reported yesterday.  In an attempt to stimulate economic growth that slowed to
0.9 percent last year, the government in the past year has
granted tax breaks worth 44.5 billion reais to lower costs for
businesses and boost consumer demand.  Fiscal Pressures  Amid fiscal pressures, the government has started phasing
out some of the incentives, including a decision yesterday to
raise taxes on furniture and appliances that were temporarily
reduced to stimulate  consumer spending .  “We’re not in a condition to expand tax breaks right
now,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters yesterday
in Brasilia while announcing the measures. “We have to improve
our tax collection and fiscal performance, and because of that
no new tax breaks are expected.”  Brazil’s public coffers are increasingly stretched amid
sluggish growth. The country’s primary  budget surplus , which
excludes interest payments on debt, fell to 1.89 percent of
gross domestic product in the 12 months through April from 2.46
percent in January. Mantega this week repeated his pledge to cut
spending if needed to ensure Brazil meets this year’s primary
surplus target of 2.3 percent of GDP.  One potential source to tap for more funding is Brazil’s
upper class.  Latin America ’s largest economy had 165,300
millionaires in 2012, up 26 percent from 2008, with assets worth
$4 trillion, according to the 2013 World Wealth Report by
Capgemini SA and RBC Wealth Management.  Fortunes  Previous PT attempts to tax fortunes have been blocked in
Congress. The PT’s Vaccarezza said he was unsure what support
the proposal would have now. Details of the bill haven’t been
decided, he said.  The PT, which traces its roots to union demonstrations that
helped bring down Brazil’s 1964-85 military dictatorship, says
there is now more support to tax the rich, particularly
businessmen, according to a statement on its website.  “It’s no use making all sorts of promises under pressure
from the streets,”  Lindbergh Farias , a PT senator from  Rio de
Janeiro  said in an interview. “Promises that won’t be kept will
aggravate the mood.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  