-- Russian Tycoon Lebedev May Avoid Prison Term With Lesser Penalty
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-06-28T11:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/russian-tycoon-lebedev-may-avoid-prison-term-with-lesser-penalty.html
Russian newspaper tycoon  Alexander Lebedev , faces a lesser penalty for hooliganism after
prosecutors dropped their demand for a jail sentence.  Lebedev, 53, who’s being prosecuted in Moscow for punching
Sergei Polonsky, a property developer, on a televised talk show
in 2011, should have his movements restricted for 21 months, the
prosecutor said today in the Russian capital, according to the
businessman’s spokesman, Artem Artemov. Lebedev was facing
charges that carry a maximum prison sentence of five years.  The former KGB agent, who served in the Soviet Embassy in
 London  during the  Cold War , has said his fortune has fallen to
several hundred million dollars from $2 billion two years ago
after he came under official pressure. Lebedev has criticized
corruption and the lack of democracy during  Vladimir Putin ’s 13-year rule, without publicly attacking the Russian president.  Lebedev says he’s the subject of a three-year campaign in
retaliation for funding  Novaya Gazeta , a newspaper critical of
Putin that investigates corruption. Lebedev also finances the
Evening Standard and Independent newspapers in the U.K.  Polonsky, 40, was detained this year in  Cambodia  after he
and two other Russians allegedly threatened the crew of a boat
with a knife. Polonsky, who denies the accusations, was freed on
bail. He’s been charged separately in absentia with  embezzlement 
in Russia.  Polonsky called on the judge at Moscow’s Ostankino court to
find Lebedev not guilty in an open letter posted on his Twitter
Inc. account, which said he couldn’t attend the hearing.  Restricted Movement  Lebedev would be banned from attending public events,
relocating and changing job without permission for 21 months if
the judge accepts the prosecutor’s demand. A verdict in the case
will be delivered on July 2, according to the state-run news
service RIA Novosti.  The investigation into Lebedev’s televised attack on
Polonsky began in September 2011, days after then-Prime Minister
Putin branded the incident “hooliganism” at a Sept. 21 meeting
with his All- Russia  People’s Front.  Lebedev has said crooked businessmen in collusion with
public officials have “embezzled and siphoned off” at least
$700 billion from Russia during the past 15 years, citing data
from the Web-based Tax Justice Network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  