-- Ryanair in Talks With London Stansted Buyer MAG to Swell Traffic
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-06-28T13:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/ryanair-in-talks-with-london-stansted-buyer-mag-to-swell-traffic.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  said it’s in
negotiations to end a moratorium on growth at London’s Stansted
airport following the 1.5 billion-pound ($2.3 billion) takeover
of its biggest base by Manchester Airports Group on Feb. 28.  Europe’s leading discount carrier is examining options to
resume expansion plans abandoned after a spat with former owner
BAA Ltd. over access charges, Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said today in an interview in Istanbul.  “We are talking with MAG on growing our traffic,” O’Leary
said. If a deal is reached, Ryanair could start expanding
“rapidly” at Stansted as early as next summer, he said.  Ryanair, which last year accounted for more than two-thirds
of Stansted’s passenger total, carrying 12.5 million people, had
said when the takeover was completed that it would cut traffic 9
percent after MAG inherited a 6 percent fee hike from BAA. MAG
this month signed an accord with  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  aimed at doubling
the airline’s annual passenger count to 6 million in five years.  Combined growth from the two discount carriers could help
return Stansted’s passenger levels to their 2007 peak of 23.8
million from the current 17.5 million, according to Donal O’Neill, an analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  With a terminal designed by U.K. architect  Norman Foster ,
Stansted ranks third behind Heathrow and Gatwick among London
hubs and fourth in the U.K. including Manchester, which made its
purchase after  Ferrovial SA (FER) ’s BAA, now known as Heathrow Airport
Ltd., was forced to cede assets following an antitrust probe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  