-- San Francisco Gasoline Jumps as Shell Reports Upset Amid Tankers
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-06-28T19:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/san-francisco-gasoline-jumps-as-shell-reports-upset-amid-tankers.html
Spot gasoline in San Francisco
gained against futures for a second day after  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ’s Martinez refinery reported a unit upset and as at least
two tankers were headed to the region to load fuel for export.  Shell’s 165,000-barrel-a-day Martinez plant in Northern
 California  reported a unit failure that caused the refinery to
flare gases late yesterday, a state regulatory filing shows. The
plant returned to normal operations by today, Destin Singleton,
a Shell spokeswoman in Houston, said by e-mail.  The tanker Alpine Eternity is scheduled to load fuel off
the West Coast on July 6 for Central and South America, ship-fixture data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Isola Corallo was
chartered by  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  to load clean products off the
West Coast July 7 for delivery to  Chile .  IHS Inc. (IHS)  data show the
vessel is bound for Martinez.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in San Francisco
jumped 4.5 cents to a premium of 7.5 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 1:27 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt-delivery rose a
second day, up 5.52 cents to $2.8133 a gallon.  Carbob in Los Angeles slipped 1.5 cents to a premium of 8.5
cents a gallon.  The  discount  for Carbob in San Francisco versus Los Angeles
narrowed 6 cents to 1 cent a gallon, the smallest differential
since it switched from a premium three weeks ago.  Retail gasoline  in California dropped 1.5 cents to $4.026 a
gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website. Prices are up
from $3.796 a gallon a year ago.  The premium for spot, conventional gasoline in  Portland ,
 Oregon , was unchanged at 11 cents a gallon over futures.
Portland gasoline gained 1.5 cents against Los Angeles Carbob to
a premium of 2.5 cents a gallon.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed for the
seventh day, losing 40 cents to $13.49 a barrel at 3:16 p.m.  New
York  time, the lowest level since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  