-- Schroders Gains as Diversity Seen to Reduce Risk: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-06-28T12:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/schroders-gains-as-diversity-seen-to-reduce-risk-london-mover.html
Schroders Plc (SDR) ,  Europe ’s largest
independent money manager, rose for a fourth day after Exane BNP
Paribas said that an expansion of private-banking products
safeguards the company from risk.  Schroders  advanced  as much as 4.2 percent to 2,247 pence,
the biggest intraday gain in more than three months. The stock
traded at 2,243 pence at 12:52 p.m., for a four-day gain of 9.1
percent, the biggest in as many days since February 2012.  “The downside risks to asset flows are decidedly limited
by the company’s diversification and favorable market
positioning,”  Daniel Davies , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas,
said today in a note. He raised his  recommendation  to outperform
from neutral and raised the price prediction to 2,500 pence from
2,150 pence.  Schroders is purchasing fund manager Cazenove Capital
Holdings Ltd. to add 17.2 billion pounds ($26.2 billion) of
assets, for a total of about 229.2 billion pounds of funds under
management, it said in March. The London-based asset manager may
produce some margin surprises in part because of the Cazenove
acquisition, according to Davies.  Schroders has fallen about 13 percent since reaching a
 record high  in May, when it reported first-quarter revenue and
pretax profit that beat most analysts’ estimates as net inflows
more than tripled to 5.6 billion pounds compared with a year
earlier.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Financial Services Index has fallen
about 8 percent in the past month as investors have pulled out
of  emerging markets , rattled by prospects for slower growth and
the potential for the U.S. Federal Reserve to reduce stimulus
measures.  An examination of Schroders’s exposure to potential asset
allocation shifts shows that “the risks are skewed more
favorably than for its peers,” Davies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  