-- SEB Unveils New G10 Currency Certificate Packaging Carry Trades
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-06-28T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/seb-unveils-new-g10-currency-certificate-packaging-carry-trades.html
SEB AB is unveiling a new
certificate allowing investors to bet on Group of 10 currencies.  The Stockholm-based bank, which released the details of its
new certificate today, will offer investors the opportunity to
buy five currencies backed by high  interest rates  through
selling five G10 currencies where central banks have kept rates
lower, it said in an e-mailed statement. The certificate, FX G10
Carry, will be listed on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm exchange.  “Those who are willing to take more risk can also buy a
carry certificate with leverage,” Louise Nylund, product
manager for exchange-traded certificates at SEB, said in an e-mailed statement.  Exchange-traded certificates allow investors to bet on the
future movements of an underlying asset such as currencies or
precious metals. The certificates can also be used to bet on
moves in stock indexes and commodities.  SEB has about 100 such products based on 25 underlying
assets and plans to expand its offering in the area, it said.
Other banks selling exchange-traded certificates to investors in
Sweden include Commerzbank AG, Svenska Handelsbanken AB, Nordea
Bank AB, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, BNP Paribas SA,
Societe Generale SA and Citigroup Inc.  Carry trades work best during stable economic conditions
and when volatility is low, SEB said. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Global FX Volatility Index has jumped more than 40 percent this
year, heading for its biggest half-year increase since soaring
91 percent in the final six months of 2008.  “It is not quite a carry market right now as market
volatility is too high,” Nylund said. “However, if things
stabilize as the global economic recovery continues and interest
rates rise, conditions would look more attractive for a carry
exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  