-- SGL Drops Most in 10 Weeks on Profit Target Cut: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-06-28T09:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/sgl-drops-most-in-10-weeks-on-profit-target-cut-frankfurt-mover.html
SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  dropped the most in 10
weeks in Frankfurt after the maker of carbon fibers cut its
full-year earnings forecast on competition from Asia and said it
would take a charge to reduce the value of its assets.  The shares fell as much as 8.8 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since April 18. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization may decline as much as 60 percent
this year, the Wiesbaden, Germany-based company said yesterday
after markets closed. It previously predicted a fall of as much
as 25 percent.  Project shifts and continued high development costs at the
fibers and composites unit mean SGL will take an impairment
charge of as much as 150 million euros ($196 million) in the
second quarter, the company said. SGL, partly owned by
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , has now reduced its Ebitda forecast
twice this year.  “Over the last weeks, competitive pressure from Asia has
significantly increased, intensified by the devaluation of the
Japanese Yen,” SGL said in the statement. “Consequently, the
anticipated business recovery will not occur either in the
second quarter or in the second half of 2013.”  The shares were down 6.8 percent at 25.54 euros as of 11:48
a.m. The volume of shares traded was more than double the three-month daily average.  The lower Ebitda prediction for 2013 means that a target
for a positive free cash flow won’t be met, SGL said.  About 16 percent of the company’s sales come from its
unprofitable division that makes carbon fibers and composite
materials used in airplanes and rotor blades for wind-power
generation. The biggest unit, which accounts for about half of
revenue, makes electrodes for the steel industry and cathodes
for aluminum manufacturers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  