-- Singapore Tightens Rules for Home Loans in Latest Curbs
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-06-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/singapore-tightens-rules-for-home-loans-in-latest-curbs.html
Singapore  unveiled new rules
governing how financial institutions grant property loans to
individuals, extending efforts to curb speculation as prices in
 Asia ’s second-most expensive housing market continue to rise.  Starting today, a new framework requires that lenders take
a borrower’s debt into consideration when granting property
loans, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said in a statement
yesterday. Home loans should not exceed a total debt servicing
ratio of 60 percent and those that do will be considered
“imprudent,” it said.  In January, the government unveiled a seventh round of
measures in about four years that included an increase in stamp
duties for home buyers by 5 percentage points to 7 percentage
points. While private residential  property prices  rose to a
record in the three months through March, the gain was the
slowest in three quarters after the government’s January curbs.  “It may not appear as draconian as the seventh round but
when it’s applied together with the existing  property market 
curbs, the effects can be very potent,” said Nicholas Mak,
 executive director  at SLP International Property Consultants.
“It’s going to be like a slow-acting medicine” in helping cool
the market, he said.  The  MAS  said it will also refine how existing loan-to-value
rules are applied to ensure limits put in place to cool
investment demand in the housing market are effective. These
rules are aimed at preventing borrowers from circumventing
tighter limits on second and subsequent housing loans.  Considered ‘Imprudent’  The total debt servicing ratio level of 60 percent will be
reviewed over time, the central bank said.  Lenders will also be required to deduct at least 30 percent
from all variable sources of earnings, such as bonuses, and
rental revenue when determining an applicant’s income streams,
the regulator said.  When calculating a borrower’s ability to repay using the
total debt servicing ratio, banks will have to apply the
prevailing market rate or 3.5 percent for housing loans and 4.5
percent on non-residential property loans, whichever is higher.  The regulator inspected banks’ residential property loan
portfolios in 2012 and found they “generally had in place sound
policies to assess the credit worthiness of borrowers,”  it
said in the statement. “The inspection and subsequent surveys
revealed uneven practices with respect to the application of
debt servicing ratios and highlighted areas for improvement in
credit underwriting practices.”  Wealth Growth  The island-state’s private residential  property price index 
rose 0.6 percent to a record 213.2 in the three months ended
March 31, according to the latest data issued in April by the
 Urban Redevelopment Authority .  Singapore is Asia’s most-expensive housing market behind
 Hong Kong , according to a Knight Frank LLP and Citi Private Bank
report released last year that compared 63 locations globally.  Hong Kong has also extended anti-speculation measures as
low  interest rates  and capital inflows drove up demand, making
housing unaffordable.  Singapore has since 2009 imposed measures to cool the
property market, which has been fueled by increasing wealth.  High-net-worth individuals with at least $1 million in
investable assets in the Asia-Pacific region increased 9.4
percent to 3.68 million last year, boosted by Singapore and Hong
Kong, according to the 17th annual  World Wealth Report  released
by  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and Royal Bank of  Canada  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  