-- Skylar Capital’s Perkins Ousts Einhorn From Charity Poker Event
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-06-28T13:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/skylar-capital-s-perkins-ousts-einhorn-from-charity-poker-event.html
Bill Perkins, the founder of Skylar
Capital Management LP, used a pair of aces to eliminate hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  from a $111,111 buy-in charity
tournament at the  World Series  of Poker.  Perkins, who started Houston-based Skylar last year, ranks
seventh after two days of playing the “One Drop High Roller”
at the Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino in  Las Vegas . The no-limit
Texas hold’em tournament probably will conclude tomorrow.  The event, with more than $4.8 million going to the winner,
began two days ago with 166 entrants and is down to 26. Martin
Jacobson, a 25-year-old poker professional from  Stockholm , is
the leader with 3.255 million chips, followed by poker pro
Connor Drinan, who has 3.25 million. Perkins, 44, has 2.75
million.  Other players from the world of finance still alive are
Richard Fullerton, president of RBF Capital LLC of Greenbrae,
 California , who is 14th with 1.7 million chips; Lawrence Greenberg, general partner of Boston-based Alydar Capital LLC,
who is 16th with almost 1.6 million; and Dan Shak, founder of
Las Vegas-based SHK Asset Management, who is 24th with 1
million.  Antonio Esfandiari, a poker pro who won the $18.3 million
top prize last year when the charity event included a $1 million
buy-in, is fifth with just under 3 million chips.  After Einhorn, of Greenlight Capital Inc., moved all-in,
Perkins called, yelling “Leeeroy Jeeenkins!” according to
WSOP.com. It was his version of an  Internet meme  popularized in
2006 from the  video game  “World of Warcraft,” in which a group
of players carefully planned an attack scheme only to have one
character, Leroy Jenkins, ruin it by recklessly rushing into
action while shouting his name. Perkins was more successful last
night, turning over a pair of aces to best Einhorn’s ace-jack
combination. Einhorn finished in 72nd place.  World Series  This is the 47th of 62 poker tournaments that make up this
year’s World Series, which concludes with the $10,000 buy-in No-Limit Texas Hold’Em World Championship, known as the main event.  A portion of buy-ins from this event and a $1,111 buy-in
event later in the World Series are set aside for One Drop, the
non-profit started by Cirque du Soleil founder  Guy Laliberte 
that strives to make water accessible to people around the
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  