-- Slowest Growth Since 2004 Strikes Dominican Republic’s Economy
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-06-28T14:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/slowest-growth-since-2004-strikes-dominican-republic-s-economy.html
First quarter  economic growth  in the
Dominican Republic was the slowest since 2004 as construction
spending and internal demand decreased in the Caribbean’s
largest economy.  The Dominican Republic’s economy grew 0.3 percent in the
first three months of 2013, compared with 3.8 percent a year
earlier. Economic expansion in the Caribbean nation, which
shares the island of Hispaniola with  Haiti , has averaged 6
percent annually since 2004, according to the central bank.  A series of tax changes, which included an increase in the
national value-added tax to 18 percent from 16 percent, that
went into effect in the first quarter diminished internal
demand, the central bank said today on its website. Construction
spending fell 2.9 percent in the quarter from a year earlier as
the government takes measures to pare a fiscal deficit that
reached 8.5 percent of GDP in 2012.  “The slowdown is due to less consumption as a result of
the tax reform,” Bernardo Fuentes, an economist at Santo
Domingo-based consulting company Economi-K SA, said in a phone
interview. “Slower economic activity has been a result of less
spending, which has been more aggressive than the central bank
expected.”  The central bank cut the benchmark interest rate for the
fourth time in 12 months on May 26, lowering it 75 basis points,
or 0.75 percentage point, to 4.25 percent as consumer prices
dipped.  Consumer prices  fell 0.06 percent in April and 0.18
percent last month, the first two consecutive declines since
2008.  No Pressures  Policy makers said they didn’t see any inflationary
pressures in the next few months, according to a statement on
the bank’s website.  “Production has been below its potential capacity and
during the January-March quarter the growth rate was below the
average from previous years as a result of weakened internal
demand,” policy makers said. “Macroeconomic models indicate
that, if measures are not taken, production would remain below
potential until the end of 2014.”  The Dominican Republic government announced last month that
they would free up 20 billion pesos ($480 million) to stimulate
growth by lowering reserve requirements and expanding loans to
companies and consumers. Funds will help boost lending in the
productive sector and facilitate expansion of small and medium-sized businesses, the central bank said in a May 8 statement
published on its website.  The Dominican Republic sold $1 billion in global bonds on
April 11 to fund financing gaps, according to Economy Minister
Temistocles Montas. The country sold $750 million in foreign
bonds in 2011.  The peso has fallen 3.9 percent against the U.S. dollar
this year, compared with an 8.2 percent decline by the Jamaican
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  