-- South African Stocks Gain, Paring First Quarterly Loss in Seven
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-06-28T12:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/south-african-stocks-gain-paring-first-quarterly-loss-in-seven.html
South  Africa ’s benchmark stocks
index gained for a fourth day, paring the gauge’s first three-month decline in seven quarters that was propelled by a slowing
economy and labor unrest at the country’s mines.  The benchmark  166-member (JALSH)  FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index
advanced 1.2 percent to 39,550.05 by 1:50 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the highest level on an intraday basis in a week. The Federal
Reserve this week downplayed investor speculation that stimulus
will be tapered soon, spurring the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
to its biggest weekly rally in nine months.  The South African advance wasn’t enough to curb the
quarterly loss as domestic uncertainty and weaker prices for
commodities pushed the all-share measure 0.8 percent lower, its
first decline since the three months through September 2011. The
Reserve Bank lowered its forecast for growth this year to 2.4
percent from 2.7 percent after gross domestic product expanded
at the slowest pace since the 2009 recession in the first
quarter.  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) , and Anglo American Plc were among
the gauge’s 10-worst performers.  “The mining houses had a torrid time,” Ryan Wibberley,
the head of equity dealing for frontier and emerging markets at
Investec Asset Management, said by phone from Cape Town. “In
many ways the mining industry in South Africa has endured a
perfect storm over the last several months.”  Platinum prices declined 16 percent in the second quarter
as three South African workers died in violent union rivalry in
May and June, adding to the deaths of at least 44 people at
 Lonmin (LON)  Plc’s Marikana operations in August. Metals and other
mining commodities account for more than 50 percent of South
Africa’s exports.  Worst Quarter  Anglo American (AGL) , London-based owner of the world’s largest
platinum producer, fell 25 percent as cost overruns at its
Brazilian Minas Rio project and the falling platinum price
weighed on its profit prospects. The stock is at levels “we
haven’t seen since a few dramatic days in 2008,” Wibberley
said. It rose for the first time in seven days, adding 0.4
percent to 194.20 rand.  A rally in gold prices today pushed the South African index
of companies that produces the metal up 2.1 percent, the first
gain in nine days. It wasn’t enough to turn around a quarterly
loss of 36 percent in the gold-miners’  index , the worst three
months since at least 1995 when Bloomberg started tracking the
companies.  Sibanye, which was spun off from Gold Fields Ltd. in
February and contains two South African mining operations, was
the all-share index’s biggest loser this quarter. The stock
plummeted 48 percent to 6.90 rand.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s largest producer of the
metal, declined 37 percent since April 1 and traded 0.7 percent
higher at 135.11 rand.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  fell 42 percent
over the period and was 2.3 percent higher today at 34.25 rand.  Impala Platinum Ltd. (IMP) , the second-largest producer of the
metal, dropped 32 percent since April 1. London-based Lonmin,
the third-biggest miner for the metal used in making catalytic
converters for vehicles, retreated 5.8 percent over the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  