-- South Africa Reserve Bank Reports Wider Loss on Banknotes
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-06-28T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/south-africa-reserve-bank-reports-wider-loss-on-banknotes.html
The South African  Reserve Bank ’s
loss widened in the 12 months through March because of the cost
of introducing new banknotes and the return on investments
didn’t cover operating costs.  The loss increased to 1.5 billion rand ($150 million) in
the 12 months through March from 491 million a year earlier, the
Reserve Bank said in its annual report released today in
Pretoria. The Reserve Bank introduced notes with the image of
former President  Nelson Mandela  on them last year.  “Income earned on foreign-exchange reserves remains
constrained by the abnormally low level of  interest rates  in the
advanced economies,” the bank said. “The cost of the new
currency impacted negatively on the bank’s profitability.”  The central bank sells domestic bonds to mop up excess
liquidity resulting from selling rand for dollars in a process
it refers to as sterilization. The debt has a higher yield than
the Reserve Bank earns on its investments in foreign reserves,
resulting in a loss.  Investors from developed markets turn to  South Africa  and
other  emerging markets  for higher yields as central banks in
their countries pledge to keep rates near zero to support the
economic recovery after the 2009 recession. The rand has dropped
15 percent against the dollar this year, the worst performer
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and investors
have started selling South African bonds as the U.S. Federal
Reserves prepares to reducing its asset-purchase program.  Foreign-currency reserves rose 18 percent in the year
through March to 494 billion rand.  Gross reserves  were $50
billion at the end of May, according to the central bank.  The euro accounts for 14 percent of total reserves held by
the central bank, the same as a year earlier, it said. The
dollar makes up 53 percent of holdings compared with 52 percent
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  