-- South Africans Maintain Vigil for Critically Ill Nelson Mandela
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-06-28T08:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/south-africans-maintain-vigil-for-critically-ill-nelson-mandela.html
South Africans maintained a vigil
for  Nelson Mandela , the nation’s first black president, who’s in
critical condition in a Pretoria hospital where he has spent the
past three weeks after contracting a lung infection.  Several hundred people flocked to the hospital last night
to wish Mandela well and deliver cards and flowers. Their ranks
had thinned to about 100 this morning.  “We love Mandela,” said Sylvia Sikhosana, 28, a pre-primary teacher, who came to the hospital with three colleagues
and about 12 children from their school. “We really want him to
get better.”  Concern over Mandela’s health heightened after President
 Jacob Zuma  canceled a trip to a regional summit in Mozambique
late on June 26. Mandela’s condition improved overnight and was
stable, though still critical, the presidency  said  yesterday.  Well-wishers have also gone to Mandela’s homes in
Johannesburg and the village of Qunu in the southeast of the
country, while the ruling  African National Congress  has staged
prayer meetings.  “Our thoughts and prayers right now are with the people of
 South Africa ,” U.S. President  Barack Obama , who is scheduled to
arrive in the country later today for an official visit, told
reporters in Dakar,  Senegal , yesterday. Mandela is “a hero for
the world. His legacy is one that will linger on throughout the
ages.”  Birthday Plans  Mandela, who is due to turn 95 next month, served a single
five-year term as president after his ANC won the country’s
first multiracial elections in 1994. He spent 27 years in jail
for opposing white minority rule and won the Nobel Peace Prize
in 1993.  “We love you Mandela,” five-year-old Thando Kual said in
an interview outside the hospital. “We want you to get well
because we want to celebrate your birthday with you.”  Doctors downgraded Mandela’s condition to critical on June
23.  Mandela continues to open his eyes and respond to touch,
his daughter Makaziwe told the state-owned SAfm radio station
yesterday.  “I can reiterate that Tata is very critical,” she said,
using the Xhosa-language word for father. “Anything is
imminent. It’s only God who knows when the time to go is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  