-- Steinmetz Rejects Guinea Mine Bribery Claims, Yedioth Reports
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-28T16:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/steinmetz-rejects-guinea-mine-bribery-claims-yedioth-reports.html
Beny Steinmetz,  Israel ’s richest
person, rejected U.S. claims that payments by a man with ties to
his BSG Resources Ltd. were made to help win a mining concession
in Guinea, according to an interview with Israeli newspaper
Yedioth Aharonot.  “That is nonsense,” Steinmetz is quoted by the paper as
saying. “The company paid nothing to no one.” Ian Middleton, a
spokesman for BSGR, confirmed the comments.  Frederic Cilins, 50, a French citizen with ties to BSGR,
has said he’s innocent of charges he interfered with a U.S.
grand jury probe into bribes paid for mining rights in Guinea.
He claimed he was arrested after trying to stop an extortion
attempt by the government’s main witness.  BSGR said in March that  Guinea  was preparing to remove
mining rights from its joint venture with Vale SA, which planned
a $10 billion operation. The company has been targeted in
extortion attempts on more than three occasions and each bid was
repelled, Steinmetz told the newspaper. He met Cilins three or
four times after a 2010 deal valued at $2.5 billion was signed
with  Brazil ’s Vale, he said.  Cilins is charged with trying to pay a cooperating witness
to give him contracts sought by U.S. authorities and to lie
about the alleged bribery scheme. He said in a court filing this
month he worked in 2005 and 2006 for BSGR as a go-between with
Guinea in the company’s efforts to secure mining rights in the
Simandou region. He claimed that the contracts are fake and that
he was trying to stop the witness, Mamadie Toure, from extorting
money from him and BSGR.  Cilins has said the case against him is “politically
motivated.” Citing evidence from the government, Cilins claims
Alpha Conde, the president of Guinea, met with President  Barack Obama  in late 2012 or early 2013 to ask that the U.S.
investigate BSGR’s conduct in connection with Simandou,
according to his court filing.  The case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-cr-00315, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  