-- Stein Says QE Taper Choice Should Depend on Economic Data
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-06-28T20:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/stein-says-7-unemployment-goal-for-qe-clarifies-fed-s-intent.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein , who has backed record stimulus, said officials
considering when to start reducing the pace of asset purchases
should evaluate economic data since the program began last
September, rather than looking only at the most recent figures.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  should “be clear that
in making a decision in, say, September, it will give primary
weight to the large stock of news that has accumulated since the
inception of the program and will not be unduly influenced by
whatever data releases arrive in the few weeks before the
meeting -- as salient as these releases may appear to be to
market participants,” Stein said today in New York.  “Economic fundamentals” have improved since the Fed’s
third round of asset purchases began in September 2012, Stein
said. The  unemployment rate  has fallen to 7.6 percent from 8.1
percent, and the average monthly pace of payroll gains has risen
to 194,000 in the past six months, compared with 97,000 over the
six months before the bond buying started.  Stocks fell after Stein’s speech, as traders focused on his
reference to September, before trimming losses. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.4 percent to 1,606.25 at the close
in trading in New York after falling as much as 0.8 percent. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose 0.02 percentage point to
2.49 percent.  ‘Firm Reports’  “He’s not saying explicitly we’re going to taper,” said
 Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak and
Co. in New York. “If we get firm reports, and 175,000 jobs a
month would be relatively firm, I don’t think it would do any
harm to start in September. The process is dependent on the data
rather than the calendar.”  Stocks and Treasuries have fallen since June 19, when Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed could start reducing the
$85 billion monthly pace of bond purchases later this year and
end the purchases in the middle of 2014, assuming that the
economy meets the Fed’s forecasts.  The Fed has said it will maintain asset purchases until the
labor market has “improved substantially,” without defining
that term. At the June 19 press conference, Bernanke said he
expects the jobless rate to be about 7 percent when the Fed
halts asset purchases.  Stein, in today’s remarks to the  Council on Foreign
Relations , said the 7 percent figure doesn’t represent a change
in policy. Rather, it is “an effort to put more specificity
around the heretofore less well-defined notion of ‘substantial
progress.’”  Lasting Stimulus  Since Bernanke’s June 19 news conference, policy makers
have emphasized that they intend to provide stimulus long after
ending monthly bond purchases.  At the start of the current round of purchases in September
2012 -- with the most recent government report putting
unemployment at 8.1 percent -- the Fed couldn’t be sure how far
it would need to expand its balance sheet to reach its goals,
Stein said.  “As we get closer to our goals, the balance sheet
uncertainty becomes more manageable -- at the same time that the
market’s demand for specificity goes up,” Stein said.  The falling  unemployment rate  needs to be driven by an
improving economy, and not by people dropping out of the  labor
force , Stein said in response to audience questions.  The Fed is seeking “a 7 percent unemployment rate
associated with substantial improvement in the labor market,”
he said. “If it’s 7 percent that gets there because of an
aberrant move in the labor force participation rate, that’s not
what we’re looking for.”  Jobs Report  A report next week from the Labor Department may show that
the unemployment rate fell to 7.5 percent this month from 7.6
percent in May, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
 survey  of economists. Employers probably added 165,000 workers
to payrolls, down from 175,000 the prior month.  Economic growth is on the verge of picking up as “a lot of
the headwinds we saw before -- Europe and others -- have
dissipated” and fiscal restraint recedes, Stein said.  William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , said yesterday any decision to reduce the pace of
asset purchases wouldn’t represent a withdrawal of stimulus and
an increase in the Fed’s benchmark  interest rate  is “very
likely to be a long way off.” Bond purchases could be prolonged
if economic performance fails to meet the Fed’s forecasts, he
said.  Concerns the Fed may curtail accommodation helped push the
yield on the 10-year Treasury note as high as 2.61 percent this
week from as low as 1.63 percent in May. Fed Governor Jerome Powell and Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  also sought
yesterday to damp expectations that an increase in the benchmark
interest rate will come sooner than previously forecast.  More Clarity  Even as the Fed aims to provide more clarity, “there are
limits to how much even good communication can do to limit
market volatility, especially at times like these,” Stein said.  “We have attempted in recent weeks to provide more clarity
about the nature of our policy reaction function, but I view the
fundamentals of our underlying policy stance as broadly
unchanged,” he said.  As a Fed governor, Stein has a permanent vote on monetary
policy decisions on the Federal Open Market Committee. While
never dissenting from an FOMC decision, he has voiced concern
that prolonged Fed stimulus may lead to financial instability
and fuel asset price bubbles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  