-- Strikes Plot With Rand to Crush Bond Sales: South Africa Credit
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-06-28T12:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/strikes-plot-with-rand-to-crush-bond-sales-south-africa-credit.html
South African companies, buffeted by
an economy buckling under mining unrest and the slumping rand,
cut bond sales in the first half to the lowest level since 2009.  Rand sales from companies including  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and the
South African unit of Daimler AG plunged 32 percent from the
previous six months to 33 billion rand ($3.3 billion), according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. For the second quarter, sales
have dropped 47 percent compared with a year earlier, while in
 Poland  they’ve surged 46 percent.  Companies are holding back expansion plans as Africa’s
largest economy struggles with a 25 percent unemployment rate,
the slowest growth since the 2009 recession and the worst-performing currency this year against the dollar among 16 major
peers. Corporate issuers might return to the market during the
second half once investors know more about the outcome of wage
talks in industries including gold and coal, according to
 Standard Bank  Group Ltd., the continent’s biggest lender.  “We’ve seen quite a lot of labor unrest, mining issues,
growth issues, macro-economic factors specific to our country
that are making corporates less aggressive,” Megan McDonald,
head of debt primary markets at Standard Bank, said by phone
from  London  yesterday. “There’s a bit of a wait and see over
the next few months to see what happens economically in  South
Africa .”  Labor Unrest  Strikes at the country’s platinum, gold, iron-ore, chrome
and coal mines shaved 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point,
off the country’s economic growth rate this year, President
 Jacob Zuma  said June 13. A decline in metals output, which makes
up more than 50 percent of the country’s export earnings,
contributed to the weaker currency.  Rivalry between the  National Union of Mineworkers  and the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union spurred Zuma
to appoint Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  to broker a
solution by hosting talks between the  labor organizations ,
mining companies and government officials.  The rand weakened 0.5 percent to 9.9875 per dollar by 2:01
p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its decline this year to 15
percent. Yields on rand government bonds due December 2026 fell
29 basis points to 7.86 percent yesterday, paring the increase
this year to 57 basis points.  Slower Growth  The central bank cut its forecast for  economic growth  this
year to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent, less than half the 7
percent the government says is needed to cut the country’s
unemployment rate.  Yields on SABMiller’s 1 billion rand of fixed-rate debt
maturing in March 2018 have risen 165 basis points to 8.08
percent since reaching a record low on May 9.  “Companies, being mindful of the gloomy economic growth
prospects that face the country, are viewing any capital
expansion or organic growth in operations with a fair amount of
skepticism,” Bruce Stewart, head of debt capital market debt
origination at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s investment-banking unit,
said by phone from Johannesburg.  Corporates “have postponed
raising funding until economic fundamentals or requirements
dictate otherwise,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  