-- Suntech Extends Solar Forbearance Deal With Bondholders
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-28T20:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/suntech-extends-forbearance-deal-with-bondholders-until-aug-30.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar manufacturer involved in bankruptcy proceedings,
extended a forbearance agreement with “a majority” of the
holders of convertible bonds that went unpaid in March.  The new agreement will run until Aug. 30 and give
bondholders the right to nominate two directors, the company
said in a statement today. Wuxi, China-based Suntech said the
deal also “contemplates an equitization of all major debt
claims.”  Suntech was the world’s biggest panel maker by shipments in
2011, and has struggled to remain competitive as rivals with
newer manufacturing equipment boosted production, said Jeffrey Osborne, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  New York . That
triggered a global photovoltaic glut, dragging down prices and
profits.  “I don’t see a light at the end of the tunnel for them,”
Osborne said today in an interview. He stopped covering the
company in December. “ China  wants to consolidate the industry
but it’s difficult to sell a company with equipment that’s four
years out of date. This is just a delay in their inevitable
execution.”  The $541 million in 3 percent notes matured March 15. Four
days before that deadline, Suntech reached a forbearance deal
that ran until May 15, and then extended the agreement until
today.  Equity Conversion  “I’d expect to see some kind of conversion to equity but
these bondholders are subordinate to the senior secured and
would probably be happy to get 25 cents on the dollar,” said
Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardor Capital Partners LLC in New York,
who has a sell rating on Suntech. “I wouldn’t call the company
completely dead because they still have a strong foothold in
China, which could be the biggest solar market this year.”  Eight Chinese banks pulled Suntech’s main unit into
bankruptcy proceedings in China after the debt went unpaid in
March. U.S. bondholders who haven’t agreed to the forbearance
deal are suing the company in New York.  Chief Executive Officer  David King  said he’s working with
bondholders to restructure the company and seek new investors.  “We now have a clear path and focused work plan,” King
said in the statement.  Suntech’s American depositary receipts, each worth one
ordinary share, fell 1 percent to $1.03 at the close in New
York. They have slumped 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  