-- Swiss Bank Group Opposes Draft Bill on Due Diligence of Clients
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-06-28T14:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/swiss-bank-group-opposes-draft-bill-on-due-diligence-of-clients.html
The  Swiss Bankers Association  said
it opposes a draft bill to extend lenders’ due-diligence
requirements as the rules may overlap with a system of
information sharing on suspected tax dodgers proposed by the
European Union.  The Swiss government’s bill requiring banks to increase
scrutiny of clients’ tax affairs, published in draft in February
along separate proposals to strengthen anti-money laundering
rules, may prove unnecessary if  Switzerland  adopts the EU’s
automatic exchange of information standard, the association said
today in an e-mailed  statement .  Switzerland, the world’s largest center for cross-border
wealth with $2.2 trillion of non-resident personal financial
assets, is trying to shed its image as a haven for undeclared
funds amid a crackdown on tax evasion by the U.S. and European
governments. While the Swiss government wants to strengthen
anti-money laundering rules in line with recommendations by the
international  Financial Action Task Force  and to implement its
own “clean-money strategy,” the SBA said today the bill would
impose “additional, costly measures” on banks.  “In a world of automatic exchange of information, it would
be the responsibility of tax authorities to go through the data
and decide whether someone has paid their taxes,” said Thomas
Sutter, a spokesman for the SBA in Basel. “It wouldn’t be up to
the banks and therefore we wouldn’t need this additional due
diligence the Swiss government has proposed.”  Fiscal Compliance  Enhanced due diligence includes a risk-based client
assessment to stop banks accepting untaxed assets and procedures
prompting banks to demand proof of fiscal compliance from
clients suspected of  tax evasion , according to a Feb. 27
 statement  by the government.  Switzerland is ready to discuss a system of automatic
exchange of information between countries if the standard is
recognized and introduced by other financial centers, Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said on June 14.  The SBA, which represents 347 institutional members, said
it “generally” supports Switzerland’s implementation of the
FATF’s standards and banks should only acquire and manage taxed
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  