-- U.K. Stocks Drop as U.S. Business Activity Falls Short
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-06-28T16:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/u-k-stocks-little-changed-on-fed-comments-japan-output.html
U.K. stocks  declined, paring their
biggest weekly gain since April, as miners retreated and a
report showed business activity in the U.S. declined more than
forecast in June.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. fell 3.7 percent, as a
gauge of London-listed commodity producers dropped.  BAE Systems
Plc (BA/)  retreated 2.1 percent after Deutsche Bank AG downgraded
Europe’s biggest defense company.  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  advanced 2.7
percent after saying first-half sales will grow at a faster pace
than it had estimated.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 27.93 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,215.47 at the close of trading in  London . The equity benchmark
lost 5.6 percent this month, for a 3.1 percent quarterly
decline, as the Federal Reserve signaled it may end bond buying
next year if the U.S. economy improves in line with forecasts.
The FTSE All-Share Index dropped 0.4 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.1 percent.  “You normally have significant turbulence at the
initiation of the tightening cycle,” Bernard McAlinden, Dublin-based co-ordinator of investment strategy for European
Securities Network LLP, said by phone. “But once investors
realize that not only are we normalizing rates but we are also
normalizing growth, then equities resume gains. We are not near
the end of the economy cycle, therefore we are not at the end of
the bull cycle in equities.”  The FTSE 100 rose 1.6 percent this week, halting five weeks
of declines. The volume of shares changing hands in companies
listed on index was 19 percent higher than the average of the
past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Business Activity  Business activity in the U.S. cooled more than projected in
June, a regional report showed, as fiscal constraints and
stagnant export markets buffeted manufacturers.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  dropped to 51.6
this month from 58.7 in May, which was the highest in more than
a year. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction. The median forecast of 55 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 55.  A separate report showed the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  final index  of U.S. consumer sentiment decreased to
84.1 in June from 84.5 the prior month. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for 83 in the gauge after a preliminary
reading of 82.7.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said late
yesterday that investors may have overreacted to Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s announcement that the central bank could start
scaling back record stimulus this year.  2015 Increase  The Fed has kept its benchmark policy rate near zero since
December 2008. In his speech, Lockhart predicted that the first
increase in the federal funds rate, which will be dependent on
how the economy evolves, may occur in 2015.  In  Japan ,  industrial production  rose 2 percent in May from
a month earlier, the statistics bureau in  Tokyo  said. That’s the
biggest gain since 2011 and exceeded the 0.2 percent increase
estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  In the U.K., a gauge of consumer sentiment by GfK NOP Ltd.
gained one point to minus 21 in June, the best reading since May
2011. An index of the economic outlook for the coming year
climbed 2 points to minus 16.  Kazakh miners  ENRC (ENRC)  and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  slid 3.7 percent to
204 pence, and 2.4 percent to 258.7 pence, respectively, as the
FTSE 350 Mining Index fell for the third time this week. African
Barrick Gold Plc tumbled 7.7 percent to 96 pence, a record low.  BAE Downgraded  BAE lost 2.1 percent to 383 pence. Deutsche Bank cut its
rating on the shares to hold from buy, citing limited potential
for further gains. BAE has rallied 16 percent so far this year.  “We expect BAE to deliver a weak trading performance” in
the first half, Benjamin Fidler and Milene Kerner, analysts at
Deutsche Bank, wrote in a report.  Serco climbed 2.7 percent to 616.5 pence, for the biggest
gain on the FTSE 100. Full-year results will be in line with
estimates, according to the U.K. services company, whose
operations include prisons and London’s Docklands Light Railway.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  rose 1.3 percent to 2,183 pence after BNP
raised its recommendation on Europe’s biggest independent money
manager to outperform, similar to buy, from neutral. Exane cited
Schroders’ broad product range and “strong ability to gain from
any rotation into equities” as reasons for the upgrade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net 
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  