-- Natural Gas Caps Quarterly Decline as Mild Weather Cuts Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-06-28T19:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/u-s-natural-gas-heads-for-second-monthly-drop-as-supplies-rise.html
Natural gas futures fell to the
lowest price in almost four months, capping the first quarterly
drop since March 2012, on speculation that lower-than-average
temperatures will limit demand.  Gas fell 0.5 percent as Central and Southeastern states may
see below-normal readings next week while “intense heat” is
limited to Western states, according to MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Gas dropped 11 percent in June as  supply
increases  topped average gains for four consecutive weeks.  “We’ve got spurts of heat and ideally for the bullish case
you want to see hot weather over most of the large gas-consuming
states,” said Tom Saal, senior vice president of energy trading
at FCStone Latin America LLC in Miami. “Some of the Western
states are going to get some pretty good heat, so we will see if
that can resurrect the markets.”  Natural gas for August delivery fell 1.7 cents to $3.565
per million British thermal on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement price since March 6. Trading was 27
percent below the 100-day average at 2:36 p.m. Prices declined
11 percent this quarter and are up 6.4 percent this year.  The discount of August to October futures narrowed 0.4 cent
to 0.7 cent. The discount for October to January, a proxy for
winter heating demand, narrowed 0.4 cent to 32.7 cents.  Gas Options  August $3.50 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading. They rose 0.1 cent to 9.2 cents per million
Btu on volume of 1,231 at 2:56 p.m. Puts accounted for 72
percent of trading volume. Implied volatility for at-the-money
options expiring in August was 31.76 percent at 2:45 p.m.,
compared with 31.82 percent yesterday.  The high temperature in  Dallas  on July 2 will be 88 degrees
Fahrenheit (31 Celsius), 6 below normal, while Chicago will be
12 degrees lower than average at 74, according to AccuWeather
Inc. in State College Pennsylvania.  “While the main forecasts are not displaying much in the
way of cooling demand, a bout is inevitable,”  John Kilduff ,
partner at Again Capital LLC and editor of the Energy OverView
newsletter in  New York , wrote today. “From here, prices are
more vulnerable and more likely to experience demand spikes from
cooling demand.”  Power producers account for 32 percent of gas demand,
according to the EIA.  Texas  consumed the most natural gas for
generating electricity, averaging 18 percent of U.S. power-plant
demand for the fuel over the past three years, according to Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
New York.  Production Report  Gross gas output  in the lower 48 states rose 0.8 percent to
73.24 billion cubic feet a day in April from the previous month,
the most since November, according to the monthly EIA-914
report, released today. Total daily U.S. production increased
0.6 percent to 82.69 billion.  Several operators reported new wells at the Marcellus and
Niobrara shale deposits, as well as in Texas and  New Mexico , the
government said. Gulf of Mexico output gained “as maintenance
and pipeline issues from previous months were resolved” while
Louisiana dropped amid maintenance and normal well decline, the
EIA said.  Marketed production, which doesn’t include amounts flared
or used to pressure wells, will expand 1.2 percent this year to
average a record 70.01 billion cubic feet a day, the EIA said in
its June 11  Short-Term Energy Outlook .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  