-- U.S. Stocks Advance for Week on Economic Reports, Fed Comments
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-28T22:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/u-s-stocks-advance-for-week-on-economic-reports-fed-comments.html
U.S. stocks  rose for the week,
snapping two weeks of declines for benchmark indexes, as
economic data topped estimates and comments by Federal Reserve
officials eased concerns over stimulus plans.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  jumped 4.9 percent, leading gains among the
biggest U.S. companies, as a  Standard & Poor’s  index of
homebuilders rallied on reports showing an improving market.
Eight out of 10 groups in the  S&P 500  rose, as utility and
consumer-discretionary shares led advances. Time Warner Cable
Inc. and Cablevision Systems Corp. surged more than 10 percent
after a report said Charter Communications Inc. is considering
buying the cable providers.  The S&P 500 added 0.9 percent to 1,606.28 over the five
days. The index capped its biggest three-day rally since early
January on June 27. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  climbed
110.20 points, or 0.7 percent, to 14,909.60. The S&P 500 lost
1.5 percent for the month, paring its advance in the second
quarter to 2.4 percent and ending a streak of seven monthly
advances, the longest run since September 2009.  “There was a parade of Fed speakers attempting to clarify
recent comments and that helped to assuage fears that the Fed’s
quantitative easing program would be scaled back,”  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion
of assets, said by telephone. “The market is hypersensitive to
any suggestion that the Fed begins to scale back purchases. The
emphasis from the Fed is that it’s data dependent.”  Investors parsed comments during the week from Fed
officials for clues to the central bank’s bond-buying plans. Fed
Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said the central
bank may prolong its asset-purchase program if the economy’s
performance fails to meet its forecasts. Fed Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he expects the U.S. expansion to
remain “sluggish” for “a couple more years.”  Economic Growth  Figures from the Commerce Department on June 26 showed
gross domestic product expanded at a revised 1.8 percent
annualized rate from January through March, down from a prior
estimate of 2.4 percent.  The S&P 500 has retreated 3.8 percent from a record high
reached May 21 as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank may start paring quantitative-easing measures this year if
the recovery continues to improve in line with forecasts.
Central bank stimulus has helped fuel a rally in stocks
worldwide, with the benchmark U.S. index surging as much as 147
percent from its March 2009 low.  Consumer Confidence  Other data during the week bolstered optimism in the
world’s largest economy as  consumer confidence  rose in June and
claims for  unemployment benefits  fell. Separate reports showed
 consumer spending  rebounded in May following the largest drop in
more than three years, while bookings for durable goods climbed
for a second month, topping economist forecasts.  Sales of new U.S. homes increased more than forecast in May
to the highest level in almost five years, while  home prices 
increased more than forecast in the 12 months through April.
More Americans signed contracts in May to buy previously owned
homes than at any time in more than six years.  The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index rallied 1.5
percent for the biggest weekly gain in more than a month. Ten
out of its 11 member rallied. Toll Brothers Inc., the biggest
U.S. luxury-home builder, jumped 2.9 percent to $32.63.  Home Depot, the largest home-improvement retailer, added
4.9 percent to $77.47 for the biggest gain in the Dow.  ‘Improving Condition’  “The headline story in the  U.S. economy  is the improving
condition of the consumer, particularly driven by the
improvement in housing,” Troy Logan, managing director and
senior economist at Warren Financial Service, said by phone from
Exton, Pennsylvania. His firm manages about $90 million. “We’re
seeing improved price levels, new construction, home sales --
all positive things for economic growth. There’s a lot of
momentum behind that sort of move.”  Global equities also climbed for the week after the
People’s Bank of China said it has provided liquidity to some
financial institutions to stabilize money-market rates. The
statement was the first public confirmation of central bank
action to ease a crunch that sent the overnight repurchase rate
to a record.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , retreated 11 percent to 16.86. The benchmark gauge for U.S.
stock options has surged 49 percent since hitting a six-year low
in March.  U.S. stocks fell in the final minutes of the last trading
day as investors adjusted positions for the end of the quarter.
About 10.1 billion shares changed hands on June 28, capping the
busiest month for American  stock trading  since November 2011.  Banks, Utilities  Utility companies rose 3 percent for the biggest rally out
of 10 S&P 500 groups during the week. Consumer-discretionary
shares increased 2.5 percent. Financial stocks also advanced, as
22 out of the 24 U.S. lenders in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  gained.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, added 1.6
percent to $52.79. M&T Bank Corp. climbed 5.2 percent to
$111.75.  Time Warner Cable surged 10 percent to $112.48, while
Cablevision rallied 12 percent to $16.82 for the two biggest
increases in the S&P 500. Billionaire  John Malone , whose Liberty
Media Corp. owns 27 percent of Charter, is exploring scenarios
for how Charter could acquire Time Warner Cable even after his
initial overtures were rebuffed, according to people familiar
with the discussions.  In addition, Charter is considering acquiring Cablevision,
the fifth-largest provider, two people said.  Pandora Jumps  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  jumped 23 percent to $18.40. The biggest
online radio service said the number of U.S. listeners in cars
topped 2.5 million. Cowen & Co. analyst John Blackledge boosted
his rating on the stock to outperform from market perform.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. added 10 percent to $46.10. The
third-biggest publicly traded U.S. hospital chain agreed to buy
hospital operator Vanguard Health Systems Inc. for about $1.8
billion in cash. Vanguard surged 68 percent to $20.74.  Raw-materials companies fell the most out of 10 groups,
losing 1.5 percent. Phoenix-based  metals producer   Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  tumbled 2 percent to $27.61. Barrick
Gold Corp., the largest producer of the metal, erased 6.8
percent to $15.74 as gold posted its biggest quarterly drop
since at least 1920, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BlackBerry fell 24 percent to $10.46 after reporting a
 surprise loss  and weak sales of a new touch-screen model,
underscoring its challenges in competing directly with Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android.  Accenture Plc tumbled 9.4 percent to $71.96 for the biggest
drop in the S&P 500. The world’s second-largest technology-consulting company’s sales forecast trailed analysts’ estimates.
Rival International Business Machines Corp. fell 2.2 percent to
$191.11 for the largest retreat in the Dow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Brennan in New York at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  