-- U.S. House Backs Bill to Expand Coastal Oil, Gas Drilling
-- B y   L y n n   G a r n e r
-- 2013-06-28T15:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/u-s-house-backs-bill-to-expand-coastal-oil-gas-drilling.html
Oil and gas exploration off U.S.
coasts would be expanded under legislation the U.S. House of
Representatives passed over the threat of a presidential veto.  The vote on the bill, H.R. 2231, was 235-186.  The measure would require the Obama administration to
conduct additional sales of oil and gas leases off the coasts of
 Virginia , South Carolina, southern California and  Alaska  over
the next five years, reports Bloomberg BNA.  In addition, it would order the administration to create a
plan that would open up almost all of the nation’s coastline for
exploration; a draft would be due July 15, 2014, and a final
plan approved by July 15, 2015.  “This bill doesn’t harm the environment,” said Washington
state Republican Doc Hastings, chairman of the House Natural
Resources Committee.  “We want to drill safely and
responsibly.”  The Senate isn’t expected to take up the legislation.  The White House Office of Management and Budget issued a
June 25 statement of administration policy warning of a
potential veto. The measure “would undermine the targeted,
science-based and regionally tailored development strategy that
the American people and the states have helped development,”
according to that statement.  The requirement that the Interior Department open new areas
for exploration “would be directed without secretarial
discretion to determine whether those areas are appropriate for
leasing,” the agency said.  Expanded offshore leasing would benefit the large oil
companies, which have the resources to finance the high startup
costs, according to Bloomberg Government analyst Jason Arvelo.
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  were among the most active in the
federal offshore leasing circuit in 2012 and 2013.  The large companies would be the most likely to take
advantage of the expanded territory available for offshore
drilling activities, according to Arvelo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Garner in Washington at 
 lgarner8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  