-- U.S. Probe of JPMorgan’s Madoff Ties Seen Snagged on Agency Rift
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-06-28T20:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/u-s-probe-of-jpmorgan-s-madoff-ties-seen-snagged-on-agency-rift.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  is
stalling a regulatory investigation of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
business dealings with convicted Ponzi schemer  Bernard Madoff ,
an inspector general told lawmakers.  Eric Thorson, the Treasury Department’s internal watchdog,
wrote to lawmakers on June 20 to complain that the Justice
Department’s civil division hasn’t acted to move the case
forward despite his request for assistance “many weeks” ago,
making it impossible to resolve “an important issue involving
one of the country’s largest financial institutions.”  The Justice Department doesn’t comment publicly on internal
deliberations. An official who spoke on condition of anonymity
said the agency is continuing to review the complex legal issues
involved and hasn’t shelved the matter.  The flap arises from an inquiry by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, a part of the Treasury, which has
been reviewing JPMorgan’s ties to Madoff. The former  investment
adviser  maintained accounts with the bank for two decades before
confessing to running a fraud that caused investors to lose
about $17 billion in principal.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment.  Thorson stepped into the fray when he was asked late last
year by the OCC to make sure that JPMorgan wasn’t impeding their
investigation by withholding some documents under attorney-client privilege. The inspector general worked out an agreement
with the bank that would allow a federal judge to review the
documents and decide whether the privilege was properly invoked.  ‘Serious Problem’  Thorson’s office doesn’t have its own authority to make the
necessary filing in federal court that would start the judge’s
review. By law that must be done by the Justice Department.  In his letter to lawmakers, including the leaders of the
Senate and House committees that oversee banking regulators and
the Justice Department, Thorson wrote that his office has had a
“serious problem” with Justice. He wrote that he hadn’t
received a response from Justice to a May 31 letter he sent to
Stuart Delery, acting head of the civil division.  In that letter, which he attached to the one sent to
 Capitol Hill , Thorson told Delery that the department’s failure
to act has “the effect of terminating this phase of our
investigation.”  Copies of both letters were provided to  Bloomberg News .  While both JPMorgan and the inspector general have come to
an agreement, Thorson wrote to Delery, “your office has
resisted the advancement of this matter.”  Rich Delmar, counsel to the inspector general, declined to
comment.  In Contact  The Justice official said its civil division attorneys have
remained in contact with the inspector general’s office to
discuss the legal issues, adding that it was unfortunate Thorson
would go to lawmakers before the review is completed.  The OCC’s probe is one of several reviews that have looked
into JPMorgan’s business ties to Madoff.  JPMorgan was sued in 2010 by the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s firm, Irving H. Picard, who accused it of aiding
Madoff’s fraud while serving as his primary banker. The lawsuit,
eventually demanding $19 billion, has since been dismissed. Last
week, a federal appeals court in  New York  upheld the dismissal.  The trustee also accused the bank of withdrawing $276
million in its own investments in Madoff-related feeder funds
about three weeks before Madoff’s Dec. 11, 2008, arrest.
JPMorgan described the withdrawals as part of “an across-the-board review of its exposure to hedge funds,” according to its
court filings.  In responding to Picard’s suit, the bank issued a statement
saying it “did not know about or in any way become a party to
the fraud” and called it an “unfounded claim” that JPMorgan
earned substantial fees from Madoff’s account. JPMorgan also
objected in court when the trustee sought more freedom to use
confidential Madoff documents provided by the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ; 