-- U.S. Says Hong Kong Hurt Ties Failing to Turn Over Snowden
-- B y   N e i l   W e s t e r n
-- 2013-06-28T08:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/u-s-says-hong-kong-hurt-ties-failing-to-turn-over-snowden-1-.html
Hong Kong’s handling of former
National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden’s departure
from the city left a “bad taste” in American officials’ mouths
and damaged ties, U.S. Consul General Stephen Young said.  “Frankly I don’t think we had a good-faith partner
throughout this process,” Young, who leaves Hong Kong at the
end of July after a three-year posting, told journalists today.
“I would hate to see us treat Hong Kong as just another part of
 China .”  Young’s remarks echoed comments made by other American
officials after Hong Kong said a U.S. warrant for Snowden’s
arrest didn’t meet the city’s legal requirements. Snowden left
the city on June 23 and Russian President Vladimir Putin said
he’s now in the transit zone of a Moscow airport.  Snowden, a former government contractor who also previously
worked for the Central Intelligence Agency, has revealed he was
the source of leaks on top-secret U.S. National Security Agency
programs that collect phone and Internet data. He has applied
for asylum in Ecuador.  China took back sovereignty of Hong Kong from the U.K. in
1997 and allows the city wide-ranging independence to govern
itself under the “one country, two systems” policy. Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying said June 24 that Hong Kong upheld the
rule of law in Snowden’s case, while acknowledging that some
people in the U.S. voiced “displeasure” about his departure.  Snowden, a former employee of  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding
Corp. (BAH) , faces theft and espionage charges in the U.S. Hong Kong’s
handling of Snowden’s departure may affect its plans to become a
member of the U.S. Visa Waiver Program, State Department
Spokesman Patrick Ventrell said on June 25.  The Snowden affair left a “bad taste in American policy
makers’ mouths,” Young said today. He said there was a
significant lapse of cooperation by Hong Kong that “injected a
tone of distrust that will take take time and effort to erase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Western in Hong Kong at 
 nwestern@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  