-- Lula Default Scare Echoed in Brazil’s Worst Bond Sell-Off
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-06-28T15:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/lula-default-scare-echoed-in-worst-rout-since-02-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian  government bonds  are
suffering the biggest quarterly losses since the run-up to
former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s election in 2002
led to speculation that the nation would default.  Dollar-denominated bonds from Brazil,  Latin America ’s
biggest nation, plunged 7.55 percent since the end of March,
the biggest slide since a 16 percent drop in the third quarter
of 2002 before Lula’s October election that year. The loss
this quarter exceeds a decline of 6.15 percent for countries
with triple-B ratings, according to Bank of America Corp.  Investors are becoming concerned that President Dilma Rousseff’s administration is undoing the progress of her mentor
and predecessor, who overcame bondholder skepticism to win the
nation’s first-ever investment grade in 2008. Brazil is now
grappling with inflation above its 6.5 percent target, the
prospect of a credit downgrade and the biggest street protests
in more than two decades as speculation increases the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce its unprecedented bond buying that had
pushed investors into higher-yielding  emerging markets .  “The street protests are really exposing a lot, the many
levels of weaknesses that the administration put into the
economy,” Italo Lombardi, an economist at Standard Chartered
Plc, said in a telephone interview from  New York . “If they
don’t take actions and we continue to see low growth, then we
could see a downgrade.”  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions about the nation’s bond performance.  Yield Increase  The  average yield  on Brazil’s dollar-denominated bonds has
soared 106 basis points, or 1.06 percentage points, to 5.09
percent since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 that
signs of a sustained improvement in the U.S. jobs market could
lead the central bank to scale back its monthly bond purchases,
according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Things weren’t good, and then, when the Fed came in, that
just did it,” Paulo Vieira da Cunha, partner at Tandem Global
Management LP and a former central bank director, said by phone
from New York. “All of a sudden, you got this perspective that
you would have to pay a lot more to borrow abroad. It caught
Brazil completely on the wrong foot.”  Lula ran for president unsuccessfully as head of Brazil’s
Workers’ Party three times before winning in 2002 amid pledges
of revived growth and job creation. The former union leader’s
party had advocated a renegotiation of Brazil’s international
debt and investors were concerned he would boost deficit
spending and default.  Outlook Cut  Once in office, Lula ordered a record 14.1 billion reais in
spending cuts as part of a $30 billion loan agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and accumulated a then-record $289
billion in international  reserves  as prices for food and mineral
exports soared.  Brazilian bonds due in 2040, which traded as low as 42.5
cents on the dollar in the third quarter of 2002, tripled in
value during Lula’s presidency.  On June 6,  Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook on Brazil’s
rating to negative, citing sluggish economic growth, weakening
fiscal accounts and a loss of investor credibility. S&P raised
the country to BBB-, the lowest investment-grade rating, in
2008. The rating climbed to the current BBB in November 2011,
toward the end of Rousseff’s first year in office.  Slowing Growth  Mauro Leos, senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a June 19 interview that his firm’s positive
outlook on  Brazil  is “difficult to support” amid lackluster
growth and rising debt levels. Brazil’s  gross debt  was equal to
59.2 percent of gross domestic product in March, compared with
53.35 percent at the end of Lula’s term in December 2010.  Rousseff’s administration is trying to revive economic
growth that  slowed  for two straight years to 0.9 percent in 2012
from 7.6 percent in 2010. The central bank yesterday cut its
forecast for growth this year to 2.7 percent, from a March
projection of 3.1 percent.  Annual  inflation  through mid-June reached 6.67 percent, the
fastest pace since November 2011, even after officials cut
energy tariffs. Brazil’s central bank targets annual inflation
at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  The price increases prompted central bankers to raise their
 benchmark   interest rate  twice this quarter from a record low
7.25 percent.  Budget Deficit  Street protests that began three weeks ago against an
increase in bus fares have swelled as demonstrators voiced
complaints about corruption and the quality of health care and
education.  The president vowed to boost spending to placate the
protesters while urging fiscal restraint among policy makers. In
April, the government posted the biggest  budget deficit  in
almost four years of 132 billion reais ($60 billion).  For  John Welch , a macroeconomic strategist at  CIBC World
Markets  in Toronto, the bond sell-off has created a buying
opportunity.  “You have some value in Brazilian bonds where you’re
actually being compensated for the risk,” Welch said in a
telephone interview. “Brazil’s been the big underperformer and
probably deservedly so, but now it’s starting to go too far.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has surged 52
basis points this quarter to 242 basis points as of 11:54 a.m.
in New York, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Brazilian bonds against default for
five years has climbed 49 basis points since the end of March to
186 basis points, the biggest quarterly jump since 2011. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real has plunged 8.5 percent this quarter to 2.2084 per
dollar, the second-biggest drop in emerging markets after
 India ’s rupee. Since taking office in January 2011, Rousseff has
implemented dozens of measures to try to boost demand and
protect industry from imports. Brazil removed taxes on currency
derivatives in March and foreigners’ purchases of bonds earlier
this month.  None of the actions has been successful in stimulating
growth, according to Ricardo Hausmann, a professor at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and former planning
minister in  Venezuela .  “Brazil is a country that had been dealt a fantastic hand,
and has played it very poorly,” Hausmann said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  