-- Munoz Sees House Republicans Pressed on Immigration (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2013-06-28T19:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/munoz-sees-house-republicans-pressed-on-immigration-transcript-.html
White House domestic policy adviser
Cecilia Munoz said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
backing from business groups, religious leaders labor and
technology companies will pressure the Republican majority in
the U.S.  House of Representatives  to act on immigration
legislation.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  HANS NICHOLS : Thanks for joining us. I’m Hans Nichols
filling in for  Albert R. Hunt . We begin the show with White
House domestic policy adviser, Cecilia Munoz. Cecilia, thank you
so much for joining us.  On Thursday, Speaker  John Boehner  said that it has - that
any immigration bill has to have a majority of a majority. Does
that make passage impossible or just harder?  CECILIA MUNOZ: Well, I think that what makes passage
possible is that we just had a very, very strong vote in the
Senate, 68 votes, 14 Republicans supporting. And there are
constituencies all over the country who cheered way out loud
once they saw what the Senate was doing.  We have business leaders of every shape and size. We have
faith leaders. There are law-enforcement officials. There are
mayors and governors of both parties. There is strong support
for immigration reform all over the country.  And there is strong evidence that immigration reform is not
just good for the economy, but excellent for the economy. It
reduces the deficit by almost $1 trillion. It helps create jobs.
It helps grow GDP. So the reason that this is going to happen is
because there is so much support all over the country.  NICHOLS: And that support translates to the Republican
conference?  MUNOZ: I think it does because, again, you’re talking about
the business community, from the  National Association of
Manufacturers , to the U.S. Chamber, to the tech sector, small
businesses, faith leaders of every kind, but also this
conversation is happening locally in a different way in
religious congregations, in communities around the country. The
country is for this and I think ultimately the House of
Representatives will be too.  NICHOLS: So the majority of majority’s benchmark by Boehner
is not a setback?  MUNOZ: Well, there are multiple options available for House
consideration. It is important that the speaker has made it
clear that the House is going to make its mark on this debate.
That’s as it should be. That’s how democracy works.  But at the end of the day, the American people expect their
policymakers to make policy, especially to fix what everybody
acknowledges to be a broken immigration system. Inaction here is
not an option.  NICHOLS: The president, and as well yourself, have been
involved at least in the Senate negotiations, but for the most
part you gave the Senate some space, the Gang of Eight to sort
of crack, to compromise, to do the heavy negotiations
themselves. Will there be a same strategy with the Gang of Seven
in the House, give them space to work this out?  MUNOZ: Well, the president has made it abundantly clear
that this is a priority for him. There is nobody who has any
guesswork to make about that. And he has been involved by being
public about his wishes, but putting out a set of principles, by
talking to senators on both sides of the aisle.  And his team has been involved with senators on both sides
of the aisle for just facilitating a good legislative process.
What he’s going to do and what his administration is going to do
is whatever helps us get the best possible bill over the finish
line, because that’s what the American people expect out of it.  NICHOLS: Well, walk me through that a little bit. What is
the strategy, day in, day out? Congress is obviously away on
recess, July 4th. Will they come back ready, we’re more ready,
less ready to sort of cut a deal?  MUNOZ: Well there is a national conversation happening
about immigration reform. And there is a sense of momentum
created by what the Senate just did. So we expect that
conversation is going to continue. And frankly there’s going to
be a lot of pressure on the House to act now that the Senate has
acted. That’s clearly where the next move is.  And I think there is a lot of room for the House to do what
is right here and make sure that they’re engaging and talking
about border enforcement, to make sure that they’re engaging and
talking about how to reform the legal immigration system, to
make sure this system works equally well for businesses as well
as workers, and know and you have to address the question of a
pathway to citizenship, which is something that is strongly
supported all over the country.  NICHOLS: And that absolutely needs to be in any final bill
that the president signs.  MUNOZ: The president has made it clear. He has put out a
series of principles. That’s one of them and he wants a bill
that is as consistent with those principles as possible.  NICHOLS: Now I take your momentum point. Sixty-eight votes
in the Senate is no small thing, bigger than the previous
majorities, but at what point does that momentum run out? Are
you worried about this sort of being so the clock being run out
and the House not acting?  MUNOZ: Well, look, there are no hard and fast rules about
every piece of legislation following the same path.  NICHOLS: Well are there deadlines? Are -  MUNOZ: There - look, it’s pretty important to get an
immigration bill done this year. The Senate has acted. There is
no - the House has been considering and talking about this now,
not just for months but for years. You could date this debate
back to 2001 when  George Bush  put this on the table.  The House passed a bill in 2005. This debate has been going
on for a long time. There’s while it’s very important that the
House speak, there is no reason that it can’t speak this summer
or this year.  NICHOLS: Well there’s a difference there between this
summer and this year. When we talk about momentum, will momentum
run out if it’s October and we don’t have a deal?  MUNOZ: I don’t think momentum is running out on this issue
because it’s clear that there’s bipartisan support. It’s clear
that there’s support all over the country. It’s clear that
there’s an imperative for action here. And -  NICHOLS: So perpetual momentum machine.  MUNOZ: I -  NICHOLS: Momentum does not slow down.  MUNOZ: I have to say I was in the Senate gallery when the
Senate voted. The diversity of people who are in the gallery,
the diversity of the statements that came out after the Senate
acted demonstrate there is strong support for this all over the
country. Immigration reform is going to happen.  NICHOLS: But what about McConnell’s statements? And when
you look at House leaders they are lukewarm or outright hostile.
And just help me understand your confidence.  MUNOZ: I actually think we’ve heard the speaker say that he
intends to take this up, that the House is going to work its
will. We have seen bills go through the judiciary committee as
recently as this last week.  We’ve seen other important leaders like Congressman Ryan
speak out forcefully in favor of immigration reform. And
importantly, there are constituencies that have influence with
frankly the members on both sides of the aisle, like
evangelicals, like Catholic bishops, like business leaders of
every shape and size, who have said, not just we’re for this but
this is a priority.  We have to get this done. We can’t afford the consequences
of inaction any longer. That’s a pretty strong sense of
momentum.  NICHOLS: Now when you - in your other big capacity as
domestic policy adviser, you do deal with domestic policy,
foreign policy. Does the defeat of the farm bill give you pause
at all at sort of just how tough the politics are going to be in
the House?  MUNOZ: Well, look, legislating is never easy. It involves
compromise. That’s what just happened in the Senate, but it is -
it’s clear that there are multiple options available to the
House. And the important thing is that the House act.  NICHOLS: OK. Multiple options, we’ll take that. And we’ll
see what we can do with it.  Another big topic this week, gay marriage, Supreme Court
ruling on it, the president in ruling in favor of it for 13
states who can go forward. And the president in  Africa  talked
about having White House counsels get together and sort of
figure out the legal aspects of this. What’s the timeline on
that? How long do gay couples have to wait before they have the
full benefits that other couples have in these 13 states?  MUNOZ: Well, the  Justice Department  is working with all of
the federal agencies. There are hundreds if not thousands of
statutes that are affected by this ruling. It’s important to do
a careful job and it’s important to do an expeditious job. And
as you heard the attorney general say, this is something that
we’re undertaking as swiftly as possible. They’re going to do an
efficient job but an effective job of getting this right.  NICHOLS: Now on another deadline question,  student loans 
July 1 set to double. It doesn’t look like you’re going to meet
that deadline. How can you fix this retroactively?  MUNOZ: Well, it’s important that there is an active
conversation in Congress that’s trying to arrive at a solution.  And the most important thing is that we make sure that
these rates don’t double, that they - that we keep college
affordable for students, and that we make sure that we do it in
a way that doesn’t try to reduce the deficit on the backs of
students at the same time that we’re having a different
discussion about whether we’re going to close other kinds of
loopholes in order to reduce the deficit.  NICHOLS: So it has to be deficit neutral.  MUNOZ: So it should be deficit neutral. There’s no reason
to ask students to be the ones contributing to reduce the
deficit when we’re not loopholes to achieve the same purpose.
But the most important thing is to make sure that the rate
doesn’t double, that we keep college affordable.  If it takes - Congress should, should act to resolve this.
We are eager and are working with them to try to resolve this.
If it takes past July 1st, it’s still imperative to act as
swiftly as possible to make sure that we keep these rates
affordable for students. This is a priority.  NICHOLS: Now on the deficit talk, there’s some movement on
 Capitol Hill , just the beginnings of talking about buying down
parts of sequestration. Are there any conversations between the
White House and Capitol Hill on how you maybe do bit by bit,
maybe make the sting of sequestration a little bit worse?  MUNOZ: We’re in a broad conversation about making sure that
we resolve this is an effective way. That conversation has been
ongoing. It’s going to continue. Our job is to make sure we get
the right thing done for the American people. And we are willing
to be engaged in any conversation that helps us get there, but
the goal is to make sure that we get there in a way that’s
effective, in a way that’s responsible.  NICHOLS: Well, I know you’re going to be engaged and I know
you’re going to be busy. And I don’t think it’s going to be a
very quiet August. Thank you very much for joining us.  MUNOZ: Thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 