-- Vatican Prelate Arrested With Spy in Corruption Probe
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o ,   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-06-28T15:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/vatican-bank-official-broker-arrested-in-fraud-probe.html
A senior Vatican cleric, an Italian 
secret service agent and a financial broker were arrested today 
in a corruption investigation that’s part of a wider probe into 
Vatican Bank transactions.  The three were charged with fraud and corruption,  Rome 
prosecutor Nello Rossi said today at a press conference in Rome.
Monsignor Nunzio Scarano, the former head of a Vatican financial
department called APSA, was among the three people taken into
custody, he said.  The three men allegedly tried to bring 20 million euros
($26 million) into  Italy  from  Switzerland  in a private jet,
Rossi said. The plane was hired in Italy and landed in Locarno,
Switzerland, where it remained for several days, he said. The
money never left Switzerland because the broker reneged on the
deal, the prosecutor said.  Attempts to reach a lawyer for Scarano by phone weren't
successful. Scarano was suspended more than a month ago from his
duties at APSA, a department that oversees the  Holy See ’s real
estate holdings, “as soon as his superiors were informed that
he was under investigation,” Vatican spokesman Federico
Lombardi said in a statement published on the Vatican Radio
website. “The Holy See has not yet received any request from
the competent Italian authorities on the matter, but confirmed
its willingness to cooperate fully.”  Strict Surveillance  The arrests come two days after Pope Francis named a
commission to oversee the operations of the Vatican Bank.
Moneyval, the Council of  Europe ’s monitoring body for  money
laundering  and terrorism financing, is calling for independent
supervision of the bank, whose formal name is the Institute 
for the Works of Religion, or IOR.  The Vatican is trying to overcome three decades of scandals
at the bank, ranging from the Banco Ambrosiano failure in the
1980s to the freezing of 23 million euros by Italian prosecutors
in 2010.  Pope Benedict XVI  appointed Ernst von Freyberg, a
German lawyer and financial adviser, to head the IOR in February
as one of his last acts before retiring.  The Vatican bank oversees about 7.1 billion euros in
assets, mostly in bonds and cash. In an interview this month,
von Freyberg said he was committed to making the bank more
transparent and compliant with international standards.  The “IOR is committed to full cooperation with
authorities,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement today. The
bank’s oversight council “has initiated an internal
investigation in this matter in line with the ’zero tolerance’
policy” set by von Freyberg, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome  at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  