-- West Texas Sour at Premium as Pipelines Connect Permian to Gulf
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-06-28T18:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/west-texas-sour-at-premium-as-pipelines-connect-permian-to-gulf.html
Sour crude in West  Texas  is on track
to price above sweet every day this month, the first time that’s
happened in 25 years, as Gulf Coast refiners use new pipelines
to bring in high-sulfur crude to balance the growing abundance
of low-sulfur oil from shale formations.  The sour premium underscores shifting energy needs in the
U.S. as techniques such as directional drilling and hydraulic
fracturing in Texas’s Eagle Ford and other shale formations have
pushed U.S. oil production to the highest level since 1992. This
new output is light and low in sulfur, while U.S. Gulf Coast
refineries are set up to process heavy, sour crude.  “The strength in the sour grades is largely to do with the
growing supplies of light crudes in the  Gulf Coast , especially
as incremental Eagle Ford production gets lighter,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a
research company in  London . “The bid for sour crudes is likely
to remain strong given that the cokers in the Gulf Coast are
starved of sour crudes.”  West Texas Sour priced in Midland, Texas, remained
unchanged at a 25-cent  premium  to West Texas Intermediate oil
priced in the same city at 12:18 p.m. East Coast time, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium has ranged from 5
cents to 30 cents this month.  WTS, a medium density, high-sulfur or “sour” crude,
averaged a discount of $1.67 to light, sweet WTI in Midland over
the past five years. Sour crude requires more processing to
remove the extra sulfur while it’s being converted into
transportation fuels.  New Pipelines  The sour premium has also developed as pipelines begin to
bring oil from West Texas’s Permian Basin directly to the Gulf
Coast, where the heavy, sour refineries are located.  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s Longhorn pipeline will
transport an average of 90,000 barrels a day to the Houston area
in the second quarter.  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL) ’s West Texas
Gulf system is moving 40,000 barrels a day to the Houston area,
and its Permian Express is expected to begin transporting crude
soon.  “It has to do with the pipelines enabling the crude to get
to the Gulf Coast,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  