-- What China Central Bank Learned From Past Credit Crunches
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B e l l   a n d   H u i   F e n g
-- 2013-06-28T19:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/what-china-central-bank-learned-from-past-credit-crunches.html
In signaling this week that it was
prepared to inject liquidity into the markets, the People’s Bank
of  China  brought the country’s financial system much needed
relief that a “Lehman moment” might be avoided.  The current credit crunch, in which the central bank has
refused to act as the lender of last resort, differs markedly
from two previous episodes, in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
It also shows that China’s approach to macroeconomic governance
has evolved:  Its leadership no longer relies solely on
political and administrative controls, and is allowing market
forces take a greater role.  For much of the 1980s, the central bank had to rely on
strict enforcement of credit quotas to contain economic
overheating, even though  reserve requirements  had been
introduced and the central bank could regulate credit to the
banking system. This was essentially a form of financial
planning. The first crunch, in the late 1980s, was triggered by
a failed price-reform effort led by Premier  Deng Xiaoping . It
was supposed to unify the dual-track pricing system into a
single regime based on market prices. But it lacked
complementary wage reform and ultimately produced  inflation .  Credit Controls  That cash squeeze was also partly caused by the People’s
Bank’s decision to relax credit controls in response to the
previous monetary tightening in the mid-1980s. The subsequent
retrenchment -- which included the crackdown on the protestors
in  Tiananmen Square  -- cost key reformers such as Zhao Ziyang
their political careers, led to a resurgence of pro-planning
conservatives and to the reversal of many reforms.  The central bank found the new market measures ineffective
at restricting  credit growth  as long as the old planning system
remained in place. Moreover, an emerging regional  interbank
market  encouraged banks to sidestep the credit quota and to use
reserves for additional lending. As a result, the PBOC’s two
increases of the reserve ratio had limited impact in
constraining liquidity. Instead, the government and the central
bank resorted to strict administrative measures as part of an
austerity program.  The PBOC subsequently reversed its experiment: Credit
quotas became mandatory again, interest-rate liberalization
measures were reversed and interbank lending was controlled more
tightly. To deal with exceptionally high investment growth,
investment quotas were established for each province. All
investment projects were required to be approved at either the
provincial or the national level.  These harsh measures led to an economic hard landing. In
1990, growth of industrial output declined to 6 percent, the
slowest one-year growth since 1979, while  gross domestic product 
growth fell by two-thirds. Thousands of township and village
enterprises failed and thousands of rural migrant workers in
urban areas lost their jobs.  The second round of credit contraction 10 years ago was
another attempt to quell nationwide  economic overheating . It
coincided with a push for market reforms from the top, a renewed
investment campaign sanctioned by local governments, an
expansion of the  money supply , an active informal financial
sector and a lack of limits on the expansion of policy loans to
subsidize the state sector.  The result was large amounts of unauthorized loans to
finance fixed-asset investment, with a significant exposure to
 real estate , stocks and local capital-investment projects. Part
of the blame belongs to the PBOC’s inability to discipline the
banks and control the activities of nonbank financial
institutions. Chaos ensued: The  consumer price index  peaked at
24.1 percent in 1994, real interest rates turned negative, and
there were runs on banks and rampant disorder in the interbank
market.  Reformist Premier  To avoid a repeat, the leadership focused on stability. A
reformer, Zhu Rongji, who was then vice premier, took over the
governorship of the central bank in July 1993, and implemented
an austerity program. The package contained market-based
measures, but the basic theme was once again administrative
command.  There were four main policies: withdrawing loans granted
without authorization, raising  interest rates  on deposits and
loans, restraining irregular capital-raising activities, and
restoring order among investments in real estate and
development.  The package also was intended to strengthen the powers of
the PBOC. The central bank  separated the state-owned banks from
their affiliated trust and  investment  companies, required state
banks to call back all loans made outside the credit plan,
restricted inter-regional lending and sent working groups to the
provinces to monitor progress.  By 1997, the austerity policy had succeeded in lowering
 inflation  to 2.8 percent, and GDP growth was brought down to a
more sustainable level of 9.3 percent, from 14 percent in 1993.
The second credit crunch had produced a soft landing.  The most recent tightening of liquidity appears to have
been caused by a crackdown on bond-market irregularities along
with a reduction in foreign-exchange inflows and by seasonal
factors such as a surge in demand for cash during holidays that
often lead to cash shortages.  The PBOC’s tardiness in responding to market concerns
suggests the beginning of a different dynamic. The new economic
leadership under Premier  Li Keqiang  has stated that it will put
much more emphasis on market forces. For starters, the
government extended  Zhou Xiaochuan ’s tenure as central bank
governor and announced measures aimed at strengthening the real
economy. This suggests that the leadership is worried about a
financial crisis developing as a result of its 2009 anti-crisis
lending spree, the rapid expansion of the money supply from the
PBOC’s foreign-exchange intervention and the phenomenal growth
of a shadow banking sector that escapes regulatory supervision.  Structural Problem  By turning off the credit tap, the authorities sent a clear
message to the financial sector that the liquidity shortage was
structural, and that it would have to be overcome by financial
institutions themselves rather than by the central bank. By
accommodating a surge in interbank  interest rates , the latest
action is a credible early warning that banks need to address
their risk management and off-balance-sheet activities.  The bank only stepped in after the liquidity shortage led
to a slump in the stock and bond markets. In light of the
domestic  economic slowdown  and a possible exit from quantitative
easing in the U.S., China’s largely regulatory-induced credit
restrictions also serve as a real-world stress test of the
capacity of its banking system and financial markets. It can be
seen as the PBOC’s orderly exit from the austerity program.  The PBOC’s strategic decision not to intervene in the
market heralds a more proactive and market-oriented approach.
However, official tightening only targets the symptom, not the
disease. When the party congress meets this fall, it could bring
renewed momentum to financial reform in areas such as interest-rate marketization, capital account liberalization and the
regulation of the shadow banking system.  ( Stephen Bell  is a professor of political economy and Dr.
 Hui Feng  is a research fellow in the School of Political Science
and International Studies at the University of Queensland. Their
latest book is “The Rise of the People’s Bank of China: The
Politics of Institutional Change.”)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writers of this post:
Stephen Bell at  stephen.bell@uq.edu.au ;
Hui Feng at  h.feng@uq.edu.au   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  