-- Williams Says ‘Still Too Early’ to Reduce Fed Bond Purchases
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-06-28T22:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/williams-says-still-too-early-to-reduce-fed-bond-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams , who has never dissented from
a policy decision, said “it’s still too early” for the Fed to
begin trimming its bond-buying, warning of risks to the economy
from low inflation and government budget cuts.  “We need to be sure that the economy can maintain its
momentum in the face of ongoing fiscal contraction,” Williams
said in a speech today in Rohnert Park,  California . “It is also
prudent to wait a bit and make sure that inflation doesn’t keep
coming in below expectations, possibly signaling a more
persistent decline in inflation.”  Bonds (USGG10YR)  and stocks have dropped since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the Fed may dial down $85 billion in
monthly bond buying this year and end purchases around mid-2014
should the economy perform in line with its forecast.  “Any adjustments to our purchase program will depend on
the new economic data that come in,” said Williams, who doesn’t
vote on policy this year. “Reducing or even ending our
purchases does not mean the Fed will be tightening monetary
policy. Not at all.”  The  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  has slid 2.8 percent
since June 18, the day before Bernanke outlined the committee’s
outlook for the asset-purchasing program. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  fell
0.4 percent today to 1,606.28, while the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose 0.01 percentage point to 2.49 percent. The
yield on the benchmark Treasury increased to 2.61 percent on
June 25 as investors anticipated less monetary stimulus.  Markets Reeling  Speaking to reporters after his speech today, Williams said
he backed the timetable for winding down bond purchases that
Bernanke outlined on June 19. Williams said as recently as June
3 that the central bank could start trimming its purchases as
early as “this summer” and end them by the end of this year if
the economy continues to improve. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  plans to meet July 30-31.  Williams said inflation and economic growth have recently
been slower than he expected, provoking in him “more angst”
about whether the economy will improve with the momentum he had
expected, Williams said.  “That argues for somewhat more accommodation than I was
expecting back in April or May,” he said. “The chairman
articulated where the consensus of the committee is” at the
press conference last week.  “The outsized response” in the yields of 10-year
Treasuries in recent weeks may have stemmed from complacency and
“froth” in the market, Williams said. Some investors expected
the Fed to keep quantitative easing and zero  interest rates  in
place for longer than officials were anticipating.  Market ‘Excesses’  “The market reaction to me probably is a sign that there
was complacency and excesses going on,” Williams said. “It’s a
good thing that maybe came to an end, or maybe was lessened.”  With markets reeling, several Fed officials in the past
week have emphasized that the central bank won’t begin
tightening for some time. Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart
yesterday said investors may have misread Bernanke’s June 19
comments, adding that policy will stay accommodative.  “Market adjustments since May have been larger than would
be justified by any reasonable reassessment of the path of
policy,” Fed Governor Jerome Powell said yesterday in
 Washington .  Markets will probably remain volatile as policy makers
debate when and how to curtail the so-called quantitative easing
program, Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said today in a
speech in  West Virginia .  Asset Purchases  The reaction by investors since Bernanke’s comments is
“evidence that they had built in expectations of more asset
purchases than I think the committee taken as a whole was
anticipating,” Lacker told reporters after his speech. Recent
asset price declines “should not be too surprising,” he said
in his speech.  Williams said today he expects the  unemployment rate  to
fall to 7.25 percent at the end of this year and to 6.75 percent
by the end of 2014. Joblessness was at 7.6 percent in May.  Inflation will probably accelerate closer to the Fed’s 2
percent goal, to 1.75 percent in 2015 from less than 1.5 percent
in the second half of this year, he said.  Investors have closely scrutinized comments by Williams,
among the early backers of a third round of bond buying, after
he raised the possibility of tapering the program. He had also
favored an open-ended approach to the bond purchases, in which
the Fed specifies neither the duration nor the total amount of
buying.  While a voting member on the FOMC last year, Williams
backed the beginning of the third round of assets purchases in
September and the decision to expand the program to Treasuries
in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  