-- Woman Indicted Over Ricin Letters to Obama, Bloomberg
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-06-28T18:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/woman-indicted-over-ricin-letters-to-obama-bloomberg.html
Shannon Guess Richardson, the Texas
woman who told federal agents her husband sent letters
containing ricin to President  Barack Obama  and New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , was indicted for sending the threatening
letters.  The former actress faces three counts in an indictment a
federal grand jury returned yesterday in Texarkana, Texas. If
convicted, she faces as long as five years in prison for each
charge, the  Justice Department  said in a statement.  She was previously charged in a criminal complaint with
mailing a threatening communication. In the indictment, she is
accused of threatening the president of the U.S. and two counts
of mailing a threatening communication.  Besides Obama and Bloomberg, prosecutors said, she sent a
ricin-laced letter to Mark Glaze in Washington, the director of
 Mayors Against Illegal Guns , a group co-founded by Bloomberg.  Richardson has been in custody since June 7. The letters
were intercepted before they reached the intended recipients.  Tonda Curry, a lawyer representing Richardson, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment. At Curry’s request,
Richardson is being held for a psychiatric evaluation, according
to court records.  Richardson, who appeared in the TV series “The Walking
Dead,” initially approached the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
claiming her husband wanted to poison her, authorities said.  Polygraph Exam  She failed a polygraph exam when she was questioned a
second time after agents searched her home and the husband’s
car, according to the FBI. She then said her husband coerced her
into mailing the letters.  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested.  The mayor of New York is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The case is U.S. v. Richardson, 5:13-cr-00013, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Texarkana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 