-- World’s Highest Carbon Price Bedevils Australia’s New Leader
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2013-06-28T10:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/world-s-highest-carbon-price-bedevils-australia-s-new-leader.html
Kevin Rudd , sworn in yesterday for
his second stint as  Australia ’s prime minister, may seek to
amend his predecessor’s flagship clean-energy policy that’s left
the nation with the world’s highest carbon price, analysts say.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance joined RepuTex in  Melbourne 
and Climate Mundial in  London  in predicting Rudd will try to
deflect attacks on Australia’s fixed carbon price, set to rise
next month to almost four times the European rate, by pledging
to speed up the shift to a market-based trading system.  Rudd ousted Julia Gillard after winning a ballot for the
leadership of the governing  Labor party  on June 26. He will need
to craft a policy platform as he seeks to close the gap with the
opposition before elections currently due Sept. 14. Opposition
leader  Tony Abbott  has vowed to scrap the carbon price system
introduced by Gillard should he win, calling it a toxic tax.  “The carbon tax has been very politically damaging for the
Gillard government, so it is likely that Kevin Rudd will look to
neutralize the anti-carbon tax sentiment by moving the scheme to
an emissions-trading phase, letting the market determine the
price as soon as possible,” Kobad Bhavnagri, head of carbon
analysis in Sydney for New Energy Finance, said yesterday in an
interview. “We think it is likely that this change will be part
of Rudd’s re-election platform.”  Rudd said in February 2012 he supported “the earliest
possible transition to emissions trading and a floating price.”
He declined to detail any policy plans yesterday in parliament,
saying only he was “committed to a carbon price.”  World’s Biggest Emitter  The new Cabinet will next week discuss policy, including
the timing for the move to market-based pricing, Minister for
Mental Health and Ageing Mark Butler told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today.  Gillard won approval in 2011 for a Clean Energy Act that
set a price for the first time on  greenhouse gases  in Australia,
ranked as the world’s biggest emitter per capita among
industrialized nations. As part of a compromise to win the
support of Australia’s Green party, Gillard agreed to set a
fixed rate for three years before starting market-based pricing
in 2015. Australia started at A$23 ($21.40) a ton in July 2012
and is scheduled to raise the price next month to $24.15 and 
A$25.40 in July 2014.  European prices, by comparison, fell 5 percent today to
4.21 euros ($5.60) on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in 
London. While Australia and Europe are slated to link their
emissions markets in 2015, some industry groups are calling for
a faster transition from fixed to market-based prices.  Industry Demands  The Australian Industry Group, a business lobby
representing about 60,000 companies, this week called on the
nation to abolish the fixed price and replace it with  emissions
trading  immediately after Australia’s election. A survey of its
members indicated that Australia’s “unnecessarily high levy”
on carbon is hurting the country’s competitiveness, the group
said in a June 25 statement.  “With Australian businesses about to begin two more years
with a fixed-price carbon tax, the survey adds to the mounting
case for an immediate switch to an emissions-trading scheme,”
Innes Willox, the group’s chief executive, said in the statement.
“Replacing it with an internationally linked emissions trading
scheme needs to be at the top of the post-election agenda. This
would immediately cut carbon costs by two thirds and boost
business competitiveness.”  The resignation this week of  Greg Combet , Australia’s
minister for  climate change , will give Rudd the opportunity to
reset the government’s carbon policy, said Hugh Grossman,
executive director of research company RepuTex in Melbourne.  Fresh Face  “A fresh face in the climate portfolio should be viewed by
the market as a precursor to a likely policy change,” he said.  Rudd is likely to move forward the plan to link the
European and Australian carbon markets, Daniel Rossetto,
managing director of Climate Mundial in London, said June 26 in
an e-mail. “Rudd is unlikely to aggressively defend retention
of the fixed-price period,” Rossetto said.  An accelerated shift to market pricing would further
decrease Australia’s revenue from selling carbon permits, New
Energy Finance said. The nation cut its estimate for future
carbon prices in May because of lower EU prices to A$12.10 a
metric ton from A$29 before. The revision cuts the value of
permits by about A$6 billion through June 2016, or a net cost to
government of A$2.1 billion after accounting for industry aid,
Combet said May 14.  Political Benefits  Even so, the political benefits of lower carbon prices
exceed the costs, according to Bhavnagri of New Energy Finance.  “Although it would likely result in less revenue to
government, from a political perspective it is an easy win,
pleasing both the business community and soothing voter anxiety
about the carbon tax,” he said.  Any amendment to the Clean Energy Act, or a bid by Abbott
to scrap it, would require legislation in parliament. Rudd,
after winning the general election in 2007, tried twice to pass
an emissions-trading plan called the Carbon Pollution Reduction
Scheme, or CPRS. He previously criticized the three-year fix
price passed by Gillard while maintaining his support for
emissions trading, New Energy Finance said.  While Rudd is expected to campaign on the issue of
accelerating carbon trading to start as early as July 2014, he
is unlikely to try to amend the law before this year’s general
election, New Energy Finance said. Even if he loses, the
likelihood that Abbott will be able to repeal carbon pricing in
Australia has fallen from 44 percent under Gillard’s leadership
to 34 percent under Rudd, New Energy Finance estimates.  The change in Labor leadership will minimize the chances of
the Coalition gaining enough seats in the upper house Senate to
overturn the law, according to RepuTex.  Tighter Contest  “The tighter contest should therefore provide a degree of
insulation for the Clean Energy Act in the Senate, regardless of
which party ultimately forms government,” Grossman said.  Rudd’s return would lift Labor by 11 percentage points in
the primary vote to 40 percent, compared with the coalition’s 42
percent, according to a Nielsen survey published in Fairfax
newspapers June 17.  Gavin Wendt, founder of Mine Life Pty, a mining and
resources researcher in Sydney, said he doubted Rudd would seek
to amend the Clean Energy Act before the election, and would
probably lose office to Abbott.  Wendt said Labor is unlikely to have the support it needs
to change carbon legislation before the election.  “With  Julia Gillard  as leader, all the polls showed that
Labor were going to suffer a complete wipeout and were going to
lose a whole lot of seats,” he said. “The polls showed that
with Kevin Rudd as leader, they’ll lose but won’t lose as many
seats. So it was more about minimizing their losses at election,
rather than a chance at winning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  