-- WTI Crude Oil Heads for Longest Gain Since April
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-28T12:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/wti-little-changed-after-biggest-gain-in-two-months-on-u-s-data.html
West Texas Intermediate rose for a
fifth day, its longest increase since April, on that signs of
economic recovery in the U.S. and  Germany  will support fuel
consumption.  WTI futures climbed as much 0.8 percent. German retail
 sales  rose more than forecast in May, adding to signs that a
recovery in Europe’s largest economy has gathered pace this
quarter. Fewer Americans filed claims for weekly  unemployment
benefits  and  consumer spending  rebounded in May, U.S. government
data showed yesterday. Brent’s  premium  to WTI shrank after
closing at the narrowest since January 2011.  “Oil trading is mostly macro-driven today,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London who sees WTI
meeting “very strong resistance” next month at $99 a barrel.
“Refinery runs in the U.S. are very healthy, but the upside for
crude will still be limited by the long-term comfortable cushion
of supply.”  WTI for August delivery increased as much as 77 cents to
$97.82 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest intraday price since June 20, and was at
$97.33 at 1:28 p.m. London time. The contract rose $1.55, or 1.6
percent, to $97.05 yesterday, the biggest gain since May 3.
Futures are up 5.8 percent this month and little changed in the
second quarter.  Brent Gains  Brent for August settlement rose 27 cents to $103.09 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $5.74 to WTI
futures, from $5.77 yesterday. While Brent prices are up 2.6
percent in June, for the quarter the North Sea benchmark is
poised for a third decline, its longest run of quarterly losses
since 1998.  German economic data today from the Federal Statistics
Office showed sales adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings
climbed 0.8 percent in May from April. Economists had predicted
an increase of 0.4 percent, according to the median of 23
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Sales gained 0.4 percent
from a year earlier.  WTI is set for its first monthly advance this quarter,
partly on renewed concern unrest in  Syria  will spread,
threatening Middle East crude supplies. The region accounted for
33 percent of global production last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  U.S. Economy  Crude gained yesterday after Commerce Department data
showed U.S. consumer spending rebounded 0.3 percent in May
following the biggest drop in more than three years. Weekly
claims for jobless benefits slid for the third time in a month,
according to a Labor Department report. The U.S. accounted for
21 percent of global oil consumption last year, according to
BP’s Statistical Review.  U.S. stock-index futures rose, pointing to a fourth day of
gains for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and most commodities
in the S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials also gained today.  “Right now it seems like the bulls are in control,” said
 Victor Shum , the vice president at IHS Energy Insight, a
consultant in  Singapore . “Oil futures appear to be trading with
the broader market.”  Prices may retreat next week on speculation U.S. oil and
fuel inventories remain sufficient, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Thirteen of 33 analysts and traders, or 39 percent,
forecast crude will decrease through July 5. Eleven respondents,
or 33 percent, predicted an increase and nine saw no change.
Last week, 65 percent projected a fall.  WTI has long-term technical support at $89.83 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the 50 percent
Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in December 2008
from an intraday record high of $147.27 in July that year. Buy
orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  