-- Hypo Alpe Said to Require as Much as $2.6 Billion Extra Capital
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-28T15:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/hypo-alpe-said-to-require-as-much-as-2-6-billion-extra-capital.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the nationalized Austrian lender, may need as much as 2
billion euros ($2.6 billion) in extra capital due to concessions
Austria will make to win state aid approval from the European
Union.  A restructuring plan for the lender, due in two days,
foresees tighter deadlines for asset sales, curbs on new
business and a larger unit for winding down assets, according to
two people with knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be
identified because talks with the EU are confidential. The
measures will reduce the value of the Klagenfurt, Austria-based
lender’s units and lead to a loss that will trigger the capital
requirement, they said. The amount could be lower if a unit to
wind down the bank’s bad assets is set up, they said.  Andreas Perotti, a spokesman for the  Finance Ministry , said
the plan is being completed on schedule. He declined to provide
details. Nikola Donig, spokesman for Hypo Alpe, declined to
comment.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s top antitrust official, told
Austria in March that its restructuring plan for Hypo Alpe
wasn’t good enough to justify retaining about 2.2 billion euros
of state aid the lender has received since 2008, and he may
order Hypo Alpe to pay it back. The government installed a  task
force  led by former central bank governor Klaus Liebscher to
satisfy Almunia by drafting a new plan.  Accelerated Sale  The bank has already accelerated the sale of its Austrian
unit, agreeing to sell it for 65.5 million euros to Anadi
Financial Holdings Pte. Ltd. The transaction hasn’t been
completed.  The bank’s biggest unit -- a network of banks in  Croatia ,
 Serbia ,  Montenegro  and  Bosnia and Herzegovina  -- will be sold
more quickly than an original deadline of 2016, the people said.
The shorter deadline means the unit has to be categorized as
listed for sale under international accounting rules, creating
the need for a writedown, the people said.  Hypo Alpe will also accept restrictions on how much new
business it can do in ex-Yugoslavia, where it competes with
French, Austrian and Italian banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Erste Group Bank AG. (EBS)  That is to ease EU concerns that it
distorts competition because of the financial aid it has
received.  The company’s Italian bank will stop doing new business
entirely, according to the people. Additional assets will be
shifted to Hypo Alpe’s wind-down unit. Those measures will add
to writedown needs, they said.  The unit containing assets to be wound down will grow to as
much as 16 billion euros, the people said. Hypo Alpe is also
seeking advisers for how to structure that part of the bank in a
way that limits the need for taxpayer funds, they said.  If the unit is spun off and operates without a banking
license, it may free up capital and therefore require less
funding, the people said. Austria has set aside 700 million
euros of capital for Hypo Alpe in this year’s budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  