-- Yuan Gains Most Since May as Zhou Pledges to Keep Markets Stable
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-06-28T09:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-28/yuan-gains-most-since-may-as-zhou-pledges-to-keep-markets-stable.html
China ’s  yuan  strengthened the most
in a month after central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the
nation will maintain market stability, his first comment since a
record cash crunch that spurred concern growth will ease.  The country’s growth slowdown remains in a “reasonable”
range and the economy is stable, Zhou said today at a forum in
 Shanghai . China will expand cross-border use of the yuan and
push forward convertibility in the capital account, he said.
Borrowing costs for Chinese banks surged the most in at least
six years in June as rating companies said the funding shortage
threatens to swell bad loans.  “The panic is over as investors now have better clarity of
the PBOC’s intention,” said Banny Lam, the Hong Kong-based co-head of research at Agricultural Bank of China International
Securities Ltd., a unit of the nation’s third-largest lender.
“The prospect of allowing more global usage of the yuan will
support the  exchange rate  in the longer term.”  The yuan rose 0.19 percent to close at 6.1376 per dollar in
Shanghai, the biggest one-day gain since May 27, according to
China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices. The currency lost
0.06 percent this week and advanced 1.2 percent this quarter.
The People’s Bank of China raised the  reference rate  0.02
percent to 6.1787 per dollar today. The spot rate is allowed to
diverge from the fixing by a maximum 1 percent.  Growth Woes  The official  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINDX)  was probably at
50.1 in June, down from 50.8 the previous month, signaling
slower manufacturing growth, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts before data due July 1. HSBC Holdings Plc said this
week the yuan will fall to 6.16 per dollar by the end of 2013 as
the economy slows.  “The cash squeeze can make borrowing more difficult and
that will translate into slower growth,” said Tommy Ong,
executive director of treasury and markets at DBS Bank (Hong
Kong) Ltd.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.2 percent to
6.2923 per dollar today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contracts are at a 2.5 percent  discount  to the onshore spot
rate. The offshore yuan traded in  Hong Kong  advanced 0.18
percent to 6.1357. One-month implied volatility in the onshore
yuan, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to
price options, fell four basis points to 1.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  