-- ‘Underworld: Awakening’ Opens as Weekend’s Top Movie With $25.4 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/-underworld-awakening-opens-as-weekend-s-top-movie-with-25-4-million.html
“Underworld: Awakening,” the
fourth film in the vampire-versus-werewolf series, was the top
movie in U.S. and Canadian theaters this past weekend, taking in
$25.4 million for  Sony Corp. (6758)   “Red Tails,” the story of black U.S. fighter pilots who
challenged racial barriers during World War II, was second with
$19.1 million for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 20th Century Fox, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  “Underworld Awakening” is the first 3-D installment in
the R-rated franchise about a centuries-old conflict between
vampires and werewolves. The three previous films generated
$298.4 million worldwide for Sony, according to the film website
Box Office Mojo.  “‘Underworld’ came in just as I had expected, but the big
story is ‘Red Tails’ over-performing in the No. 2 spot,”
said Gitesh Pandya, editor of Boxofficeguru.com in New York. “A
film about the Tuskegee airmen came out just at the right time
for the African-American audience, in between Martin Luther King
weekend and the start of Black History Month.”  “Red Tails” follows the training and deployment of the
first U.S. fighter squadron staffed by black pilots at Tuskegee,
 Alabama . The film, executive produced by  George Lucas ,
chronicles the barriers they overcame in a then-segregated U.S.
Army Air Corps and their success in battling  Germany ’s
Luftwaffe. The film stars Terrence Howard and Cuba Gooding Jr.  ‘Contraband’  In the latest “Underworld,” Kate Beckinsale returns in
the role of the vampire warrior Selene to resist efforts by
humans and werewolves to eradicate the vampire population.
Stephen Rea and Michael Ealy co-star.  “Contraband,” last week’s top film, fell to third with
$12.2 million, Hollywood.com said. The movie, starring  Mark Wahlberg  as a former smuggler who is forced to take one last
job, is from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  and co-stars
Beckinsale.  The success of “Red Tails” and “Contraband” in January
is unusual, said Pandya, because movie studios typically wait to
release action movies until after the National Football League
playoffs and the  Super Bowl .  “So far, the action movies have been working well,” he
said. “We’re seeing that the action audience has room for both
movies and football.”  ‘Haywire’  Also opening in wide release this past weekend was
“Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close” from Viacom Inc.’s
Paramount Pictures, which collected $10.5 million in sales to
finish in fourth place.  A young boy in the film searches  New York City  for a
message left by his father, a victim of the Sept. 11, 2001,
attack on the World Trade Center. The picture stars  Tom Hanks ,
 Sandra Bullock  and Thomas Horn.  The thriller “Haywire” debuted with $9 million, good for
fifth place. The film from Relativity Media LLC, starring
 Michael Douglas  and Channing Tatum, is about a government
security operative who is double-crossed during a mission. She
must evade an international search and protect her family.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 26 percent to
$111.7 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Revenue in 2012 has risen 15 percent and attendance is up 16
percent from a year earlier. The amounts below are based on
actual ticket sales for Jan. 20 and Jan. 21 and estimates for
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ; Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
8278 or  asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  