-- Manchester Teams Get Late League Wins Over London Clubs Tottenham, Arsenal
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/manchester-city-beats-tottenham-3-2-in-league-on-late-balotelli-penalty.html
An injury-time penalty from  Mario Balotelli  gave Manchester City a 3-2 win against Tottenham in
English soccer’s Premier League. Second-place  Manchester United 
remains three points back following a 2-1 victory at Arsenal.  Four goals were scored in a 10-minute period of the second
half at City’s Etihad Stadium yesterday. Samir Nasri opened the
scoring for the hosts after 56 minutes, then Joleon Lescott
doubled the lead before strikes from Jermain Defoe and Gareth Bale for Spurs. Balotelli’s late spotkick maintained City’s
perfect home record in the league this season.  “It was an amazing game, particularly the second half, and
a wonderful win for us,” City’s first-team coach David Platt
said in comments on the club’s website. “One minute we looked
like losing and then next we have a penalty and win.”  City has 54 points from 22 matches, United has 51, with
Spurs on 46 after its first defeat in eight league matches.
Fourth-place Chelsea has 41 points -- five ahead of Arsenal and
Newcastle.  After a scoreless first half with few clear chances, City
got the first goal when Nasri and  David Silva  combined 11
minutes after halftime, with Silva sliding a pass forward for
his French teammate, who fired a first-time shot past goalkeeper
Brad Friedel.  Center-back Lescott doubled the host’s advantage three
minutes later, bundling the ball into the net from close range.  Less than a minute later Spurs scored. Stefan Savic failed
to find  Joe Hart  with an attempted header back toward his
goalkeeper and Defoe intercepted the ball before rounding Hart.  Tying Goal  After 65 minutes the teams were level when Bale hit a
curling shot into the top of the net from 20 yards (18 meters).  Spurs almost snatched a victory as Bale broke forward in
injury time, but Defoe stabbed the ball just wide of the goal as
he stretched to try to get on the end of the cross.  City then pushed for a winning goal and was presented with
the opportunity when  Ledley King  fouled Balotelli in the penalty
area. Balotelli scored the spotkick himself.  The Italian striker had appeared to aim a stamp at Scott Parker late in the second half and Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp 
said Balotelli should not have been on the field to score.  “What reason did he have to backheel Scott in the head
with his studs when he is laying on the floor?” Redknapp told
Sky Sports. “I couldn’t see a reason for it.”  Pressure on United  With City temporarily doubling its advantage at the top of
the standings, United needed a win to avoid losing ground to its
archrival.  In injury time at the end of the first half,  Antonio Valencia  headed United into a lead with a header at the back
post.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  reacted at the start of the
second half by introducing Nico Yennaris at fullback instead of
Johan Djourou, who had failed to close down  Ryan Giggs  when he
crossed for the goal.  Robin van Persie , the Gunners’ leading scorer this season,
should have got his 23rd of the campaign when set up by Tomas Rosicky for a chance six minutes after the interval. Instead,
the Dutchman fired wide from 10 yards out.  He atoned for his miss with the leveling goal on 71
minutes, slipping the ball through the legs of United’s  Jonny Evans .  Arsenal’s fans reacted angrily to Wenger’s decision to
introduce Andrey Arshavin for Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain soon
after. Arshavin failed to track a run from Valencia in the 81st
minute which led to Danny Welbeck scoring the winning goal.  The Gunners were unable to rally again and fell to a third
straight league defeat for a first time in almost five years.  “Winning after City had won was the important thing and
we’ve done it in the right way,” United manager  Alex Ferguson 
told  Sky Sports .  Chelsea was held to a 0-0 draw two days ago at Norwich,
Bolton defeated Liverpool 3-1, Fulham beat Newcastle 5-2, while
West Bromwich Albion won 2-1 at Stoke.  Everton and Blackburn tied 1-1, Sunderland beat Swansea 2-
0, Aston Villa won 3-2 at Wolverhampton Wanderers and Queens
Park Rangers defeated Wigan 3-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at  j
 cone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  