-- Australian Wine Lovers Embrace Bordeaux With Aussie at Record High: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-01-23T07:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/australia-wine-export-at-decade-low-as-record-aussie-aids-bordeaux-retail.html
Australia’s wine lovers are
embracing European bottles as never before, exacerbating a
decline in the local industry already suffering from plummeting
exports.  With the Australian dollar at record levels against the
euro, imported wine has rarely been more affordable. Prices for
some labels have dropped by 30 percent.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Moet & Chandon Champagne is now sometimes cheaper
than the French company’s locally produced  Domaine Chandon 
sparkling wine.  “It’s absolutely fantastic,” said  Jeremy Oliver , a
Melbourne-based wine critic. “If you have A$100 ($105) in your
pocket, that will get you a top bottle of Australian cabernet or
shiraz. Today it also buys you a pretty serious Bordeaux, a very
good Italian from any region or a sensational Spanish red.”  The shift is harder on local wine producers. Australia, the
world’s  largest  wine exporter by volume outside of  Europe , saw
the value of exports decline to their lowest level in a decade
in 2011,  falling  10 percent from a year earlier to A$1.89
billion, according to government export agency Wine  Australia .  At Melbourne-based  Treasury Wine Estates (TWE) , the world’s
second-biggest publicly traded vintner and owner of the
Lindemans and Penfolds brands, sales in the U.S., its largest
market, fell 15 percent to A$803 million in the year through
June. The effect is more pronounced in Europe, where the euro
has fallen 7.8 percent over the past three months to make it the
worst-performing major currency against the Australian dollar,
compared with a 1.4 percent decline in the greenback.  “It’s not just the strength of the dollar, it’s the
economic climate in Europe,” said  John Ellis , who stopped
European sales from his Hanging Rock Winery two years ago to
focus on the Asian market. “We’ve basically abandoned that as a
market.”  Exporters Struggle  The wine business is a microcosm of the broad effects of
the strong dollar on Australia’s industries. The country’s
largest steelmaker, BlueScope Steel Ltd., shut its export
operations in August, citing the currency’s strength as a major
reason. Retailers led by  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN)  Chairman
Gerry Harvey last January called on the government to limit
competition from overseas rivals by raising the  sales tax  on
some imports.  Toyota Motor Corp.’s Australian unit, the country’s largest
car exporter, today said it will cut more than a tenth of jobs
at its manufacturing plant in Victoria state. The company cited
gains in the currency and a slump in export sales for the
elimination of 350 positions.  “These days, if you’re not at the top of your game, then
you’re going to struggle in Australia,” said  Stephen Walters ,
chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.  Competition, Bushfires  Five years ago, Australia’s wine industry was an
international sensation. Driven by signature brands such as
Yellow Tail and Jacob’s Creek and support from influential
critics such as  Robert Parker , exports rose more than fourfold
in the decade to 2007, when they peaked at 786 million liters.
Australia overtook  France  as the U.K.’s top supplier of imported
wine in 2005 and was briefly in 2008 the frontrunner in the U.S.  Then things turned. Competition had for years been
increasing from other emerging wine areas such as Argentina,
Chile and South Africa. A domestic wine glut prompted complaints
from Jacob’s Creek producer  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI)  that the image of
Australian wine was being  damaged  by too much low-quality
product. In 2009, bushfires swept through the wine country of
Victoria state, incinerating vineyards and tainting grapes with
smoke. Exports have dropped 11 percent over the past four years,
to 703 million liters in 2011.  Importers Gain  Alongside the strength of the currency, the high price of
labor and land plus the small-scale nature of middle-market
wineries in Australia make it hard to compete with imports, said
Oliver. “You can get seriously interesting, diverse wines from
Europe,  South America  and  South Africa  for A$25 a blow retail,”
he said. “In Australia today the small guys trying to do the
equivalent are finding it very hard to get anything in the
bottle for under A$45.”                        Every six weeks, John Baker ships a refrigerated container
carrying about 10,800 bottles of French wine to his 270 square
meter (2,900 square foot) refrigerated warehouse in the Sydney
suburb of Artarmon. That represents a doubling of import volumes
over five years for his business,  Bordeaux Shippers . The
Australian dollar is worth 81 euro cents now compared with 54
cents when he started in 2003, transforming the value of
imported wines.  “I’ve been selling a 2001 vintage Chateau du Haut Moulin,
that’s a 10-year-old wine from  Bordeaux , and it’s A$39 retail;
that wine really should be A$80,” he said. The price of whites
from  Chateau Magneau , in France’s Graves region, have fallen 30
percent over the past two years, he said.  China ,  Hong Kong   Since 2007, import volumes have risen 95 percent, to 73
million liters, or 97 million standard bottles, in the 12 months
ended September. French wine imports have risen 58 percent,
paralleling a movement of France’s export market to  Asia , where
increasing wealth is leading more people to drink premium wines.  China  overtook   Germany  last year as the top importer of
Bordeaux wines. Hong Kong, which sold $225 million of wine in
auctions last year, has displaced  New York  and  London  and become
the premier center of the global wine trade.  Moet Hennessy is seeing more than 10 percent growth in
Australia for all of its premium sparkling wines, from Chandon
and Moet & Chandon to expensive  Dom Perignon , said Jonathan
Coles, marketing director at  LVMH’s local unit . Set up by the
luxury-goods group in 1986, Domaine Chandon has traditionally
offered a more affordable local alternative to imported French
Champagne.  Moet & Chandon  Cellarbrations , a wine shop in the inner Sydney suburb of
Newtown, sells Moet & Chandon Brut Imperial for A$49.99 in six-
bottle cases, compared with A$52 for LVMH’s Chandon Green Point
Cuvee 1995, a sparkling wine produced in Australia’s Yarra
Valley at  Wine House , a Melbourne-based online store.  Franck Moreau , who sets the wine lists for Sydney
restaurants Est and Uccello as sommelier for Merivale, a closely
held restaurant group, said imported wines now make up half of
the offerings, up from 30 percent previously. The biggest
discounts are on French wines that haven’t yet become highly
popular, such as Chablis and Sancerre, while Italians such as
Barolo are as much as 20 percent cheaper than a year ago, he
said.  “I see more people importing wine now,” he said. “The
value with the dollar is so good, and the Champagne is very good
at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  