-- Buffett Sings for TV Gala as China Welcomes Year of Dragon
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-23T08:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/buffett-strums-ukulele-for-chinese-state-television-holiday-gala.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  strummed
the ukulele, singer Leehom Wang played a dragon-shaped guitar
and Premier  Wen Jiabao  visited oil workers as China ushered in
the Lunar New Year.  Buffett and Wang’s acts were part of  China Central
Television ’s annual New Year’s gala, one of the world’s most-
watched programs, that aired yesterday. Buffett sang “I’ve Been
Working on the Railroad” in a  video clip  on CCTV’s website.
American-born Wang’s guitar paid tribute to the Year of the
Dragon, which began at midnight to thunderous ad hoc firework
displays in Beijing that echoed off the high-rise buildings.  “I’ve been working on the railroad, all the livelong
day,” Buffett, 81, sang in a raspy voice. “I’ve been working
on the railroad, just to pass the time away.”  Chinese New Year is the most important holiday in  China ,
with tens of millions of people crisscrossing the country in the
world’s biggest annual human migration. The nation’s leaders by
tradition visit workers and farmers during the holiday to share
in the celebration. This year Wen visited oil workers in
northwestern China’s  Gansu Province . President  Hu Jintao  set off
fireworks with farmers near the Great Wall of China and visited
a shopping street just south of Tiananmen Square.  Room-Sized Railroad  People in China will make a total of 3.16 billion passenger
trips during the Lunar New Year holiday rush period, which began
Jan. 8 and will end in the middle of February, a 9.1 percent
increase from 2011, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
This year’s travel has been stymied by snow and freezing rain
stretching across the country.  Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and an
investor in Chinese carmaker BYD Co., was seen playing the
American folk song in front of a room-sized model railroad.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire acquired the railroad operator
Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC in 2010. “Xie xie,” he said,
using the Chinese word for “thank you,” after he finished
strumming.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported on Jan. 5 that
Buffett would sing in a video celebrating the Lunar New Year
holiday.  Buffett and his friend  Bill Gates , founder of Microsoft
Corp., are well-known figures in China because of their business
success. Berkshire Hathaway is part-owner of BYD, a Shenzhen-
based company that makes the E6 electric vehicle, whose shares
have  risen  33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  