-- Bulgaria’s President Plevneliev Takes Office Pledging Investment
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-01-22T12:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/bulgaria-s-president-plevneliev-takes-office-pledging-investment.html
Rosen Plevneliev,  Bulgaria ’s new
president, took office today pledging to work for economic
growth and greater investment.  A computer engineer, Plevneliev ran a construction business
before serving as development minister in Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov ’s Cabinet for more than two years, where he focused on
upgrading Bulgarian highways. Elected on the ticket of the
ruling Gerb party in an Oct. 31 runoff, he replaces Georgi Parvanov, a historian and former leader of the Bulgarian
Socialist Party, who served two five-year terms beginning in
2001.  “I want to make Bulgaria a richer country,” Plevneliev,
47, said during the inauguration ceremony in Sofia today. “I’ll
work to encourage economic growth, employment, an efficient
justice, balanced regional development, an improved business
environment and more investment.”  The  European Union’s  poorest nation in terms of economic
output per capita is struggling to boost economic growth, combat
corruption and weather the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.
The country withstood the global recession in 2009 without an
international bailout.  Economic growth slowed to 1.6 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter, the weakest in five quarters, as demand
for exports among the country’s main trading partners in the EU
dwindled. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its GDP forecasts
for Bulgaria on Dec. 9 to 1.9 percent for 2011 and 1.3 percent
this year.  Plevneliev’s election strengthened the influence of
Borissov’s Gerb party in the Balkan country in the run-up to
elections in 2013. While executive power lies with the
government, the president is the army’s commander-in-chief and
has the right to veto laws, propose Cabinet appointments to
parliament and call early elections. He names ambassadors and
the heads of the intelligence and security services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  