-- Can-Fite Sees Eye-Drug Spinoff Getting Drugmakers’ Interest
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-01-22T15:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/can-fite-sees-eye-drug-spinoff-getting-drugmakers-interest.html
Can-Fite Biopharma Ltd.’s (CFBI)  oral
treatment for dry eye is drawing interest from drugmakers after
the Israeli biopharmaceutical company spun off the product into
a U.S. business, the chief executive officer said.  The spinoff will bring Petach Tikva, Israel-based Can-Fite
closer to entering the potential multibillion-dollar market for
eye treatments with the experimental CF101 medicine, CEO Pnina Fishman said in an interview. The drug is being developed for
use on dry-eye syndrome, glaucoma and uveitis.  “The aim of the spinoff was to establish a specialized
ophthalmology company which will raise money outside  Israel  and
give us exposure to the U.S. biotechnology market,” Fishman
said at Can-Fite’s offices on Jan. 12. “We are getting a lot of
interest from big pharmaceutical companies and we are looking
for the right groom.” She declined to give names of drugmakers
that are interested in licensing the product.  Can-Fite in November gave CF101 to  Denali Concrete
Management Inc. (DCMG) , a defunct Carson City, Nevada-based
construction company, receiving in return an 82 percent stake in
Denali. At the same time, Denali raised more than $6 million
from investors to fund the eye drug’s development. Denali, a
publicly traded company that isn’t listed on a stock exchange,
is changing its name to OphthaliX Inc., Denali said in a
regulatory filing.  The stake in Denali is valued at $75.1 million, almost two
and half times Can-Fite’s market value of $31 million.  Financing Studies  Can-Fite declined 0.8 percent to 0.483 shekel in  Tel Aviv 
today, trimming gains this year to 7.8 percent. The stock
declined 40 percent in 2011. The  Tel Aviv Biomed (TA-BIOMD)  index has
gained 12 percent this year and dropped 24 percent in 2011.  Fishman and a partner founded Can-Fite 10 years ago. The
company develops drugs that target receptors present in inflamed
or cancer cells. Its revenue has come from partnership deals
through which it received milestone and upfront payments.  “The spinoff allowed us to raise money to develop our drug
in the ophthalmology field without diluting our existing
shareholders,” said Fishman. “The money will be enough to
finance the ongoing studies.”  Denali is beginning a clinical trial -- the third and final
stage of studies typically needed for regulatory approval -- of
CF101 in dry-eye syndrome, the company said in December. The
company also is conducting a mid-stage trial in glaucoma, and is
preparing for a mid-stage study in uveitis, a swelling and
irritation of the uvea, the middle layer of the eye.  Patients with dry eye may not easily adapt to the concept
of an oral medication as an alternative to the standard eye-drop
treatment, said Yoav Kedar, a biotechnology consultant for Clal
Finance Brokerage Ltd.  Oral Treatment  “We see the dry-eyes market as a difficult market to
penetrate,” said Kedar. “Most moderate patients do well with
eye drops.” Patients with severe cases of dry eyes are
successfully treated with  Allergan Inc (AGN) .’s Restasis, he said.  Fishman said the oral treatment ensures the full dose of
the medication is taken and is often a relief to patients with
severe cases of the disease, who sometimes have to use eye drops
every hour.  Can-Fite has licensed CF101 in  Japan  and  South Korea  as a
treatment for autoimmune and inflammatory conditions such as
psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis. The company has received $8
million dollars in upfront and milestone payments, Fishman said.  The company is also developing a treatment for primary
liver cancer. Can-Fite said Jan. 18 that 85 percent of patients
in a Phase I/II clinical trial of its CF102 drug to treat  liver
cancer  reacted positively to the treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  