-- China Snow From Xinjiang to Sea Snarls Biggest Migration
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-23T10:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/china-snow-from-xinjiang-to-coast-snarls-world-s-biggest-human-migration.html
Snow and freezing rain continued to
fall in parts of  China  today, disrupting travel as the first day
of the Lunar New Year spurs the world’s biggest annual human
migration.  Snow will fall in areas south of the  Yangtze River  in
provinces including Shaanxi, Gansu, and Henan, tapering off
today, the  China Meteorological Administration  reported on its
website. Freezing rain continued in southern Guizhou province,
and yesterday travel was disrupted in Shaanxi and Hubei as well
as Chongqing Municipality, the agency reported.  The Ministry of Railways added 289 more trains yesterday to
accommodate passengers who were forced by the weather to seek
alternatives to road travel, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported. From Jan. 8 through yesterday, China’s trains carried
80.2 million passengers, up 7.7 percent from a year earlier,
Xinhua reported, citing the ministry.  Almost 84 million people traveled by road on Jan. 21, a
record since the festival travel season began, a separate Xinhua
article said, citing the Ministry of Transport.  Conditions were sunny in Beijing and  Shanghai  today,
according to the meteorological office. Flights were departing
as scheduled from Beijing Capital International Airport,  Asia ’s
busiest, and Shanghai’s two airports, their websites showed.  People in China will make a total of 3.16 billion passenger
trips during the Lunar New Year holiday rush period, which began
Jan. 8 and will end in the middle of February, a 9.1 percent
increase from 2011, Xinhua reported.  Cold Front  A cold front will cause temperatures to fall in most of the
country through tomorrow, with temperatures in northeastern
China reaching as low as minus-30 degrees Celsius (minus-22
Fahrenheit), Xinhua reported yesterday.  In Shanxi, a province to the west of Beijing, a bus
collided with a car on Jan. 21, killing seven people on board,
after snowfalls on Jan. 20 blanketed most of the province and
forced the closure of a dozen highways. As of noon on Jan. 21,
the majority of the closed routes had been opened, Xinhua said,
citing He Jianzhong, spokesman for the Ministry of Transport.  In Xinjiang, 448 people and 80 vehicles were stranded on a
highway late on Jan. 21 in a sudden blizzard before being
rescued early yesterday, Xinhua reported.  More than 1,100 people and more than 280 snowplows worked
to clear the roads in Shanxi, Xinhua reported, citing the
provincial highway management bureau.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  