-- China Snowfalls Hamper Biggest Human Migration for New Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-22T07:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/china-snowfalls-hamper-biggest-human-migration-for-new-year.html
Heavy snow and freezing rain that
hit central and eastern China in the past two days will continue
through tomorrow, disrupting transport as the Lunar New Year
holiday spurs the world’s biggest annual human migration.  The  China Meteorological Administration  reported on its
website as of 10 a.m. local time today that parts of Hunan,
Jiangxi, Fujian and Guizhou provinces would experience snow or
freezing rain through tomorrow. The agency lifted an earlier
blizzard warning.  Some 83.73 million people traveled by road yesterday, a
record since the festival travel season started on Jan. 8, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the Ministry of
Transport. Snow has hampered journeys and increased road safety
risks in Shanxi, Hubei and Hunan provinces as well as Chongqing
Municipality, and in western China’s Xinjiang more than 400
travelers were trapped by a sudden snowstorm, Xinhua said.  A cold front will cause temperatures to fall in most of the
country starting today and extending into Jan. 24, with
temperatures in northeastern  China  reaching as low as minus-30
degrees Celsius (minus-22 Fahrenheit), Xinhua reported.  Bus Crash  In Shanxi, a province to the west of Beijing, a bus
collided with a car yesterday, killing seven people on board,
after snowfalls on Jan. 20 blanketed most of the province and
forced the closing of a dozen highways. As of noon yesterday,
the majority of the closed highways had been opened, Xinhua said,
citing He Jianzhong, spokesman for the Ministry of Transport.  In Xinjiang, 448 people and 80 vehicles were stranded on a
highway late yesterday in a sudden blizzard before being rescued
earlier today, Xinhua reported.  More than 1,100 people and more than 280 snowplows worked
to clear the roads in Shanxi, Xinhua reported, citing the
provincial highway management bureau.  The government estimates some 1 billion people will have
traveled by road and rail in time for the weeklong Lunar New
Year holiday that begins tomorrow.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  