-- Cinedigm Joins With New Video to Buy, Release Independent Films
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/cinedigm-joins-with-new-video-to-buy-release-independent-films.html
Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corp. (CIDM) , the
software and services supplier for digital movie projection,
formed a partnership with New Video Group Inc. to buy and
distribute independent films in theaters, online and on discs.  The companies plan to distribute about one film a month
initially, Cinedigm Chief Executive Officer Chris McGurk said in
an interview. They may increase the number to two films monthly
after a couple of years, he said.  The venture would help fill a void created by the major
studios’ focus on bigger-budget films and series based on books,
comics and television shows. The companies, shopping for
acquisitions at the Sundance Film Festival this week, will
compete for titles with distributors including  IFC Films ,
Weinstein Co. and  Sony Pictures Classics , McGurk said.  “There is a glut of independent product that is
available,” McGurk said. “Independent filmmakers and agents
are being much more flexible about the deals they are doing now.
You don’t have filmmakers clamoring they have to have a 1,000-
screen release. They’re much more willing to do a smart platform
release.”  Cinedigm, based in Morristown, New Jersey, will handle the
theatrical releases using its satellite-based system to
distribute films to theaters equipped with digital projectors.  New York-based  New Video , an independent distributor that
works with cable networks and Internet services such as Hulu LLC
and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , will release the movies to homes online,
through video-on-demand and on DVD, Steve Savage, the closely
held company’s co-president, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  