-- U.K. Banks Should Pay Lower Bonuses to Mend Finances, Clegg Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/clegg-says-u-k-banks-should-pay-lower-bonuses-to-mend-finances.html
U.K. banks should pay lower bonuses
and retain the money to help strengthen their balance sheets,
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said.  “If it was left up to me, and probably up to you, and
probably up to many people watching this program, we wouldn’t
have any bonuses, particularly in the state-owned banks while
they are still being repaired” after the financial crisis,
Clegg said in a television interview on the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr
Show” yesterday. “If there is no change in the bonus behavior
this year compared to last year, of course I would be outraged.
It’s not going to happen.”  With the bank bonus season beginning next month and the
prospect of large sums being paid to financiers at a time when
many Britons are enduring pay freezes, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is seeking to placate voters while implementing the
biggest budget cuts since World War II. Cameron said last week
that cash bonuses at state-controlled  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  will be limited to 2,000
pounds ($3,115).  “We’ve been very, very clear that in  RBS (RBS) , and for that
matter in other banks, the bonus pool has to be considerably
lower than last year,” Clegg said. “Any money that is spare
should, where possible, be used to repair the banks’ balance
sheets.”  RBS may pay investment bankers a total of about 2.5 billion
pounds, including pay, perks and an estimated 500 million pounds
in bonuses, the Sunday Times reported yesterday without saying
where it got the information. The bank’s 2010 bonus pool was
about 950 million pounds, a 27 percent reduction from 2009. The
Edinburgh-based lender required a 45.5 billion-pound rescue from
taxpayers in 2008, the world’s biggest bank bailout.  Reforming Taxes  Clegg, leader of the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner
in Cameron’s coalition administration, said the government
should be “bolder” on reforming the tax system as high
inflation and weak wage growth squeezes voters.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , who has previously said
owners of properties worth more than 2 million pounds should pay
an annual levy, said a so-called mansion tax is “very much on
the agenda,” the Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported yesterday,
citing an interview.  “We think that is part of a patchwork of measures which
would over time make the tax system fairer because it would ask
people who have got very considerable wealth to make a greater
contribution,” Clegg said, referring to the proposal.  ‘Hard-Pressed’  “I want this government to be absolutely rooted in the
central ground of British politics on the side of hard-pressed,
hard-working families,” Clegg said. “The tax system shouldn’t
be constantly catering for a very small fraction of people at
the top.”  The deputy prime minister also said he supported Work and
Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith’s proposal to cap the total
amount of welfare benefits paid to individual households.
Parliament’s upper chamber, the House of Lords, will today
debate the proposed 500-pound-a-week limit, a measure Duncan
Smith says will encourage people into work.  “The central argument, which is one that I fully support
and I completely back Iain Duncan Smith on this, is to say it
surely can’t be fair, it can’t be right, that you can be earning
more on benefits that someone going out and earning 35,000
pounds,” Clegg said.  Reports last week showed Britain’s  unemployment rate  rose
to 8.4 percent in the three months through November, a 16-year
high, and  consumer confidence  dropped as the government cuts
spending to tackle a budget shortfall.  U.K. GDP Growth  The U.K.  economy  probably shrank in the fourth quarter for
the first time in a year, with  gross domestic product  falling
0.1 percent from the third quarter, when it rose 0.6 percent,
according to the median of 33  forecasts  in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  Office for National Statistics  will publish its
report at 9:30 a.m. on Jan. 25 in London.  “We need urgent action on jobs and growth now to prevent
stagnant growth and rising unemployment carrying on into 2012,”
Rachel Reeves, a spokeswoman on Treasury issues for the U.K.’s
opposition  Labour Party , said in an e-mailed statement. “Of
course we need tough decisions on tax and spending cuts, but to
successfully get the deficit down we also need to get our
economy moving again.”  In a speech in northeast  England  today, Cameron will say
new business startups are “critical” to Britain’s economy. He
will also announce plans to allow small businesses to utilize
under-used and empty government buildings to help them expand, a
spokesman said in an e-mailed statement.  Opinion Poll  Labour has lost its opinion-poll lead, drawing level with
the ruling  Conservative Party  as support for opposition leader
Ed Miliband drops, according to a poll.  The proportion of people who said they would vote for
Labour in a national election has dropped 2 percentage points to
38 percent since a survey in December. The same proportion would
back the Conservatives, according to the  ComRes Ltd. poll .
Support for the  Lib Dems  rose 1 point to 11 percent. The
proportion of respondents who disagreed Miliband was a “good
leader” climbed 1 percentage point to 53 percent from December,
the poll found.  ComRes surveyed 2,050 British adults in the two days
through Jan. 19 for the Sunday Mirror and Independent newspapers
for the poll. It didn’t provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  