-- Concordia May Have Had Unregistered Passengers Aboard Ship
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2012-01-22T18:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/concordia-may-have-had-unregistered-passengers-official-says.html
The possibility that the Costa
Concordia cruise ship was carrying unregistered passengers when
it capsized off  Italy  is complicating efforts to determine how
many people remain missing, a rescue official said.  “It may be that there were clandestine passengers on the
Costa Concordia,” Franco Gabrielli, the Civil Protection Agency
official overseeing the search operations, said at a press
conference broadcast today by SkyTG24.  The family of a Hungarian woman insist that their daughter
was on the ship, though she was not on the official passenger
registry, Gabrielli said. The woman hasn’t been accounted for.  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Costa Crociere SpA ship struck rocks late
on Jan. 13 close to the small island of Giglio, hours after
leaving a port near  Rome  with 4,200 passengers and crew for a
Mediterranean cruise.  Rescuers found the body of a woman today at 3:20 p.m. local
time, acccording to an e-mailed statement from the Civil
Protection Agency, taking the death toll to 13.  Gabrielli, who said the search operations are continuing
today, confirmed there was no evidence of leaking oil or signs
that other pollutants from the ship were contaminating the
waters off Giglio.  Costa Crociere suspended Captain Francesco Schettino, who
was placed under house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing
the shipwreck.  Schettino told prosecutors the back-up system of the voice
data recorder, or black box, had been broken for 15 days and
while they had asked, it hadn’t been fixed, newspaper la
Repubblica reported today. That may have compromised the
integrity of the registration of events, the newspaper cited him
saying.  Costa Crociere asked for the “salute” on Jan. 13 that led
the cruise liner to hit the rocks, la Repubblica cited Schettino
as saying. Schettino’s lawyer didn’t respond to a phone call by
Bloomberg News seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  