-- Croatians Approve EU Accession in Test of the Bloc’s Lure
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-01-23T15:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/croatia-votes-for-european-union-entry-early-results-show-1-.html
Croatians approved becoming the
European Union’s 28th member, overcoming concern that accession
would erode sovereignty, in a test of the bloc’s lure amid a
sovereign-debt crisis.  With all ballots counted, 66 percent approved proceeding
toward entry, expected July 2013, the Electoral Board in Zagreb
said today. EU members must still ratify the move.  Two decades after the country won independence in the
bloody breakup of  Yugoslavia , the government expects EU entry to
boost investment and economic growth and cement its break from
communism. Enthusiasm for EU unity is waning among its eastern
members, including  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic , as the
continent faces a return to a recession and politicians balk at
efforts to merge fiscal policies.  “Citizens have voted for a European Croatia,” Foreign
Minister  Vesna Pusic  said on state television yesterday. “This
is also great news for  Europe . It’s a message to Europe that its
values are still supported and recognized.”  Membership in the world’s largest trading bloc may provide
the Adriatic nation with hundreds of millions of euros in
regional development and infrastructure subsidies. Companies
such as  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
 Sweden ’s Ericsson AB expect to expand into the Balkans as
western Europe’s growth stalls over the debt crisis.  ‘Significant Benefits’  Croatia, which emerged from a two-year recession in 2011,
may slide into another contraction this year because of
faltering demand for its exports and waning tourism, central
bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said in December.  EU accession will provide “significant benefits” to
Croatia, particularly in terms of governance and access to
international capital flows,” though it won’t solve all of the
country’s woes, Michele Napolitano, associate director at  Fitch
Ratings , said today in an e-mail.  “Croatia will have to carry-out fiscal consolidation to
reduce its  budget deficit  and stabilize the debt ratio,” he
wrote in response to questions from Bloomberg. “It will also
have to implement structural reforms aimed at improving the
business environment in order to reap the full benefits of EU
accession and boost its growth potential.”  The yield on government notes maturing in July 2020
declined to 7.728 percent at 4:15 9.m. in Zagreb today from
7.929 percent on Jan. 20, according to mid-pricing data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘High-Risk’ Period  “We are still facing a period of high risk where everyone
will be watching the budget proposal in February and the
government’s willingness to execute reforms,” Zdeslav Santic,
chief analyst at  Societe Generale - Splitska Banka d.d. , said
today by phone.  The government stepped up its campaign for passage in the
final days before the vote, with Pusic warning that rejection
“would be like shooting yourself in the foot” as neighbors
clamor for membership.  Montenegro, another former Yugoslav republic, will start
entry negotiations in June, while Serbia will hear in March
whether the EU has accepted its application for candidacy.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the referendum
outcome was “good news” for  Croatia  and for Europe. “It shows
what can be achieved in southeastern Europe with political
courage, with real determination,” he told reporters in
Brussels today.  ‘Clear Signal’  “The upcoming accession of Croatia sends a clear signal to
the whole region of southeastern Europe,” European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  and EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said
in a joint statement yesterday. “It shows that through
political courage and determined reforms, EU membership is
within reach. Today’s positive vote is therefore good news for
Croatia, good news for the region, and good news for Europe.”  A last-minute surge in anti-EU opinion threatened to
complicate Croatia’s drive toward the bloc. Opposition groups
warned membership would mean an erosion of the country’s
independence, while EU regulations and stiffer competition would
hurt local businesses instead of helping.  Zeljko Sacic, a war veteran and a prominent campaigner
against accession, said the referendum was “illegitimate”
because turnout at 43.6 percent was the lowest for any
plebiscite for EU entry. There is no minimum threshold for a
ballot to be valid.  “This referendum is illegitimate and a rough violation of
Croatian national interest,” he said on state television
yesterday. “This is a defeat of Croatia’s freedom and
independence.”  New Government  Croatians on Dec. 4 ousted the government of former Prime
Minister  Jadranka Kosor . Zoran Milanovic, whose Cabinet took
office a month ago, said his budget proposal expected in
February will trim the deficit from an estimated 7 percent of
economic output this year, trimming the country’s extensive
welfare system and bloated public sector.  Croatia’s credit rating was lowered a year ago to BBB-, one
step above junk, at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a
“deteriorated fiscal position and continuously weak” external
financing.  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 5 it will review its assessment
in the first quarter in 2012, by which time it expects to have
more information regarding the government’s fiscal and economic
program.  “The European Union gives us a ticket to the world in
which we can be successful,” Davor Majetic, head of the
Croatian Association of Entrepreneurs, said by phone. “We want
to work and have an opportunity to turn our ideas into
profitable products that can reach that market of 500 million
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  