-- Crude Declines as European Union Meets on Iran Oil Sanctions, Debt Crisis
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-23T08:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/crude-declines-as-european-union-meets-on-iran-oil-sanctions-debt-crisis.html
Oil dropped a fourth day in  New York 
as investors bet that sanctions against Iran may be delayed
while Europe’s debt crisis may slow commodity demand.  March futures fell as much as 1 percent after slipping 2.2
percent on Jan. 20. European Union foreign ministers will
probably agree today that an embargo on Iranian oil should take
effect in six months, according to diplomats with knowledge of
the talks. Saudi Arabia has the capacity to make up for a
shortfall in Iranian exports, according to the  International
Energy Agency . EU finance heads will also meet to discuss long-
term plans to tackle the debt crisis.  “One of the things that may have influenced oil is an
assumption that there won’t be any concrete action” on  Iran ,
said Ric Spooner, a chief analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“The next step in Europe is an actual agreement on the nature
of the fiscal treaty that’s going to be agreed on and we seem to
be a way off that yet.”  Crude for March delivery declined as much as 93 cents to
$97.40 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $97.87 at 4:05 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract slid $2.21 to $98.33 on Jan. 20. Front-month prices are
at the lowest level in almost five weeks and are 11 percent
higher the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement was at $109.89 a barrel, up
3 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
futures was at $12.02, compared with a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Europe Headlines  “Softer demand appears to be outweighing concerns over
potentially tighter supplies,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in a note today. “Markets will be watching
headlines from Europe, with EU ministers to decide on a ban on
Iranian crude exports.”  EU foreign ministers are scheduled to meet at 9:30 a.m. in
Brussels to agree on sanctions on Iran as Europe and the U.S.
seek to pressure the Persian Gulf nation to stop its nuclear
program. A media briefing may be held at 4 p.m.  The EU bought 450,000 barrels a day of Iran’s oil in the
first half of 2011, U.S. Energy Department data show.  Saudi
Arabia  has unused daily production of as much as 2.2 million
barrels a day, the IEA says. The Centre for Global Energy
Studies, a consultancy founded by former Saudi Oil Minister
Sheikh Ahmad Zaki Yamani, and Washington-based consultant PFC
Energy Inc. estimate it may be as high as 2.5 million.  Hedge Fund Bets  Hedge funds reduced bullish bets on oil for the first time
in four weeks after the EU delayed sanctions against Iran. Large
speculators cut wagers on rising prices by 3.8 percent in the
week ended Jan. 17, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Jan. 20.  Oil in New York fell to $98.70 on Jan. 13, the lowest in
more than three weeks, after EU officials first said an embargo
may be postponed six months. Mediterranean countries that import
much of their crude from Iran, such as Greece, Spain and  Italy ,
had argued for sanctions to be phased in over as much as a year.
The three nations accounted for about 68 percent of EU imports
from Iran in 2010, European Commission data show.  The U.K. and  France  have joined the U.S. in sending
warships to the Strait of Hormuz, as Iran threatens to close the
waterway in response to sanctions, the Daily Telegraph reported.
The strait is a transit route for about a fifth of the world’s
crude, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said
yesterday that only negotiations and not sanctions can resolve
the standoff over its nuclear program, according to the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Gordon in  Hong Kong  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  