-- Daimler Acquires 15% of MyTaxi Application for Clicking to Hail a Cab
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-01-22T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/daimler-acquires-15-of-mytaxi-app-for-clicking-to-hail-a-cab.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Germany ’s third-largest
carmaker, bought a 15 percent stake in MyTaxi, a provider of an
application that allows people to order a taxi with a click on
an iPhone or Android device.  Daimler’s Car2go unit and Xing AG founder Lars Hinrichs,
together with previous MyTaxi stakeholders  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
T-Venture division and Germany’s KfW Group, invested a combined
10 million euros ($13 million), Sven Kuelper, chief executive
officer and  MyTaxi  founder, said in an interview.  “We have seen rapid growth since we started” and the
company is now intent on expanding beyond Germany and  Austria ,
Kuelper said at MyTaxi’s headquarters, close to Hamburg’s
Fischmarkt by the River Elbe. “We’ll start in Spain and
 Switzerland  in February and are looking at other markets.”  About 800,000 people have downloaded the application and
7,000 taxi drivers are using it, the CEO said. The product is
available in 30 cities in Germany and Austria, including Hamburg
and Vienna, and will start service in Zurich and Barcelona in
February, Kuelper said. MyTaxi is part of Intelligent Apps GmbH,
with 55 employees.  The application shows available taxis on a map, allowing
the customer to book the nearest one. A traveler can also figure
out which taxis accept credit cards or have received high
ratings from clients. Distance and arrival time are shown live
on the display, as are the name, telephone number, registration
number and photo of the driver. There is a fare calculator and a
GPS feature for customers who don’t know their exact location.  Apple, Google  MyTaxi works with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch
products, as well as on devices with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software, and on the Web.  Daimler’s (DAI)  Car2go, which offers vehicles for rent without
advance booking or the need to return cars to a particular
place, is a good partner for MyTaxi, Robert Henrich, the unit’s
chief, said in a statement.  “The services of Car2go and MyTaxi do not compete, but
complement each other so that they can be combined to meet the
needs of urban transportation in a practical and convenient
way,” he said.  The Daimler-owned car-rental business also operates in
Hamburg and Vienna, as well as in Amsterdam and Austin, Texas,
and  San Diego  in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  