-- Draghi Makes Euro Favorite for Most-Profitable Carry Trades With Rate Cuts
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-01-23T16:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/draghi-makes-euro-favorite-for-most-profitable-carry-trades-with-rate-cuts.html
Betting against the euro may be the
most profitable trade in the foreign-exchange market as policy
efforts to stave off a European recession debases the currency.  Borrowing in euros and investing in the currencies of
Australia,  Brazil ,  Mexico ,  South Africa  and  South Korea  has
returned 7.8 percent since the  European Central Bank  cut its
benchmark  interest rate  on Nov. 3 for the first time in more
than two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So-
called carry trades funded with yen have lost 0.3 percent and
gained 1 percent when financed with dollars.  While a debt crisis entering its third year has driven the
region’s shares to the cheapest levels since 2004 compared with
the U.S. and the sovereign-bond market posted its biggest rally
on record last month, euro bears say the currency won’t rebound
anytime soon to wreck carry-trade profits. With government
austerity measures threatening growth, ECB President  Mario Draghi  may have to cut rates to prop up an economy the World
Bank expects to contract.  “We’re seeing a very clear breakdown in the correlation
between the euro and risky assets,” said  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “That
highlights the fact that the euro is increasingly becoming a
funding currency.”  Rate Forecasts  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is
for the ECB’s key rate to fall to 0.75 percent in 2012 from the
current record low of 1 percent. Draghi reversed the strategy of
his predecessor Jean-Claude Trichet, reducing the rate by 0.25
percentage point in November and again last month.  The 17-nation euro has weakened 3.8 percent in the past
three months, the worst performance among 10 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The common currency
was at $1.3041 at 11 a.m. New York time, down from last year’s
high of $1.4940 in May. It traded at 100.44 yen after sliding to
an 11-year low of 97.04 yen on Jan. 16.  Carry trades  funded with one million of euros to buy
 Australia ’s dollar, Brazil’s real, Mexico’s peso, South Africa’s
rand and South Korea’s won returned 27 percent, or 270,000
euros, during the two years the ECB held the benchmark rate at 1
percent through April 2011, according to Bloomberg data.  The trade lost 2.8 percent as the central bank tightened
monetary policy from April to November.  “It’s unlikely that the authorities will move to avoid the
softening of the currency, therefore, it becomes a more
attractive carry trade,” Tim Riddell, head of global markets
research in Singapore at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., said of the euro in a Jan. 16 telephone interview. “Other
currencies which have effectively low or zero rates, such as the
dollar and yen, are facing a slightly better growth profile.”  Europe ’s Economy  Spiraling deficits and debt burdens have spurred  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund . The contagion spread to larger
economies last year, driving up yields in the region to an
average of 4.28 percent in November, the highest since 2009,
even as rates on Treasuries fell to record lows.  The  World Bank  said this month that the economy in the euro
area will probably contract 0.3 percent this year, compared with
global growth of 2.5 percent. Leaders, including Draghi and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , will gather in Davos,
 Switzerland , this week to discuss tackling the crisis without
depressing the economy.  Above Average  For all the concern about Europe, the euro remains higher
than its average of $1.2055 since its January 1999 inception.
Median analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show the currency
strengthening this year to $1.29 and 100 yen.  European exporters are benefiting from its depreciation.
The weaker currency helps  Salvatore Ferragamo SpA (SFR) , an Italian
maker of handbags and shoes, be more competitive overseas and
boosting margins, Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa  said at
a Jan. 15 fashion show in Milan.  After Europe’s shares tumbled last year, wiping out 751
billion euros in market value from the Stoxx Europe 600 index,
signs of a rebound are emerging. The index is up 4 percent this
year, and the region’s sovereign bonds have returned 0.6 percent
after soaring 4 percent in December, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch EMU Direct Government Index. That may
cause investors with bets that profit from declines to reverse
those trades.  ‘Unwinding’ Positions  “Short positions have accumulated, and positive headlines
are likely to spark an unwinding of these positions in the near
term,” said Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in Tokyo at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  Futures traders have increased  bets  to a record that the
euro will weaken against the dollar. The difference between
wagers that the shared currency would fall versus those that it
would rise surged to 160,030 in the week ended Jan. 17, data
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. As
recently as August, there were net bets on a euro gain.  At the same time, the cost to protect against a drop in the
euro against the dollar is falling, suggesting traders see less
scope for decline. Risk-reversal rates for three-month options
on the euro versus the dollar shrank to negative 1.6 percent
today from as low as negative 4.5 percent in November.  Draghi will still likely take further measures to bolster
Europe’s financial system to soften the economic blow from
austerity measures. In addition to rate cuts, the ECB decided
last month to offer unlimited three-year loans to banks and has
purchased sovereign bonds.  Assets Swell  Those moves caused its balance-sheet  assets  to swell to a
record 2.74 trillion euros at the end of December, more in
dollar terms than the  Federal Reserve (FARBAST) ’s $2.92 trillion.  “The addition of euros to the market from the ECB tends to
weaken the currency,” said Jeremy Hale, head of macro strategy
at Citigroup Inc. in  London . That “makes it a more attractive
carry trade and as a funding currency,” he said.  Citigroup forecasts a rate cut by the ECB in the second
quarter. The euro will end the year at $1.20, he said.  The ECB’s easing has helped push yields on German two-year
bunds  below  Treasuries of similar maturity for the first time
since mid-2010. They are within eight basis points of Japanese
bonds, down from about 170 basis points, or 1.7 percentage
points, in May.  “Without a big game-changing development, it is hard to be
bullish on the euro,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based currency
strategist at Scotia Capital, the investment banking unit of
Bank of Nova Scotia, wrote in a response to an e-mail inquiry on
Jan. 16. “Our bank’s view is that the ECB cuts rates to 0.5
percent by the end of first quarter, and under such a scenario,
the euro becomes much cheaper to fund with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  