-- U.S. Growth Probably Picked Up at End of 2011
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-22T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/economic-growth-in-u-s-probably-accelerated-for-a-third-straight-quarter.html
The  U.S. economy  probably
accelerated in the final three months of 2011 as Americans
boosted spending and companies rebuilt inventories, economists
said before a report this week.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 3 percent annual rate after advancing 1.8
percent in the previous quarter, according to the median
forecast of 64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department’s Jan. 27 release. Other reports may show
gains in orders for durable goods and  new-home sales  in
December.  Improved employment prospects helped make it easier for
consumers, whose spending accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, to purchase new cars and buy more holiday gifts. While
a slowdown in  Europe  is a risk to U.S. producers, a faster
expansion may persuade Federal Reserve officials meeting this
week to stay the course on monetary policy.  “The consumer has picked up,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida . “We’re still in recovery mode, and the U.S. economy
still faces some headwinds, particularly from Europe, but the
outlook is a bit more promising than it was a year ago.”  Household purchases increased at a 2.4 percent annual pace
from October through December after rising 1.7 percent in the
prior period, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
projected gain in spending would be the strongest in a year.  “The holiday season started off well,” Howard Levine,
chairman and chief executive officer at  Family Dollar Stores
Inc. (FDO) , said during a Jan. 6 conference call. Sales were also
strong after Christmas, and the Matthews, North Carolina-based
discount retailer expected “this momentum would continue
through January and February,” he said.  Auto Sales  Sales at auto dealers picked up at the close of last year.
Cars and light trucks sold at an average  13.4 million  seasonally
adjusted annualized rate in the final three months of 2011, up
from a 12.4 million pace in the prior quarter and the strongest
since April-June 2008, according to figures from researcher
Autodata Corp.  To meet demand last quarter, businesses placed more orders
with manufacturers, who boosted  production  in December by the
most in a year, recent Fed data showed. The increased output
signals companies were probably re-building stockpiles at the
end of the year, which will contribute to economic growth after
subtracting more than a percentage point from GDP in the third
quarter.  Demand for  durable goods  climbed 2.2 percent in December
after a 3.7 percent surge the prior month, according to the
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey before Commerce
Department figures on Jan. 26. Orders for durable items
excluding transportation may have accelerated last month as
companies stepped up demand for business equipment.  Job Growth  Job creation  has supported  consumer spending . Employers
added 853,000 jobs in the second half of 2011, compared with
782,000 in the first six months. The jobless rate dropped to an
almost-three-year-low 8.5 percent in December.  While consumer purchases boosted growth in the fourth
quarter, spending lost momentum as 2011 drew to a close,
prompting merchants like Williams-Sonoma Inc. to cut prices to
attract shoppers during the holidays. Sustained gains in
spending depend on more progress creating jobs and faster wage
growth.  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said the economy will expand at a “modest” rate this year as
it works through “persistent impediments” in housing and labor
markets. The Fed begins a two-day policy meeting on Jan. 24.  Lacker on Economy  “My takeaway from 2011 is the lesson that the impediments
to more rapid U.S. growth are likely to be deeper and more
persistent than we thought a year ago,” he said on Jan. 13 “I
am expecting only a modest improvement for 2012.”  Also on Jan. 24, President  Barack Obama  will also present
his 2012 State of the Union address. With this year’s
presidential elections approaching, Obama has proposed new ways
to boost employment. The measures include issuing more non-
immigrant visas to bolster the  tourism industry  and offering tax
incentives for businesses that bring jobs back to the U.S. from
overseas.  Meantime, the housing market is showing signs of
stabilizing. A Jan. 26 report from the Commerce Department may
show purchases of new homes climbed to a one-year high of
320,000.  Builder shares have improved. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of 12 builders has climbed 14
percent since the end of the 2011, compared with a 4.6 percent
increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  