-- Megaupload Founder Seeks Bail in Court Hearing
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-01-23T04:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/megaupload-com-founder-seeks-bail-in-new-zealand-on-copyright-infringement.html
(Corrects Kim Dotcom’s age in second paragraph.)  Megaupload.com’s founder reappeared
in a  New Zealand  court today after the file-sharing website was
shut by the U.S. government as part of an alleged $175 million
copyright infringement conspiracy.  Kim Dotcom, 38, the website founder who legally changed his
name from Kim Schmitz, and three other men are appearing in
North Shore District Court in  Albany , a suburb of Auckland,
seeking bail, according to a court spokeswoman who declined to
give her name per court policy. She said the hearing would
probably go most of the day.  The four men were arrested Jan. 20 on U.S. charges of
criminal copyright infringement and money laundering, according
to a New Zealand police  statement . Three others remain at large,
the  U.S. Department of Justice  said in a Jan. 19 statement.  The arrests occurred as the  U.S. Congress  considers anti-
piracy legislation supported by the movie and music industries
that prompted a backlash from companies including Google Inc.,
the nonprofit Wikimedia Foundation Inc. and Web consumers.
Opponents say the Stop Online Piracy Act in the House and the
Protect IP Act in the Senate would promote censorship, disrupt
the Web’s architecture and harm their ability to innovate.  Votes on the U.S. bills were postponed after legislators
withdrew support following the online protests.  The Megaupload conspiracy was led by Dotcom, a resident of
 Hong Kong  and New Zealand, and a dual citizen of Finland and
 Germany , who founded Megaupload Ltd., according to the
indictment. Police also arrested a Dutch citizen who lives in
New Zealand and two German nationals.  Electronic Locks  When police arrived at Dotcom’s Auckland home on Jan. 20,
he entered his house and activated electronic locks, Detective
Inspector Grant Wormald said in a statement. Police neutralized
the locks and cut their way into a safe room, where Dotcom was
found with what looked like a sawed-off shotgun, Wormald said.  New Zealand police said they carried out 10 search warrants
and seized 18  luxury vehicles , including a Rolls Royce Phantom
Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink Cadillac. The vehicles are valued
at NZ$6 million ($4.8 million). Police said as much as NZ$11
million in cash was restrained in various accounts.  New Zealand opposition politicians want an inquiry into how
Dotcom was able to stay permanently in Auckland, the stuff.co.nz
website  reported . He was able to settle there after investing
NZ$10 million in  government bonds  in 2010, the website reported.  Renovations  Dotcom spent NZ$4 million renovating his home after moving
in, the  New Zealand Herald’ s website reported, citing people it
didn’t identify. A graffiti-style painting of Dotcom and his
wife was displayed on the wall of one room, which had about
seven 60-inch television screens, the website reported.  Investigators executed more than 20 search warrants in the
U.S. and eight other countries and seized about $50 million in
assets, the U.S. Justice Department said in a Jan. 19 statement.
Since September 2005, the conspiracy -- dubbed “Mega
Conspiracy” by prosecutors -- generated more than $175 million
in criminal proceeds by distributing millions of copies of
copyrighted works, including movies, television programs, music,
books, video games and software, according to the indictment.  Megaupload is advertised as having more than 1 billion
visits to the site, more than 150 million registered users, 50
million daily visitors, and accounts for 4 percent of  Internet
traffic , prosecutors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  