-- Egyptian Shares Rally to Six-Week High, Led by Orascom Telecom
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-22T14:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/egyptian-shares-rally-to-five-week-high-led-by-orascom-telecom.html
Egypt’s shares  rose to a six-week
high before the country’s first parliamentary session since the
ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  and as  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE (ORTE)  resumed trading after two months.  Orascom Telecom Holding surged 51 percent as investors
speculated that the shares were undervalued after the company
split into two.  Juhayna Food Industries (JUFO) , the country’s biggest
packaged-milk producer, rallied the most in almost a month.
Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  climbed 1.3 percent to 3,920.17 at
the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the highest level since Dec. 11.
The benchmark measure earlier gained as much as 4.3 percent. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of companies in the  Persian Gulf  fell
0.2 percent.  “Orascom Telecom Holding’s resumption of trading and the
first parliamentary session tomorrow” lifted investor
sentiment, said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at
Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities. “It is the first step
toward having an elected body in post-revolution  Egypt .”  Islamists will dominate Egypt’s first parliament since
Mubarak was overthrown. The assembly is scheduled to hold its
inaugural session tomorrow as the country looks forward to the
anniversary of the start of the protests that ended Mubarak’s
three-decade rule. The assembly is supposed to select a
committee that will write a new constitution, though its exact
powers remain unclear.  Orascom Telecom Holding  Orascom Telecom Holding rallied to 2.62 Egyptian pounds as
it traded for the first time since splitting the company to
facilitate a $6.5 billion merger between parent Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA and Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd. Orascom
Telecom Holding’s global depositary receipts, which haven’t been
split, have climbed 46 percent to $3.26 since Nov. 23, the day
before the Egyptian exchange suspended local trading. The shares
made the largest contribution to the  EGX30’s advance .  Following the split, Orascom Telecom Holding holds 58
percent of the original company’s assets, including units in
Algeria, Pakistan and Bangladesh.  Orascom Telecom Media &
Technology Holding SAE  owns the Egyptian and North Korean
assets. Orascom Telecom Media shares, which were priced at 1.25
pounds, tumbled 28 percent to 0.9 pound.  “Most research houses saw the 58-to-42 split as an
undervaluation for Orascom Telecom Holding and exaggerated
valuation for Orascom Telecom Media,” said Dawood.  Juhayna advanced 2.9 percent, the most since Dec. 25, to
3.91 Egyptian pounds.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.2 percent and
Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.5 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
fell 0.2 percent. Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI) , Kuwait’s
benchmark  measure  and Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  were little changed.  Israeli  government bonds  fell, with the yield on the
benchmark 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit notes due January 2022
rising three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  