-- First Post-Mubarak Parliament Opens as Islamists Dominate
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-01-23T18:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/egypt-s-first-post-mubarak-parliament-convenes.html
Members of Egypt’s newly formed
parliament elected a candidate of the Muslim Brotherhood’s party
as speaker in secret balloting today, in the chamber’s first
session since the downfall of  Hosni Mubarak .  Mohammed Saad el-Katatni got 399 out of 496 valid votes,
said Mahmoud el-Sakka, member of the Wafd party, who temporarily
headed the session as the eldest lawmaker. Voting in the
assembly was broadcast on state television.  “We declare to the Egyptian people and the whole world
that our revolution will continue,” el-Katatni said after
results were announced. “We shall not rest until all the
revolution’s goals are completed. We will avenge the death of
martyrs through fair, rapid and efficient trials and build a
new, democratic and constitutional Egypt.”  Islamists led by the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom & Justice
party dominate the lower house of the assembly, in contrast to
the previous parliament, which was controlled by Mubarak’s now-
dissolved  National Democratic Party  and contained no lawmakers
from the Brotherhood. Freedom and Justice said its bloc won 235
of the 498 elected seats, or 47 percent.  Yellow Scarves  A number of lawmakers, mostly liberals, wore yellow scarves
saying “No to military trials for civilians” during the oath-
taking process which preceded the voting for speakership. This
was a reference to thousands of civilians and activists who
faced charges before military courts since Mubarak ceded power
to the military council last February.  The oath-taking process was interrupted repeatedly as some
members added their own words to the oath, reflecting their
different ideologies. Some lawmakers said they will respect the
constitution and the law, adding “in what doesn’t violate God’s
law”. Others added pledges of respect for the revolution and
its goals to their oath.  “This is a parliament that is reflective of the Egyptian
people’s will,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center in Qatar. “There isn’t any longer one
party that dominates Egyptian politics.”  While the elections were the freest in decades, the seven
weeks of voting failed to allay tensions between the activists
who ousted Mubarak and the military council that took power from
him. Protesters are calling for mass rallies on Jan. 25, the
anniversary of the start of the demonstrations against Mubarak,
to demand the generals transfer power immediately to civilians.
The council has said it will only cede authority when a
president is elected by the end of June.  Building Tensions  One of the first tasks of parliament is to select a
committee that will write the new constitution, an issue that
has been the focus of much political wrangling. Conflicting
statements about the powers the assembly will hold in the future
led to speculation of a confrontation with the country’s
military rulers.  “The tensions are going to build slowly,” said Hamid.
“Sometimes there will be accommodation, sometimes there will be
confrontation.”  The alliance led by the Nour party, which follows an
austere interpretation of Islam, holds the second-largest share
of seats. Under Mubarak and his predecessors,  Egypt ’s security
forces were used to suppress Islamist and other opposition
groups.  Economic Slump  Many demonstrators say the structure of the electoral
system and timing of the vote unfairly favored the Brotherhood.  The unrest of the past year has curbed tourist arrivals and
foreign investment and lowered economic growth to 1.8 percent in
the fiscal year through June, the slowest pace in at least a
decade. Tourist arrivals fell 33 percent last year, while
international reserves are at the lowest level since March 2005.  The government failed to achieve its target of 3.5 billion
pounds ($580 million) in yesterday’s sale of  nine-month treasury
bills , raising less than a third of that amount and paying an
average yield of 15.802 percent. That’s the highest rate since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006.  Egypt submitted a formal request last week for a $3.2
billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16 to
help its struggling economy. Egyptian officials said they turned
down a deal for a similar debt package from the fund last June.
Since then,  foreign currency reserves  have dropped 32 percent.  The head of the military council, Field Marshal Mohamed
Hussein Tantawi, said Egypt is facing “grave and unprecedented
dangers” and urged Egyptians to be vigilant to thwart “plots
and conspiracies” against their country, Mena reported on Jan.
17. The army on Jan. 21 ordered the release of 1,959 prisoners
convicted by military courts since the protests began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net 
Dahlia Kholaif in Cairo at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  