-- Germany Proposes Combining Rescue Funds
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-01-23T14:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/eu-finance-ministers-meet-on-crisis-solution-as-greek-debt-swap-unresolved.html
Germany  floated the idea of
combining  Europe ’s two rescue funds, in a concession to bolster
the fight against the fiscal crisis as Greece bargained with
bondholders over debt relief.  Germany may be open to boosting the combined aid limit from
500 billion euros ($651 billion) when a permanent fund runs
alongside the temporary fund starting in July, government
officials in Berlin said. The need for a beefed-up fund was
dramatized by haggling between Greece, the trigger of the two-
year-old crisis, and its creditors over debt reduction to stave
off default.  “It’s essential that we will be able to reinforce our
financial firewalls,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters before a meeting
of finance ministers in Brussels today.  Finance chiefs will tackle the rescue funds,  Greece ’s
latest offer to bondholders, a German-inspired deficit-control
treaty and nominees to the  European Central Bank ’s board in
meetings that started at 2:30 p.m. and will run until late
evening.  Italy led a rally in bonds of fiscally struggling states,
the euro rose above $1.30 and European stock markets advanced
amid confidence that a formula for quenching the crisis is
coming together.  Economic Power  Germany, Europe’s dominant economic power, gave the
strongest signal yet that it would allow the roughly 250 billion
euros left in the temporary rescue fund to be tapped once the
permanent fund is set up.  Running the two funds in parallel “is being discussed,”
 Norbert Barthle , parliamentary budget spokesman for Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said in an interview
in Berlin. The issue may come up at a summit of European leaders
on Jan. 30, government spokesman Steffen Seibert said.  Such a step would boost Europe’s unspent crisis-fighting
capacity to around 750 billion euros. On top of that would come
150 billion euros pledged by euro-area central banks to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “We need a larger firewall,” IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said in Berlin. “Without it, countries like
Italy and Spain, that are fundamentally able to repay their
debts, could potentially be forced into a solvency crisis by
abnormal financing costs.”  ‘Optimistic Side’  Backed by the euro region’s downpayment, Lagarde is seeking
$500 billion for the IMF -- a number that looks “on the
optimistic side,” she said today. Debate over the IMF’s coffers
will peak at a Group of 20 meeting in February.  Greece’s struggle was set to intrude on today’s Brussels
meeting after bondholders made what  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the Washington-based  Institute of International
Finance , termed a “maximum” debt-relief offer.  “The elements now are in place,” Dallara, the
bondholders’ chief negotiator, told Athens-based Antenna TV
yesterday. “It’s a question now, really, of the broader
reaction of the European official sector and, of course, of the
IMF.”  An accord is key to a second financing package for the
cash-strapped country, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20. A deal is likely in time, German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said.  “I expect that the negotiations with the private creditors
and the new Greece program can be completed simultaneously and
soon enough that no new bridge loan whatsoever will be needed,”
Merkel told reporters in Berlin today.  Greece’s Failure  Greece’s failure to wrap up the debt-reduction accord over
the weekend helped drive  two-year yields  to an all-time high of
206 percent at 2:47 p.m. in  Athens . In contrast to earlier
points in the crisis, investors were optimistic that Greece’s
travails won’t spill over to the rest of Europe.  Italian bonds rose, pushing the extra yield over 10-year
German bonds down to 418 basis points. The spread, a gauge of
the perceived risk of lending to  Italy ’s government, is now the
narrowest since Dec. 7.  Successful short-term debt sales in the past two weeks in
Italy,  Portugal , Spain,  France  and  Belgium  were smoothed by 489
billion euros disbursed by the ECB in unlimited three-year loans
to euro-region banks.  The central bank has drawn encouragement from pledges by
political leaders to turn Europe into a low-debt economy,
enforced by a fiscal treaty to be discussed by the finance
ministers today and completed at next week’s summit.  Latest Draft  The latest draft of the treaty bows to some objections
raised by the ECB. It will create an EU-supervised automatic
“correction mechanism” that would force governments to fix
“significant” deviations from a target structural deficit of
0.5 percent of GDP, according to the Jan. 19 draft obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Under German pressure, countries that don’t enact the
fiscal treaty will be denied aid from the permanent rescue fund,
the European Stability Mechanism. Finance ministers will pore
over the draft ESM treaty tonight, with  Finland ’s objections to
the lack of a veto over aid payouts the main sticking point.  “There are still outstanding questions but I think we can
take a big leap forward on it,” Danish Economy Minister
Margrethe Vestager said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
Denmark is among the nine non-euro states that may sign the
pact.  Also on the agenda is who will take the seat on the ECB’s
Executive Board that will open up when  Spain ’s Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo comes to the end of his eight-year term in May.  Central Banker  In a battle that pits the richer north against the debt-
encumbered south, Luxembourg is seeking to wrest the seat away
from Spain by nominating its central banker, Yves Mersch.  Spain proposed Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, head of the ECB’s
legal department, to hold onto a seat that has been in Spanish
hands throughout the euro. A third contender, Mitja Gaspari, was
put forward by Slovenia.  Nominees will be discussed tonight, with no decision likely
until the next meeting on Feb. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin at in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  