-- EU Data-Privacy Rules to Make Breach Disclosures Mandatory Within 24 Hours
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-23T08:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/eu-s-reding-says-users-to-be-told-of-data-hacks-within-24-hours.html
A European Union proposal to
simplify and toughen the region’s data-protection rules will
require companies to disclose data breaches within 24 hours of
their occurrences, Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  said.  The EU will this week outline an overhaul of its 17-year-
old data-protection policies addressing online advertising and
social-networking sites. The bill, which includes stricter
sanctions and will equip national data-protection authorities
with powers to levy administrative sanctions and fines, will
“become a trademark people recognize and trust worldwide,”
Reding said at a conference in Munich yesterday.  Sony Corp. (6758)  was criticized last year by U.S. lawmakers for
taking six days to warn customers about a cyber attack that
exposed more than 100 million customer accounts, the second-
largest online data breach in U.S. history. Industry groups with
members including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have warned
the EU against setting overly strict data-privacy rules, saying
that may stifle innovation.  “What exactly do companies need to do within those 24
hours, and what happens for example with cookies?” said Kay Oberbeck,  Mountain View , California-based Google’s head of
communication for Germany, Austria and  Switzerland , in an
interview. Oberbeck was referring to Internet files that are
saved on a user’s computer to enable website operators to
display personalized content.  ‘Legally Justified’  The legislations will require companies to obtain
“specific and explicit” consent from  Internet users  to store
information, and delete data unless there is a “legitimate and
legally justified interest” to keep them on their servers,
Reding said at the annual Digital Life Design conference.  Google, Facebook Inc.,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  are among Web companies
that collect user information and get paid by clients who can
use the data to better target advertisements for their products
or services. Having to get approval for individual data
retention and an obligation to purge files may reduce those
companies’ revenue.  “Companies that suffer a data leak must inform the data
protection authorities and the individuals concerned, and they
must do so without undue delay,” Reding. She cited a survey
showing 72 percent of Europeans are concerned about how
companies use their data.  The draft rules aim to establish common legislation for the
27-member European Union, as well as national points of contact
that can make decisions that will be valid for the region.
Uniform legislation will save businesses 2.3 billion euros ($3
billion) a year by, for example, reducing paperwork, Reding
said.  Building Trust  The European Commission, the EU’s executive agency, is
backed in its reform efforts by countries including Germany and
 France , which are aiming at giving local companies a boost
against U.S.-based Web pioneers.  Companies such as  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  say the sharing of
data is important to customize services.  “Data protection is important, but as soon as the customer
really benefits from opening up some of his information to the
airline, he’ll be ready to do so,” Lufthansa CEO Christoph Franz
said today. “With information the customer has shared in
advance, we can go and say, hey, we’ve already opened a bottle
of your preferred wine.”  Building Trust  Stefan Gross-Selbeck, chief executive officer of  Xing AG (01BC) , a
German professional-network operator that competes with Mountain
View, California-based LinkedIn Corp., said a common market
would make it easier for it to attract a Europe-wide customer
base.  “In the longer-term there’s actually no fundamental
conflict between companies and regulators,” Gross-Selbeck said
at the conference. “You need the trust of your customers to
build a successful and stable business, and so all companies
have an interest to build that trust.”  Data breaches at Tokyo-based Sony and Citigroup Inc. have
also sharpened scrutiny by the U.S. government on how businesses
protect consumer information and notify the public about cyber
attacks. A U.S. senate panel in September approved a measure
that would set a national standard for notifying consumers about
data breaches, replacing varied reporting requirements in 47
states. It also would make concealing a data breach a crime.  Reding didn’t specify what sanctions European regulators
may impose on companies failing to comply with the requirements.  In the U.S., Internet companies are also fighting anti-
piracy bills supported by the movie and music industries. Senate
and House leaders last week shelved the proposed legislation
after a global online protest by Google and Wikipedia eroded
congressional support.  “Politicians are so slow, they are miles behind,” Andrew
Keene, author of “The Cult of the Amateur: How Today’s Internet
Is Killing Our Culture,” said at the conference, adding that
companies such as Facebook will find ways to get ahead of the
rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Munich via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  