-- Euro Policy Makers Angle for Long-Term Crisis Solution
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-22T16:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/euro-policy-makers-resume-talks-tomorrow-on-long-term-debt-crisis-solution.html
European officials will push on
tomorrow with a long-term plan to tackle the region’s debt
crisis, as banking and government negotiators zero in on an
agreement that will lighten  Greece ({GDBR10) ’s debt burden.  European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels to
discuss new budget rules, a financial firewall to protect
indebted states and a Greek debt swap, with EU leaders racing to
cobble together a firm rescue response in the coming weeks.
Meanwhile, cash-strapped  Greece  and private bondholders said
they had made progress in talks over the weekend in  Athens .  As investors ignored this month’s euro-area downgrades by
 Standard & Poor’s  and sent the single currency to its first gain
in seven weeks, leaders including German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  are set on exploiting the momentum to lock in a final
response to the two-year-old crisis.  “The most likely thing to happen is that everybody’s still
in it, including Greece” at the end of the year,  Jim O’Neill ,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in a Jan. 20
interview with  Charlie Rose . “The costs of exit are so
unknown.”  The euro rose 2 percent to $1.2931 last week, the biggest
weekly gain since Oct. 14. Spain, Greece and the euro bailout
fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, sold bonds at
lower rates, signaling greater demand for the assets.  ECB Assistance  The  European Central Bank  provided assistance last month by
issuing 489 billion euros ($632 billion) in unlimited three-year
loans to euro-region banks, an injection that diminishes the
chances the debt crisis could turn into a financial crisis.  “While it obviously can’t solve deep fundamental issues
facing euro area economies, it certainly has dramatically
reduced the chances of a systematic banking crisis,” Goldman’s
O’Neill wrote in a note to investors today.  In Athens, private creditors and Greek officials cited
progress in talks aimed at lowering the country’s debt and
drawing a second round of international financing before it
faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20. A 4-1/2 hour
meeting with officials representing the creditors and Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  broke up about 1 a.m. yesterday.  European officials and the nation’s private bondholders
agreed in October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face
value of more than 200 billion euros of Greek debt by
voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for new securities,
with a goal of reducing Greece’s borrowings to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020.  Investor Demand  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of
International Finance , which represents creditors, said
yesterday in an e-mail that “the elements of an unprecedented
voluntary private-sector involvement are coming into place.”  Investor demand for short-term sovereign debt such as
Spanish and Italian two-year notes has rallied across the euro
area since the ECB’s cash injection on Dec. 21. Still, with
yields remaining near record levels for longer-term security,
the three-year loans may offer only a temporary respite.  EU governments negotiating for a new rulebook on fiscal
policy are hewing to an agenda championed by Merkel and the ECB.
The latest draft of the fiscal pact bows to ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s call for governments to honor their commitment on
spending discipline to restore credibility.  Permanent Rescue Fund  The proposed treaty will require a centralized “correction
mechanism” to be triggered automatically in cases of
“significant” deviations from a target structural deficit of
0.5 percent of GDP, according to a draft dated Jan. 19 obtained
by Bloomberg News. Reflecting German demands, countries would
have to enact “binding and permanent” balanced-budget rules.  Ministers tomorrow will also discuss a separate draft
accord on  Europe ’s planned permanent rescue fund that eases
earlier provisions on debt restructuring. The proposed agreement
still calls for clauses in bond contracts that would prevent
small groups of investors from blocking a decision, while
deeming write-offs “exceptional” and subject to International
Monetary Fund standards, according to a draft.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said the EU
remains committed to the euro common currency and underscored
the importance of sufficient financing to indebted states.  “We have to erect a firewall,” Westerwelle said in an
interview on Bloomberg television in  Washington  on Jan. 20. “We
have to show solidarity. We have to support those countries that
are now in serious trouble.” He said “a long-term solution”
is being sought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  