-- Euro Rallies to Three-Week High Against Dollar Amid Greece Debt Optimism
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-23T22:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/euro-drops-amid-uncertainty-about-greek-debt-swap-negotiations-in-brussels.html
The euro strengthened to an almost
three-week high against the dollar as French Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said negotiations between Greece and its private
creditors are making “tangible progress.”  The 17-nation currency gained versus 13 of its 16 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as European Union finance
ministers gather in Brussels to discuss a Greek debt swap,
budget rules and a financial firewall to protect indebted
nations. Norway’s krone and  Canada ’s dollar rallied against the
dollar as oil gained after the European Union agreed to ban
crude imports from  Iran .  “The Greece situation is the main source of near-term
headline risk and the market is betting on the successful
outcome of those talks, because the alternative would be too
disruptive,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . “We saw another record high in
euro shorts from last week and we are also still in the process
of unwinding some of those.” A short is a bet an asset will
decline.  The euro gained 0.6 percent to $1.3013 at 5 p.m. New York
time after rising to $1.3053, the highest level since Jan. 4.
The common currency advanced 0.6 percent to 100.25 yen, while
the dollar was little changed at 77.02 yen.  Euro Shorts  Futures traders raised bets to a record last week that the
euro will decline against the dollar. The difference between
wagers that the shared currency will fall versus those that it
will rise -- so-called  net shorts  -- surged to 160,030 in the
week ended Jan. 17, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed on Jan. 20.  The seven-day relative strength index for the euro versus
the dollar rose to 66.3. A reading above 70 signals an asset may
have climbed too far too quickly and may be overbought.  “I interpret this bounce as a short covering; this move
may be getting to the overdone stage with so many questions
remaining,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New York. “We
have a little bit of resistance coming up at $1.3077 and then
the 50-day moving average.”  Volatility Falls  Implied volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies declined to 10.7 percent, the least since March 2011,
when it dropped to lowest since August 2008, according to the
 JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7) . The decline makes investments in
currencies with higher benchmark lending rates more attractive
as the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase
profits.  Australia ’s dollar gained 0.4 percent to $1.0525, and New
Zealand’s currency advanced 0.5 percent to 81.01 cents. Interest
rates are 4.25 percent and 2.5 percent respectively, compared
with near zero rates in the U.S. and  Japan .  “We are seeing the U.S. dollar as the most strongly net
sold across the board as investors allocate the significant cash
levels they carried over from last year,”  Samarjit Shankar , a
managing director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at
Bank of New York Mellon, wrote to clients today. “Amongst G-10
currencies, we are seeing net buying of the Swedish krona,
sterling, Canadian dollar and  New Zealand dollar , while the Euro
has also been able to attract fresh inflows for two successive
sessions.”  The dollar and yen fell against all their major
counterparts as stocks and commodities rallied. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained as much as 0.5 percent and the S&P GSCI
index of 24 raw materials rose 1.1 percent.  Currency Measure  The dollar has weakened 1.5 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen is little changed, and
the euro has slipped 1.7 percent.  Canada’s dollar appreciated to within a cent of parity with
the U.S. currency as leading economic indicators increased for a
sixth month in December, according to  Statistics Canada . The
loonie gained 0.5 percent to C$1.0086 per  U.S. dollar . It has
not traded above parity since Nov. 1.  Norway’s krone was the best performer against the dollar,
gaining 1.2 percent to 5.8612 per dollar as crude oil gained for
the first time in four days. Brent oil for March settlement
advanced 0.7 percent to $110.95 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Pound Falls  The pound fell 0.7 percent to 83.59 pence per euro after
profit alerts increased by more than 70 percent in the final
quarter of 2011 at U.K.-listed companies, the biggest jump since
the first three months of 2001, according to Ernst & Young LLP.  Bondholders negotiating a debt swap with  Greece  have made
their “maximum” offer, leaving it to the EU and International
Monetary Fund to decide whether to accept the deal, said  Charles Dallara , managing director of the Washington-based Institute of
International Finance, who’s representing private creditors in
the talks.  The parties were nearing an agreement under which old bonds
would be swapped for new securities, with coupons averaging
between 4 percent and 4.5 percent, according to a person with
knowledge of the discussions three days ago.  Germany  and the IMF
are now insisting on an agreement closer to 3 percent, the New
York Times cited officials involved as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  