-- EU Agrees to Ban Iran Oil Imports to Target Nuclear Program
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-23T17:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/european-union-likely-to-agree-on-iranian-oil-ban.html
European Union foreign ministers
agreed to ban oil imports from  Iran  starting July 1 as part of
measures to ratchet up the pressure on the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear program, the 27-nation bloc said in a  statement .  The EU will freeze assets of the Iranian central bank in
Europe as well as of eight other entities and ban the trade in
gold, precious metals, diamonds and petrochemical products from
Iran, the EU said. The names of the entities will be published
by the EU tomorrow.  “Today’s decisions target the sources of the finance for
the nuclear program, complementing already existing sanctions,”
the EU said today in Brussels, adding that it has “banned
imports of Iranian crude oil and petroleum products.”  An Iranian member of parliament warned the country will
“certainly close the Strait of Hormuz,” the Persian Gulf
passageway for about 20 percent of globally traded oil, if
sanctions “interrupt” its oil exports, the state-run Fars news
agency reported, citing Mohammad Kowsari, deputy head of the
chamber’s National Security and Foreign Policy commission. EU
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  declined to comment on the
remarks when questioned by reporters.  Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar
and Kuwait ship crude and liquefied natural gas through the
strait.  New contracts on oil imports from Iran and extensions of
existing deals will be banned under the embargo, the EU said.
Shipments under agreements already in place can continue until
July 1. The EU measures against Iran also include a ban on the
export of equipment and technology for the Iranian petrochemical
industry.  Oil Rises  Oil for March delivery gained 68 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$99.01 a barrel at 12:05 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have increased 11 percent in the past year.
Brent oil for March settlement advanced 59 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $110.45 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  “We can keep the  Strait of Hormuz  open and we will do what
is necessary to achieve that,” Ivo Daalder, the U.S. ambassador
to NATO, said in a BBC Radio 4 interview today.  The U.K. and  France  have joined the U.S. in sending
warships to the Strait of Hormuz, the U.K. Ministry of Defense
said in an e-mailed statement from  London .  Naval Vessels  “HMS Argyll and a French vessel joined a U.S. carrier
group transiting through the Strait of Hormuz, to underline the
unwavering international commitment to maintaining rights of
passage under international law,” the statement said.  “The Iranian leadership has failed to restore
international confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of
its nuclear program,” said U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron,
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel in a joint statement. “We will not accept Iran acquiring
a nuclear weapon. Iran has so far had no regard for its
international obligations and is already exporting and
threatening violence around its region.”  In  Washington , U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  welcomed the EU move and
said it “will sharpen the choice for Iran’s leaders and
increase their cost of defiance of international obligations.”  Jan Techau, director of the Brussels-based European Center
of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, called the EU
moves against Iran “an impressive show of force.”  ‘Visibly Nervous’  “Iran is visibly nervous,” he said in an interview.  The U.S. and  Europe  have raised pressure on Iran this month
after the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations
atomic watchdog, said Iran had started enriching uranium up to
20 percent at a fortified site. President Barack Obama signed a
bill on Dec. 31 that tightens sanctions on Iran by denying
access to the U.S. financial system to any foreign bank that
conducts business with the Central Bank of Iran. The IAEA said
today said it will send inspectors to Iran Jan. 29-31.  “These EU sanctions will hurt Iran very deeply,” Shada Islam,  Middle East  and Asia analyst at the Friends of Europe
policy group in Brussels, said in an interview. “To be really
effective, however, the EU and the U.S. must also try and get
key Asian countries, including  China , on board.”  While the EU decision today will be binding on member
states, a separate regulation is needed for it to become binding
on companies. The European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, is
expected to come forward with a draft rule on that matter within
days, according to an EU diplomat.  Atomic Bomb  The U.S. and EU say Iran’s nuclear-development plans are
aimed at building atomic weapons. The Islamic republic, the
second-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , is already under four
rounds of UN sanctions and says its nuclear program is for
energy and medical purposes, not weaponry.  Sarkozy had wanted the embargo to start in three months.
Mediterranean countries that import much of their crude from
Iran, such as Greece,  Spain  and  Italy , had argued for sanctions
to be phased in over as much as a year. The three countries
accounted for about 68 percent of EU imports from Iran in 2010,
European Commission data show.  Both Spain and Italy get 13 percent of their crude imports
from Iran, according to the U.S.’s  Energy Information
Administration . The U.K. and  Germany , which have also sought
swifter sanctions, source only 1 percent of their oil imports
from the Islamic republic, while France gets 4 percent.  Saudis Pump More Oil  Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo said
he expects Saudi Arabia to offset the impact of the EU’s import
ban on Iranian oil.  “I had a meeting with the authorities in Saudi Arabia and
they have assured us that they will take care of” supply, to
“keep the prices the way they are,” he told reporters in
Brussels today. “Spain shouldn’t be harmed,” he said.  As well as the four sets of UN sanctions, Iran is under
additional U.S. and EU restrictions. The EU already embargoes
equipment for and investment in Iran’s oil and natural gas
industries. The bloc has also imposed restrictions on transfers
of funds to and from Iran, a ban on cargo flights operated by
Iranian carriers or coming from Iran and visa bans on 113 people
linked to the nuclear program and Revolutionary Guards Corps.  Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in 2010 and supplied more
than 50 percent of the national budget and 80 percent of
exports, according to the U.S.  Energy Department  and the
 International Monetary Fund . Iran produced 3.58 million barrels
of crude a day in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s about 4 percent of global oil consumption.  OPEC’s Spare Capacity  OPEC producers have an “effective” spare crude-production
capacity of 2.85 million barrels a day, the  International Energy
Agency  said in a Jan. 18 report. Saudi Arabia’s spare capacity
of 2.15 million barrels a day accounts for about 75 percent of
the OPEC total, according to International Energy Agency
estimates.  The IEA’s effective spare-capacity tally for OPEC excludes
 Iraq , Nigeria, Venezuela and  Libya . With those nations included,
the figure rises to 3.8 million barrels a day.  The EU imported 14.5 billion euros ($18.9 billion) of goods
from Iran, 90 percent of which was oil and related products, in
2010 and exported goods to the country worth 11.3 billion euros,
the EU said in a Jan. 20  statement   To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 