-- Europe Gives Euro Doomsayers Pause With Dormant Davos Sanatorium
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/europe-gives-euro-doomsayers-pause-with-dormant-davos-sanatorium.html
European leaders heading to the home
of  Thomas Mann ’s Magic Mountain sanatorium are surprising
credit-ratings companies, and the economists who agree with
them, as the consensus predicts another year of trauma for the
euro area.  Money market lending rates have eased, economic data from
Germany to France are beating analysts’ estimates and Italian
and Spanish bonds are rebounding after their yields reached
euro-era records in November.  The Bloomberg European Financial
Conditions Index (BFCIEU)  has risen to minus 3.5 percent, its highest
since August and up from a low of minus 5.4 percent in
September.  That gives German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  some room for optimism that
the worst of their debt  turmoil  may be over as they head to
Davos,  Switzerland  this week. That prognosis is challenged by
billionaire George Soros and Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz , who
will also be attending the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting
and argue that the crisis is still raging.  “European policy makers at Davos will keep doing
everything possible to try to calm markets,” said  William Browder , founder of London-based Hermitage Capital Management
and a Davos attendee for 12 years. “People are still
petrified.”  Overnight Rates  A century after Mann visited his ailing wife in the ski
resort and used the trip as inspiration for his 1924 novel,
“The Magic Mountain,” Merkel and Draghi will join about 2,600
political, business and financial leaders at the five-day
 conference . Merkel delivers the opening speech on Jan. 25 and
Draghi speaks two days later.  They gather as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis displays some signs
of stabilizing a month after Draghi pumped an unprecedented 489
billion euros ($632 billion) of three-year cash into a financial
system that was in danger of seizing up.  The gap between the overnight indexed swap rate and the
cost of borrowing for three months in euros has declined 15
basis points to 85 basis points after last month touching the
highest since March 2009.  Bucking Consensus  The yield on Italy’s 10-year government bond has dropped
more than one percentage point after hitting a record of 7.48
percent on Nov. 9 and was at 6.25 percent on Jan. 20. While
academics such as Martin Feldstein and economist Nouriel Roubini
have predicted the euro could splinter, an investor who last
year put $1 million in a basket of securities mimicking the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index of euro-region sovereigns would
have earned a profit of about $33,000, the best since 2009.  In December, euro region government debt returned 4
percent, the most since before the currency was created, and
another 0.6 percent this month, the BofA Merrill indexes show.  Economic data is also coming in stronger than forecast by
the biggest margin since May, according to Citigroup Inc.’s
 “surprise index.”  Recent reports showed German investor
confidence jumping the most on record and French business
sentiment also improving.  There may be more grounds for optimism in coming days.
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the lobby group
representing creditors negotiating with Greece, said yesterday
he was hopeful of an agreement on a debt-swap needed to lower
the country’s borrowings. That would clear the way for a second
round of international aid. In  Italy , Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
says his government will this week pass a package of measures to
cut red tape to lift its economy.  Powerful Action  “Europe is trying mightily to solve its problems,” Jamie Dimon, chief executive officer at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , told
analysts and investors on a Jan. 13 conference call. The ECB’s
actions were “very, very powerful” because it means banks will
not face liquidity or funding problems for at least next year,
said Dimon, who will be at this year’s meeting.  Davos is an apt forum for a debate on Europe’s future given
Mann’s  classic , which tells the tale of German Hans Castorp’s
sojourn in the town during the years leading up to World War I
and the international personalities he meets there. The
sanatorium perched 300 meters above the town is now the
Schatzalp Hotel, which last year hosted events attended by rock
star Bono,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman Eric Schmidt and  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  Chief Executive Officer Stuart Gulliver.  European Flatlands  “At 5,000 feet it provides a vantage-point from which to
survey the rest of Europe -- what Mann in The Magic Mountain
calls the ‘flatland,’” said Ritchie Robertson, a  professor  of
German language and literature at the University of Oxford.  Signs of improvement stack up against the risks that rescue
plans get derailed by political bickering or that Greece suffers
a banking collapse or default. A recession that may already be
under way in the euro region could also be deepened by a credit
crunch and crisis-inspired austerity measures.  “You have an ongoing crisis,” Soros said Jan. 9. “We
are now in a more dangerous situation than in 2008” when Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, he said.  European leaders have been here before. In the middle of
2010 the turmoil calmed before conflagrating again as Merkel
pushed for investors to help cover the cost of future bailouts.
The 10-year bond yields of  Portugal (GDBR10)  and Ireland surged above 7
percent and both countries followed Greece in needing bailouts.  Google Miss  Slowing growth is also making it harder for countries to
get their budgets under control. Spain was forced to raise its
deficit forecast for 2011 by 2 percentage points to around 8
percent of gross domestic product on Dec. 30 and introduce 15
billion euros in fiscal measures. The yield on Portugal’s 10-
year security has doubled to more than 14 percent in the past
year.  Europe’s woes are infecting the world economy. Google,
owner of the world’s most popular Internet search engine, on
Jan. 19 reported fourth-quarter  profit  that missed analysts’
estimates as the region’s slowdown hurt international sales. The
International Monetary Fund is set to cut its forecast for 2012
global growth tomorrow from September’s 4 percent estimate.  “The outlook is going to be shakier than appears to be the
case at the moment,” said  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman
of Morgan Stanley Asia, who will be in Davos. His colleagues in
Europe predict the  euro area  will contract 0.3 percent this year
and that the ECB will cut its benchmark from the current 1
percent and engage in quantitative easing.  Testing Recovery  Banks looking to cut debt are hoarding cash and restricting
lending to the economy as they face regulatory calls to raise an
additional 114.7 billion euros of core capital by June. Banks
 parked  a record 528.2 billion euros at the ECB overnight on Jan.
17.  Governments will be forced to test any recovery in investor
confidence on a regular basis. Deutsche Bank AG estimates euro-
region nations need to raise $1.1 trillion this year with about
a third of that in the first quarter. Italy, the region’s third
largest economy, needs to repay 25.8 billion euros of bonds next
week.  Stiglitz, who teaches at  Columbia University , said in
Lisbon on Jan. 18 that governments are making a mistake by
cutting budgets too fast as “confidence won’t be restored if
growth is falling.”  Harvard University Professor Kenneth Rogoff sees a risk a
euro member will quit and says more sweeping debt restructurings
will be required in Greece and perhaps elsewhere. At the
University of California, Berkeley, professor  Barry Eichengreen 
says the ECB must become more activist and the German government
has to spend more and eventually sign up to greater fiscal
union.  ‘No Quick Fix’  “There is no quick fix,” said Eichengreen, author of a
2006 history of the European economy. Policy makers will “do
the right thing once they do everything else.”  European leaders are trying to act faster than that. While
he acknowledges “a very grave state of affairs,” Draghi said
Jan. 12 that there are “tentative signs of stabilization” in
the euro region economy and predicted last week it “will be in
better shape in 2012.”  Draghi succeeded  Jean-Claude Trichet  as ECB president on
Nov. 1. Trichet, who will also be in Davos, spent the end of his
eight-year term refuting sceptics such as Harvard University
professor Martin Feldstein, who argued the euro is flawed and
may splinter.  Ignoring S&P  Investors may be starting to agree with the more upbeat
outlook. Traders ignored Standard & Poor’s Jan. 13 decision to
downgrade nine euro-area members and  France  and Spain last week
sold 14.6 billion euros of bonds at lower funding costs.  The BofA Merrill Lynch indexes show  government bonds  have
returned another 0.4 percent this month and the euro last week
rose for the first week in seven against the dollar. The yield
on Spain’s 10-year government bond has dropped 129 basis point
from its euro-era high to 5.49 percent.  Delegates are likely to arrive finding local policy makers
with other reasons to celebrate. While Swiss National Bank
Chairman Philipp Hildebrand was this month forced to resign amid
a controversy over his personal finances, the central bank has
managed to get the Swiss franc under control after its record-
breaking rally threatened to derail the economy.  Four months after the SNB imposed a limit of 1.20 per euro,
the currency is trading at 1.2079 and a survey of managers
showed Swiss manufacturing expanded in December for the first
time since August.  The franc may get further respite if European policy makers
push through measures to ease their crisis in the next two weeks
and end a string of failed attempts stretching back to early
2010.  Budget Rulebook  Finance chiefs meet in Brussels today as governments aim to
restore fiscal credibility by completing a new budget rulebook
before next week’s leaders’ summit. A Jan. 19 draft of a planned
treaty obtained by Bloomberg News shows officials are heeding
some warnings by the ECB not to water down plans for tougher
budget limits.  “We’ve gone through many mood swings regarding Europe and
we’ll go through more,” said  Gerard Lyons , chief economist at
 Standard Chartered  and another conference participant. The
leaders in Davos “will want to get across the message that they
are trying to resolve some of the fundamental problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  