-- Teva Rises to Eight-Month High on Novartis News: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-01-22T14:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/teva-poised-for-may-high-on-novartis-drug-review-tel-aviv-mover.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
climbed to the highest level in almost eight months after U.S.
and European regulators said they were reviewing  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
multiple sclerosis pill Gilenya after reports of 11 deaths.  The  shares  of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva, whose
bestselling drug is Copaxone, an injectable treatment for
multiple sclerosis, gained 0.9 percent to 173.50 shekels at the
4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the highest since May 31.  “A slower introduction of oral treatments for multiple
sclerosis will prolong the shelf life of injectable MS drugs
such as Teva’s Copaxone,” Jonathan Kreizman, a Tel Aviv-based
analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. said today by phone.  Teva shares declined 18 percent last year as competition to
Copaxone increased and after the company introduced fewer
generic drugs in the U.S. Annual sales of the treatment, which
reached $3.32 billion in 2010, will probably peak at $3.8
billion, Teva said Dec. 21. Copaxone accounted for 24 percent of
revenue in the third quarter of 2011.  The reports of deaths among patients who took Novartis’s
Gilenya raise concern that the first oral treatment for the
debilitating neurological disease may harm the heart, the
European Medicines Agency said Jan. 20. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  also is reviewing data on the medicine.  Novartis said it’s working with the EMA on the review and
is notifying doctors of the agency’s recommendation to increase
monitoring of patients’ hearts after the first dose. Julie
Masow, a spokeswoman for Novartis, said in an e-mail the death
rate is in line with the broader expected death rates based on
the 30,000 multiple sclerosis patients who have been treated
with Gilenya to date.  Jeremy Levin, who Teva named on Jan. 2 to replace Shlomo Yanai as chief executive officer, has an “impressive record”
of identifying interesting branded drugs at an early stage,
Kreizman said. Teva shares have soared 12 percent in  Tel Aviv 
since Levin’s appointment.  “Investors feel Teva now has a better chance to find
another branded blockbuster like Copaxone,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  