-- Food Waste Denounced by Ministers as Almost 1 Billion Go Hungry
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-23T11:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/farm-ministers-denounce-food-waste-as-almost-1-billion-people-go-hungry.html
Food waste was denounced by farm
ministers and policy makers gathered in Berlin as almost 1
billion people in  developing countries  go hungry.  Consumers in rich countries dispose of 220 million metric
tons of food waste every year, equal to the entire food output
of sub-Saharan Africa, Jose Graziano da Silva, the director
general of the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture
Organization , told 64 agriculture ministers meeting in Berlin
over the weekend.  “We must change our way of thinking, we must have more
education, we must have discussion about best-before dates,”
German Agriculture Minister  Ilse Aigner  said. “Every food item
thrown away is wasted.”  One third of the food produced in the world every year is
lost or wasted, amounting to 1.3 billion metric tons, according
to Graziano da Silva. As many as 925 million people faced hunger
worldwide in 2010, based on the FAO’s most recent estimate.  The ministers meeting in Berlin said food should be treated
“responsibly and carefully,” particularly to reduce waste,
according to a joint declaration by countries including Germany,
 France ,  Japan  and the U.K. on Jan. 21.  “In developed countries, the waste of food is really
something that is a concern,” Graziano da Silva said. “Even
today, we produce enough food, despite that we have 1 billion
people undernourished.”  Food Prices  World  food prices  tracked by the FAO reached the highest
ever last February on surging grain prices, before slipping 11
percent through December. The FAO food-price index averaged a
record 228 points last year, 23 percent more than in 2010 and
above the 200 points recorded in 2008, when food riots erupted
from  Haiti  to  Egypt . The index began in 1990. Wheat and corn
climbed for a third consecutive day in  Chicago  today.  “We see our brothers and sisters in  Africa  suffering from
hunger, at the same time we see people in developed countries
having too much food and suffering from diseases such as
obesity,”  Indonesia ’s Agriculture Minister Suswono Asyraf said.  The abundance and ubiquity of food in developed economies
means many consumers there take their meal for granted, without
considering what goes into its production, said Dacian Ciolos,
the European Union’s agriculture commissioner.  “It’s not because we have easy access to food that we can
waste it,” Ciolos said. “If we let these foods rot, we waste
financial resources, we waste natural resources and we also
waste labor.”  German Study  The FAO has said global food output must rise 70 percent by
2050 to feed a world population expected to grow to 9 billion
from 7 billion now and as increasingly wealthy consumers in
developing economies eat more meat. Raising production alone is
not enough, according to Ciolos.  “Farmers already make a lot of effort to produce more,”
Ciolos said. “It’s now up to us to look at these foods with
different eyes. It’s a priority in industrialized countries to
better value the production that we have.”  Lawmakers only have “vague estimations” of food waste,
according to Aigner. The minister said she’s commissioned a
study in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, to gain a better
understanding of where food is wasted.  “Apples which may not correspond to the norms of
consumers, they must not be thrown away, they must enter the
food chain,” Aigner said. “The debate we have here in Europe
and Germany is a luxury.”  Making food pricier is not the way to raise awareness among
European consumers, because food access is a challenge also for
the European Union’s poor, according to Ciolos.  “It’s really a question of education,” Ciolos said.
“It’s a problem of society, of all society. Food habits, we
cannot only resolve them with price.”  ‘Grandmother’s Knowledge’  Consumers in rich countries have lost “grandmother’s
knowledge on how to cook things,” as they buy more and more
processed foods, according to Graziano da Silva. He said there’s
a need to educate people about eating.  “We teach people everything including how to drive, why
not teach people what and how to eat?” the FAO chief said. “We
need to urgently put in place food and nutrition education
programs, to help families eat better.”  Adoption of rich countries’ wasteful food-consumption
pattern across the world would lead to unsustainable demand for
natural resources, according to the FAO director general.  “We cannot limit sustainability to  food production , we
need to also look at our food consumption,” Graziano da Silva
said. “Waste less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Berlin at  rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 