-- Finns Embrace Pro-Euro Candidate Niinistoe
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-01-23T09:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/finns-embrace-pro-euro-candidate-niinistoe-in-presidential-race.html
Sauli Niinistoe, a former finance
minister who led  Finland  into the euro in 1999, won the first
round of the country’s presidential race as voters handed a loss
to candidates calling for an exit from the single currency.  Niinistoe won 37 percent of votes and faces the Green
League’s pro-euro Pekka Haavisto in a second round of voting,
the Justice Ministry said yesterday on its election website.
Haavisto had 18.8 percent of votes while the Center Party’s
Paavo Vaeyrynen came third with 17.5 percent. A run off between
the top two candidates will be held on Feb. 5.  “This result was a very strong signal for a European
Finland,” said Martti Haeikioe, a professor and historian at
the University of Helsinki, in an interview. “It’s a victory
for stable and prudent Europe policy.”  The election may add momentum to Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s drive to have his country participate in European
crisis management efforts. The vote comes less than a year after
Timo Soini led his anti-euro “The Finns” party in a fourfold
surge in parliamentary elections. Soini received 9.4 percent of
the vote yesterday.  “This is a vote of confidence in the government’s
policy,” said Pasi Kuoppamaeki, chief economist at Sampo Bank,
a unit of Danske Bank A/S, by phone. “Both candidates support
the government’s stance toward the European Union.” Niinistoe
is a member of the same party that Katainen leads.  AAA Club  The difference between 10-year yields on Finnish government
debt and German bunds with a similar maturity was little changed
at 39 basis points as of 11:28 a.m. in Helsinki. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Finland, one of four remaining AAA rated euro countries,
has threatened to derail efforts to solve the debt crisis,
including demanding collateral to provide emergency funds to
Greece. Finance Minister and Social Democrat Jutta Urpilainen,
who heads the second-largest of six coalition partners in the
government, has signaled she may not back  Europe ’s permanent
rescue fund should Germany and  France  push ahead with plans to
do away with unanimous voting in the euro area.  Croatians yesterday voted to become the European Union’s
28th member in a test of the bloc’s lure amid a sovereign debt
crisis. Some 66 percent approved a plan for the government to
proceed with its expected July 2013 entry into the EU.  Rebuilding Economy  Niinistoe, 63, was finance minister for the seven years
until 2003 and helped rebuild Finland’s economy after a banking
crisis and recession in the early 1990s. He lost in 2006 to
President Tarja Halonen, who will step down after a two-term
limit.  “Criticism toward the euro didn’t catch on,” Niinistoe
said in an interview. “The anti-euro candidates didn’t get
unexpectedly high votes today.”  Soini, who has said  Greece  should be allowed to default and
talks openly of reintroducing the Finnish markka, conceded
defeat, saying he wasn’t “disappointed.”  While declining to endorse another candidate, Soini said
his vote may go to Haavisto in the second round, YLE reported
today. The Center Party’s Vaeyrynen eroded Soini’s support by
arguing for Finland to quit the euro.  Most Experience  “Niinistoe has by far the most experience in a European
setting, as well a strong domestic mandate as a former leader of
Finland’s currently largest party,” Haeikioe said.  In Finland, the president is the head of state, while the
prime minister runs the government day to day. The president’s
powers include steering foreign policy in cooperation with the
government, appointing top-ranking civil servants such as the
central bank governor and commanding the armed forces. Bank of
Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen’s second and final term ends in
July 2018 and there’s a chance his successor will be named by
the new president.  The election result shows Finns support the government’s
pro-European stance, Prime Minister Katainen said in an
interview on YLE TV1.  “Both candidates represent openness, an international and
European Finland,” Katainen said. “It’s a positive message for
all of us. Finns have shown they want to bear responsibility.”  The president’s ability to impact internal politics is
limited and the legislative powers will be further curtailed by
a constitutional amendment that comes into force on March 1.  Taxpayer Disgruntlement  The rise of “The Finns” party in April reflected Finnish
taxpayers’ disgruntlement over handing over cash to governments
that overspent. Even so, two thirds of Finns support membership
in the euro, according to a Dec. 27 poll in  Helsingin Sanomat .  “The result won’t impact the government,” Urpilainen said
in an interview on YLE TV1. Her party’s candidate Paavo Lipponen
got 6.7 percent of votes. “My work to defend the Finnish
taxpayer’s interests continues.”  The winner will replace Halonen. The first woman head of
state in the Nordic nation has served two consecutive terms and
is barred by the constitution from seeking re-election. In 2006,
she won 51.8 percent of votes to beat Niinistoe’s 48.2 percent
to secure her second six-year term.  Niinistoe is married to his party’s spokeswoman Jenni
Haukio, 34, a published poet. He has two sons from a previous
marriage to Marja-Leena Alanko, who passed away in 1995.  “It’s quite clear Niinistoe will win in the second
round,” Sampo’s Kuoppamaeki said. “Many voters from the Center
Party and “The Finns” Party will line up behind Niinistoe.”  Haavisto helped mediate peace in Sudan and Darfur from 2005
until 2007 as a special representative appointed by the  United
Nations , following in the footsteps of 2008 Nobel Peace laureate
Martti Ahtisaari, also a former president of Finland. Haavisto
is one of the founding members of the Green League and lives in
a registered partnership with hairdresser Antonio Flores from
 Ecuador .  The “heavy burden” of Finland’s history of three wars
during the past century has taught the nation a “hard lesson”
and forged it into a peacemaker, Haavisto wrote on his website.
Finland must be more active in offering help where it’s needed,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  