-- GE Australia Sales May Grow 30% on LNG Plants, Coal Trains
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-01-22T23:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/ge-australia-sales-may-grow-30-on-lng-compressors-coal-trains.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  may boost
 Australia  sales more than 30 percent this year, as a commodities
boom spurs demand for trains, power equipment and gas
compressors.  “We see enormous opportunity here,” Steve Sargent, the
company’s country head, said in a Jan. 19 interview in Sydney.
Sales growth last year was 67 percent, he said, without giving a
dollar value.  GE expects to double its Australia business in the four
years ending 2014 because of demand for equipment to support
Chinese and Indian purchases of coal,  iron ore  and natural gas.
Across Australia, about A$232 billion ($240 billion) of mining
and energy projects are under construction or in advanced
planning stages, according to the  government .  “It’s more than just the local inhabitants that’s driving
this economy,” Sargent said. “It’s a billion-odd people moving
into an urbanized lifestyle” in emerging economies, he said.  GE’s global orders for industrial products including
locomotives rose to a record $200 billion, the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company said Jan. 20, when it released
earnings for the December quarter. Net income in the period fell
18 percent to $3.73 billion.  “The most important thing for the stock is for the
industrial business to drive growth,”  Mark Demos , who helps
oversee $18 billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in
 Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview Jan. 20.  GE  shares  closed at $19.15 in New York trading and have
gained 6.9 percent this year. That compares with a 4.6 percent
rise in the benchmark S&P 500 index.  Wind Power, Trains  In Australia, GE has already won orders to supply
compression systems, used to turn gas into liquid, at the
 Prelude ,  Gorgon , and  Wheatstone  projects off the northwest coast
of Australia. Siemens AG is providing similar equipment to the
 APLNG  project near the port city of Gladstone. Planned
investments in the LNG sector total about A$140 billion,
according to the government.  GE Australia is also targeting wind-power sales and selling
power units to remote mining sites, Sargent said. The company
also supplies 70 percent of the locomotives for mines in the
Pilbara iron-ore region and Queensland’s Bowen Basin coal
district.  Demand from the energy and mining sector allowed GE’s
industrial unit to surpass its finance arm,  GE Capital , as the
company’s biggest in Australia for the first time last year,
Sargent said. The company has also boosted its local workforce
of engineers and project managers fourfold since 2007.  GE Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey R. Immelt
highlighted opportunities in the country at a shareholders
meeting last month.  “If you want to go to a fast-growth economy where people
speak English and are nice, go to Australia,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  