-- Georgia Gulf Takeover Seen 50% Higher With U.S. Housing Rebound: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A n j e l i c a   T a n
-- 2012-01-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/georgia-gulf-takeover-seen-50-higher-with-u-s-housing-rebound-real-m-a.html
Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC) , North America’s
largest maker of vinyl construction products, is poised to
secure the biggest takeover price increase in the U.S. as signs
grow that the housing slump has bottomed.  Georgia Gulf’s stock is trading at $34.50, or 15 percent
more than this month’s $30-a-share offer from Westlake Chemical
Corp., the U.S. plastics maker controlled by the Chao family.
That’s the widest gap of any pending U.S. takeover, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Traders are betting Georgia Gulf is
the most likely company in America to get a higher offer after
Westlake’s $1.68 billion bid was lower relative to earnings than
any other diversified chemicals deal since 2000, the data show.  While Georgia Gulf narrowly averted bankruptcy during the
worst housing slump since the Great Depression, analysts now say
the Atlanta-based maker of vinyl siding and window frames will
post  record sales  as confidence among U.S. homebuilders rises to
a four-year high. After its proposal was rejected as
“financially inadequate,”  Westlake (WLK)  could boost its offer more
than 50 percent, according to Alembic Global Advisors.  Mexichem
SAB (MEXCHEM*)  and  Braskem SA (BRKM5)  may also bid,  Dahlman Rose  & Co. said.  “The next thing we’re going to see is a bump in the
offer,” Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special
situations trading at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “It feels like the economy is
getting better and it feels like housing is bottoming. This is
one of the more aggressive hostile bids we have seen in a while
and they’re not going away on just a ‘No.’”  ‘Disciplined Acquirer’  Michael Freitag , a spokesman for Georgia Gulf, declined to
comment on the company’s share price or whether it has been
approached by other potential suitors.  “Westlake is a disciplined acquirer and we won’t pay more
for Georgia Gulf than we think it’s worth,” said Robin Weinberg,
a spokeswoman for Westlake. “We’ve made a fair offer with a
significant premium. If Georgia Gulf’s board thinks there are
opportunities that would justify increasing our proposal, they
should sit down with us to explain what these are.”  After an initial takeover proposal in September failed to
lead to “meaningful dialogue” with Georgia Gulf, Westlake made
an unsolicited bid on Jan. 13 for $30 a share in cash,
representing a more than 50 percent premium to the stock’s
 average price  in the prior 20 days, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Including the assumption of Georgia Gulf’s $654 million in
net debt, the deal is worth $1.68 billion, the data show.  Three days later, Georgia Gulf said it rejected Houston-
based Westlake’s proposed offer and adopted a so-called
shareholder rights plan to thwart hostile takeovers.  Relative Value  “The Westlake proposal is an opportunistic attempt to
acquire the company’s uniquely positioned assets as we recover
from an unprecedented downturn,” Paul Carrico, Georgia Gulf’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The proposal values Georgia Gulf at 6.4 times its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That would be
less than any billion-dollar deal for a diversified chemicals
producer in more than a decade.  Georgia Gulf’s closing price of $34.50 a share last week
indicates traders are betting on a higher bid.  “Clearly, Georgia Gulf’s worth more” than Westlake’s
offer,  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based MKM Partners, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re sort of at a low point in the cycle and so Westlake is
trying to pick them off at a low price.”  U.S. Housing Revival  Georgia Gulf’s stock has plunged  95 percent  since its
acquisition in October 2006 of Royal Group Technologies Ltd., a
Canadian maker of building products, just as the housing market
started to collapse.  Home values in the U.S.  plummeted  through 2008 and
foreclosures reached records as the financial crisis deepened.
Georgia Gulf, which reported more than a half-billion dollars of
net losses during the slump, averted bankruptcy after getting
repeated extensions on interest payment deadlines and exchanging
almost all of its debt for equity in 2009.  Now, with the  jobless rate  decreasing from a 26-year high
and mortgage rates falling to historical lows, the housing
market may finally be showing signs of bottoming.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes climbed for a third
straight  month  in December, the National Association of Realtors
said. This month, the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo gauge of  U.S. homebuilder confidence 
exceeded economists’ forecasts, reaching the highest level since
June 2007 as all four U.S. regions improved.  Profit Estimates  That could spell a rebound for Georgia Gulf and make it a
more valuable target. Based on  analysts’ estimates , net income
jumped 54 percent last year and will rise 30 percent more this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Georgia Gulf hasn’t had
two straight years of profit growth in more than a decade.  Georgia Gulf is also benefiting from a decline in natural
gas prices to a 10-year low. The gas is used to make polyvinyl
chloride, or PVC. Georgia Gulf gets about 40 percent of sales
from so-called chlorovinyls, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Westlake would become the second-largest PVC producer in
 North America  with its acquisition of Georgia Gulf, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Hassan Ahmed , co-founder and head of research at Alembic
Global in New York, says that Westlake could afford to pay as
much as $47 a share, which would value Georgia Gulf at about 8.6
times Ebitda. That would still be less than the median of 9
times for comparable deals, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mexichem, Braskem  Georgia Gulf could attract offers from Mexichem, the
Tlalnepantla, Mexico-based chemicals producer that has acquired
more than 15 companies since 2007,  Braskem (BRKM5) ,  Latin America ’s
largest petrochemicals maker, or Cie. de Saint-Gobain,  Europe ’s
biggest building-materials supplier, according to Charles Neivert, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose.  Mexichem, which said last week that its  cash flow  will
increase this year with “possible acquisitions,” and Braskem
could profit from gaining more sales in the U.S., he said.  Saint-Gobain (SGO)  of Courbevoie,  France , could combine its PVC
unit in the U.S. with Georgia Gulf’s business, Neivert said.  “We are not aware of any outreach or activity regarding
Georgia Gulf,” Saint-Gobain spokeswoman  Dina Silver Pokedoff 
said in an e-mailed response to the question of whether the
company was considering a bid for Georgia Gulf.  Enrique Ortega, a spokesman for Mexichem, declined to
comment on whether it is interested in acquiring Georgia Gulf.
Courtney Flanagan, a spokeswoman for Sao Paulo-based Braskem,
didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  “The hint of a rebound has already begun to move through
the market,” Dahlman Rose’s Neivert said in a telephone
interview. “You had the homebuilders talking a little bit more
positively. So once you get that information in the marketplace,
it makes it very hard to go in with what is a fairly low bid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 