-- Gillard Left With One-Seat Parliamentary Majority as Wilkie Pulls Support
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-01-22T23:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/gillard-left-with-one-seat-majority-as-wilkie-pulls-support.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s parliamentary majority was reduced to one seat after an
independent lawmaker withdrew his support, saying she’d broken a
promise to tighten gambling laws.  Andrew Wilkie , who helped Gillard’s  Labor Party  form a
minority government in 2010, withdrew his backing after she
announced a trial of technology on Jan. 21 that will cap
gambling losses on slot machines. Wilkie said the trial fell
short of the government’s pledge to make such limits mandatory.  Gillard, who faces an election in 2013, is already facing 
criticism from opposition leader  Tony Abbott  for reneging on a 
pledge not to introduce a tax on  carbon emissions . The prime 
minister argued she had insufficient support to pass Wilkie’s 
legislation following a  campaign  against gambling limits by 
thousands of recreation clubs, which use revenue from slots to 
fund community activities and cheaper meals.  “She’s going to be seen to be deceitful again,” said John
Wanna, a professor of public administration at the Canberra-
based  Australian National University , who isn’t aligned with any
political party. “She’s going to position herself exactly where
Abbott’s attacking her, which is: ‘you can’t believe a word she
said.’”  According to Wilkie, 95,000 Australians are problem slot-
machine gamblers, losing A$5 billion ($5.2 billion) each year.
He wants laws to force gamblers to limit their maximum loss.
Passing such legislation could have hurt Gillard in Labor
strongholds such as western Sydney, where gambling on poker
machines, as they’re called in  Australia , is a popular pastime.  ‘Deal’s a Deal’  “She made a pact with the Australian people,” Wilkie said
after Gillard announced her plans for a trial. “A deal’s a
deal. When a politician makes a promise, that promise must be
honored.”  Gillard formed a government in 2010 after the nation’s
closest election in seven decades ended Labor’s majority. She
has had to rely on the support of Wilkie, two other independents
and a Greens Party lawmaker to secure the votes needed to pass
legislation in the 150-member  House of Representatives .  In November 2011, Gillard gained a two-seat majority in the
lower house after the then-speaker Harry Jenkins, a Labor
lawmaker, stepped down and was replaced in the traditionally
non-voting post by a member of the opposition Liberal-National
coalition.  Government Plan  With Wilkie gone, Gillard is left with an advantage that
would disappear with the death or by-election loss of any Labor
lawmaker. Labor is trailing Abbott’s coalition in opinion polls,
with a Newspoll survey published Dec. 5 putting the governing
party on 46 percent compared with 54 percent for the opposition.
The survey of 1,153 voters had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percentage points.  The government has released its own proposals to combat
problem gambling, which Gillard said was a political
“compromise.”  The plan includes a daily withdrawal limit on cash machines
in gaming venues, excluding casinos, by Feb. 1, 2013, and
electronic warnings to users of  slot machines .  Gillard will trial the technology for so-called pre-
commitment in the Australian Capital Territory. If successful,
slot machines across the nation would be ready to switch to the
new technology by the end of 2016.  “Government is about getting things done,” the prime
minister told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “The
circumstance here is that legislation for full mandatory pre-
commitment would fail in the parliament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  