-- Gingrich Upsets Romney to Win South Carolina Primary
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-22T03:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/gingrich-wins-republican-party-s-south-carolina-primary-ap-networks-say.html
Newt Gingrich  won today’s South
Carolina Republican presidential primary, derailing rival Mitt Romney’s bid to quickly seal the party’s nomination and throwing
the race into turmoil as it heads to  Florida .  Gingrich had 41 percent of the vote, followed by Romney
with 27 percent, with 95 percent of the precincts reporting,
according to the AP.  Former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania had 17 percent
and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas had 13 percent.  Gingrich’s win means the Republican race has now produced a
different first-place finisher in the first three nominating
contests. Florida holds its primary Jan. 31.  Gingrich, in a message on the Twitter social networking
site, said: “Thank you  South Carolina ! Help me deliver the
knockout punch in Florida.”  In a speech to South Carolina supporters tonight, he
thanked them for deciding “to be with us in changing
Washington.”  “The biggest thing I take from the campaign in South
Carolina is it is very humbling and very sobering to have so
many people who so deeply want their country to get back on
track,” he said in Columbia, the state capital.  Romney, in a speech before Gingrich’s, insisted he was
“going to win this nomination.”  ‘Interesting’ Race  In a nod to his loss, though, he told his audience in
Columbia: “This race is getting to be even more interesting.”  The results stymied his bid to go into Florida with a
chance to effectively end the nomination race with a victory
there.  Instead, he could face a prolonged fight that might further
divide Republicans already fractured over who to name to
challenge President  Barack Obama  in the general election.  Romney and a group that supports him have already aired
television ads attacking his rivals in Florida.  Since the 1980 election, every Republican candidate who won
the South Carolina primary has gone on to capture the party
nomination.  Nearly $9 million was spent on ads by the campaigns and
their allies in South Carolina, according to data from  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  Preliminary results from exit polls indicated that Gingrich
surged in the final days of the South Carolina campaign. About
50 percent of voters said they decided who to support over the
last few days, around the same proportion who said televised
debates played a major role in whom they chose, according to the
 Associated Press .  Defeating Obama  The data showed the Republican primary voters were most
focused on the economy and who could defeat Obama. More than
half cited the economy as the issue that mattered most in their
voting choice, according to the AP, while nearly half said they
were looking for someone who could beat Obama.  As tonight’s results became clear, Santorum’s campaign
announced plans to campaign in Florida, indicating that he
intends stay in the race for now.  Santorum, who spotlighted his strong opposition to abortion
and gay marriage, campaigned heavily in parts of South Carolina
with socially conservative voters concerned about those issues.
The exit polls suggested those voters were more concerned about
beating Obama than ideological purity.  Paul, who stresses his libertarian views of a limited
federal government, didn’t spend much time in South Carolina.
His support for withdrawing troops from bases across the world
was a tough message in the state, which has a strong military
presence and large number of veterans.  New Hampshire   Romney arrived in South Carolina with momentum after
winning the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary by 16 percentage
points. He was backed by the state’s Republican governor, Nikki Haley, viewed as a rising star in the party, who often
accompanied him during his campaign stops.  The final days of the South Carolina campaign, though,
brought a series of surprises that reshaped the race.  Romney, 64, was stripped of his initially announced eight-
vote victory in  Iowa ’s Jan. 3 caucuses earlier this week when
state party officials reported a recount that showed Santorum
ahead by 34 votes.  Dropouts  The Republican field also narrowed, as former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman Jr. dropped out on Jan. 16 and then  Texas  Governor
 Rick Perry  did the same on Jan. 19, endorsing Gingrich.  Gingrich, 68, gained support after strong performances in
two debates this week, even while facing allegations from an ex-
wife that he once asked her for an open marriage to continue his
affair with his current wife, Callista.  Gingrich dismissed the accusation as false and chastised
CNN moderator John King for starting off a debate on the night
of Jan. 19 with a question about the allegation.  “I am appalled that you would begin a presidential debate
on a topic like that,” Gingrich said in a comment directed at
King that drew applause from the debate’s audience in North
Charleston, South Carolina.  As he traveled the state, Gingrich took aim at Romney’s
tenure at Boston private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, saying
this week the firm engaged in “exploitative” business tactics.
He also hammered away at Romney for not promptly releasing his
tax returns.  Polls showed the race tightening as Gingrich pressed his
attacks and, in the final surveys, the former Georgia lawmaker
pulled ahead.  In the final hours before polls closed, Romney backers
argued that a quick end to the nominating contest would put
their party in a stronger position to challenge Obama next fall.  “I want to end it in South Carolina because I’m watching
the Democrats raise money by the day,” Haley said in Greenville
this morning. “It is good for all Republicans and conservatives
to end this in South Carolina.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  