-- Gingrich’s Comeback Based on Plan Hatched During Airport Ride
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-22T17:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/gingrich-s-comeback-based-on-plan-hatched-during-airport-ride.html
Newt Gingrich ’s  South Carolina 
comeback began in mid-October when he was sitting in a rented
sport-utility vehicle racing toward the Charleston airport.  He told the young aide traveling with him that he had
concluded he could win the state’s primary and possibly stall
Mitt Romney’s march to the Republican presidential nomination.  “I think I can win this,” the former U.S. House speaker
said, turning to the 26-year-old staff member -- a Connecticut
native who had spent little time in  the state . “How would you
feel about moving down here and running the campaign?” he said,
according to Adam Waldeck, the aide who was with him that day.  Within 10 days, Waldeck, a grassroots organizer with ties
to the anti-tax Tea Party, was sleeping on the floor of his
sister’s college dorm in Charleston, devising plans to close
what polls then showed was a deficit of as much as 18 points
with Romney.  Gingrich’s decision paid off last night with a win over
Romney in the South’s first primary, a result that puts another
dent in the former Massachusetts governor’s claim to be the
candidate best-positioned to beat President  Barack Obama .  “We don’t have the kind of money that at least one of the
candidates had, but we do have ideas, and we do have people,”
Gingrich told supporters packed into a hotel ballroom last night
in Columbia. “We proved here in South Carolina that people-
power with the right ideas beats big money.”  Tough Road Ahead  Gingrich’s victory was put together on the fly by a
campaign that had little in the way of conventional organization
in the state, and it confirmed his reputation for rebounding
from seemingly insurmountable falls. Most Republicans thought
Gingrich’s political career was over in 1998 when he announced
his retirement from the House and the speakership amid pressure
from his own caucus.  He still faces a complicated road to capturing his party’s
nomination. The next primary is Jan. 31 in  Florida , the fourth-
most-populous state, where it costs about $1 million a week to
compete in 11 media markets.  “My job in Florida is to convince people that I am the one
candidate who can clearly defeat Obama in a series of debates
and the one candidate who has big enough solutions that they
would really get America back on track,” Gingrich said today on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “One of the reasons
people in South Carolina voted for me was a belief that I could
debate Obama head-to-head, that I could convey conservative
values.”  Beyond Florida  Beyond Florida, Gingrich, 68, could face an even steeper
climb; his name isn’t even on the ballot for  Virginia ’s March 6
primary because he failed to get the 10,000 signatures on
petitions to qualify.  Still, his performance in South Carolina insures Gingrich
will stay in the race. It may also boost his fundraising enough
to improve his chances in Florida and beyond.  Gingrich carried the Palmetto State thanks to his hastily
built campaign operation and breaks in the final week that
aligned in his favor. Two televised debates on Jan. 16 and Jan.
19 showcased him rebuking the news media and Obama while also
pressing Romney to release his tax returns. Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s surprise exit from the contest on Jan. 19 brought
Gingrich a prominent endorsement. On the same day, news broke
that former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , not Romney, had
won the Jan. 3  Iowa  caucuses.  Former Wife  The news wasn’t all good. On Jan. 19, his second ex-wife,
Marianne Gingrich, gave a television  interview  reminding voters
of his sexual affairs -- charges his campaign calculated could
be devastating in a state where such issues as opposition to gay
marriage and abortion rights motivate about 60 percent of the
primary voters. In response, Gingrich made ever-bolder claims to
be the only alternative to Romney, 64.  “It’s been like a tsunami,” Waldeck said in an interview,
amid a crush of voters and news cameras jostling to see Gingrich
as he made his final rounds at Tommy’s Country Ham House in
Greenville hours before the outcome of the contest was known.
Gingrich told Waldeck he had a budget of $700,000 to work with
and gave him one instruction, Waldeck said: “Win.”  Political Advertising  Through Jan. 19, Gingrich had spent $335,600 on network
advertising in South Carolina, compared with $1.1 million by
Romney, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a
company that tracks political advertising.  Waldeck, who previously worked for Gingrich’s now-disbanded
political action committee, American Solutions for Winning the
Future, began constructing the campaign apparatus last fall by
calling  Tea Party  movement leaders he’d worked with before on
such issues as curbing  government spending . Many signed up to
serve as county chairs.  Vince Haley, a long-time aide and Gingrich’s campaign
policy director, also moved to the state, setting up shop in
Summerville, close to the coast, which has a high concentration
of veterans and military  service members . He and Waldeck
traveled the state recruiting supporters and promoting
Gingrich’s proposals.  Fractured Party  Still, Republicans in the state who didn’t back Romney were
fractured, splitting their loyalties among Gingrich, Santorum,
Texas Congressman  Ron Paul , Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann and Perry, who were all still in the race in October.
Polls showed Romney outperforming Gingrich in the state after
the former Georgia congressman’s losses in Iowa and in  New
Hampshire  on Jan. 10.  On Jan. 11, as Gingrich began his final campaign sprint in
the state, Waldeck sent an e-mail to supporters entitled “South
Carolina or bust,” calling the primary there “make or break
for this campaign,” and urging them to donate toward the goal
of raising $1 million in the next 10 days.  The night before, after his disappointing New Hampshire
finish, Gingrich had flown to South Carolina to begin what he
acknowledged would be his last stand.  A turning point came after the Jan. 16 debate, where
Gingrich attacked Romney for refusing to release his tax returns
and lectured Fox TV’s Juan Williams for suggesting his past
comments on  food stamps  and the lack of a work ethic in poor
neighborhoods had been offensive to black people.  Gingrich Surge  The next day, Waldeck said, “things just took off and went
crazy -- our offices were swamped with volunteers, we’ve had
materials flying off the shelves, legislators started calling to
endorse us.”  At his office at  Clemson University  in Clemson, J. David Woodard, a Republican strategist and polling expert, was seeing
something similar develop in his surveys. His data were showing
Gingrich with a 6-point lead over Romney, a dramatic turnabout
from what Woodard had found earlier in the week.  “We caught the surge,” Woodard said.  Preliminary exit polls indicated that Gingrich closed the
deal with South Carolina voters in the final days of the race,
in part through his debate performances. About 50 percent said
they’d decided who would get their vote over the last few days,
about the same proportion that said the debates played a major
role in whom they chose, according to the  Associated Press .  ‘Open Marriage’  A highlight of his debate appearances came on Jan. 19 when
Gingrich was asked about his ex-wife’s allegation that he had
sought an “open marriage” with her so he could continue his
affair with his now-wife, Callista.  Gingrich turned the issue to his advantage by criticizing
CNN moderator John King for raising the issue as the first
debate question. The audience responded with a standing ovation.  “That helped him,” Woodard said. “My hunch was that’s
not good stuff, all that Marianne stuff and everything that goes
with it -- not in South Carolina. But it takes two or three days
for scandals and personal stuff to sink in to the electorate.
All people saw was that Newt will hit back, and that’s what they
want.”  -- With assistance from Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington . Editors:
Jeanne Cummings, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  