-- Gingrich Primary Triumph Raises Stakes for Florida
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-22T15:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/gingrich-triumph-in-south-carolina-primary-raises-stakes-for-florida-vote.html
Newt Gingrich ’s victory in  South
Carolina ’s Republican presidential primary derails rival Mitt Romney’s plans for quickly sealing the party’s nomination,
raising the stakes in the next contest in Florida.  Gingrich won 40 percent of the vote in South Carolina,
following a surge in the days leading up to a primary where the
state’s governor was backing Romney.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, ran second with 28
percent, with 99 percent of the vote counted. Former Senator
 Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania had 17 percent, followed by U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas with 13 percent.  Yesterday’s results deal a setback to Romney’s efforts to
ride momentum into Florida and effectively clinch the nomination
with a win in that state’s Jan. 31 primary. Instead, Republicans
face the possibility of a prolonged fight further dividing a
party already fractured over who to run against President  Barack Obama  in November.  With Gingrich’s South Carolina triumph, the Republican race
has now produced a different first-place finisher in the first
three nominating contests.  Speaking on Sunday news programs this morning, Gingrich
cast himself as best-suited to face Obama in debates next fall.  “My job in Florida is to convince people that I am the one
candidate who can clearly defeat Obama in a series of debates,”
Gingrich said in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  In his victory speech last night, Gingrich evoked former
President  Ronald Reagan , casting his campaign as an inclusive
effort to re-ignite American optimism.  ‘American Campaign’  “We want to run not a Republican campaign, we want to run
an American campaign, because we are optimists about the
future,” said Gingrich, speaking to supporters in Columbia.  Following the loss, Romney said today he would release his
2010 tax returns and 2011 estimates on Jan. 24.  In an interview on “Fox News Sunday,” Romney cited the time
spent talking about his returns as a reason for his defeat in
South Carolina. After months of refusals, Romney said last week
that he would release returns, though not until April.  Tax Return Distraction  “I think we just made a mistake in holding off as long as
we did,” Romney said. “It just was a distraction.”  Romney, speaking to supporters in Columbia after the South
Carolina race, congratulated Gingrich for his victory, and
suggested the former U.S. House speaker couldn’t beat Obama.  “Our party can’t be led to victory by someone who also has
never run a business and never run a state,” Romney said.  While insisting that he is “going to win this
nomination,” he also said: “This race is getting to be even
more interesting.”  Despite losses in two of the first three contests, Romney
enters Florida with significant advantages. His campaign and its
allies have been airing television ads in the state attacking
rivals for nearly a month.  With early voting already under way, his campaign has
already been aggressive courting supporters and encouraging them
to cast ballots before the primary.  Florida’s Challenge  The contest presents the biggest test and potential payoff
in the race so far. The diverse state, with roughly double the
combined populations of  Iowa , New Hampshire and South Carolina,
demands a significant financial and organizational investment.
The winner will be awarded all of the state’s 50 delegates.  Both Romney and Gingrich have courted the endorsement of
former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, who left office in 2007 rated
as a “great” or “good” governor by 57 percent of those
surveyed by the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute.  Bush pledged to “stay neutral” in the race, in an
interview yesterday. “I intend to help whoever wins the
nomination,” he said.  Lagging in fundraising and staff, Gingrich starts in
Florida with a disadvantage. “I need your help in reaching out
to people in Florida,” Gingrich told his supporters last night.  Referring to Romney, he said, “We don’t have the kind of
money at least one of the candidates does, but we do have ideas
and we do have people.”  Santorum’s Intention  Santorum’s campaign could also hamper Gingrich’s efforts,
as both compete for voters seeking an alternative to Romney. As
last night’s results became clear, Santorum announced plans to
campaign in  Florida , saying he intends stay in the race.  “We will go to Florida and then we’re going to Arizona and
 Colorado ,” Santorum told supporters. “It’s a wide open race.”  As Santorum spoke at the Citadel in Charleston, Gingrich
supporters several hundred miles away chanted “Drop out now!”  Since 1980, every Republican candidate who won the South
Carolina primary has gone on to capture the party nomination.  Nearly $9 million was spent on ads by the campaigns and
their allies in South Carolina, according to data from  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  Preliminary results from exit polls in the state indicated
that Gingrich surged in the final days of the campaign. About 50
percent of the voters said they decided who to support over the
last few days, around the same proportion who said televised
debates played a major role in whom they chose.  Focus on Economy  The data showed Republican primary voters were most focused
on the economy and who could defeat Obama. More than half cited
the economy as the issue that mattered most in their voting
choice, according to the  Associated Press , while nearly half
said they were looking for someone who could beat Obama.  Santorum, who spotlighted his opposition to abortion and
gay marriage, campaigned heavily in parts of South Carolina with
voters concerned about those issues. Yet the exit polls
suggested those voters were more concerned about beating Obama
than ideological purity.  Paul, who stresses his libertarian views of a limited
federal government, didn’t spend much time in South Carolina.
His support for withdrawing troops from bases across the world
was a tough sell in the state, which has a strong military
presences and large number of veterans.  “Don’t go to war unless the war is declared,” he told
supporters at a sports bar in Columbia. “Bring the troops home
and have them spend their money here, not -- not overseas.”  New Hampshire   Romney arrived in South Carolina with momentum after
winning the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary by 16 percentage
points. He was backed by the state’s Republican governor, Nikki Haley, viewed as a rising star in the party, who often
accompanied him during his campaign stops.  The final days of the South Carolina campaign, though,
brought a series of surprises that reshaped the race.  Romney, 64, was stripped of his initially announced eight-
vote victory in Iowa’s Jan. 3 caucuses when state party
officials last week reported a recount that showed Santorum
ahead by 34 votes.  The Republican field also narrowed, as former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman Jr. dropped out on Jan. 16 and then  Texas  Governor
 Rick Perry  did the same on Jan. 19, endorsing Gingrich.  Gingrich, 68, gained support on the strength of strong
performances in two debates last week, even while facing
allegations from an ex-wife that he once asked her for an open
marriage to continue his affair with his current wife, Callista.  Media Criticized  Gingrich dismissed the accusation as false and chastised
CNN moderator John King for starting off a debate on the night
of Jan. 19 with a question about the allegation.  Polls showed the race tightening as Gingrich pressed his
attacks and, in the final surveys, the former Georgia lawmaker
pulled ahead. In the final hours, Romney backers argued that a
quick end to the nominating contest would put their party in a
stronger position to challenge Obama next fall.  “I want to end it in South Carolina because I’m watching
the Democrats raise money by the day,” Haley said yesterday in
Greenville. “It is good for all Republicans and conservatives
to end this in South Carolina.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  