-- Greece’s Creditors Have Made ‘Maximum’ Debt-Swap Offer, IIF’s Dallara Says
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-01-22T22:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/greece-s-creditors-have-made-maximum-debt-swap-offer-iif-s-dallara-says.html
Bondholders negotiating a debt swap
with Greece have made their “maximum” offer, leaving it to the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  to decide whether
to accept the deal, said  Charles Dallara , who’s representing
private creditors in the talks.  Dallara, managing director of the Washington-based
Institute of International Finance, said he’s hopeful the EU and
IMF will agree to terms for private investor involvement in a
rescue of Greece to avert a default and collapse of the economy.
He declined to elaborate on the terms discussed in talks that
resumed Jan. 18 and remained inconclusive as EU finance
ministers prepared to meet in Brussels today.  “The elements now are in place for an historical voluntary
PSI deal,” Dallara said in comments on Athens-based Antenna TV,
televised yesterday. “It is a question now, really, of the
broader reaction of the European official sector and, of course,
of the IMF to this proposal.”  European officials and the nation’s private bondholders
agreed in October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face
value of more than 200 billion euros ($258 billion) of Greek
debt by voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for new
securities, with a goal of reducing  Greece ’s borrowings to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020. The accord is key to
a second financing package for the cash-strapped country, which
faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  ‘Worsening’ Situation  The two sides have struggled to agree on the coupon and
maturity of the new bonds, which would determine losses for
investors. While Greece and the IIF said on Jan. 21 they had
made progress in talks in Athens on the debt swap, the failure
to reach a deal before the meeting of EU finance ministers may
disappoint investors.  “The longer the Greek debt talks take, the more negative
it is,” said Otto Dichtl, a London-based credit analyst for
financial companies at Knight Capital Europe Ltd. “The longer
it takes, the more demands the official sector makes because the
situation keeps worsening in Greece.”  After two years of wage cuts and tax increases, the  Greek
economy  was expected to shrink about 6 percent last year,
according to the latest IMF estimates, compared with an forecast
of 3.8 percent made in June.  Dallara wouldn’t comment in the TV interview on reports the
creditors proposed an average interest rate of about 4 percent
on the new bonds, saying he was “confident” the offer
delivered to Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  in  Athens  on Jan. 20
was “the maximum offer consistent with a voluntary PSI deal.”  ‘At Crossroads’  The parties were nearing an agreement under which old bonds
would be swapped for new securities with coupons averaging
between 4 percent and 4.5 percent, said a person with knowledge
of the discussions three days ago. The New York Times, citing
officials involved in the negotiations, reported yesterday that
the IMF and Germany are pushing for a coupon in the low 3
percent range.  “We are at a crossroads,” Dallara said. “Either we
choose a voluntary debt restructuring; the alternative is to
choose the path of default.”  Dallara and  Jean Lemierre , a special adviser to the
chairman of  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and co-chair of the creditors’
steering committee negotiating with Greece, left Athens on Jan.
21, though they remained available for telephone discussions
with the Greek government’s leadership, IIF spokesman  Frank Vogl 
said.  Full Participation  Questions remain over how the two sides can craft a
voluntary deal that will provide the debt relief the Greek
government requires while attracting enough participation from
bondholders.  The government has said it might pass legislation that
would compel full participation from private creditors, a
decision that would undercut the voluntary nature of any swap.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said on Jan. 19
that for the final deal to lead to a sustainable level of debt
for the country there must be a 100 percent participation rate.  Hedge funds  holding Greek bonds may resist the deal,
seeking greater profit by getting paid in full, either by the
Greek government or by triggering payouts from insurance
contracts known as credit-default swaps. Vega Asset Management
LLC resigned from the committee of creditors negotiating the
swap last month because the Madrid-based hedge fund refused to
accept a net present value loss exceeding 50 percent, according
to a Dec. 7 e-mail sent to other panel members, which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The creditors’ steering committee negotiating the debt swap
includes representatives from banks and insurers with the
largest holdings of Greek  government bonds , including  National
Bank of Greece SA , BNP Paribas,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA. (CS)   Financial firms on the IIF’s private-creditor investor
committee, a larger group of 32  members  that includes the
smaller steering committee, hold more than 47 billion euros in
Greek sovereign debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from company reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  