-- Mideast Peace Talks Deadline May Be Extended
-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-01-22T22:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/mideast-peace-talks-deadline-may-be-extended.html
Azzam al Ahmed, a member of the
 Palestine  Liberation Organization’s Central Committee, said the
so-called Quartet has proposed extending the deadline set for
the resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has agreed to
the extension on certain conditions, al Ahmed said on Voice of
Palestine radio without elaborating.  Al Ahmed didn’t say how long an extension the Quartet is
seeking for the exploratory talks currently being held in  Jordan 
between Israeli and Palestinian officials aimed at getting peace
negotiations back on track. The current deadline is Jan. 26.  The Quartet, that includes the U.S., the  United Nations ,
the European Union and  Russia , is accelerating efforts to get
the sides to return to negotiations that broke down in September
2010 after Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  refused to
renew a 10-month freeze on settlement-building and Abbas ruled
out negotiations while West Bank construction continues.  Al Ahmed’s comments about the Quartet proposal to extend
the talks between Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat and his
Israeli counterpart, Yitzhak Molcho, followed an Israel Radio
report that a meeting between the two on Jan. 21 made no
progress.  Israeli press officials weren’t immediately available to
respond to al Ahmed’s comments about the Quartet proposal.  In a proposal criticized by Erakat, Netanyahu yesterday
suggested building homes for Jewish settlers on state-owned land
in the West Bank to replace houses in the adjacent outpost of
Migron, which a court has declared illegal.  Netanyahu’s government said 10 months ago that all outposts
such as Migron that were built illegally on private Palestinian
land would be removed by the end of 2011. Army efforts to
evacuate the outposts have led to violent conflicts with
settlers. Migron is home to about 50 families and isn’t among
the approximately 100 settlements in the  West Bank  that have
been authorized by the Israeli government.  “The settlements are illegal but Netanyahu is using this
to try to legalize them at a time when he is being criticized by
the whole world,” Erakat said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net  