-- Iran Said to Seek Yen Oil Payments From India Amid Sanctions
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-01-23T11:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/iran-said-to-seek-yen-oil-payment-from-india-amid-tighter-global-sanctions.html
Iran  has asked  India  to pay for oil
partly in yen as the two nations seek an agreement on how to
maintain trade amid tightening global sanctions, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  At talks in Tehran last week, India proposed to pay its
second-biggest oil supplier in rupees through a bank account in
the South Asian nation, said the people, declining to be
identified because the information is confidential. Iranian
officials sought partial payment in yen because they’re
concerned that they may not get sufficient value from the rupee,
which isn’t fully convertible, according to the people.  The nations have struggled to preserve $9.5 billion in
annual crude trade after the  Reserve Bank  of India dismantled a
mechanism used to settle payments in euros and dollars in
December 2010. Transactions are currently routed through  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , based in Ankara, which has told Indian refiners
it may no longer be able to act as an intermediary, four people
with knowledge of the matter said Jan. 10.  European Union foreign ministers agreed to ban oil imports
from Iran starting July 1 as part of measures to ratchet up the
pressure on the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program, Dutch
Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal said in Brussels today.  Iran is already under four rounds of UN Security Council
sanctions over its nuclear program. The U.S. and its allies say
they suspect the program is a cover for developing atomic
weapons, a charge Iran has repeatedly denied, maintaining it is
for civilian purposes.  Refiner Shares  Shares of Indian buyers of Iranian oil rose in Mumbai
trading.  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. , Iran’s
biggest Indian customer, rose 2.1 percent, while  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) 
climbed 2.9 percent and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. gained 0.7
percent.  “This issue has been a concern for investors because it
can distort the market for oil and affect these companies if
they have to get oil from elsewhere,” Jagdish Meghnani, an
energy analyst at Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. in
Mumbai, said by telephone today. “Any sign of a resolution
between the countries will help the shares.”  The Indian rupee has fallen 8.9 percent in the past 12
months, the most among major Asian currencies, while Japan’s yen
has strengthened 7.4 percent in the period, making it the best-
performing currency in the region, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Exemption Request  India is exploring how it could pay Iran in yen, although a
plan hasn’t been decided, the people said.  Japan asked the U.S. administration for an exemption from a
law that would punish banks doing business with Iran and won a
U.S. pledge to implement the measure “cautiously,” Foreign
Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said Jan. 20.  The Persian Gulf nation is studying the option of opening
an account in an Indian bank, which can be used by refiners to
deposit payments in rupees and fund its own imports from the
South Asian country, they said.  India’s central bank needs to give its approval for Iran to
open a local account, the people said. The  Reserve Bank of India 
is considering options to solve the payments issue over Iranian
oil, Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said on Jan. 20.  The Gulf nation is concerned that India’s entire  crude oil 
bill can’t be paid through exports to Iran, the people said.
Iran’s imports from India are worth about $2.5 billion a year,
while its annual oil sales to the South Asian nation are valued
at about $9.5 billion, the people said.  Currency Swap  Iran also wants India to invest in non-strategic
infrastructure projects in return for crude supplies, the people
said.  Last month,  Japan  agreed to make $15 billion available to
India in a currency swap arrangement as  Europe ’s deepening debt
crisis threatened to curtail developing  Asia ’s access to dollar
funding. Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  renewed a
bilateral swap agreement with Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in  New Delhi  on Dec. 28. The two nations signed a $3
billion accord in June 2008 that had expired.  The rupee gained 0.5 percent to 50.0825 a dollar at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yen gained 0.1 percent to 76.91.  Singh discussed alternative financial conduits with Russian
officials during his visit to Moscow in December. India, which
got 11 percent of its crude imports from Iran last year, is
exploring the option of making payments for Iranian crude
through  Russia ’s  Gazprombank OJSC (GZPR) , though no deal has been
reached, three people with knowledge of the talks said Jan. 9.  Rising Tension  Tensions with Iran have risen, with Vice President Reza
Rahimi warning on Dec. 27 that the nation, the second-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
after  Saudi Arabia , may close the Strait of Hormuz if western
governments block its crude oil sales.  The EU was looking at ways to help limit damage from its
oil ban to countries such as  Greece  that are dependent on crude
imports from Iran, and that possible “compensation” would have
to be decided before the full ban comes into force, according to
Rosenthal.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 signed into law
measures that deny access to the U.S. financial system to any
foreign bank that conducts business with the central bank of
Iran. The law includes language that allows the president to
waive the sanctions if he determines they would threaten
national security.  India opposes sanctions on Iran from anyone other than the
 United Nations , Ranjan Mathai, India’s foreign secretary, said
Jan. 17. India continues to buy Iranian oil, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  