-- Iran Military Conflict Would Harm U.A.E. Real Estate Market, JLL Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-01-22T11:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/iran-military-conflict-would-harm-u-a-e-real-estate-market-jll-says.html
A military conflict between Iran and
Western powers would be detrimental to property prices in the
 United Arab Emirates  as the country would lose its safe haven
status, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  A confrontation will affect “confidence in the U.A.E. and
the impact on real-estate prices would be certainly negative,”
said Fadi Moussalli, regional director for  Middle East  and North
Africa at Jones Lang LaSalle.  Tensions have risen in recent weeks with Iranian Vice
President Reza Rahimi warning on Dec. 27 that his country, the
second-biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , may close the  Strait of
Hormuz  if Western nations block its crude oil sales.  Dubai, less than a hundred miles from the Iranian shores,
witnessed the region’s worst property crash in the aftermath of
the global credit crisis in 2008. Dubai home prices dropped more
than 65 percent from their mid-2008 peak and the U.A.E.’s
property prices may drop further as additional properties are
completed. In Dubai, about 25,000 homes should reach completion
this year followed by a similar number in 2013, Arqaam Capital
analyst Mohammad Kamal estimated last month.  Last year, the U.A.E.’s property sector benefited from
increased interest from Syrian, Iraqi and Egyptian investors who
sought to invest in Dubai and  Abu Dhabi  as revolutions mired
their economies, Alan Robertson, chief executive officer at
Jones Lang LaSalle, told reporters.  No Safe Haven  “There has been confidence that Dubai and Abu Dhabi have
stable government and are good places to park investment capital
for a period,” Robertson said. “Military conflict would lose
the country its safe-haven status.”  A military conflict may not push prices down by the same
amount witnessed in the aftermath of global credit crisis
because prices had already been lowered by 60 percent, said
Moussalli. He declined to comment on the expected price declines
in the event of crisis.  The impact on prices may be delayed and would take time as
people put off property purchases, said Robertson. “The first
noticeable impact would be a drop in activity levels as people
lose confidence” he said. “It would be only after a certain
period of inactivity that prices would start to adjust.”  Other cities in the region competing with Dubai for
investors’ money such as Doha would not likely benefit in the
case of a crisis with  Iran , Moussalli said.  “This would be a regional crisis and it won’t be just the
U.A.E. that would lose its safe haven status,” he added. “It
would be the whole region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  