-- Iran Says Negotiations Can Resolve Standoff
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-22T12:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/iran-says-negotiations-not-sanctions-key-to-resolving-nuclear-standoff.html
Iran ’s Foreign Ministry spokesman
said only negotiations and not sanctions can resolve the
standoff over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program.  “Consensus can only be reached through serious
negotiations based on a cooperative approach and not via the
wrong path of sanctions,” Ramin Mehmanparast said yesterday
according to the official  Islamic Republic News Agency .  The comments come as European Union foreign ministers are
set to meet in Brussels tomorrow to consider an oil embargo and
additional financial sanctions on the country. The U.S. and the
European Union are urging Iran to return to nuclear talks,
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said Jan. 20. If
Iran’s leaders agree to a “serious dialogue,” they must be
prepared to discuss steps to give up “options for nuclear
weapons,” he said.  Iran is already under four rounds of UN Security Council
sanctions. The U.S. and its allies say they suspect that  Iran’s
nuclear program  is a cover for developing atomic weapons, a
charge the Persian Gulf nation has repeatedly denied,
maintaining the program is for civilian purposes. Mehmanparast
told IRNA that claims that Iran is seeking to build nuclear
weapons are “baseless.”  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that sanctions against Iran’s oil industry may prompt the
Islamic Republic to close the  Strait of Hormuz , a chokepoint for
about a fifth of globally traded oil.  Aircraft Carrier  On Jan. 3, Ataollah Salehi, the head of Iran’s army, warned
the U.S. against sending an aircraft carrier back to the Persian
Gulf after the USS John C. Stennis left the area.  A Revolutionary Guard Corps commander said yesterday that
the deployment of U.S. warships in the  Persian Gulf  was a
routine occurrence.  Any U.S. decision to send a warship through the Strait of
Hormuz was part of the U.S.’s continual presence, said Hossein
Salami, a Revolutionary Guard deputy commander,  Al Arabiya 
reported on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  