-- Iraq Oil Minister in Tehran Says OPEC Must Avoid Politics
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-22T09:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/iraq-oil-minister-in-tehran-says-opec-must-avoid-politics.html
Iraq’s Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al- Luaibi told  Iran  that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries must avoid political considerations as crude is a
strategic commodity affecting the world, the  Islamic Republic
News Agency  reported.  Iran’s enemies are seeking to pass sanctions, al-Luaibi
said in a meeting with Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi yesterday, according to IRNA.  “Our efforts are for OPEC not to enter political matters,
as oil is a vital and strategic matter for the world and we will
act in line with the interests of oil-exporting nations,” al-
Luaibi said.  Speaking in his capacity as current head of OPEC, al-Luaibi
said in a Jan. 18 press conference in  Baghdad  that he will visit
Iran to seek “clear assurances” on Persian Gulf crude
shipments and Iranian production.  Al-Luaibi’s initiative came after Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that Iran may close the  Strait of Hormuz , a chokepoint for about
a fifth of globally traded oil, if the U.S. and its allies
impose a ban on Iranian oil exports to halt the nation’s nuclear
work. European Union foreign ministers meet in Brussels tomorrow
to consider imposing the oil ban and additional financial
sanctions against Iran, which is under four rounds of United
Nations sanctions.  The IRNA report published earlier today did not specify
whether protection of the waterway and exports of crude oil in
the region had been discussed between the two officials.  “The enemies of the Iranian nation for years forced the
UN’s Security Council to impose sanctions against Iran and are
today starting a new game,” Rahimi was quoted as saying by
IRNA. “It is clear that Iran will resist in the face of this
oppression.”  An average of 14 crude tankers sail each day through the
strait between Iran and Oman, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. Iran is the second-largest OPEC oil
producer after  Saudi Arabia , pumping 3.575 million barrels a day
in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  