-- Italian Strike Paralyzes Transport as Monti Presents His Growth Plan to EU
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-23T13:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/italy-braces-for-strikes-as-monti-presents-growth-plan-to-europe.html
Striking truckers and cab drivers
disrupted traffic and commerce across Italy in protests against
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s policies as he presents a plan to
spur competition and growth to European Union allies today.  Truck drivers parked their vehicles across highways
throughout the country in a wildcat strike that is backing up
traffic for miles. Cab drivers are also striking, choking
traffic in cities from Milan to Rome and leaving thousands of
travelers stranded at airports and train stations. Pharmacists
and gas-station operators threaten to protest in the next week.  “The resistance to these reforms at a time when the
economy is contracting is likely to be fierce,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London .
“Opposition to structural reform in Italy is legendary. Mr.
Monti knows these measures will be fiercely resisted, but is
under enormous pressure to present an agenda for growth.”  Monti has pledged policies to boost growth, which has
lagged behind the euro-area average for more than a decade. The
premier has said spurring the economy will help  Italy  tame its
1.9 trillion-euro ($2.5 trillion) debt and withstand the fallout
from the region’s sovereign crisis that led  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland to seek bailouts.  Weeklong Protest  Truck drivers are protesting higher gasoline, insurance and
toll prices, while cab drivers are demonstrating against
measures in Monti’s new plan to increase the number of licenses
and permit drivers to transfer from one city to another. The
truckers have threatened to continue the protests until Jan. 27.  “We hope that if the government intervenes, we can end the
protest sooner,” said Maurizio Longo, secretary general of
Fiap, an association of truckers’ unions.  The strikes are disrupting delivery of such goods as fuel
and food, leaving some service stations in parts of the country
short of gasoline.  “The blocking of highways won’t be tolerated,” Interior
Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri told journalists at a conference
in  Rome  today, news agency Ansa said. “As much as we can, we
will use tolerance and dialogue, but we have to consider the
rights of citizens.”  EU Allies  Monti is presenting the growth package to euro-region
finance ministers in Brussels today. The measures attempt to
reduce barriers and boost competition in the Italian economy.  “Competition and liberalization doesn’t mean we are
introducing the law of the jungle to help the economy, but in
our vision, eliminate barrier above all for the young,” Monti
said at a press conference Jan. 20.  The government will license an additional 5,000 pharmacies,
500 more notaries and permit the opening of more gas stations.
Lawyers and other professionals won’t be able to set minimum or
maximum fees and will have to offer estimates for their
services.  The package also includes proposals to reduce natural-gas
prices, lower car insurance costs, speed the selloff of local
services, make it easier to get public-works projects off the
ground and reduce bank account fees and commissions.  Productivity Gains  Italy’s Antitrust Authority has said that a gradual opening
of the professions may add an estimated 1.5 percent a year over
the next decade to the $2.3 trillion economy. By combining such
measures with policies to eliminate barriers to business and
commerce, Italy could boost productivity 14.1 percent over 10
years, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development has said.  Italy may be in its fourth  recession  since 2001, after the
country’s growth averaged 0.2 percent annually in the decade to
2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area. The credit
rating of Italy, the region’s third-biggest economy, was cut two
levels on Jan. 13 by  Standard & Poor’s  to BBB+, two steps above
junk status, after Italian bond yields soared past the 7 percent
level that led to rescues for Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond has fallen by
about a percentage point in the past two weeks to 6.11 percent
at 2:26 p.m. Rome time, as Monti pushed ahead with his economic
overhaul and as demand for bonds was boosted by the  European
Central Bank ’s lending 489 billion euros to the region’s banks
last month for three years.  Austerity Measures  Monti, who heads an unelected government with a term limit
of just more than a year, is racing to overhaul the economy and
slash  Europe ’s second-biggest debt. The government last month
passed 20 billion-euros of austerity measures to eliminate the
 budget deficit  and today began talks with unions and employers
on revamping the country’s rigid labor laws. The government has
also pledged a package in the coming weeks to cut red tape.  Today’s labor talks “addressed flexibility both at the
start of employment and at the end,”  Emma Marcegaglia , head of
employers’ lobby Confindustria, said at a news briefing after
the meeting in Rome.  The growth plan was passed by the Cabinet by decree and
must be voted on by parliament within 60 days to remain in
effect. So far, the biggest political parties have backed
Monti’s efforts, though resistance to his policies may build as
elections draw closer. Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ,
whose resignation in November led to Monti’s appointment, said
on Jan. 20 that he was prepared to return to power.  “Monti’s medicine hasn’t had any result,” Berlusconi told
reporters in Milan. “We expect to be called back to govern
because we were democratically elected.”  To contact the reporters on this
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  