-- Jeb Bush Cautions Republicans on ’Tone’ Without Endorsing Anyone
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-01-22T15:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/jeb-bush-cautions-republicans-on-tone-without-endorsing-any-candidate.html
Jeb Bush , the popular former  Florida 
governor, said he will “stay neutral” in the state’s
Republican presidential primary while warning his party’s
candidates to leave the “circular firing squad” of their
debates behind and start appealing to a broader audience.  Bush’s remarks, in an exclusive interview, establish a
challenge for his party’s candidates as the contest advances to
Florida, where the Jan. 31 primary will take the race into its
biggest and most diverse arena yet. The winner will be awarded
all of the state’s 50 presidential convention delegates.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  have courted Bush’s endorsement in recent
days, he says. In December, his father, former President  George
H. W. Bush , told the Houston Chronicle he was giving Romney an
“unofficial” endorsement. John H. Sununu Sr., the senior
Bush’s former White House chief of staff, is serving as a
surrogate for the Romney campaign.  The younger Bush described both Romney and Gingrich as
“credible” candidates in a November contest with President
 Barack Obama . “I intend to help whoever wins the nomination,”
the former governor said in the interview yesterday.  Gingrich has increased the stakes of the Florida contest
with his defeat of Romney in yesterday’s South Carolina primary.
Polling has shown Romney leading in Florida.  At the same time, Bush said his party’s candidates should
adjust the “tone” of their debate on issues such as illegal
immigration to start appealing to independent-minded voters in
“swing states” such as Florida with a history of voting for
either major party. These voters are likely to decide the
outcome of the 2012 presidential election.  Romney Tax Returns  Bush in a telephone interview also said Romney should
disclose his income tax records during the Florida contest,
calling Romney’s riches “a wonderful success story.”  “Release your taxes,” Bush advised Romney. “I don’t quite
understand the reluctance to do so.”  Romney today said he will release his 2010  tax return  and
estimate for 2011 taxes on Jan. 24, saying the issue has become
a distraction.  “We just made a mistake in holding off as long as we did”
in releasing the returns, Romney said today in an interview on
“Fox News Sunday.”  The candidates are ‘’going to have 10 days to come make
their case, hopefully in a way that positions the candidates for
the general election as well, which seems to be less the focus
now,” Bush said in the telephone interview.  “Candidates are making lasting impressions on voters, not
just primary voters, in how they campaign,” he said from his
office in Miami. “You have to remember that in a state like
Florida, independent voters will decide the election. You have
to maintain your principles but have a broader appeal.”  Circular Firing Squad  “We’re sort of in the circular firing squad right now,”
Bush said of divisive disputes among the Republican candidates.  Florida is not only the biggest primary contest so far.
It’s also an important win for any presidential nominee.  Obama won Florida by 2.8 percentage points in 2008 with the
help of swing-voters in the central region around  Orlando  and
also younger Cuban-Americans less aligned with Republicans than
are their parents. Florida also backed Bush’s brother, former
President  George W. Bush , by 5 percentage points in 2004 and by
just 537 votes in 2000 after a fight over disputed ballots that
ended in the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) .  Florida also is home to an ethnically diverse electorate.
With a population of 18.8 million, Hispanics account for 22.5
percent of the Sunshine State’s residents, blacks 15 percent.  Immigration an Issue  The debate over immigration laws in the  Republican Party 
could be a problem for its nominee, Bush said. Nationally, exit
polls showed that 67 percent of Hispanic voters supported Obama
in 2008 and 31 percent backed Republican  John McCain .  “That could be an issue in the general election that plays
out in a negative way for Republican candidates,” Bush said.
“In swing-states, Hispanic voters are increasingly the swing
voters, and if you, by your tone more than anything else, send a
signal that ‘you’re not wanted on my team’ -- and I’m not saying
any candidate has done that -- you could alienate voters that
could be part of the winning” formula.  Romney has referred to benefits such as in-state Texas
college tuition for the children of undocumented immigrants as
“magnets” encouraging more immigrants. In a  Sept. 7 debate  at
the Reagan Library in  California , Romney said: “We cannot give
amnesty to those who have come here illegally.” Those who have
arrived recently, he said: “You just go back home.” Those here
for a long time with children  “and so forth, you let stay
enough time to organize their affairs and go home.”  Gingrich Immigration Stance  Gingrich, at a  Nov. 22 debate  in  Washington , D.C., said he
supports allowing some illegal immigrants who arrived in the
U.S. years ago to remain -- saying that, while those newly
arrived with no U.S. ties should be deported, those who entered
decades ago, have children and paid taxes shouldn’t be uprooted.  The former Georgia congressman toughened his stance in
South Carolina by vowing to uphold the state’s anti-illegal
immigration law, which is being challenged in federal court by
the  U.S. Department of Justice  for its impact on minority
voters.  “I don’t agree with Mitt’s views on immigration in their
totality but that’s OK,” Bush said. “My not endorsing him does
not relate to any particular issue.”  “I like  Mitt Romney ; I think he would be a very credible
challenger to President Obama,” said Bush, adding the same of
Gingrich -- “and so would  Rick Santorum , by the way.”  Florida’s Role  Yet Bush, fielding requests for endorsements from Romney
and Gingrich in recent days and from former Pennsylvania Senator
Santorum longer ago, said: “It’s a big decision. Florida is
going to play a big role in who the party’s nominee is. I think
the voters can make up their own minds.”  Endorsements are sought for a reason: In 2008, McCain and
Romney tied in opinion polling nearing the Jan. 29 Florida
primary. Then-Republican Governor  Charlie Crist  endorsed McCain
four days before the election, and McCain defeated Romney by 5
percentage points, essentially clinching the nomination.  Bush, who served as governor from 1999-2007, left in good
standing. In a Quinnipiac University poll of Florida voters
released Dec. 26, 2006, 21 percent of those surveyed rated Bush
as a “great governor,” 36 percent as a “good governor.”  The year before the 2008 Florida primary, Bush introduced
Romney to advisers and friends as a worthy candidate but stopped
short of endorsing anyone. In this year’s primary “I’m going to
stay neutral,” he said. “I have a lot of friends supporting
all the varying candidates, but more importantly I think the
voters ought to make the determination.”  Romney’s Advantage  Romney was running twice as strongly as Gingrich and
Santorum in a CNN/Time magazine poll of likely Republican voters
in Florida taken Jan. 13-17, with Romney supported by 43
percent, Santorum 19 percent and Gingrich 18 percent. That was
well before Gingrich won in  South Carolina , a prize claimed by
every Republican nominated for president since 1980.  In Florida, as in the rest of the nation, Bush said, voters
this year are most mindful of the economy.  “The broader issues of how to grow the economy and how to
get back to a saner fiscal policy would be the two drivers,” he
said. “That is so overwhelmingly on the minds of people.”  Florida’s economic health has declined by 12.4 percent
since the first quarter of 2009, when Obama was inaugurated,
according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. The
state’s home prices have declined 22.5 percent in the period.  Bain Capital   The debate within the Republican primary over Romney’s
success at Bain Capital LLC has made Bush “kind of dizzy,” he
said. Romney should disclose his tax returns, as Gingrich has,
and should be “talking about his successes” as he campaigns in
Florida, according to the state’s former governor.  “He is clearly uncomfortable talking about his own
success, which is natural,” Bush said of Romney, a multi-
millionaire. “At the same time, I don’t think he has anything
to be ashamed of. What a wonderful success story. It should
stand as an example of American exceptionalism.”  Ultimately, Bush says, the rigor of the campaign should
make the nominee stronger. Looking ahead to the  Republican
National Convention  on Aug. 27-30 -- in Tampa -- Bush says of
the contest: “I’d like it not to go all the way to August.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  