-- Joe Paterno in ‘Serious’ Condition, Family Spokesman Says, Citing Doctors
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-22T05:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/joe-paterno-in-serious-condition-family-spokesman-says-citing-doctors.html
Joe Paterno , fired as Penn State
University’s football coach over his handling of a child-sex
scandal involving a former assistant, was listed as “serious”
by doctors treating him for  lung cancer .  “Over the last few days Joe Paterno has experienced
further health complications,” said family spokesman Dan McGinn
in an e-mail last night. “His doctors have now characterized
his status as serious.”  Paterno, 85, has been in Mount Nittany Medical Center at
State College, Pa., since Jan. 13 when he was admitted for
observation due to minor cancer treatment complications, his
family said at the time. The former  Pennsylvania  State
University coach also was recovering from a fractured pelvis.  “Joe is continuing to fight,” son Jay Paterno said last
night on his Twitter account.  An hour later, Jay Paterno, who quit the  Penn State 
football team after 17 years as an assistant coach, said he had
passed by the statue of his father on the Penn State campus
outside Beaver Stadium where about 200 students and residents
had gathered.  “Drove by students at the Joe statue,” Jay Paterno wrote.
“Just told my dad about all the love & support -- inspiring
him.”  Record Wins  Paterno was fired Nov. 9 in the aftermath of child
molestation charges against former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky, ending Paterno’s 46-year run with the Nittany Lions
that produced a record 409 wins.  After he was diagnosed with cancer during a follow-up visit
to his doctor for a bronchial illness, his son Scott said that
Paterno and his doctors were optimistic he would make a full
recovery.  Paterno and university President Graham B. Spanier were
fired following a meeting of the university’s board of trustees.
He already had said he would retire at the end of the season
when his contract was due to expire.  The football coach and Spanier were criticized for failing
to contact police after being told of a case involving Sandusky,
who was charged on Nov. 5 with sexual assault of eight boys from
1994 to 2009.  Face of Football  While state prosecutors said Paterno isn’t a target of the
official investigation, he was the bespectacled face of a
football program that he led to two national championships and
the most wins in major-college history. He came to  State College ,
a town in central Pennsylvania, in 1950 as an assistant to
former coach Rip Engle and succeeded him in 1966.  Penn State Athletic Director Tim Curley took a leave of
absence and Senior Vice President  Gary Schultz  retired, each two
days ago, amid charges of perjury and failure to report the
allegations.  Paterno’s tenure at Penn State is the longest in the
sport’s coaching history, surpassing the 41 consecutive seasons
Amos Alonzo Stagg spent at the  University of Chicago .  While Paterno led the Nittany Lions to five perfect seasons
and set records with 36 bowl appearances and 24 bowl victories,
his legacy may be tarnished by the scandal that occurred during
his watch.  ‘JoePa’  Paterno is known as “JoePa” and his dark-rimmed glasses,
rolled-up pant legs and white athletic socks became as much a
symbol of Penn State football as the team’s white helmets and
plain navy-blue jerseys, which don’t have player names on the
back.  Paterno, a New York City native, became the coach with the
most wins in major-college football in 2001, when he broke Paul
“Bear” Bryant’s record of 323.  Florida State’s Bobby Bowden passed Paterno in 2003, and
the two coaches were neck-and-neck until Bowden retired after
the 2009 season, with 388 wins in 34 seasons. Paterno won his
409th game on Oct. 29 over  Illinois , breaking the record for
top-division victories he shared with Eddie Robinson of
Grambling.  The Nittany Lions posted undefeated records in 1968, 1969
and 1973, but didn’t win their first national championship until
the 1982 season. Penn State won its second national title in
1986 with a 12-0 record and went undefeated for the fifth time
under Paterno in 1994. Penn State has an 8-1 record this season,
including a 5-0 mark in the  Big Ten Conference .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  