-- Joe Paterno, Fallen Penn State Coaching Legend, Dies of Lung Cancer at 85
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/joe-paterno-fallen-penn-state-coaching-legend-dies-of-lung-cancer-at-85.html
Joe Paterno  died of  lung cancer 
surrounded by family members yesterday, just over two months
after he was fired as  Pennsylvania  State University’s football
coach, ending a record-setting 46-year run in which he collected
409 wins and two national championships. He was 85.  Paterno died at 9:25 a.m. yesterday at Mount Nittany
Medical Center in State College, Pennsylvania, the town Paterno
had called home since 1950.  Paterno helped build Penn State into one of college
football’s most prestigious programs over the past six decades
and his career win total is the most at the sport’s highest
level. He was diagnosed with lung cancer in November, a few days
after being dismissed by school officials because of his
handling of a child-sex abuse scandal involving former assistant
Jerry Sandusky, who was charged with assaulting boys in  Penn
State ’s athletic complex.  “His longevity over time and his impact on college
football is remarkable,” said University of Nebraska Athletic
Director Tom Osborne, who had 255 wins as the school’s coach
from 1973-97. “Anybody who knew Joe feels badly about the
circumstances. I suspect the emotional turmoil of the last few
weeks might have played into it.”  Fallout from the scandal brought an abrupt end to Paterno’s
61-year tenure at the central Pennsylvania campus known as Happy
Valley. He had arrived in State College in 1950 and spent 16
years as an assistant under Rip Engle before taking over as
coach the day after Engle retired.  ‘Backed Away’  “I didn’t know exactly how to handle it and I was afraid
to do something that might jeopardize what the university
procedure was,” Paterno told the Washington Post in his final
interview this month. “So I backed away and turned it over to
some other people, people I thought would have a little more
expertise than I did. It didn’t work out that way.”  As coach of the same major college football team from 1966
until his dismissal, Paterno, known as “JoePa,” set a record
for longevity, surpassing Amos Alonzo Stagg, who spent 41 years
at the  University of Chicago . A bronze statue stands outside
107,000-seat Beaver Stadium in honor of Paterno, who won
national championships in 1982 and 1986, and totaled a record 24
bowl victories at Penn State.  Paterno’s  tenure  on the staff had spanned 12 U.S.
presidents and more than 690 games, more than half of all those
played by Penn State since its football program started in 1887.  Paterno set a record for major college wins in 2001,
breaking Paul “Bear” Bryant’s record of 323, and held the mark
until Bobby Bowden passed him in 2003. The two coaches were
neck-and-neck until Bowden retired after the 2009 season with
388 wins over 34 years.  Bowden and Paterno  “We had many great battles over the 40 plus years, and
many great times together with our wives on various coaching
trips,” Bowden said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Joe
was about as good a coach as anybody -- with all of the great
wins, championships, and the things he gave to college football.
He graduated his players, made a wonderful impact on so many of
those young men, and was the heart of Penn State University for
so many decades.”  Paterno broke  Eddie Robinson ’s Division I record of 408
victories at Grambling State University when the Nittany Lions
beat  Illinois  on Oct. 29, 2011.  It was the final career win for Paterno, who was fired by
Penn State’s board of trustees 11 days later. Paterno trails
only John Gagliardi of Saint John’s University in  Minnesota  for
the most wins in college football history.  Penn State plans to honor Paterno for his “many
contributions and to remember his remarkable life and legacy,”
a statement attributed to school President Rodney Erickson and
the board of trustees said.  Remembering Paterno  “We grieve for the loss of Joe Paterno, a great man who
made us a greater university,” the school said in a statement.
“His dedication to ensuring his players were successful both on
the field and in life is legendary and his commitment to
education is unmatched in college football. His life, work and
generosity will be remembered always.”  As the child molestation scandal unfolded last year,
Paterno said he was shocked and deeply saddened by the charges
against Sandusky, who was Paterno’s defensive coordinator.
Sandusky retired at the end of the 1999 season.  In 2002, graduate assistant  Mike McQueary  saw Sandusky
sexually assaulting a 10-year-old boy in the Penn State locker
room showers and reported it to Paterno, according to a grand
jury indictment. Paterno said he wasn’t aware of specific
details of the attack and referred the matter to university
officials. As the furor intensified over school officials’ lack
of action against Sandusky, Paterno said he wished he “had done
more” and announced he’d retire at the end of the season.  Paterno’s Firing  The  board of trustees  fired Paterno and President  Graham Spanier  the next day, saying it was necessary to make a change
in leadership. After the decision, students supporting Paterno
clashed with police in downtown  State College , where protesters
overturned a television van, tore down light poles and threw
bottles and other objects.  “As both man and coach, Joe Paterno confronted
adversities, both past and present, with grace and
forbearance,” Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett said in a
statement. “His place in our state’s history is secure.”  Paterno’s legacy had extended far beyond football.  His thick glasses, rolled-up pant legs and white athletic
socks became as much a symbol of  Penn State football  as the
team’s white helmets and plain jerseys, which don’t have player
names on the back.  Paterno and Tradition  “When you think of college football and its tradition, you
can’t help but picture those dark glasses, black shoes and plain
uniforms that were his style and mark,” Texas Tech coach Tommy
Tuberville said in a statement. “Like many coaches, I grew up
watching and learning from one of the greatest tutors and
mentors of the game.”  Paterno emphasized academics as much as winning football
games. In his second year as head coach, he allowed his best
lineman, Mike Reid, to take the season off so he could star in a
school play.  Paterno coached dozens of All-Americans, including 1973
Heisman Trophy winner John Cappelletti and former NFL star LaVar Arrington, mentored  Pro Football Hall-of-Famers  Franco Harris
and Jack Ham, and was voted Coach of the Year by his colleagues
a record four times.  Paterno also chose to stay put in State College rather than
coach in the  National Football League .  ‘Bit of an Egghead’  “Why leave?’‘ Paterno explained in a 1995 interview with
the Tampa Tribune. ‘‘It’s got everything I want: small town, a
college town. I can walk home after games. I’ve been accepted as
a faculty member, not treated as a dumb jock. I can do things
that suit me intellectually; I’m a little bit of an egghead.”  Paterno and his wife Suzanne Pohland, a  Penn State 
graduate, donated more than $4 million to the university over
the years to endow faculty positions and scholarships and to
build an interfaith spiritual center and a sports museum.  Joseph Vincent Paterno was born in  Brooklyn ,  New York , on
Dec. 21, 1926, and grew up in a neighborhood where, he recalled,
“playing daily at sports was our work: not only touch football
but also punchball and stickball,” according to a Penn State
 biography .  As a high-school senior, he was quarterback of a Brooklyn
Prep team that lost only one game -- to St. Cecilia High School
of Englewood,  New Jersey , a team coached by  Vince Lombardi 
before he began his Hall of Fame NFL career.  After serving in the U.S. Army, Paterno went to  Brown
University , where he played football under Engle. The skinny
quarterback led the Bears to an 8-1 record in his senior season,
prompting writer Stanley Woodward to describe him as a player
“who can’t run, can’t pass -- just thinks and wins.”  Staying at Penn State  Paterno changed his mind about attending law school when
Engle left for  Penn State  and offered Paterno a job as an
assistant coach. The city kid quickly grew restless in the rural
college town.  “After a few weeks, I told Rip, ‘I’m getting out of here
before I go nuts,’” Paterno once said. “You better start
looking around for another coach.”  Paterno decided to stay and became a Penn State
institution.  The Nittany Lions posted perfect records in 1968, 1969 and
1973, but didn’t win their first national championship until the
1982 season, which they capped with a Sugar Bowl victory over
 University of Georgia . Penn State won its second national title
in 1986 with a 12-0 record and went undefeated for the fifth
time under Paterno in 1994, including the first  Rose Bowl  win in
school history.  Paterno turned down multiple opportunities to leave Penn
State, including a 1973 offer to coach the NFL’s Boston
Patriots.  Although his annual salary was only $35,000 at the time,
Paterno passed up a deal that would have paid him $1.4 million a
year, plus a 5 percent ownership stake in the Patriots. In his
next-to-last season at Penn State, his salary was $1.02 million.  Paterno and his wife had five children -- sons David,
George Scott and Jay, who was an assistant football coach at
Penn State for 17 seasons, and daughters Diana Giegerich and
Mary Kathryn Hort -- and 17 grandchildren.  “When he decided to forego a career in law and make
coaching his vocation, his father Angelo had but one command:
make an impact,” Paterno’s family said in a statement. “As the
last 61 years have shown, Joe made an incredible impact. He
leaves us with a peaceful mind, comforted by his living legacy
of five kids, 17 grandchildren, and hundreds of young men whose
lives he changed in more ways than can begin to be counted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net . 