-- Known Unknowns Will Shape Presidential Election: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-01-22T16:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/known-unknowns-will-shape-presidential-election-albert-r-hunt.html
President  Barack Obama  may make a
few headlines in his re-election year State of the Union
address; in a similar setting,  Bill Clinton  declared the “era
of big government is over,” while  George W. Bush  suggested he
had tamed  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi.  Other than setting parameters for the national elections,
Obama’s speech tomorrow night before a joint session of Congress
is likely to prove as ephemeral as those of these predecessors.  Over the next few weeks, much attention will be paid to
Congress reconvening, the president’s speech, and the
administration’s budget. Yet the presidential contest more
likely will be shaped by subsequent and uncertain events
affecting the economy, national security and politics.  Predictably, the first is the economy. The White House
nervously looks across the Atlantic, hoping the  European Central
Bank ’s actions have calmed the financial crisis, though it
probably is unsettled by ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s comment
last week that the situation remains “grave.”  A deterioration of the European crisis would affect the
 U.S. economy , hurting business and consumer confidence. That
could make for a toxic climate for Obama’s re-election effort.  The president is counting on the economic forecasters being
wrong. One of the best,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , citing
continued household deleveraging and fiscal drags from cutbacks
in state and local spending, predicted a sluggish 2012, with
unemployment rising to 9 percent.  Understating Growth  The consensus forecasts for growth in 2011 were too high by
about 1 percentage point; this time, Democrats hope it goes the
other way, that the consensus understates growth, which could
put the jobless rate at close to 8 percent in October, a good
number for the president.  More sobering is the concern in Obama’s national security
circles over the possibility of war or a terrorist incident. The
most often-cited fear is that  Israel  tries to take out Iranian
nuclear facilities. That, top intelligence analysts say, would
result in retaliation against U.S. targets by  Iran  and its
proxies, including Hezbollah. The Fifth Fleet is in Bahrain, and
there are other bases in the region. Further, Iranian proxies
have surfaced not only in the  Middle East  and  Africa  but in
 Thailand  and South America.  If oil shipments in the Strait of Hormuz are impeded, oil
and gasoline prices could spike just in time for the election.
The Iranians don’t even have to close the passage; they could
simply mine it, forcing Lloyd’s of  London  to jack up insurance
rates, which would certainly lead to higher prices at the pump.  There’s almost no terrorist expert who dismisses the
prospect of another attempt or attack on America, though many
think it wouldn’t be as likely to succeed as in the past.  The timing of war or any possible act of terrorism would
have political implications. If it occurred right before an
election, a rally around the flag mindset might help the
incumbent. If it occurred much sooner than that, the political
fallout might be severe.  If war or any major terrorist act is avoided, it’s going to
be tough for opponents to depict Obama as weak; after all, Osama bin Laden and Qaddafi were dispatched on his watch.  In any case, the political landscape will look different in
October than it does now.  An important element will be how the Republican
presidential contest evolves. If  Mitt Romney  wins big in the
Jan. 31 Florida primary, he goes back to being the almost
certain nominee.  South Carolina  Yet former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s big victory
in South Carolina this weekend makes a protracted struggle more
likely. Every time attention focuses on Gingrich, there is
scrutiny of his political and personal baggage, which includes
two messy divorces, an affair during the time he was speaker,
ethical transgressions and special pleading for interests such
as  Freddie Mac  that are anathema to most Republicans.  Even before South Carolina, Romney had a rocky two weeks,
mishandling the controversy over his record as a private-equity
mogul, equivocating about releasing his tax returns after
acknowledging that he paid taxes at a lower rate than many far-
less wealthy Americans.  There are two possible theories, detached Republican
professionals say, drawing on baseball analogies: This is
Romney’s equivalent of spring training or exhibition season,
toughening him to handle the rigors of the general election. Or
he is a great minor league player who’s not up to the challenges
of the political majors.  If Romney wins the nomination, still a high probability,
the candidate’s relations with the movement conservatives will
help shape his political persona for the fall. Currently, there
is much mistrust between the one-time moderate Republican
governor of  Massachusetts (STOMA1)  and his party’s right wing.  It’s important for him that these fissures heal; he needs
an energized base in the general election.  For months, Republicans have been proclaiming how motivated
their voters are. Yet the turnouts in the first voting states of
 Iowa  and New Hampshire were disappointing, well below the surge
that exuberant Democrats experienced in those contests four
years ago.  If, on the other hand, some of the more conservative
Republican elements try to make the nominee heel to a litany of
demands, he’ll look weak and be forced to embrace unpopular
general-election positions.  It’s also probable that there will be at least one, and
perhaps multiple, third- or fourth-party or independent
candidacies in the fall. These probably won’t be figures that
can break into the double digits, though the votes they siphon
off can affect a close election. Who these also-rans might be
and whose votes they will drain remains uncertain.  Just think of the changes over the past nine days: Two
candidates dropped out, and the front-runner, Romney, stumbled,
as it turns out he didn’t win the Iowa caucuses after all.
Meanwhile, one of Gingrich’s ex-wives said he had asked her for
an “open marriage,” a disclosure he used as an opportunity to
excoriate the news media. Imagine what might unfold over the
next nine months.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 