-- Kubrick Used ‘The Killing’ for Hollywood Access: Peter Rainer
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-01-23T09:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/kubrick-used-thriller-the-killing-to-gain-hollywood-access-peter-rainer.html
Cinema visionary Stanley Kubrick got
his start directing low-budget crime thrillers.  “The Killing,” 
newly restored on a Criterion DVD, is one of the best.  This 1956 film was Kubrick’s third feature. He had been a
staff photographer for Look magazine at 17, while still in high
school.  In 1950 he quit his job to direct short films and then
raised the money to make  “Fear and Desire”  (1953) a micro-
budget war movie starring a very young Paul Mazursky that
Kubrick later disdained, and  “Killer’s Kiss”  (1955), a
poverty-row film noir about a boxer and a dame that is also
included in the Criterion collection. Its ad line: “Her soft
mouth was the road to sin-smeared violence!”  “Killer’s Kiss,” which Kubrick also edited and
photographed, contains some extraordinary Weegee-like images of
Times Square, downtown  Manhattan  and the old  Penn Station . It
also features a much copied fight sequence set in a manikin
factory, with flailing body parts impeding the killer’s pursuit.  These features were the equivalent of student training
films for Kubrick. He was making feature films outside the
studio system long before the indie movement took off in the
1990s.  But he also wanted into the system. “The Killing” was
shrewdly designed to be his passport to the big leagues at a
time when Hollywood was busy churning out crime noirs.  Racetrack Heist  Based on a Lionel White pulp novel about a racetrack heist,
it featured a dream cast including Sterling Hayden as the gang’s
ex-con master mind, Elisha Cook, Jr. as a nebbishy racetrack
teller and Marie Windsor as his blowsy, vampiric wife. A student
of B-movies, Kubrick knew all these actors by reputation.  The film’s narrative structure, in which the unfolding of
the robbery keeps rewinding to pick up the stories of its
various protagonists, confused audiences and probably accounted
for its commercial failure. Seen today, the film seems almost
avant-garde. (After one disastrous preview, Kubrick, according
to a Criterion interview with producer James B. Harris, tried to
recut the film before deciding to go with his instincts). The
only flaw is the film’s stentorian voice-over narration, with
its echoes of “The March of Time” and “Dragnet.”  “The Killing” had in spades what his earlier films
lacked: a meaty story and sharp dialogue, the latter courtesy of
that hardboiled legend Jim Thompson, author of such classics as
“Hell of a Woman” and “The Killer Inside Me.”  Credit Hog  Thompson, 22 years older than Kubrick, had written twelve
books in the previous nineteen months and was eager to crack
Hollywood. Thompson resented Kubrick’s credit-hogging on “The
Killing.” The writer’s contribution is listed as “Additional
Dialogue,” later changed on some prints to “Dialogue.”  But the two men needed each other and collaborated on the
script for Kubrick’s next film, the anti-war classic “Paths of
Glory” (1957), the film that finally gave Kubrick the
credibility he craved.  Kubrick was known even back then as a world class control-
freak. Although he hired the great cinematographer Lucien
Ballard for “The Killing,” Kubrick insisted on setting up the
shots and the lighting to the point where Ballard refused to
attend the screening of dailies. Ballard was renowned for his
work with Marlene Dietrich on  “The Devil is a Woman”  and would
subsequently shoot  “The Wild Bunch.”   Another marvelous DVD extra is a 1984 interview with
Sterling Hayden done for French TV two years before his death.
With his big, bearded face and seafarer’s growl, he looks like
Ahab incarnate. Hayden teamed up again with Kubrick as General
Jack D. Ripper on  “Dr. Strangelove.”  He tells us that his
famous “purity of essence” speech in that film required 48
takes. Well worth it.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  ---Editor: Jeremy Gerard, Daniel Billy.  To contact the writer for this story: Peter Rainer at
 fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  