-- Williams Loses in Australian Open Fourth Round as Kvitova, Murray Advance
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-23T06:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/nadal-azarenka-advance-to-quarterfinals-of-australian-open-in-melbourne.html
Five-time champion  Serena Williams 
was beaten in the fourth round of the Australian Open by 56th-
ranked Ekaterina Makarova, ending her 17-match winning run at
the season-opening tennis Grand Slam.  Williams, the No. 12 seed from the U.S., lost 6-2, 6-3 on
Rod Laver Arena to the 23-year-old Russian left-hander, the
lowest-ranked female player to have reached the round of 16 at
this year’s tournament.  “It’s an amazing feeling,” Makarova said in a televised
court-side interview after advancing to her first Grand Slam
quarterfinal. “She’s an unbelievable player. It’s really tough
to play against her so I’m really happy I finished it.”  The 30-year-old Williams, the winner of 13-time major
singles titles, last failed to reach the final eight at
Melbourne Park in 2006, when she lost in the third round. She
won back-to-back titles in 2009 and 2010 before missing last
year’s event because of injury.  Williams lost her service five times against Makarova and
had seven double faults, including four in the fifth game of the
second set. She also made 37 unforced errors in the 82-minute
match.  “I can’t describe how I served to be honest,” Williams
said in a news conference. “It wasn’t good. It was a disaster
really. I served horrendous.”  Makarova will next play fellow Russian  Maria Sharapova , the
No. 4 seed, or 14th-seeded German Sabine Lisicki. Defending
men’s champion Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  takes on local wild-card
entry  Lleyton Hewitt  in the other night match at Rod Laver
Arena.  Tsonga Upset  Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova and men’s No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  earlier advanced, while No. 24 Kei Nishikori of Japan
upset sixth-seeded Frenchman Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in five sets.  Kvitova opened the day eight program of fourth-round
matches by beating Ana Ivanovic 6-2, 7-6 (7-2). Murray followed
her onto Rod Laver Arena and was leading Mikhail Kukushkin 6-1,
6-1, 1-0 when his Kazakh opponent retired with a hip injury.  Kvitova, the No. 2 seed from the  Czech Republic , struck
more than twice as many winners as Ivanovic and held off a
second-set fightback from the 21st-seeded Serbian to secure her
first victory in their four career meetings.  She’ll next face unseeded Italian Sara Errani, who ousted
Zheng Jie of China 6-2, 6-1 to extend her best ever performance
at one of the four tennis majors.  Energy Saver  Murray, the runner-up at Melbourne Park the past two years,
won the opening two sets against Kukushkin in 44 minutes and
took the first game of the third before his opponent quit
because of a left hip-flexor muscle injury.  “It’s good that I got to conserve some energy,” said the
Briton, who will face Nishikori in the quarterfinals.  Nishikori became the first Japanese man to reach the last
eight at the Australian Open in 80 years after battling past
Tsonga 2-6, 6-2, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3.  The last time a Japanese man reached the quarterfinals of
any Grand Slam tournament was in 1995, when Shuzo Matsuoka got
to the last eight at Wimbledon.  “Hopefully it’s big in  Japan ,” Nishikori said in a
televised court-side interview. “A lot of people messaged me a
couple of days ago when I got to the round of 16. Now it’s the
quarterfinal so I’m really excited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  