-- Netanyahu Plans New Homes Near Illegal Outpost
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-22T13:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/netanyahu-plans-new-homes-near-illegal-outpost.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  proposed building homes for Jewish settlers on state-
owned land in the West Bank to replace houses in the adjacent
outpost of Migron, which a court has declared illegal.  Netanyahu discussed the proposal today at a Cabinet meeting
in  Jerusalem  following an Israeli court order that the current
homes must be demolished by March 31, his office said in a text
message.  Netanyahu’s government said 10 months ago that all outposts
like Migron that were built illegally on private Palestinian
land would be removed by the end of 2011. Army efforts to
evacuate the outposts have led to violent conflicts with
settlers. Migron is home to about 50 families and is not among
the approximately 100 settlements in the  West Bank  that have
been authorized by the Israeli government.  The  Palestinian Authority , the  United Nations  and the U.S.
consider all Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal.
Israeli-Palestinian broke down in September 2010 after Netanyahu
refused to renew a 10-month freeze on settlement-building and
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas ruled out
negotiations while West Bank construction continues.  “The settlements are illegal but Netanyahu is using this
to try to legalize them at a time when he is being criticized by
the whole world,” chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said
in a telephone interview.  Court Order  The Israeli anti-settlement group Peace Now said the plan
is an attempt to circumvent the court order.  “Netanyahu’s proposal is a cynical spin designed to not
have to implement the Court’s decision,” Peace Now said in an
e-mailed statement.  Migron is one of the about 100 outposts that haven’t
received government approval.  Israel , which captured the West Bank and east Jerusalem
from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war, says the territories
are “disputed” and their status can be determined only in
direct Middle East peace negotiations, which have been frozen
for the past 15 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  