-- Gingrich Wins South Carolina Republican Primary, Networks Say
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-01-22T00:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/newt-gingrich-wins-republican-party-s-south-carolina-primary-networks-say.html
Newt Gingrich  won the South Carolina
Republican presidential primary election, television networks
projected immediately as polls closed, giving the former U.S.
House speaker his first victory in the race and upsetting rival
Mitt Romney’s hopes for a quick path to the nomination.  Networks including ABC, Fox and  MSNBC  called the race
before any vote tally was available.  Also running were U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  and
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania .  Gingrich’s projected win means the Republican battle has
now had a different first-place finisher in the three nominating
contests as the race heads to  Florida  for a Jan. 31 primary.  Since South Carolina began its Republican primary in 1980,
each of its winners has gone on to win the Republican
nomination.  Iowa officials announced earlier this week that Santorum
had ended up 34 votes ahead of Romney in the state’s Jan. 3
caucuses. Officials originally said Romney won by eight votes.  Romney, 64, won the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary by 16
percentage points and came to  South Carolina  ahead in the polls
of the state’s likely primary voters.  He was backed by the state’s Republican governor, Nikki Haley, who often accompanied him on his campaign stops, and was
pushing for a win that would have put him in position to quickly
wrap up the nomination.  Gingrich's Gains  Gingrich, 68, took aim at Romney’s tenure at Boston
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, saying earlier this week
the firm engaged in “exploitative” business tactics. He also
hammered away at Romney for not promptly releasing his tax
returns.  Polls showed the race tightening as Gingrich pressed his
attacks and, in the final surveys, the former Georgia lawmaker
pulled ahead.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  dropped out of the race Jan. 19
and endorsed Gingrich.  That same day, Gingrich’s second wife accused him in an ABC
News interview of having suggested they have an open marriage in
the late 1990s that would have allowed him to continue an affair
with his current wife, Callista.  Gingrich dismissed the accusation false and chastised CNN
moderator John King for starting off a debate on the night of
Jan. 19 with a question about the allegation.  “I am appalled that you would begin a presidential debat
on a topic like that,” Gingrich said in a comment directed at
King that drew applause from the debate’s audience in North
Charleston, South Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  