-- Nigeria Struggles to Curb Islamists After Attacks Kill 256
-- B y   M u s t a p h a   M u h a m m a d   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-23T17:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/nigerian-islamist-group-kills-165-in-bombings.html
Attacks by Islamic militants in
Nigeria that killed at least 256 people in the northern city of
Kano are challenging President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s government a
week after a nationwide strike paralyzed the economy.  The militant Islamist group Boko Haram said it was
responsible for blasts at eight government buildings in Kano on
Jan. 20. The death toll was confirmed today by  Shehu Sani ,
president of the Civil Rights Congress, whose members helped
carry the dead and wounded to hospitals.  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame Boko Haram,
whose name means “Western education is a sin,” for a series of
attacks over the past year, including the Aug. 26 suicide-
bombing of the United Nations building in the capital, Abuja,
that killed 24 people. Jonathan has declared a state of
emergency in parts of four northern states and said the
militants pose a worse threat to the country than the 1967-1970
Biafra civil war.  “The current security challenge  Nigeria  faces has cast a
cloud over the longer-term stability of the country and its
economic growth outlook,” Ridle Markus and Dumisani Ngwenya,
Africa strategists at Barclays Plc-owned Absa Capital, wrote in
an e-mailed report today. “President Jonathan will have to work
hard to restore faith in his government, though he may struggle
to convince the public that his administration can be more
efficient than previous ones.”  Improvised Explosives  Nigerian police recovered more than 100 improvised
explosive devices since Jan. 21 in Kano, including eight today
in an abandoned car, said a senior police official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he is not allowed to speak to
reporters.  Nigeria is almost evenly divided between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south.  Africa’s second-biggest economy is recovering from a week-
long general strike that cost an estimated 207.4 billion naira
($1.3 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics said Jan. 18.
The action ended on Jan. 16 after Jonathan backtracked on a
decision to fully lift a fuel subsidy and agreed to limit
gasoline-price increases to 97 naira a liter (0.26 gallon).
Prices initially more than doubled from 65 naira a liter.  The attacks by Boko Haram haven’t affected oil from
Nigeria’s Atlantic ocean coast, where companies including  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total SA and
 Eni SpA (ENI)  pump more than 90 percent of the country’s crude.
Similarly, the financial markets in the southwestern commercial
capital, Lagos, haven’t been disrupted by the violence.  Security Agencies  During a visit to Kano yesterday, Jonathan urged Nigerians
to “look at your neighbors and know what they do, and if
there’s any suspicious movement, inform security agencies.”  In Kano, the biggest city in northern Nigeria, the
militants attacked a regional police office, a smaller station,
the immigration office and a building used by the state security
service with bombs and gunfire.  Belief in the security forces’ ability to tackle the
insurgents suffered a blow when police said Kabiru Umar, the
alleged mastermind of a Christmas Day bombing of a church near
Abuja that killed 43 people, escaped from custody on Jan. 15,
two days after he was arrested.  Clement Nwankwo, the executive director of the Abuja-based
Policy and Legal Advocacy Center, said the escape occurred
“under questionable circumstances.” There’s a widespread
belief that the government has been unable “to get to the root
of who really has sympathies for Boko Haram within the security
services,” he said yesterday by phone from Abuja.  ‘Significant Challenge’  Eleven people, including two soldiers, a policeman and
eight civilians, died when suspected Islamist gunmen attacked a
bank, a police station and a hotel in the northeastern town of
Tawafa Balewa yesterday, Police Commissioner Okechukwu Aduba,
told reporters the capital of Bauchi state.  “Attacking symbols of state, a police station and anyone
wearing uniform basically is much more of a challenge to the
authority of government,” Antony Goldman, head of PM
Consulting, which specializes in risk analysis in West Africa,
said in a phone interview from  London  yesterday. The attacks
represent a “significant challenge for the government.”  Nigeria’s military shot dead yesterday four suspected Boko
Haram militants in the northeastern city of Maiduguri, the Borno
state capital, and recovered improvised explosive devices,
Victor Ebhaleme, field operation officer for the Joint Task
Force in charge of security in the region, said in a statement
handed to reporters today in the city.  Government Survival  A High Court registrar was shot dead yesterday at his
residence by suspected Boko Haram militants in Maiduguri, Borno
state police spokesman Samuel Tizhe said by phone.  “They seem to be able to do whatever they want to do,
wherever they want to do it, which means the government is not
safe,” Jubrin Ibrahim, director of the Abuja-based Center for
Democracy and Development, said by phone. The government’s “own
survival is at risk as this thing spreads.”  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index retreated 0.7
percent to 20,683.46 at the close in Lagos, according to a
statement on the bourse’s website, a fourth day of losses.  The naira fell for the first day in four, declining 0.2
percent to 161.285 per dollar on the  interbank market  as of 5:28
p.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent oil for March settlement advanced as much as $1.50
cents, or 1.4 percent, to $111.36 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was at $110.56 a barrel at 4:26
p.m. London time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mustapha Muhammad in Kano at 
 mmuhammad5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  