-- Nokia Lumia Sales Seen Topping 1 Million Since Debut in Respite for Stock
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-23T14:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/nokia-lumia-sales-seen-topping-1-million-in-respite-for-stock.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s first phones running
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  software may have sold enough units last year to
help rebuild investor confidence in the Finnish company, which
lost $19 billion in market value in 2011.  The Lumia handsets, which went on sale in  Europe  in
November, probably sold 1.3 million units globally to operators
and retailers by the end of last year, according to the average
estimate of 22 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The projections
range from 800,000 to 2 million and only one analyst predicted
sales of fewer than 1 million handsets.  “The numbers look promising,” said Espen Furnes, an Oslo-
based  fund manager  at Storebrand Asset Management, which sold
Nokia shares last year and counts  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in more than $60
billion it oversees. “If Nokia is able to have a strong launch
and surpass at least 1 million and keep that type of momentum,
this would help put them in a credible position that is crucial
to winning back investors.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop has staked the future
of Nokia’s smartphone business on the Lumia series, after
deciding almost a year ago that the Espoo, Finland-based company
would retire its homegrown Symbian and MeeGo handsets. The early
shipment figures are important because investors had doubted the
alliance with Microsoft could compete with Apple’s iPhone and
devices running on Android, developed by Google Inc.  Elop, 48, has refused to give  sales forecasts  for the Lumia
models and kept initial expectations low by stressing the long-
term work involved in building a new “ecosystem” of
applications and developers with Microsoft. The partnership with
the world’s largest software maker was announced on Feb. 11.  Hero Handsets?  “There weren’t a lot of the hero handsets out there -- HTC
were struggling, RIM didn’t have a show-me device,  Sony Ericsson 
and Motorola weren’t really stepping into the mix, so there was
probably enough space for Nokia to be able to point to fourth-
quarter numbers they were happy with,” said  Lee Simpson , a
London-based analyst at Jefferies International.  Sales of the Symbian smartphone line declined 36 percent in
the two quarters between the Lumia announcement and launch, and
will likely have a bigger effect on revenue and profit. Nokia,
which reports earnings Jan. 26, probably had a fourth-quarter
loss of  92 million euros  ($119 million), as sales may have
 fallen 21 percent  to 10 billion euros, separate surveys of
analysts showed. Nokia spokesman  Doug Dawson  declined to comment
before the release.  Cheaper Models  Nokia’s shares fell 52 percent in 2011. Today, the stock
fell 0.5 percent to 4.32 euros in Helsinki trading as of 4:05
p.m. Since the beginning of this year, Nokia has gained 15
percent, while Apple rose 3.8 percent and HTC was down 1.7
percent. The Lumia models won respect from reviewers and
bloggers, including 13 awards at the  Consumer Electronics Show 
in  Las Vegas .  “What’s really needed is cheaper models to compensate for
the declining trend in Symbian, which sold in large numbers in
the main smartphone category of 200 to 300 euros,” said FIM
Bank analyst  Michael Schroeder . Those aren’t likely to come
until the second half, he said.  The 420-euro Lumia 800 went on sale in Europe the week of
Nov. 14, while the 270-euro Lumia 710 started selling in four
Asian markets and  Russia  in December.  Carphone Warehouse Group
Plc (CPW) ’s website carries Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Y for  115
pounds  ($178) without a contract, the Galaxy S 2 for  460 pounds 
without a contract, and HTC’s Desire S for  290 pounds .  Debt Rating Cuts  “Half a million would be realistic and acceptable given
the short period of time these handsets have been on the
market,” said SEB Enskilda analyst Mats Nystroem of the Lumia.  The fact that Nokia, the world’s largest mobile-phone
maker, had been eclipsed in smartphones gradually became
apparent to shareholders in the three years after the 2007 Apple
iPhone introduction. The discovery erased more than 60 billion
euros in value before then-Microsoft executive Elop was
appointed to take over in Sept. 2010. Nokia’s debt ratings were
cut last year by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s on concerns that
a turnaround would take too long.  Elop introduced a third model on Jan. 9, the Lumia 900, on
 AT&T Inc. (T)  with a larger screen and the ability to operate on so-
called 4G high-speed broadband networks.  Lumia sales may reach 3.2 million units this quarter as the
handsets ramp up in  Asia , according to the average of 16 analyst
estimates. Estimates for full-year sales of Windows Phones have
reached as high as 37 million units from Morgan Stanley.  ‘Too Rich’  First-quarter estimates range from 1.5 million to 6
million. The smartphone market may have grown 50 percent last
year, Gartner Inc. analysts estimated in November, compared with
 13.9 percent  growth in 2008.  Sales to consumers were probably less than Nokia’s
shipments to stores, since the Lumia was not broadly sold out,
the analysts said. Apple may have sold 30 million iPhones in the
final quarter of 2011, Piper Jaffray analyst  Gene Munster  said.
Apple is scheduled to report earnings tomorrow.  “The Lumia 800 was just a little bit too rich for a lot of
people’s blood in terms of a new Windows Phone,” said Ernest
Doku, a technology analyst at uSwitch.com, a U.K. website that
helps consumers compare prices. Rivals like Apple have competed
by discounting older models that consumers still want, he said.  The Lumia didn’t make USwitch’s  top-10 handsets list  for
December based on user searches and clicks. The list was headed
by Samsung’s Android-powered Galaxy S2.  Nokia’s fourth-quarter results will also include the N9, a
Lumia 800 lookalike running Nokia smartphone software called
MeeGo, which began shipping in September at prices from 480
euros. The N9 may have sold 1.4 million units last quarter,
Pareto Oehman analyst Helena Nordman-Knutson said.  “People forget it’s not all about Lumia, there’s the N9 as
well and it’s part of this transition,” she said. “With these
new devices the average selling price could lift because the
proportion of lower-priced smartphones will decrease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  