-- Montoro Says EU Should Ease Spain’s Budget-Deficit Target Amid Recession
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-22T19:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/montoro-says-eu-should-ease-spain-s-deficit-goal-amid-recession.html
Spanish Budget MinisterCristobal Montoro said the European Union should ease the nation’s budget-
deficit target for this year as the economy suffers its second
recession in two years.  “If Brussels doesn’t adapt the stability program to the
new scenario of a recession, it won’t be realistic and not only
will Spain sink but the whole of  Europe ,” Montoro said in an
interview with Barcelona-based La Vanguardia newspaper in
comments confirmed by a Budget Ministry spokeswoman today.  The People’s Party government, in power since Dec. 21,
inherited a deficit target for this year of 4.4 percent of gross
domestic product, after the shortfall exceeded the target last
year and amounted to 8 percent. The 2012 goal was based on an
estimate Spain would grow 2.3 percent, while the government now
says the economy is in a recession.  Montoro’s comments contrast with those of Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, who told reporters on Jan.
20 the government is “determined” to meet the current target.
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos, who will attend the euro
region meeting of finance ministers tomorrow, wrote in the Wall
Street Journal on Jan. 19 that the targets must be met, and
reiterated his position in an opinion piece in El Mundo today.  The PP government doesn’t plan to make its own growth
forecasts and will use the next estimates made by the European
Commission instead. Montoro said that the International Monetary
Fund forecast, published by Ansa news agency last week, that
 Spain  may contract 1.7 percent this year is “realistic.”  “Based on this new reality, the deficit goal they set for
us will be established, and we are firmly committed to meeting
it,” Montoro said. “What Spain advocates in Brussels is
reaching stability in a realistic way.”  Spain won’t need to seek IMF help, nor will it tap the EU’s
bailout funds to finance the overhaul of banks, Montoro  said.
The government, which increased income tax on Dec. 30 as part of
15 billion-euro ($19 billion) package of budget cuts, won’t
raise value-added tax in the budget in March, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  