-- Orascom Telecom Holding Rallies 51% After Split: Cairo Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-01-22T13:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/orascom-telecom-jumps-49-as-trading-resumes-after-company-split.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  soared
on investor bets the shares were undervalued after the company
split into two units and as the stock resumed trading after a
two-month halt.  The shares  jumped 51 percent  to 2.62 Egyptian pounds at the
2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, pushing  Egypt ’s benchmark index 1.3
percent higher. Orascom Telecom Holding’s global depositary
receipts, which haven’t been split and represent five ordinary
shares each, have climbed 46 percent to $3.26 since Nov. 23, the
day before the  Egyptian exchange  suspended local trading.  After the split, Orascom Telecom Holding holds 58 percent
of the original company’s assets, including those in  Algeria ,
Pakistan and Bangladesh.  Orascom Telecom Media & Technology
Holding SAE , the split-off entity, owns the Egyptian and North
Korean assets. Orascom Telecom Media shares, which were priced
at 1.25 pounds, tumbled 28 percent to 90 piasters.  “Most research houses saw the 58-to-42 split as an
undervaluation for Orascom Telecom Holding and exaggerated
valuation for Orascom Telecom Media,” said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities.  Eight analysts recommend investors buy Orascom Telecom
Holding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cairo-based
investment bank  Beltone Financial Holding (BTFH)  rated Orascom Telecom
Holding a “buy” on Jan. 18 and set a share-price estimate of
5.69 pounds. The firm assigned Orascom Telecom Media a “sell”
recommendation with a 1.12-pound target.  Shareholders approved dividing Orascom Telecom to
facilitate a $6.5 billion merger between parent Wind Telecom SpA
and  Russia ’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  The GDRs of the mobile phone company
have surged on investor bets that the shares were undervalued
and after Algeria signed an agreement with VimpleCom to buy
Orascom’s local unit, Djezzy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  