-- Giffords Resignation After Attack Sets Up Special Vote in Republican Area
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/house-s-gabrielle-giffords-plans-to-leave-congress.html
U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , an Arizona Democrat, is quitting a year after being
shot in the head, forcing a special election in a district that
voted Republican in the 2008 presidential election.  Giffords said in a statement yesterday that she needs time
to focus on her recovery from the brain injuries, and leaving
now “is best for Arizona.” Giffords, 41, was among 19 people
shot at a Jan. 8, 2011, constituent meeting outside a Tucson
supermarket. Six people died. She was elected in 2006 and would
have stood for election to a fourth term in November.  “I have more work to do on my recovery, so to do what is
best for  Arizona , I will step down this week,” Giffords,
wearing a red suit and speaking slowly, said in a  video  posted
on YouTube that also reviewed her career. “I’m getting better
every day. My spirit is high. I will return and we will work
together for Arizona and this great country.”  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer will set a date for a special
election to replace Giffords in Arizona’s 8th congressional
district, which takes in most of Tucson. The district voted for
Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain  over President  Barack Obama  by 52 percent to 46 percent in the 2008 presidential
election. Giffords, who won in 2010 by a 1.6 percentage-points,
is one of 13 Democrats in districts that Obama didn’t win.  Obama praised Giffords for her “willingness to listen to
different ideas” from constituents, which “brought her to a
supermarket in Tucson last year -- so she could carry their
hopes and concerns to  Washington .”  ‘Extraordinary American’  “Gabby’s cheerful presence will be missed in Washington,”
Obama said. “I’m confident that we haven’t seen the last of
this extraordinary American.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, in a
statement praised Gifford’s “courage and perseverance” after
the weekend tragedy outside a supermarket in Tucson.  “She will
be missed,” Boehner said.  Representative  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , the No. 2 Democrat
in the House, said he is saddened she decided to step down. Her
action “put her constituents first” by ensuring “her state
and district are fully represented,” he said.  Doctors sent Giffords to a rehabilitation center near
Houston two weeks after the shooting, where she had brain
surgery, facial reconstruction and therapy to regain her ability
to walk and speak.  Before she leaves office, Giffords will “finish her
Congress on Your Corner event that was interrupted” by gunfire
a year ago, holding a private meeting with some people who
attended the 2011 event, according to the statement.  Obama’s Speech  She will attend Obama’s State of the Union address Jan. 24,
one of her last acts as a member, according to the statement.  Giffords surprised congressional colleagues in early August
in an emotional return to the House to vote on raising the U.S.
debt ceiling. She entered the chamber amid cheers that turned
into a standing ovation.  After the Aug. 1 vote, colleagues and spectators in the
packed visitors gallery greeted Giffords with a second standing
ovation. She stood and waved. Democrats and Republicans rushed
toward to greet her on the House floor, many hugging her. Her
husband, astronaut  Mark Kelly , was alongside her as she left the
chamber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  