-- Romney Attacks as Gingrich Seeks Funds in Race Moving to Florida
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/romney-to-release-tax-forms-jan-24-saying-to-delay-was-mistake.html
Mitt Romney  criticized  Newt Gingrich 
as a lobbyist and Washington insider while the former House
speaker said his rival “is running for CEO,” as both men
sought to reposition their campaigns in a newly tumultuous
Republican presidential primary race.  Addressing voters in  Florida  late yesterday, Romney
attacked Gingrich’s character, record and leadership ability.  “We’re not choosing a talk show host, he told voters
gathered for an outdoor rally in Ormond Beach. “We’re choosing
a leader.”  Earlier yesterday, Gingrich said on television talk shows
that Romney lacked the government expertise needed to be
president.  “Governor Romney may be running for CEO,” Gingrich said
on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “I’m running for
president.”  Romney is working to regain his footing after a 12-point
loss in the  South Carolina  primary on Jan. 21 as Republicans
confront the possibility of a prolonged fight for their party’s
nomination. Gingrich’s victory set up a costly and combative
campaign for the Jan. 31 Florida primary.  The former Massachusetts governor easily won the New
Hampshire primary on Jan. 10 and finished a close second in the
Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses. Leading up to the South Carolina vote, his
rivals’ assault on his record as a private-equity executive
sidetracked his effort to quickly lock up the nomination.  Television Ads  Although he lost two of the three contests, Romney enters
Florida with advantages. His campaign and its allies have been
airing television ads in the state attacking rivals for almost a
month. With early voting under way, Romney organizers are
courting supporters and encouraging them to cast ballots before
primary day.  Minutes after the South Carolina race was called, Gingrich
sent a message on the Twitter social-networking site thanking
supporters and asking for donations. Yesterday, he sent an e-
mail seeking to raise $1 million to deliver “a knockout punch
in the Republican primaries.” It costs about $1 million a week
to compete in the 11 media markets in Florida, the fourth most
populous state.  Texas Representative  Ron Paul  said he will skip campaigning
in Florida and focus on the Nevada caucuses, set for Feb. 4.  Understanding Government  Romney and Gingrich sparred yesterday, using broadcast
interviews to criticize each others’ qualifications.  Gingrich compared Romney to President Barack Obama, saying
both men lacked the knowledge of government needed to be
president.  “The president of the  United States  has to understand the
government of the United States,” Gingrich said on CBS.
“President Obama clearly didn’t, and frankly I doubt if
Governor Romney would.”  Addressing a packed rally of supporters in Ormond Beach,
Romney pointed to a 1997 ethics investigation into Gingrich when
he was House speaker.  “He was a leader for four years as speaker of the House
and at the end of four years it was proven that he was a failed
leader and he had to resign in disgrace,” he said. “His fellow
Republicans -- 88 percent of his Republicans -- voted to
reprimand Speaker Gingrich.”  He also reiterated calls for Gingrich to release his
contract with  Freddie Mac , accusing the Georgia lawmaker of
lobbying for the mortgage company and other organizations after
announcing his resignation from Congress in 1998.  Working as Lobbyist  “He talks about great bold movements and ideas,” Romney
said. “What’s he been doing for 15 years? He’s been working as
a lobbyist.” Gingrich has said he never lobbied and has
described his work as that of a historian.  Still, Romney said Gingrich had a “good week” in South
Carolina. Giving in to pressure from Gingrich and others in his
party, Romney agreed to release his 2010 tax return and 2011
estimates on Jan. 24, saying the issue had become a distraction.  “We just made a mistake in holding off as long as we
did,” Romney said on Fox. He said the return and the estimate
will be posted on the Internet.  Romney, a multimillionaire former private-equity executive,
had been dogged by questions about why he was refusing to
provide his tax returns until April, when the party’s nomination
battle may effectively be over.  Gingrich commended Romney for promising to disclose the
records, during an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
yesterday.  ‘No. 1 Mission’  “If there are things in there that can be used against
him, we better know it before the nomination,” Gingrich said.
“The last thing Republicans want to do is nominate somebody who
collapses in September. Beating  Barack Obama  has to be the No. 1
mission of the  Republican Party .”  Gingrich, who has worked as a health-care and housing
policy consultant, released his 2010 returns on Jan. 19,
becoming the first of the four remaining Republican contenders
to do so. The returns showed he earned $3.1 million in 2010 and
paid an effective federal tax rate of about 32 percent, about
double the 15 percent rate Romney said he paid.  Speaking on NBC, Gingrich said he was aware of nervousness
among Republicans triggered by his rise in the public-opinion
polls.  “We intend to change the establishment, not get along with
it,” Gingrich said. “I’m happy to be in the tradition of
 Ronald Reagan  as the outsider who scares the Republican
establishment. And, frankly, after the mess they’ve made of
things, maybe they should be shaken up pretty badly.”  Discipline and Temperament  Some elected Republicans and party leaders have warned that
the outspoken former House speaker from  Georgia  lacks the
discipline and temperament to lead their party.  New Jersey Republican Governor  Chris Christie , who endorsed
Romney in October, said yesterday Gingrich humiliated the party
when he was speaker, citing Gingrich’s $300,000 payment in 1997
to resolve allegations of giving misleading information in the
ethics probe.  “He was run out of the speakership by his own party,”
Christie said on NBC. “This is a guy who has had a very
difficult political career at times and has been an
embarrassment to the party.”  The fourth remaining Republican primary contender, former
U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , called Gingrich a
“high-risk candidate” and said Romney is “no longer the
inevitable” contender to win the nomination.  Santorum’s campaign may hamper Gingrich’s efforts to
consolidate fiscal and social conservatives as both compete for
voters seeking an alternative to Romney. As the South Carolina
results became clear, Santorum said he would stay in the race
and campaign in Florida.  “Our feeling is that this is a three-person race,” he
said on CNN yesterday. “We think we present the best
opportunity for conservatives to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in
Jacksonville, Florida at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  