-- Saudi Arabia’s Foreign Shares Listing Rules May Boost Persian Gulf Markets
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-01-23T11:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/saudi-arabia-moves-closer-to-opening-bourse-as-foreign-securities-can-list.html
Saudi Arabia ’s decision to allow
foreign companies to list securities in the Arab world’s  biggest 
bourse may help the region’s equity markets lure investors and
boost trading volumes.  Securities on another exchange with comparable listing
rules to those in Saudi Arabia can apply for a dual listing in
the kingdom, according to new regulations posted on the Saudi
Arabian Capital Market Authority’s  website  yesterday. The
country currently doesn’t permit foreigners to directly own
shares in its listed companies. The government allowed citizens
of neighboring Persian Gulf states to trade in shares in 2007.  “Some United Arab Emirates issuers could list in Saudi
Arabia and attract decent liquidity and valuations,” said
Dubai-based Ibrahim Masood, who helps manage about $400 million
at  Mashreqbank PSC. (MASQ)  “We keep talking about a regional exchange,
Saudi could be it.”  Persian Gulf stocks have been hurt by uprisings in the
Middle East and North Africa and  Europe ’s debt crisis. Trading
volume on Dubai’s  benchmark  stock index plummeted to a six-year
low in 2011. Saudi Arabia’s stock market may gain frontier
market status at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  “quite quickly” if it opens up to
foreign investors, HSBC Holdings Plc said this month.  Dual Listings  An inclusion at the index provider may also pave the way
for an upgrade to emerging market status, HSBC said. Qatar and
the U.A.E., whose stock markets have the second and third-
largest market values in the Gulf, are up for review from
frontier market status in June.  The  150 companies  on Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
trade at  10.8 times  estimated earnings, compared with 12.6 times
for the  S&P 500 Index.  The measure fell 3.1 percent last year,
compared with a 20 percent decline in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  and a 9.3 percent drop in the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index .  MSCI classifies six of the Gulf’s seven bourses as frontier
markets, a designation that typically applies to economies and
financial markets that are less developed. MSCI indexes are
tracked by funds that oversee about $3 trillion in assets, so
getting promoted to emerging market from frontier can increase
investment.  The new Saudi rules will “allow regional companies with
extensive Saudi business to tap the country’s capital markets
through dual listings, which would prove an interesting dynamic
for investors and provide companies with an additional source of
funding,” said  Ali Khan , London-based head of  Middle East  and
North Africa equities sales at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“It appears the CMA will continue to introduce a series of
measures to gradually open up the markets, which would reinforce
the Tadawul’s importance in the region.”  No Time Frame  Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy, hasn’t set a time-
line for opening its market to foreigners, stock exchange Chief
Executive Officer Abdullah Al-Suweilmy said last month. The
regulator is in discussions with international banks to open the
exchange to foreign investors in the first quarter, three
bankers familiar with the matter said in October. The Tadawul
has a market value of about 1.28 trillion riyals ($341 billion).  “It’s a good step, a step closer to further opening the
market to foreign investors,” said Turki Fadaak, head of
research at Riyadh-based Albilad Investment Co. “At this stage,
current investors will trade stocks listed by foreign issuers,
and in later stages, foreign investors too will be trading these
shares.”  The kingdom permits non-resident foreigners to trade
through share-swap transactions and exchange-traded funds, with
the market regulator approving the first ETF in March 2010.  “Saudi Arabia seems to be opening itself up to the world
here,” Mashreqbank’s Masood said. “This is really a step ahead
of the traditional first steps markets take, which is to let
foreigners in” and then allow them to raise money by cross-
listing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  