-- Kuwait Hires HSBC Holdings to Help Arrange Privatization of Stock Exchange
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-01-22T08:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/hsbc-kuwait-regulator-sign-accord-on-stock-market-privatization.html
Kuwait hired  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to
help the privatization of the country’s stock exchange, the
third-biggest bourse by market capitalization in the Persian
Gulf.  HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd. signed an agreement with the
 Capital Markets Authority  that will lead “to the privatization
of the  Kuwait Stock Exchange (KWSEIDX)  and the establishment of a new
company that will own and operate the stock market,” according
to a statement distributed in  Kuwait City  today.  The government plans to sell 50 percent of the exchange to
listed companies and the remainder to Kuwaitis in an initial
public offering. Currently, Dubai’s stock exchange is the only
publicly traded Gulf Arab stock market. Kuwait’s benchmark index
declined 16 percent last year and was trading 0.1 percent higher
at 5,802 at 10:56 a.m. in Kuwait City today.  “Certain developments took place and caused a delay” in
the sale process, Abdullah Al-Gabandi, head of the exchange
privatization committee at the Capital Markets Authority, told
reporters without providing further details. “The valuation
process has started. As of now, the meter has started
counting.”  The agreement with HSBC is for six months, Al-Gabandi said,
and “all parties are seeking to reduce the period of time as
much as they can.” The privatization committee and HSBC
officials didn’t provide a timeline for the sale process.  The Kuwait exchange has been regulated since March 2011 by
the CMA, the country’s first stock-market regulator.  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  signed an 18.3 million-dinar ($65.7 million) contract
with the exchange in October 2009 to supply it with trading
systems and advisory services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  