-- Gingrich Says He’d Defeat Obama in Debates, Get the U.S. ‘Back on Track’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-22T18:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/south-carolina-victor-gingrich-says-he-d-beat-obama-in-debates.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich , who won the South Carolina primary yesterday and
is heading to  Florida  to campaign, said he is best-suited to
face Democratic President  Barack Obama  in debates.  “My job in Florida is to convince people that I am the one
candidate who can clearly defeat Obama in a series of debates
and the one candidate who has big enough solutions that they
would really get America back on track,” Gingrich said today on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “We’re a big country, we
have big problems, and we need big solutions.”  Gingrich, the former speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives, won 40 percent of the vote in South Carolina.
 Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts governor, ran second,
collecting 28 percent, with 99 percent of the vote counted.
Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum had 17 percent,
followed by U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  with 13
percent. The next primary will be held in Florida on Jan. 31.  “Florida is a state which has suffered terribly through
bad government policies as it relates to housing,” Gingrich
said in the interview.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who
endorsed Romney in October, said Gingrich “embarrassed” the
party as House speaker, citing a 1997 penalty imposed after he
admitted giving misleading information in an ethics probe.  ‘Run Out’  “He was run out of the speakership by his own party,”
Christie said today on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “He
was fined $300,000 for ethics violations. This is a guy who has
had a very difficult political career at times and has been an
embarrassment to the party.”  Gingrich said his conservatism would allow him to best
confront Obama in debates after the nominating conventions and
before the November election.  “Whichever person we nominate had better be able to take
Obama head-on because they’re going to throw everything they can
at them,” Gingrich said on CNN today. “One of the reasons
people in  South Carolina  voted for me was a belief that I could
debate Obama head-to-head, that I could convey conservative
values.”  Gingrich said his experience as a small business owner and
congressional leader makes him better suited for the presidency
than Romney, who was a co-founder of Boston private-equity firm
Bain Capital LLC.  Small Business  “Governor Romney may be running for CEO. I’m running for
president,” Gingrich said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.
“The president of the  United States  has to understand the
government of the United States. President Obama clearly didn’t,
and frankly I doubt if Governor Romney would.”  “Millions of small business owners, they’ll understand
that Newt Gingrich is a small business owner, really understands
exactly what they go through, in a way that I think sometimes
big investors and big managers don’t understand,” Gingrich
said.  In an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Gingrich said
today he isn’t surprised by criticism in the media because “we
intend to change the establishment, not get along with it.”  Gingrich said on CNN that political leaders in  Washington 
and  New York  don’t understand “the level of anger at the
national establishment.” adding that  “There’s something real and deep there,” Gingrich said.
“People really are hurting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  