-- Sweden’s Central Bank Seen Beating Linkers as Inflation Forecasts Diverge
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 2012-01-23T10:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/sweden-s-central-bank-seen-beating-linkers-as-inflation-forecasts-diverge.html
Swedish inflation-linked bonds may
be understating the risk of price gains in the largest Nordic
economy as most forecasters, including the central bank, predict
 inflation  will outpace market bets.  The breakeven rate on  Sweden ’s 10-year inflation-linked
bonds shows investors expect annual inflation of 1.55 percent
over the next decade, compared with an average of 1.84 percent
since the global financial crisis erupted in 2007. The Riksbank
forecasts inflation will reach 2.7 percent by the end of 2014.  “When breakevens have been at these levels, traditionally
it has been a buy,” Martin Tallroth, an interest rate
strategist at Swedbank AB in Stockholm, said in an interview.
“Index-linked bonds look cheap relative to the nominal bonds.”  Swedish inflation-linked bonds have underperformed regular
debt over the past year as investors snapped up the government’s
nominal bonds to seek refuge from the euro area’s debt crisis.
Swedish linkers returned 11.67 percent over the past year,
compared with a 13.22 percent return on the country’s regular
bonds, according to Barclays Capital indexes.  Breakeven rates hit a low of 1.24 percent in November, and
have historically risen more than 1 percentage point after
reaching a trough over the past five years.  Caused By Fear  Sweden’s 10-year breakeven rate is the lowest after  Italy ,
which may be in its fourth recession since 2001 as the euro-
area’s third-largest economy cuts spending to reduce debt. It is
also lower than  Germany ’s 1.85 percent 10-year breakeven and the
U.K.’s 2.73 percent, even as growth in largest the Nordic
economy is estimated to outpace its larger European counterparts
both this year and next, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  “In the short-term, inflation in Sweden will be low and
possibly below expectations, but in the medium to long term,
breakeven levels look lower than fair value,” Mats Hyden, chief
economic strategist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said by telephone. “That
is likely caused by fear in the current risk-aversion
environment.”  The Swedish debt office has about 215 billion kronor in
outstanding inflation-linked bonds, less than half of its
regular debt. The debt office plans to issue about 6 billion
kronor a year in inflation linked bonds.  Negative Unlikely  Five-year government bond yields were trading at 1.21
percent today, up from a 20-year low of 1 percent on Jan. 16.
The equivalent index-linked note is trading at a yield just
below zero. The nominal yield on an inflation linked security is
calculated by adding the rate on the  consumer price index .  “Inflation will be low, but excluding a collapse in oil
and electricity prices and even more drastic rate cuts than
currently discounted, inflation is unlikely to become
negative,” Jussi Hiljanen, chief fixed income strategist at SEB
AB in  Stockholm , said by phone.  A survey by Fitch Ratings of bond investors in Sweden
showed 60 percent expect the Nordic region to avoid a recession
even as 88 percent of those surveyed also expect the crisis will
continue as is or worsen. The Riksbank expects economic growth
of 1.3 percent this year and 2.3 percent next year.  Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said in the minutes of the
bank’s December rate meeting that policy makers are now in
“wait-and-see mode” on rates. Investors surveyed by TNS Sifo
Prospera are betting the bank will cut rates to 1.4 percent by
the end of 2012. The bank said Dec. 20 it will keep the
benchmark rate low to help bring inflation back to its target.  “We expect that the Riksbank will cut the rate to 1
percent by the summer,” said Per Sellden, an analyst at
Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)  “From the point of view of
inflation, there should be no problem to lower the rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  