-- Turkey Yields Drop Most in Five Months Before Treasury Borrowing
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-23T16:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/turkey-yields-drop-most-in-five-months-before-treasury-borrowing.html
Turkish bond  yields  fell the most
since August this month before a sale of  government securities 
to help finance this year’s biggest debt repayment.  The yield on two-year benchmark notes has retreated 71
basis points so far this year, heading for the biggest monthly
decline in five months, and dropped 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 10.30 percent today, the lowest level in a
month. The Treasury in Ankara will sell bonds due December 2013
tomorrow, one of six auctions this month to raise 14.4 billion
liras ($7.9 billion) in domestic offerings, according to a
borrowing program published Dec. 30.  Lira securities are rallying after the central bank more
than tripled the minimum lenders can borrow through one-week
repurchase auctions to 25 billion liras until Feb. 2, up from a
minimum 7 billion liras for the past two weeks. The currency is
likely to return 15 percent this year in so-called carry trades,
the most among more than 20 emerging-market currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Foreign interest in the auction will be strong,” Ugur N. Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is Investment Securities,
 Turkey ’s biggest brokerage, said in e-mailed comments. “The
Turkish lira market is offering a very attractive carry
return.”  The lira has advanced 4 percent against the dollar this
year, the fourth-best performance among 10 emerging currencies
in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa , tracked by Bloomberg.
Policy makers had more than doubled the cost of funding to rates
as high as 12.5 percent to curb the lira’s 18 percent slump last
year, the biggest drop worldwide, and cap  inflation  that
accelerated to a three-year high of 10.5 percent in December.  Bond Sales  The Turkish Treasury sold a total of 3.52 billion liras of
fixed-coupon bonds maturing Jan. 27, 2016 at an average annual
yield of 10.58 percent today.  The Ankara-based Treasury also sold a total net 2.22
billion liras of July 21, 2021 bonds linked to consumer price
inflation at a 4.20 percent real yield, in a separate auction
and non-competitive sale, the central bank said.  The Treasury sold a net 1.5 billion liras of the 2016 bonds
to state institutions. Bids from banks were 2.69 billion liras
for the four-year debt with 9 percent annual fixed interest and
2.79 billion liras for the 2021 debt at the auctions.  “The bond auctions this morning went reasonably well,”
 Luis Costa , emerging market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London , said in an e-mailed note. “The central bank’s tactics
to make liquidity room in the local banking sector by allowing
term repo rates to go back to 5.75 percent are indeed working.”  Interest Rate Gap  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said the gap between
the central bank’s benchmark interest rate and market rates must
close because “the lower we can bring market rates, the slower
inflation will be,” Anatolia news agency reported on Jan. 11.
The government will make “strong, pointed responses” to a
lobby Erdogan said is pressing for higher interest rates, as
surging borrowing costs threaten to reduce economic growth.  “The Treasury will be able to borrow successfully tomorrow
because it now just needs to sell 3 billion liras of the
benchmark bond” to complete its borrowing target, said Murat Yardimci, chief trader at ING Bank AS in Istanbul.  “The line on fighting the interest-rate lobby appears to
be helping,” said Arda Kocaman, head of treasury at
FinansInvest, an Istanbul-based broker owned by National Bank of
Greece SA.  Weak Lira  The lira was the worst performer worldwide last year as the
central bank cut  interest rates  to a record low of 5.75 percent
and the  current-account deficit  hit 10.3 percent of gross
domestic product, the highest rate among 60 major economies
tracked by the  International Monetary Fund . The currency gained
0.6 percent to 1.8197 per dollar at 5:10 p.m. in Istanbul today
after the auction results were announced, heading for the
strongest level in two-and-half months.  Yields on Turkey’s benchmark debt soared 390 basis points,
or 3.9 percentage points, last year in the biggest jump since
2006.  In carry trades investors borrow in countries that have low
interest rates and invest in high-yielding currencies. The yield
on two-year lira debt compares with less than 0.3 percent for
similar-maturity U.S. and German securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  