-- Vancouver Displaces Sydney as Second-Costliest Housing Market in Survey
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/vancouver-displaces-sydney-as-second-costliest-housing-market.html
Vancouver  displaced Sydney as the
least-affordable housing market after  Hong Kong  among large
English-speaking cities, as  home prices  rose faster than
incomes, a study of 325 metropolitan areas worldwide showed.  Vancouver’s median home price of C$678,000 ($686,400) in
the third quarter was 10.6 times its median pretax household
income of C$63,800, making the city “severely unaffordable,”
 Demographia  said in a report today. A ratio of 3 or less is
considered “affordable,” according to the public-policy firm’s
survey of markets in  Australia , New Zealand, Ireland, the U.K.,
the U.S.,  Canada  and Hong Kong.  Sydney’s ratio of median home price to income was 9.2,
while Hong Kong’s was 12.6, a record for the eight-year-old
survey, surpassing the previous high of 11.5 for  Los Angeles  in
2007. Home prices in Hong Kong, Vancouver and Sydney haven’t
plunged as they have elsewhere, such as in Ireland, now the
second most-affordable country, after the U.S., the study said.  “Housing affordability generally improved in the surveyed
nations, though the most unaffordable markets, Hong Kong and
Vancouver, became even more unaffordable,” wrote Wendell Cox,
principal of Belleville, Illinois-based Demographia, and Hugh
Pavletich, managing director of Pavletich Properties Ltd., a
commercial developer and investment company in Christchurch, New
Zealand.  Policies limiting lots available for construction drove up
land prices, putting homes out of reach for middle-class buyers
and younger workers in cities such as Vancouver and Sydney, the
researchers said. The median price of a detached house in
metropolitan Vancouver reached a record C$900,000 in April 2011,
according to the  Real Estate Board of Greater Vancouver .  ‘Massively Deteriorating’  “The causes of massively deteriorating housing
affordability are not a mystery,” Cox and Pavletich said.
“They inevitably result from more restrictive land-use
regulations adopted by governments with insufficient attention
to economic fundamentals.”  The study focuses on the home-affordability ratio, not
absolute prices. It doesn’t take into account such influences as
falling interest rates, an influx of foreign buyers or the
attractions of climate and coastal location.  “There’s no question if you want to live in  Manhattan  or
in a nice, close-in suburb, it’s going to cost you more,” Cox
said in a telephone interview. “Demand doesn’t drive up prices.
Demand drives up prices if there are constraints in supply, and
the cause here is regulation.”  Bubble Bursting  Home prices in the eight capitals of Australia’s states and
territories fell 3.7 percent in 2011 through November and were
on pace for the biggest annual decline in at least 12 years on
concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis may damp the nation’s
economic growth, according to figures released Dec. 30 by RP
Data, a real estate researcher.  “The bubble is bursting in Australia,” said Pavletich,
who operates  PerformanceUrbanPlanning.org , a website on urban
public-policy issues.  In  New Zealand , Christchurch is “severely unaffordable,”
with a ratio of 6.3, according to the study. The city is
rebuilding after a series of earthquakes that started in 2010.  “There’s huge pressure on the government to open up land
supply and get affordable new lots,” said Pavletich, who is an
advocate for the effort.  From the end of World War II through the late 1980s, homes
in the countries surveyed generally cost two to three times
median income, according to Demographia. Today, only the U.S. is
affordable by the study’s measure, with Ireland and Canada
“moderately unaffordable,” at 3.3 and 3.5 times median income,
respectively.  U.S. Cities  San Jose,  California , and  San Francisco  were the least
affordable among U.S. housing markets with populations of at
least 1 million, according to the survey. Detroit was the most
affordable market in that group, with a median multiple of 1.4
times income, according to the study. Atlanta followed with 1.9,
and Phoenix with 2.2.  Honolulu, with a smaller population, was the least
affordable U.S. city, with a median multiple of 8.7.  Outside the U.S., Dublin, with a median multiple of 3.4,
and  Edmonton ,  Alberta , at 3.5, were the most affordable cities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  