-- Vietnam New Year Shoppers Defying Central Bank Spurs Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-22T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/vietnam-new-year-shoppers-spur-inflation.html
Asia ’s fastest  inflation  is the
last thing on Tran Hang’s mind as she jostles fellow shoppers at
a street stall in Hanoi’s Old Quarter to snap up Belgian
chocolates and Thai candies for Tet, or lunar New Year.  While Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung and the central bank
urged consumers to spend less to usher in the Year of the Dragon,
the 25-year-old office worker said she plans to spend about $100
more than she did in 2011 for the country’s biggest festival.  “You can’t celebrate Tet by spending less than you did
last year,” said Hang, who donned a white polka-dotted raincoat
during a light drizzle to shop for presents she would take back
to her hometown for the nine-day holiday. “It doesn’t feel
right to cut back even if everything is more expensive.”  Consumer prices climbed more than 17 percent in January,
the fastest among 17 Asia Pacific economies. A surge in spending
on new clothes, preserved fruit and decorations threatens to
derail efforts to curb price gains that triggered the dong’s
biggest decline since 2008 and helped put an estimated one in 10
companies out of business last year.  Dung urged citizens to celebrate the holiday in a “frugal
atmosphere,” according to a Jan. 14  statement  on the
government’s website. Central Bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said
he hoped modest Tet spending would help rein in inflation.  “We aim to change people’s spending habits,” said Binh at
a press briefing Jan. 11. “People shouldn’t spend too lavishly
for an extravagant Tet. I want to see people limit their
spending as much as they can.”  Sales Jump  Retailers and government officials say that’s not happening.
In the capital, retail sales during the holiday were forecast to
rise as much as 22 percent to almost $1.4 billion, according to
Nguyen Van Dong, deputy director of the city’s Industry and
Trade Service. That’s equivalent to about 1 percent of estimated
gross domestic product last year for the country.  Consumer demand for holiday goods and transportation will
grow 10 percent from last year, according to a government
forecast that urged authorities to monitor and stabilize prices.  Saigon Beer-Alcohol Beverages Corp., the country’s largest
brewer, said it will make 120 million liters of beer this month,
20 percent more than for last year’s holiday season.  Kinh Do
Corp., (KDC)  the biggest bakery, expects demand to be up 15 percent,
according to spokeswoman Nguyen Thi Ngoc Lien. The bakery’s
holiday cakes and sweets are 10 percent more expensive this year.  “For food and beverage companies, Tet sales are
critical,” said Hoang Huong Giang, a Ho Chi Minh City-based
consumer analyst at Viet Capital Securities. “Tet contributes
30 to 40 percent of their full-year profit.”  Gold Candy  Bibica Corp. (BBC) , which sells pound cake and gold nugget-shaped
candy, met its 30 percent holiday-sales growth target a week
before the festival started, said Phan Van Thien, deputy general
director of the Ho Chi Minh City-based company.  “Tet is a period where people feel they almost have to
spend,” said Darin Williams, managing director of research
company Nielsen Co. ( Vietnam ) Ltd. “The cultural tradition is
so strong. There’s an obligation.”  Like most Vietnamese,  taxi driver  Tran Dinh Long and his
wife have been saving up all year for this celebration,
deferring spending to replace an aging air conditioner and stove
in order to maintain, or exceed, last year’s holiday spree, he
said. Their home is decorated with a new potted kumquat tree and
a peach tree with blooming pink blossoms, symbols of wealth and
happiness that are as ubiquitous in Vietnamese homes as
Christmas trees during the winter holiday in the U.S.  Sticky Cakes  Long said he would buy green tea, preserved kiwi, plums and
apricots, along with steamed, sticky rice cakes to offer the
numerous guests and family who will visit.  “It’s our long-standing tradition that Tet is a period for
consumption,” said Long. “If your neighbors are buying trees
and candy and new clothes for their children, you need to do the
same.”  The fireworks and feasting are in marked contrast to the
economic gloom in the past two years.  After the global financial crisis in 2009, Vietnam pumped
fiscal stimulus, subsidized a loan program and lowered  interest
rates  as export markets weakened. While the moves spurred growth,
they also fed a credit expansion that resulted in a series of
dong devaluations, including a record 7 percent weakening of the
currency in February 2011. The currency was the worst performer
in  Southeast Asia  last year, stoking inflation that reached 23
percent in August.  Labor Strikes  While the nation isn’t alone in trying to battle price
gains -- central banks from India to the Philippines raised
interest rates last year as global commodity and energy prices
jumped -- Vietnam has been hardest hit, with wage demands
prompting strikes and demonstrations at companies such as
Panasonic Corp. and Yamaha Motor Co.  Breaking that rising price-wage spiral may be even harder
this year because a dragon year typically brings a spike in
births, as many Vietnamese and other Asians believe dragon
babies will be graced with intelligence, good looks, wealth and
success.  That’s good news for consumer-related companies, according
to Viet Capital Securities, which advised the nation’s biggest
fuel supplier on selling part of the government’s stake to
investors. The company’s 2012 Outlook report says this year will
see an “exceptional” baby boom that will benefit producers of
infant products. Viet Capital suggests investors consider
 Vietnam Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM) , which sells milk and
infant powdered milk, and toymaker  Duc Thanh Wood Processing. (GDT)   Dining Out  Meanwhile, Vietnamese are celebrating, boosting sales at
 restaurant chains  such as Al Fresco’s Group, which has 33
outlets across the country.  “We are not finding that people are spending less,” said
Craig Jackson, Ho Chi Minh City-based general manager for Al
Fresco’s. “They are spending more.”  For taxi driver Long, inflation is most obvious in the red
li xi envelopes of money that Vietnamese hand out to relatives
and friends at New Year. Last year he filled them with 20,000
dong ($1) bills. This year, he said, they will have to be
replaced with 50,000 dong bills.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang, Diep Ngoc Pham, Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen, Jason
Folkmanis, Nick Heath, K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi. Editors: Adam
Majendie,  Chris Anstey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha at   oha3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 