-- Volkswagen Aims to Combine With Porsche as Soon as Economically ‘Sensible’
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-22T12:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/volkswagen-says-process-still-ongoing-with-porsche-integration-decision.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  said the carmaker is
“still in the process” of deciding on a plan to combine with
Porsche SE’s automotive business.  “Of course, all the parties are interested in achieving
the goal of an integrated automotive group as soon as it makes
economic sense to do so,”  Christine Ritz , a VW spokeswoman,
said in a telephone interview. “As soon as we have made a
decision to achieve that goal, we will communicate that.”  Ritz declined to comment on a Der Spiegel report today that
 Europe ’s largest carmaker may complete the purchase this year of
the 50.1 percent of  Porsche’s (PAH3)  automotive business that it does
not already own.  VW has considered alternatives to a 2009 agreement, which
called for a full merger by the end of 2011, after lawsuits
against Porsche in the U.S. and Germany complicated the
company’s valuation. To avoid further delays, Wolfsburg,
Germany-based VW may drop the merger and instead buy Porsche’s
carmaking business, two people with direct knowledge of the
situation said in November. VW already owns 49.9 percent of
Porsche’s auto unit.  VW will avoid having to pay more than 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in taxes if it completes the purchase before 2014 by
setting up a holding company to temporarily take control of the
stake, Spiegel reported today, citing unidentified VW managers.
 Volkswagen (VOW3)  will take steps to ensure Porsche’s independence
within the group to minimize opposition from labor leaders at
Porsche, the magazine said.  Checking Alternatives  “As we said in September, we want to check alternatives
and that process is ongoing,” Frank Gaube, a Porsche spokesman,
said by telephone, declining to comment further.  Volkswagen has said that the combination with Porsche will
boost profitability and save 700 million euros. VW, whose main
luxury brands include Audi, Lamborghini and Bugatti, makes more
vehicles in a week than  Porsche (PAH3)  does in a year.  The two companies had worked on a full-blown merger since
2009, when Porsche failed in a hostile attempt to take over VW,
the sports-car maker’s biggest supplier. Porsche racked up more
than 10 billion euros of debt as it purchased the majority of
VW’s common shares.  Porsche Lawsuits  Short sellers of VW stock sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming it secretly piled up VW shares and later caused the
investors to lose more than $1 billion. Claimants in  Germany 
have also sought damages, while prosecutors in Stuttgart, where
Porsche is based, are investigating suspicions that the sports-
car maker didn’t adequately inform investors about its plan to
take control of VW. Porsche has repeatedly denied all
allegations of wrongdoing.  VW’s main alternative to the original merger agreement has
been to exercise options to acquire the remaining 50.1 percent
stake in Porsche’s automaking business for 3.9 billion euros,
leaving Porsche as the holding company for the 50.7 percent of
 Volkswagen’s (VOW3)  common stock that it owns.  VW cannot exercise the options until Nov. 15, 2012, when
they would trigger a tax bill of an estimated 1 billion euros,
overwhelming the potential savings from the deal. The taxes
would shrink to zero if the carmaker waits until the second half
of 2014 before exercising the options, it has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at   creiter2@bloomberg.net  