-- Yemen’s Saleh Departs for U.S. With Immunity
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-01-22T20:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/yemen-s-saleh-departs-for-u-s-with-immunity.html
Yemen’s outgoing President Ali Abdullah Saleh left for medical treatment in the U.S. after he
was granted immunity from prosecution following the deaths of
hundreds of protesters over the past year, an aide said.  Saleh said today in a speech he will return to attend the
inauguration of his successor following presidential elections
on Feb. 21, the state news agency Saba reported. The president
will make stops in Oman and  Ethiopia  before flying to the U.S.,
according to Abdulhafiz al-Nehari, a spokesman for Saleh’s
General People’s Congress party.  Saleh’s request to travel to the U.S. for medical treatment
has been approved, the State Department said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The sole purpose of this travel is for medical treatment
and we expect that he will stay for a limited time that
corresponds to the duration of this treatment,” said the
statement, which referred further questions about Saleh’s travel
plans to the Yemeni government.  Saleh described parliament’s decision yesterday to pass an
immunity statute for him and his aides, along with the
endorsement of Vice President Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi as the sole
presidential candidate, as a “good achievement,” Saba said.  Saleh Steps Down  A new Yemeni government was sworn in last month after Saleh
signed an agreement brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council to
relinquish presidential powers in return for immunity. Saleh
urged all political parties today to embrace reconciliation and
work together to repair damage caused during the unrest, the
agency reported.  The president apologized for all wrongdoings or mistakes,
saying any errors during his period of office were
unintentional. “I appeal to my people, men and women, to
forgive my mistakes during the 33 years of my reign,” the
agency reported. “I beg your pardon and I apologize to all
Yemeni citizens.”  Tens of thousands of Yemenis rallied today in several
cities, including the capital Sana’a and Taiz, to protest the
immunity law, saying Saleh and his aides are responsible for at
least 1,100 deaths over the past year.  ‘A Crime and a Betrayal’  “This is a crime and a betrayal of the blood of our
brothers,” Mohammed Hussami, a protester in Sana’a, said in an
interview.  Saleh first agreed to step down amid street protests in
November after returning from medical treatment in  Saudi Arabia 
for wounds he sustained during an assassination attempt in June.  About 103,000 soldiers and officers will provide security
for the presidential vote, with at least two soldiers in charge
of protecting each ballot box, Yemen’s election commission said
Jan. 19.  Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries, with backing from
the U.S., have sought to resolve the Yemeni conflict. Saudi
Arabia shares a border with Yemen and has been targeted in the
past by Yemen-based militants from al Qaeda, as well as getting
drawn into tribal conflicts.  The unrest has cost Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, more
than $8 billion, Industry and Trade Minister Hisham Sharaf  said
Nov. 13. Attacks against the country’s pipeline network have
disrupted exports and caused nationwide shortages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  