-- Hyundai Rattles VW in Europe With Low Prices After Winning in U.S.: Cars
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-01-22T23:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-22/hyundai-rattles-vw-in-europe-with-low-prices-after-winning-in-u-s-cars.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  threw a party for 120
guests at  New York ’s Museum of  Modern Art  in early January to
mark a breakthrough year in the U.S. for the German automaker.
The celebration proved to be premature.  Two days later in  Detroit ,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra beat
the VW Passat to win the North American Car of the Year award,
underscoring the company’s status as a Volkswagen killjoy. The
Seoul, South Korea-based manufacturer and its  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
affiliate want to repeat their U.S. success, where they outsell
the German company more than three to one, on VW’s home turf.  “It’s very important for Hyundai to be successful” in
Europe, said Allan Rushforth, Hyundai’s chief operating officer
for the region. “Europe is a top priority because it affects
how the company is perceived elsewhere.”  The carmaker, noted for low prices, is targeting Europe as
the region’s debt crisis makes consumers cost-conscious.
Hyundai’s mix of value and reliability helped it more than
double global deliveries since 2004, beating VW’s 60 percent
growth, according to researcher IHS Automotive. Hyundai is now
adding European styling -- nimbler-looking than its U.S. cars --
confronting VW as the German company seeks to surpass  General
Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s largest automaker.  “Hyundai is one of VW’s most serious challengers,” said
 Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management
at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach ,
Germany. “The mix of good value, quality and design is a solid
basis, and they’ve been getting more innovative every year.”  Production Boost  The Hyundai brand plans to increase European sales by about
25 percent to 500,000 cars by 2013, boosted by the i40 sedan and
the three-door Veloster sports coupe as well as the i30 compact
and i40 wagon, which have been styled specifically for the
region, said Rushforth. The company added a third shift at its
factory in the  Czech Republic  last summer to expand production.  Sister brand Kia targets 350,000 deliveries this year, a 19
percent gain from 2011, thanks to new versions of the Optima
sedan and Cee’d compact, said Paul Philpott, the brand’s chief
operating officer for  Europe . Kia will add a third shift at its
factory in Slovakia in the first quarter to boost output of the
Sportage sport-utility vehicle and new Cee’d.  “There’s potential for Kia to become a major mainstream
player in Europe,” with sales of more than 500,000 vehicles,
said Philpott in a Jan. 20 telephone interview from the
company’s regional headquarters near  Frankfurt , adding that
“2011 was our take-off year and 2012 will be our acceleration
year.”  Praise From the Top  VW Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  effectively
anointed Hyundai as a top rival after he was shown on video
praising the adjustable steering column on an i30 compact during
the Frankfurt Motor Show in September.  “Nothing rattles,” Winterkorn said to his entourage in a
video posted on  YouTube , which was viewed more than 1.6 million
times. “Why can they do it? BMW can’t. We can’t.” The i30
starts at 15,490 euros ($19,990) in  Germany , 10 percent less
than VW’s best-selling Golf.  Hyundai plans to keep up the pressure by investing a record
14.1 trillion won ($12.4 billion) to upgrade plants and develop
vehicle technology, the company said Dec. 29.  VW isn’t sitting still. The Wolfsburg-based manufacturer
has budgeted 62.4 billion euros to invest in factories and new
models over the next five years.  CEO Winterkorn told the company’s top 2,000 managers at a
meeting in Dresden in December that he intends to position
Volkswagen to withstand growing competition as it pursues the
auto industry’s profit and technology lead.  Opponents  “It’s become increasingly clear that whoever’s at the
front has a lot of opponents,” Winterkorn said in a speech from
the event, the text of which was obtained by Bloomberg. “Our
competitors are attacking Volkswagen all over the world.”  That pressure became clear on Jan. 9, when the Elantra beat
the Passat and the  Ford Focus  in the voting of a jury of 50
automotive journalists from the U.S. and  Canada  for the
independent award of best new car in  North America . VW wanted to
cap off 2011 with the award after opening a factory in Tennessee
and reporting its highest annual U.S. sales since 2002.  “Hyundai offers compelling design at an affordable price--
a win-win for most consumers,” Jessica Caldwell, a senior
analyst at U.S. auto website Edmunds.com. “Brand exposure has
long been the problem for Hyundai, but that has certainly
eased” with the help of higher sales, ads during the Super Bowl
and the sponsorship of the World Cup soccer tournament.  Still, buyers on the U.K. auto website Drivethedeal.com
paid 82 percent more for VWs, like the 24,175-euro Tiguan SUV,
in the fourth quarter compared with Hyundai vehicles, said
Richard Sanders, the site’s managing director.  “People just seem to trust VW more” when buying higher-
end cars, said Sanders. “But that’s changing. There’s nothing
wrong with Hyundai product anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  