-- 
Ackermann Says Systemic Bank Charge Should Be Credited as Levy

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 
2011-03-23T17:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ackermann-says-systemic-bank-charge-should-be-credited-as-levy.html
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said any surcharge slapped on banks
deemed systemically important should reduce payments for bank
levies because both aim to improve financial system stability.  “I remain strongly opposed to drawing up a list of
SIFIs,” Ackermann said in a speech in  Frankfurt  today,
referring to systemically important financial institutions.
Still, if regulators go ahead with the plans, “a strong case
can be made to roll the bank levy and the SIFI surcharge into
one, so that contributions under a levy are credited under a
SIFI surcharge, and vice-versa.”  The Group of 20 nations agreed in November that lenders
whose collapse would threaten the wider financial system should
face tougher capital rules than other banks, increasing their
ability to take losses without failing. The  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  has been charged by the Financial Stability
Board with drafting the requirements.  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency and central bank ranked
Deutsche Bank as the world’s most systemically important
financial institution among 60 companies, the Mainichi newspaper
reported in December. Nomura Holdings Inc., 19th on the list,
was first among Japanese institutions, the Mainichi said.  “Any list of systemically important financial institutions
will be based on spurious criteria, which, in turn, will create
incentives to manipulate such lists for political reasons,”
Ackermann said in his speech. He cited attempts by supervisors
to declare their domestic champions as being not systemically
important.  Insurers Too  A list of important financial institutions should also
include more than just banks, such as insurers, because
otherwise activities will be pushed into other parts of the
financial system, Ackermann said.  A German proposal to introduce a financial transaction tax
in the euro area “would be disastrous,” because it would hurt
competitiveness in the region and businesses would migrate to
other locations such as  London , Ackermann said.  New regulations such as tougher capital and liquidity
requirements and bank levies “will have, indeed are already
having today, a material impact” on banks’ balance sheets and
profitability, the Deutsche Bank CEO said. He warned about going
“too far,” saying this could impact banks’ ability to support
economic growth and discourage investors from investing in the
financial sector.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  