-- 
Macquarie Risks Staff Departures as Pay Trails Rivals, Nomura Says

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-03-23T03:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/macquarie-risks-staff-departures-as-pay-trails-rivals-nomura-says.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , once dubbed
the “Millionaire Factory” for its high compensation, risks
losing its top bankers as faltering markets shrink pay to half
the level of rivals, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Competition for staff is especially tough in  Asia ,
Macquarie’s biggest market, Sydney-based Nomura analysts led by
Victor German wrote in a report dated yesterday. Macquarie,
whose employee profit-sharing plan pays more as company earnings
rise, risks being unable to reward its top performers if markets
stay subdued, Nomura said.  Australia ’s largest investment bank is relying on a rebound
in trading, mergers and stock sales after profit fell in the six
months through September. Macquarie may have to cut less-
efficient workers to reward and keep top dealmakers until a
stock market recovery boosts earnings and funds available for
compensation, Nomura said.  “Macquarie’s capacity to compete for staff is hampered by
a low level of returns,” German wrote in the report, starting
coverage of the stock with a “buy” rating. “The key for
Macquarie is to retain experienced bankers who will be able to
continue to generate business.”  Paula Hannaford, a spokeswoman for Macquarie in Sydney,
where the bank is based, declined to comment.  Macquarie pays workers an average of A$300,000 ($302,000) a
year, according to Nomura. That’s about 40 percent lower than
global rivals and half the A$600,000 reward for investment
bankers at Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura said.  Recovery Benefits  The bank’s shares fell 0.7 percent to A$35.31 at 1:30 p.m.
in Sydney, extending the year’s decline to 4.6 percent. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index dropped 2.1 percent in the same
period.  Macquarie last month cut its earnings outlook for the six
months ending March 31, further blunting Chief Executive Officer
Nicholas Moore’s ability to reward the best workers. Moore
forecast a 5 percent profit drop from the year-earlier period.  Still, Macquarie may be better equipped than most
competitors to profit from a potential stock-market recovery,
according to Nomura. The brokerage set a target price of A$42
per share for Macquarie, 18 percent above yesterday’s close.  Founded in 1969, Macquarie relies on equity markets for
more than 35 percent of its revenue, second only to Goldman
Sachs’s 39 percent, Nomura said. At 9 percent, Citigroup Inc.
generates the smallest proportion from equity markets, according
to the Nomura report.  German expects Macquarie’s earnings per share to increase
about 30 percent in the 12 months ending March 31, 2012, more
than reversing a 14 percent decline in the year ending March 31.  “Improvement in equity markets is the key,” he wrote.  Employee Revenue  Macquarie employees are paid less than counterparts at
rivals mainly because they generate less revenue, Nomura said in
its report. They bring in A$500,000 a year compared with A$2
million for workers at Deutsche Bank, A$1.2 million at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and A$1 million at  Barclays Capital , according
to the report.  The Australian bank’s revenue per employee is trailing as
it digests investment-banking assets purchased in the U.S. and
 Europe  after the financial crisis. At least $766 million of
takeovers in  North America  in less than two years by Macquarie
has swelled the workforce and shrunk the average compensation.  “It takes time for bankers to generate business post the
acquisition,” German said in his report. “Macquarie has more
bankers than the business can sustain in this environment.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  