-- 
ACS Raises Stake in Hochtief to Gain Effective Control of German Builder

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-23T11:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/acs-raises-stake-in-hochtief-to-gain-effective-control-of-german-builder.html
  Hochtief AG (HOT) ,  Germany ’s largest
construction company, said Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios AS raised its stake beyond 39 percent, giving the
Spanish rival a factual majority at shareholders meetings.  ACS raised its holding to “more than 39 percent,”
Hochtief Chief Executive Officer Herbert Luetkestratkoetter said
at a press conference in Dusseldorf today. ACS has said it plans
to raise that stake to just over 50 percent “in the next few
months,” buying shares in the market, after announcing its bid
for control of the German builder in September.  The increased stake will give ACS sway over Hochtief’s
shareholders meeting on May 12, where attendance stood at 63
percent of the  voting rights  last year. Hochtief has resisted
getting absorbed by ACS, saying it’s better off alone and that
the bid doesn’t add value to investors.  Qatar Holding LLC, the company’s second-largest
shareholder, today said its stake in Hochtief will rise to above
10 percent when its most recent share purchases are settled.  Hochtief today said net income last year rose 50 percent to
a record 288 million euros ($409 million). That beat the average
estimate of 229 million euros in a Bloomberg survey. Output rose
13 percent to 23.23 billion euros. Changes in currencies such as
 Australia ’s dollar added almost 50 million euros to profit,
Chief Financial Officer Burkhard Lohr said.  Hochtief reiterated it plans to earn more than 1 billion
euros in pretax profit by 2013. Hochtief plans to sell its
concessions unit this year, which manages stakes in airports and
schools, and shed its real estate business next year.  Peter Noe, the board member responsible for the concessions
unit, is resigning as of Sept. 10, exercising a special right
after ACS increased its stake. All management board members have
such rights, entitling them to two-and-a-half times their annual
salaries in case of their departure, Luetkestratkoetter said.  Lohr and Luetkestratkoetter both said they are willing to
fulfill their existing contracts, unless they would no longer be
able to implement Hochtief’s strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  