-- 
Adobe Shares Decline After Company Lowering Sales Forecast

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-03-23T20:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/adobe-systems-tempers-forecast-as-quake-threatens-japan-sales.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  shares fell 3.7
percent after the company forecast second-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates, hampered by the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan.  Profit excluding some costs will be 47 cents to 54 cents a
share this quarter, Adobe said yesterday in a statement. That
compared with the 56-cent average of projections compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue will be $970 million to $1.02 billion, the
company said. Analysts had estimated sales of $1.04 billion.  Adobe, the largest maker of graphic-design software, cut
its revenue forecast by $50 million because of the disaster in
Japan. The company gets 10 percent to 15 percent of its revenue
each quarter from that country, making it Adobe’s second-largest
market after the U.S. Some analysts had expected a bigger sales
impact after the March 11 quake and tsunami shut down some power
and transportation systems and disrupted business.  “The big issue is the tragedy in  Japan ,” Adobe Chief
Financial Officer Mark Garrett said in an interview. “We saw a
noticeable drop in our revenue.”  Adobe fell $1.20 to $31.68 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have dropped 9.1 percent since
March 10, the day before the earthquake struck in Japan.  ‘Budget Flush’  The  San Jose , California-based company doesn’t know how
long sales that would have occurred in March -- when many
companies and the government in Japan approach the end of their
fiscal year on March 31 -- will be delayed, Garrett said.  “March is their year-end, and you tend to get budget
flush,” he said. “I don’t think anyone understands yet whether
that flush rolls over into the next quarter, or just goes away
until the next fiscal year.”  Shareholders may have been bracing for a bigger change in
forecast, said Yun Kim, an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in  New
York . Thirteen percent of Adobe’s sales came from Japan last
year, the company has said.  “Investors have probably digested that,” Kim said in an
interview. Excluding the lower revenue in Japan, the rest of
Adobe’s business is performing as expected, said Kim, who has a
“neutral” rating on the shares and doesn’t own them.  Creative Suite  In the first quarter, which ended March 4, Adobe earned 46
cents a share in net income. Sales rose 20 percent to $1.03
billion. Excluding some costs, the company said profit was 58
cents, topping analysts’ average estimate of 57 cents.  Adobe plans to release an update to its Creative Suite
software that will make it easier for designers to build
websites using the HTML5 Internet standard. The company released
Creative Suite 5, which includes the Photoshop and Illustrator
programs, last April. The next major version will arrive in
2012, Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen said on a
conference call yesterday.  The HTML5 standard, which is supported by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , competes with Adobe’s Flash Internet video and
animation software. In the past year, Adobe has clashed with
Apple, which bans Flash on the iPad tablet computer and iPhone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  