-- 
Thailand Planning Fewer Rice Harvests in Pest Fight Means Drop in Exports

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-03-23T11:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/thailand-planning-fewer-rice-harvests-in-pest-fight-means-drop-in-exports.html
Thailand , the world’s largest rice
exporter, plans to reduce planting to curb pests and improve
quality, an official from the Thai Rice Mills Association said.  The plan started in October may eventually reduce exports
by about 2 million metric tons a year, or about 20 percent of
Thailand’s shipments, Pramote Vanichanont, honorary president of
the Bangkok-based association, said in an interview, without
giving a timeframe. The nation plans to set a global benchmark
price through a centralized auction, the government said.  A drop in supplies from the country, which represents one-
third of global shipments of 30 million tons, may boost prices
in  Chicago , which have dropped 3 percent this year, trailing
wheat and corn. World food costs rose to a record in February,
the United Nations estimates, contributing to riots in  Libya  and
the toppling of leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  “I doubt whether it is a good policy, as cutting the
supply may lead to food shortages,” Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a
director at the Thai office of Novel Commodities SA, which
trades about $600 million of rice a year. “By reducing the
supply, this will bring up prices.”  Rice for May delivery gained 0.3 percent to $13.900 per 100
pounds at 7:05 p.m. Singapore time today. The most active
contract increased 9.1 percent in the past 12 months as wheat
climbed 52 percent and corn advanced 89 percent.  A privately run auction will help establish a global
benchmark price that reflects demand and supply, Wichai
Phochanakij, deputy director general of the Internal Trade
Department, said in an interview. Under existing rules, rice
buyers seek bids directly from suppliers and prices for
individual transactions aren’t published, he said.  Prevent Pests  Thailand’s plan to reduce planting encourages farmers to
grow rice twice a year, instead of the usual three times, farm
minister Theera Wongsamut said by phone on March 22.  “The government wants to stop the spread of pests and
disease, cut production costs and improve productivity,” Theera
said. “Benefits from price increases will follow.”  Removing one crop a year will interrupt the life cycle of
pests like plant hoppers and reduce production costs from use of
fertilizers and pesticides, Theera said.  The country produces about 20 million tons of milled rice a
year, half of which is for domestic consumption. Exports from
Thailand may advance as much as 5.2 percent to 9.5 million tons
this year, according to the Ministry of Commerce.  Provide Incentives  “Talk of helping Thai farmers boost productivity, quality
and profits is all well and good, but historically they only
respond to price signals,” said Tom Slayton, an Alexandria,
Virginia-based rice analyst and former publisher of The Rice
Trader. “Unless the government can provide incentives, the
policy will be ignored and there will be no change in production
or export levels.”  Thailand plans to increase exports of premium-grade
varieties and reduce shipments of low-quality grain, which
represent more than half of exports, said Pramote, who is also a
member of the National Rice Policy Committee. The group, headed
by Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , helps set farmer prices and
oversee the sale of government inventories.  Thai rice, the benchmark for Asia, declined 6.5 percent
this year to $519 a ton on March 16 as overseas demand declined
and the new crop from  Vietnam  pushed prices lower, according to
the Thai Rice Exporters Association. The price surged to a
record $1,038 a ton in May 2008.  Farmers are being encouraged to plant soybeans and green
beans -- also known as mung beans -- which act as a natural
fertilizer and can be sold in domestic markets as a substitute
for exports, Theera said.  Cambodia, Myanmar  If the program fails, the government may consider other
measures such as paying farmers not to plant rice, Pramote said.  “We don’t aim to be the world’s largest exporter,” he
said March 21. “We’ve learnt from past experiences of being a
key player in the market that farmers have been suffering losses
because we can’t set appropriate prices by ourselves.”  Rice exports from Cambodia and Myanmar, which have lower
production costs, could increase to offset any decline from
Thailand, Pramote said. The two countries are Southeast  Asia ’s
third- and fourth-largest shippers, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  The government plans to increase rice productivity by 10
percent, boosting average yields to 500 kilograms per rai (0.16
hectare) in the crop year starting October 2015, Prasert Gosalvitra, head of Thailand’s state-run  Rice Department , said
on March 21. That will raise rough-rice output to 34.5 million
tons from 31.4 million tons in the current crop year, he said.  Output of high-quality jasmine fragrant rice is expected to
surge 20 percent by 2015, Prasert said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  