-- 
Thailand to Establish Benchmark Rice Price With Physical Market

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-03-23T04:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/thailand-to-establish-benchmark-rice-price-with-physical-market.html
Thailand , the world’s largest rice
supplier, plans to establish a global benchmark price by
allowing buyers and sellers to bid for shipments through a
privately run centralized auction, the government said.  “The market will provide an opportunity for buyers to meet
sellers and to set a price that reflects demand and supply,”
Wichai Phochanakij, deputy director general of the Internal
Trade Department, said in an interview. Under existing rules,
rice buyers seek bids directly from suppliers and prices for
individual transactions aren’t published, he said.  Establishing a benchmark price may help ease volatility in
trading of the grain, the staple food for half the world. Rice
futures have surged more than 43 percent in  Chicago  from last
year’s low as governments boosted stockpiles to curb rising
domestic prices that contributed to protests in North Africa and
the Middle East. The price has dropped 3.6 percent this year.  “With this central market, producers of packaged rice who
demand about 10 million tons a year and importers, such as the
 Philippines  and  Indonesia , will have access to the market,
buying directly from millers,” Wichai said. “Once trading
volumes become sizable, prices from this market can become the
country’s benchmark and ultimately the global benchmark.”  Thailand exports almost half of the 20 million tons of
milled rice it produces each year. The country’s shipments,
which represent about one-third of the world’s total rice trade,
may increase as much as 5.2 percent to 9.5 million tons this
year, according to the Ministry of Commerce.  Competing Benchmarks  The  Thai Rice Exporters Association  sets a weekly benchmark
price for exported rice that takes into account fluctuations in
currencies, and supply and demand. The nation’s millers conduct
a daily survey to formulate a domestic benchmark price.  The country’s benchmark export price has fallen 6.5 percent
this year, and was at $519 a ton on March 16, according to the
Thai Rice Exporters Association. The price surged to a record
$1,038 a metric ton in May 2008, when food shortages sparked
riots from  Haiti  to  Egypt .  Thailand held its first centralized auction of white rice
on March 20 in Nakhon Sawan province, the country’s largest
rice-producing area. A total of 20 millers, exporters and
traders took part, said Wassana Assaranurak, managing director
of Chaopraya Tha Rua Kumnun Song Co., the closely held company
that operates the market.  Jasmine Rice  Sellers offered 3,000 tons of rice, and received bids for
1,000 tons, Wassana said. Buyers purchased 30 tons of 100-
percent white rice at 14 baht per kilogram ($462 a ton) and 30
tons of Chainat white rice at 20 baht a kilogram.  “It was a satisfactory kick-start that hopefully will
attract more participants,” Wassana said.  Chaopraya Tha Rua Kumnun Song operated a centralized market
for rough-rice trading from 1991 to 2004, before the government
of former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  began to purchase
grain directly from farmers to boost local prices. Trading
volume reached 5,000 tons a day during the market’s peak,
Wassana said.  “The market will increase opportunities for millers to
sell products at a price that reflects demand,” said Komkrit
Thammarattanakul, vice president of the Thai Rice Mills
Association.  The successful development of the white-rice market might
prompt the establishment of a second bourse for trading jasmine
fragrant rice in Thailand’s northeast, a key production area for
the premium grain, Wichai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  