-- 
Allies Attack Libyan Military as U.S. Seeks NATO Command

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-24T19:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/airstrikes-pressurizing-qaddafi-forces-as-u-s-seeks-to-hand-off-control.html
U.S. and allied warplanes carried
out further strikes against Muammar Qaddafi’s ground forces and
hit an air base deep inside  Libya  as coalition nations neared
agreement on having NATO assume operational control.  French aircraft bombed an air base 250 kilometers (155
miles) south of Libya’s coast last night, a French military
spokesman, Thierry Burkhard, said. The U.S. said there were 15
missile strikes on Libyan forces overnight. Qaddafi loyalists
increased their attacks on cities, killing 16 people yesterday
in Misrata in the west and six in the nearby coastal town of
Zentan, opposition spokesman Abdulhafid Ghoga said at a news
conference in Benghazi. The French Defense Ministry said one of
its Rafale jets, after tracking a Libyan plane in the no-fly
zone, destroyed it after it landed in Misrata.  “Our mission is to prevent attacks on civilians,” French
Defense Minister Gerard Longuet told a news conference in Paris
today. “That includes tanks and artillery. Legitimate targets
also include the command centers that give the orders to hurt
civilians.”  French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said at a press
conference in Paris that the military operation will last weeks,
not months.  Oil prices  have jumped about 25 percent since the Libyan
rebellion began last month in the eastern city of Benghazi,
heightening concerns about Middle East crude exports. The revolt
has evolved from a popular uprising of the kind that ousted
leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  this year into a civil war with
factions of the army on both sides.  Gold Record  Crude oil fluctuated near a 30-month high in  New York .
Crude for May delivery decreased 48 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$105.27 a barrel at 1:06 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have risen 31 percent in the past year. Gold
futures jumped to a record of $1,448.60 an ounce as the turmoil
helped spur demand for the metal as an alternative investment.  Coalition leaders say they’ve already crippled Qaddafi’s
air force and are now concentrating on his army. Government
tanks pulled back from the seaside city of Misrata after a
bombing raid, the AP reported, citing a local doctor.  “Misrata is still a very dangerous area for civilians,”
Captain Clint Gebke, a U.S. military spokesman, said by phone
from the USS Mount Whitney, a command ship in the Mediterranean.  Libya’s capital, Tripoli, and the city of Sebha were under
air bombardment early today, state television reported. Khaled
Kaim, the deputy foreign minister, renewed a cease-fire offer
and called for the bombing to stop, Al Arabiya television said.  ‘Political Direction’  Juppe told RTL Radio that the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization will organize the military operation, while foreign
ministers from the participating countries will meet in  London 
next week to set the “political direction.”  Progress is being made on transferring operational control
from the U.S. to NATO, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
Parliament in London.  “We are making progress in NATO taking on all measures
under resolution 1973 needed to protect civilians from Qaddafi’s
attacks,” Hague said, referring to the United Nations Security
Council resolution that authorized the mission. “We need
agreement to unified command and control for it to be robust,
and we expect to get that soon.”  The U.S. will move to a “support and assist” role in the
air campaign against Qaddafi’s forces as command of the
operation is handed off, likely to NATO, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Formidable NATO  Longuet said NATO is a “formidable tool” to manage
operations, though less suited to administer political aims,
which will fall to the “contact group” of foreign ministers.  The French minister also said the coalition has intercepted
conversations among Libyan officers indicating that many are
ready to abandon the regime.  Hague reaffirmed that there will be no invasion of Libya by
Western countries, though he said he “can’t exclude” the
small-scale use of special forces on the ground. Qatar has
joined other nations in enforcing the no-fly zone, he said.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, Yemen’s parliament voted
yesterday for emergency rule to curtail anti-government
protests, as generals, ministers and lawmakers deserted the
regime of President Ali Abdullah Saleh and joined the
demonstrators calling for change.  Syrians in the southern city of Daraa were ordered to stay
indoors yesterday after reports that at least 15 people were
killed by police,  Amnesty International  said.  Israeli warplanes struck targets in the Hamas-controlled
 Gaza Strip  and four rockets hit southern  Israel  as violence
escalated, a day after a  Jerusalem  bombing killed a British
woman and injured 30 other people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  