-- 
Taiwan February Industrial Output Rises Least in 5 Months

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-03-23T09:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/taiwan-february-industrial-output-rises-least-in-5-months-2-.html
Taiwan ’s industrial production rose
by less than expected in February as construction and building
work slumped, signaling the island’s economic growth may be
moderating.  Output advanced 13.28 percent from a year earlier, the
smallest gain in five months, after climbing a revised 17.44
percent in January, the  Ministry of Economic Affairs  said in
Taipei today. The median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 16.25 percent increase.  The slower expansion may not deter the central bank from
joining neighbors including  China  and  South Korea  in extending
interest-rate increases as it strives to avert a property bubble.
The monetary authority will discuss price pressures and the
impact of  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami on the economy at its
quarterly policy meeting next week.  “Imported inflationary pressure has not been removed yet
and the earthquake could negatively affect Taiwan’s exports and
industrial output,” said Lucas Lee, an economist with Mega
International Investment Services Corp. in Taipei. These factors
may lead the central bank to raise its key interest rate by
0.125 percentage point rather than the 0.25 percentage point
some economists were expecting, he said.  The pace of output growth may weaken to about 10 percent in
March due to a high base effect and slowing demand from Japan as
it struggles to recover from the disaster that struck March 11,
Huang Ji-shih, director of the Ministry of Economic Affairs’
statistics bureau, said at a briefing today.  Construction Slump  Production surged 41.21 percent in March 2010, according to
government data.  Today’s figures were released after the close of trading on
the stock exchange. The Taiex index ended up 0.44 percent at
8,545.08. Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.2 percent to NT$29.585
against its U.S. counterpart at the 4 p.m. close, according to
Taipei Forex Inc.  Output at manufacturers in February rose 15.38 percent from
a year earlier, after climbing a revised 17.52 percent in
January, today’s figures showed. Production in the mining and
quarrying industries advanced 14 percent while building and
construction dropped 58.96 percent.  “The decline in the construction sector may have been a
result of the proposal for a home sales tax,” Huang said today.
“The drop was most significant in the island’s five major
cities.”  Property Tax  Taiwan’s Cabinet this month approved a proposal by the
 finance ministry  to impose a 15 percent tax on residential
properties sold within a year of purchase and a 10 percent levy
on homes sold within two years. The plan, aimed at curbing
speculation, will be implemented on July 1.  The Taiex Construction Index, which tracks 36 developers
and construction companies has slumped 19 percent this year
compared with a 4.8 percent decline in the benchmark index.  The central bank, which will hold its first meeting of 2011
on March 31, raised its benchmark interest rate by 0.125
percentage point in June, September and December last year. The
discount rate on 10-day loans to banks now stands at 1.625
percent.  “The quake will cause short-term disruption to external
demand, but overall the island’s economy is expanding robustly
enough for the central bank to raise rates,” Nison Chen, an
economist at Capital Securities in Taipei, said before the
release. Officials will likely boost the benchmark rate by 0.125
percentage point to 1.75 percent at their March 31 policy
meeting, he said.  Hiring Workers  Taiwan’s unemployment rate fell to a 28-month low of 4.59
percent in February, the statistics bureau said yesterday.
Chimei Innolux Corp. and AU Optronics Corp. said this month they
plan to hire thousands of workers as they expand output.
 Evergreen Marine Corp. , the listed unit of  Asia ’s biggest
container line, yesterday posted a third straight quarter of
profit as the global economic recovery boosted shipping rates.  Home prices  in Taipei rose 12.2 percent last year to a
record, according to Dave Chiou, a Taipei-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc.  Consumer prices increased 1.33 percent in February from a
year earlier, the fastest pace in three months, the statistics
bureau said on March 7. The government last month forecast
inflation of 2 percent this year compared with 0.96 percent in
2010.  ‘Manageable’ Impact  The earthquake and tsunami in Japan which sparked a nuclear
crisis may lead to a temporary slowdown in the nation’s growth,
which will have a modest short-term impact on East Asia and the
Pacific, the  World Bank  said in a report this week.  The disruption to the supply of components caused by the
disasters is “manageable,” although if it persists beyond a
couple of months the impact on Taiwan’s production could
increase “substantially,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists
said in a March 21 note.  Growth in the island’s export orders eased to a 16-month
low in February as demand from Japan declined and purchases from
China moderated, a government report showed this week.  Orders from Japan may continue to fall due to the impact of
the earthquake, Beatrice Tsai, deputy director-general of the
economic ministry’s statistics department, said at a press
briefing in Taipei on March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  