-- 
Malaysia Islamic Banking Assets Rise 16 Percent to $116 Billion

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-03-23T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/malaysia-islamic-banking-assets-rise-16-percent-to-116-billion.html
Islamic banking assets in  Malaysia ,
the world’s biggest market for Shariah-compliant debt, rose 16
percent last year after the government approved new licenses and
eased restrictions on foreign ownership, the central bank said.  Assets that comply with Islam’s ban on interest increased
to 350.8 billion ringgit ($116 billion) and accounted for 21
percent of the total banking system, according to  Bank Negara
Malaysia’s  2010 annual report published in Kuala Lumpur today.  “Malaysia’s position as the global hub for Islamic finance
will continue to be reinforced, supported by a diverse set of
institutions, deep, liquid and efficient financial markets,”
the central bank said. Bank Negara will “focus on developing
the players, infrastructure and expertise required to meet the
needs of the growing economy.”  The Southeast Asian nation, where 60 percent of the 28
million people are Muslims, will issue new permits this year for
Islamic banks with a minimum capital of $1 billion, Deputy
Governor Mohd Razif Abd Kadir said Jan. 28. The central bank
granted five licenses in 2010 to foreign banks including
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC. Four family takaful operators,
or Islamic insurers, also received permits including a joint
venture between AIA Group Ltd. and Alliance Bank Malaysia Bhd.  “With the expertise, global network and strong business
capacity,” international institutions “will contribute to the
future growth and diversity of Malaysia’s financial system,
support new areas of economic growth and facilitate
international trade and investment flows,” it said.  New Blueprint  Shariah-compliant lending rose 19 percent to 222.3 billion
ringgit in 2010 and accounted for 23 percent of total loans,
according to the report.  Bank Negara  will issue a blueprint this
year that will detail strategies and recommendations for the
Islamic finance industry, it said, without giving details.  The $1 trillion Islamic finance industry has expanded 20
percent annually since 2000 and is among the fastest-growing
segments in global banking, according to an  April report  from
the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board.  Sukuk, or Shariah-compliant bonds, sold in Malaysia reached
$94 billion in 2010, accounting for 66 percent of the total
outstanding around the world, according to the central bank
report.  Islamic insurance, which is based on the Koranic principle
of mutual assistance whereby members are the insurers as well as
the insured, rose to account for an 8.7 percent share of the
total market last year, from 8.3 percent at the end of 2009, the
report said. Total Islamic insurance assets increased 18 percent
to 14.7 billion ringgit at the end of 2010 from 2009.  “The Islamic banking system continued to remain resilient
throughout 2010, supported by high capitalization and
improvement in asset quality,” the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  