-- 
Malkiel’s AlphaShares Spins Off China Funds as Baochuan Capital

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/malkiel-s-alphashares-spins-off-china-funds-as-baochuan-capital.html
AlphaShares LLC, the index creator
and fund manager that invests in Chinese stocks co-founded by
Princeton University economist Burton Malkiel, sold its
investment unit to the company’s executives.  Baochuan Capital Management LLC will oversee  hedge funds 
that invest in the world’s most populous nation, while
AlphaShares will continue creating and licensing indexes for
exchange-traded funds, according to Kevin Carter, a co-founder
AlphaShares who will be Baochuan’s CEO. Malkiel will be
Baochuan’s chief investment officer and chairman of the
AlphaShares Index Committee. The firms, which together manage
$600 million and are both based in Walnut Creek,  California ,
didn’t disclose terms.  “The separation lets AlphaShares focus on developing
better China indices, primarily for ETFs, while letting BaoCap
focus on active investment strategies for institutional
investors,” Carter, 41, who co-founded the firm with Malkiel in
2007, said.  Investors are pouring cash into funds buying Asian stocks.
They held $344.5 billion in Chinese assets as of the end of the
third quarter, up 12 percent from a year earlier, according to
the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute . U.S. total
net assets grew by 4 percent over the same period to $11.27
trillion, while  Europe ’s expanded by 4.2 percent to $7.78
trillion.  Other Hires  Baochuan hired three others from AlphaShares. Mark Adams
will be director of research, Jonathan Masse will become senior
portfolio manager and Mark Wehrman will be director of business
development, according to a statement from Baochuan.  AlphaShares last year introduced an index similar to the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, that
uses options prices to track stock market volatility in China
and  Hong Kong . The AlphaShares Chinese Volatility Index, tracks
the implied volatility of options on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , Hong
Kong’s equity benchmark, and the FTSE/Xinhua  China  25 Index of
China’s 25 largest companies by market value.  Malkiel forecast in January 2008 that Chinese stocks were
poised to plunge, saying in an interview that the “bubble”
would burst once the government allowed funds to flow more
freely. The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s bourses, tumbled 65 percent that year.  The Shanghai Composite Index, representing the larger of
China’s two major exchanges, has gained 4 percent this year on
optimism the world’s second-biggest economy will withstand
tighter monetary policies. Manufacturing is expanding even as
the government raises  interest rates  and orders banks to set
aside more reserves to slow inflation that is exceeding
government targets.  Baochuan takes its name from the 400-foot-long ships in a
15th century Chinese naval armada commanded by admiral  Zheng He ,
who sailed to  Southeast Asia ,  India , Arabia and East Africa more
than a half century before Christopher Columbus reached to the
Americas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 