-- 
Hannover Re Estimates Japan Quake Claims at EU250 Million

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-03-23T08:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/hannover-re-estimates-japan-quake-claims-at-eu250-million-1-.html
Hannover Re , the world’s third-
biggest reinsurer, estimated its claims from the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan at about 250 million euros ($354 million).  Any assessment of the loss is still subject to considerable
uncertainty, the Hanover, Germany-based company said in a
statement today. The preliminary claims figure is after
retrocession and before tax, it said.  Hannover Re said it will provide more detailed information
on the current financial year on May 3 along with first-quarter
earnings. The reinsurer on March 9 reiterated its full-year
profit target of about 650 million euros, two days before the
9.0-magnitude earthquake struck off Japan’s coast on March 11
and left more than 9,000 people confirmed dead.  Reinsurers, which help protect primary carriers such as
Allianz SE and Axa SA against the cost of major claims from
disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, limit their own
risks by selling parts of them to other reinsurers in a process
known as retrocession.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, yesterday dropped
its 2011 profit target after saying claims from Japan are
expected to reach about 1.5 billion euros.  Hannover Re, which has earmarked 530 million euros for
major claims in 2011, estimates losses so far this year at 440
million euros to 500 million euros, according to its  web site .  Total Loss  “In view of the complexity of the event, reliable
information on the total market loss for the  insurance industry 
is not yet available,” Hannover Re said in today’s statement.  Catastrophe modeling firm Eqecat said on March 16 that
insurers and reinsurers will probably have losses of $12 billion
to $25 billion from the  Japan  earthquake and tsunami. Modeler
AIR Worldwide had estimated losses of as much as 2.8 trillion
yen ($35 billion) from the quake alone.  Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-biggest
reinsurer, estimated on March 21 it will face claims of about
$1.2 billion from the earthquake and the tsunami in Japan. The
figure is low because Japan’s government insures residential
properties covered by non-life companies against earthquake and
tsunami damage and this protection is not reinsured
internationally, the Zurich-based company said.  Scor SE, the world’s sixth-largest reinsurer, said on March
14 that its claims will be less than 185 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  