-- 
Apple Says Computer-Software Chief Serlet Is Stepping Down

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-23T20:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/apple-says-bertrand-serlet-to-leave-the-company.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  announced the departure
of Bertrand Serlet, a senior software engineer at the company
since the return of Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  in 1997
and a main architect of the Mac operating system.  Serlet, 50, senior vice president for computer-software
engineering, is leaving to focus more on research, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said today in a statement. Craig Federighi, the division’s vice president, will take Serlet’s
place and report to Jobs.  “I’ve worked with Steve for 22 years and have had an
incredible time developing products at both NeXT and Apple, but
at this point, I want to focus less on products and more on
science,” Serlet said in a statement.  Serlet, who holds a doctorate in computer science from the
University of Orsay,  France , joined the company in 1997, when
Apple acquired NeXT, the computer business Jobs founded after
leaving Apple in 1985.  Departures have been rare lately among Jobs’s top
executives. He has kept a core team intact, including Chief
Operating Officer  Tim Cook , who’s running the company while he’s
on medical leave. Others include Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer ; Phil Schiller, the marketing chief; Ron Johnson,
head of retail; Bob Mansfield, who runs hardware engineering;
Scott Forstall, who is in charge of iPhone software; and
Jonathan Ive, head of design.  Mac Os X  Mark Papermaster, a senior vice president who Apple hired
in 2008 to run its mobile-device engineering unit, left last
year and now works at Cisco System Inc.  Serlet helped develop the Mac OS X operating system that
runs Apple’s Macintosh computers. The next version of Apple’s
Mac operating system, to be called Lion, is scheduled to be
released later this year.  Federighi, who also worked at NeXT, has led Mac software
engineering since 2009, after spending a decade at Sunnyvale,
California-based  Ariba Inc. (ARBA)  in roles including vice president of
Internet services and chief technology officer.  Apple fell $2.01, or less than 1 percent, to close at
$339.19 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. in New York.
The shares have gained 5.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net 
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  