-- 
Apple Is Said to Consider Expanding AirPlay for Streaming Video

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-23T17:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/apple-is-said-to-weigh-expanding-airplay-for-streaming-video-on-devices.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is weighing an expansion
of its AirPlay audio service to include streaming video from an
iPhone or iPad to television sets, according to two people
familiar with the project.  Under the plan, Apple would license its  AirPlay  software to
consumer-electronics makers that could use it in devices for
streaming movies, TV shows and other video content, said the
people, who asked to remain anonymous because the plans haven’t
been made public. Apple now only licenses AirPlay for streaming
audio. Devices that could be used for video may be available
this year, one of the people said.  An expanded AirPlay would let users stream programming
wirelessly from an Apple mobile device to a TV that carries the
technology. That may spur wider use of Apple’s services and
devices in consumers’ living rooms. Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  has had limited success selling Apple TV, a set-top
box introduced in 2007, and as recently as September still
called the product a “hobby.”  “Because of the market size they have with their portable
devices, they have a naturally large share of the audio
market,” said Jasper Vervoort, a director of marketing at Royal
Philips Electronics NV. “I don’t know how successful they will
be with video. We would definitely have an interest in
supporting it."  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  ‘Blessing’ for TV Makers  AirPlay was introduced in September as a way for users to
wirelessly stream audio and video from an iPhone or iPad to the
$99 Apple TV. A person using an iPad to watch a video from a
website or movie downloaded from iTunes could quickly sync it to
play on a TV through Apple TV. It also lets users view photos
and other media from a mobile device on a big screen.  Apple and electronics makers may both benefit from
expanding video capabilities beyond Apple TV. Streaming video
from Apple mobile devices to TVs and other products may
reinforce the use of iPads and iPhones to download more video
sold through Apple’s  iTunes  Store, while also enticing consumers
to buy new home-theater gear.  ‘‘Apple connectivity in AirPlay is a blessing for an
industry trying to move the needle forward on sales,” said Russ
Johnston, an executive vice president at  Pioneer Corp. (6773)  He
declined to discuss the potential for video.  Electronics Expansion  Apple doesn’t typically license its software to other
manufacturers, though it has made an exception with AirPlay for
audio. Apple licenses the technology to electronics companies
including Pioneer Corp. and D&M Holdings Inc., which use the
technology to stream music to speakers and receivers.  Companies pay Apple $4 for each device sold that carries
AirPlay, according to two people who are familiar with the
arrangements, though not authorized to speak about them. Those
licensing agreements prevent video from being streamed, even
though the technology is there to do it, one person said.  Heavy early interest in the audio capabilities gives Apple
the opportunity to open AirPlay beyond music, adding movies and
other video services. After getting thousands of “Made for
AirPlay” music-oriented devices manufactured by the other
electronics companies into the market, Apple’s ultimate aim may
be to grab a chunk of the $100 billion global television market,
said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw.  “They could be establishing a toehold in the digital
living room,” said Kumar, who’s based in  New York .  Google Rivalry  Adding new ways for people to use their iPhone or iPad
helps Apple make its devices more compelling to customers, while
also giving it an edge over what’s available from Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , Kumar said.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which competes with Apple in mobile software
and advertising, also has been trying to gain traction in the
living room. The  Mountain View , California-based company is
providing a version of its Android operating system for TVs
consumer-electronics companies including  Sony Corp. (6758)   The efforts reflect a sea change in how people watch TV
shows and movies, with more consumers getting material streamed
instantly from services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  or Hulu LLC. Jobs
has said consumers soon will get most of their music, movies and
other content in digital form. He’s already gone so far as to
bar Blu-ray DVD players from Mac computers.  Analysts including  Gene Munster  at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
 Minneapolis  have speculated Apple will expand its ecosystem of
products to include Web-connected televisions, a market that
relies on high volume and manufacturing efficiency to overcome
falling retail prices and low margins.  Avoiding Risk  The company could lessen that risk by partnering with
television makers, Kumar said, letting them take the financial
bet and adopt AirPlay for streaming video between devices in and
out of the home.  A challenge for streaming video from a mobile device is
ensuring the bandwidth is strong enough to carry the signal
without interruption, said  Tim Bajarin , president of technology
consulting firm Creative Strategies. Google also faced pushback
from companies including  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  News Corp. (NWSA)  that didn’t
want the Internet televisions to allow shows to be watched for
free from websites.  Apple’s chip vendor for AirPlay is  BridgeCo. , a closely
held company based in El Segundo,  California . BridgeCo. is
working with several TV makers to build its products into Web-
connected TVs, according to two people familiar with the talks.
It’s unclear whether those devices will include the AirPlay
technology.  For Apple, AirPlay is a way to expand into the living room
without having to introduce new products.  “Apple knows most of the action in the home entertainment
space these days is iTunes music and the iTunes movie store, so
they’re saying, ‘We’re not going to be in this business, but we
will make it possible for anybody to play well with our
products,” said Thomas Cullen,  co-founder  of Sonos Inc., a
rival multi-room streaming audio system.  -- Editors: Thomas Giles, Lisa Wolfson  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at cedwards28@bloomberg.net Adam Satariano  in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 