-- 
ArcelorMittal Spinoff Aperam Plans Debt Sale: New Issue Alert

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-03-23T09:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/arcelormittal-spinoff-aperam-liberty-global-plans-sales-new-issue-alert.html
Aperam, the stainless-steel
producer spun off by ArcelorMittal, and Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg
GmbH, the cable television provider being acquired by Liberty
Global Inc., are leading at least $4.53 billion of planned bond
sales in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There have been $30.7 billion in corporate bond sales this
week. There were $11.2 billion in corporate bond sales last
week. Sales this year total $343 billion, compared with $272
billion in the similar period in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Following is a description of at least $875 million of
pending sales of corporate and other bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  KABEL BADEN-WUERTTEMBERG GMBH, the cable television
provider being acquired by Liberty Global Inc., is planning a
2.25 billion-euro sale of bonds in euros and dollars, according
to a banker involved in the transaction. Kabel is offering
unsecured 10-year notes that may yield about 9.75 percent and
secured eight-year securities at about 7.75 percent, said the
banker, who declined to be identified because terms haven’t been
set. The sale also includes seven-year secured notes that may
yield 425 basis points to 450 basis points more than Euribor.  High Yield  APERAM, the stainless-steel producer spun off by
ArcelorMittal, plans to sell $250 million of 5-year debt and
$250 million of 7-year notes. Proceeds will be used to repay
outstanding amounts under a bridge facility with ArcelorMittal
Finance.  JAMES RIVER COAL CO. plans to sell $250 million of senior
notes due 2019, according to a statement from PR Newswire. The
Richmond, Virginia-based company also plans to sell $125 million
of convertible senior debt due 2018, according to the statement.
Proceeds will help fund the acquisition of International
Resource Partners LP. The notes may be rated Caa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and B+ by  Standard & Poor’s , according to a
person familiar with the offering who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  MRIYA AGRO HOLDING PLC, a Ukrainian farming company, hired
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and UBS AG to arrange a sale of bonds in dollars, according to a
banker involved with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  CRESTWOOD MIDSTREAM PARTNERS LP plans to sell $200 million
of eight-year notes, the Houston-based Crestwood Midstream said
in a statement distributed by Marketwire.  The debt will be non-
callable for four years and help finance the acquisition of
assets from Frontier Gas Services LLC, said a person familiar
with the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the former Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
once known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. The
proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370
million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  CAISSE D’AMORTISSEMENT DE LA DETTE SOCIALE, the French
state-owned financial institution created to repay social
security system debt, plans to sell notes in benchmark size,
typically at least $500 million, according to a person familiar
with the transaction, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  BANK NEDERLANDSE GEMEENTEN NV, the bank responsible for
medium- and long-term lending to municipalities in the
Netherlands, may sell 3-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the sale. The offering is subject to market
conditions, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  SUNAC CHINA HOLDINGS LTD., a developer based in Tianjin,
postponed a series of investor credit meetings after it hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it with a sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering. The five-year notes may
be rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  ASTON RESOURCES LTD., the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to $500
million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between
China and  Russia  raise funds from credit markets. The sale will
“probably” take place in 2011, pending parliament’s approval,
Vice Minister of Finance Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said March 3 in
an interview in Ulan Bator.  BAA LTD., the owner of  London ’s Heathrow airport, said it
plans to sell bonds in dollars for the first time this year as
it seeks to fund the renovation of  Europe ’s biggest hub. The
company is owned by  Spain ’s Ferrovial SA.  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions, said Siobhan MacDermott, AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, in an interview Feb.
10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes with
McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300 million
of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD.,  India ’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in  Sao Paulo .  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/ )  GAIL LTD., a government-run gas distributor in India, may
sell $200 million of dollar-denominated bonds, Finance Director
Raj Kumar Goel said in  New Delhi .  PT SULFINDO ADIUSAHA, an Indonesian company which makes
chlorine and chemicals, hired Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell five-year, fixed-rate dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  INKIA ENERGY, a unit of Israel Corp., may sell bonds in the
U.S. to finance expansion of its electricity generation
business, according to a spokesman for the holding company. The
company plans to raise $250 million from the sale and is in
discussions with several foreign banks, Calcalist reported Jan.
9, without saying where it obtained the information.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government, is contemplating a new debt sale, a person
familiar with the matter said. The firm hasn’t considered a
timeline for when it might sell more bonds, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. AIG sold
$2 billion of bonds Dec. 1 in its first offering since it was
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL,  Thailand ’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 