-- 
Harvard Toenail Study Shows Heart Benefits From Fish Beat Risk of Mercury

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/harvard-toenail-study-shows-mercury-from-eating-fish-not-a-heart-risk.html
The heart benefits from eating most
fish outweigh the potential risks of ingesting mercury found in
the seafood, according to a Harvard study of people’s toenail
clippings.  Higher mercury exposure didn’t boost the incidence of
coronary heart disease, stroke or cardiovascular disease,
according to a study from  Harvard Medical School , in  Boston . The
report, published yesterday in the  New England Journal of
Medicine , analyzed toenails because they are an indicator of the
body’s absorption of mercury over the years, researchers wrote.  Eating fatty fish such as albacore tuna, mackerel, sardines
and herring may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease
because they have nutrients that can boost heart wellness,
according to the study. In adults, mercury is also linked to a
risk of heart ailments. The research shows the heart benefits
are greater than any drawbacks from exposure to mercury found in
 almost all fish , the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said.  “These findings suggest that people need not worry about
cardiovascular harm from mercury exposure when deciding whether
or not to consume fish,” Dariush Mozaffarian, the lead author
and associate professor in the department of epidemiology at the
Harvard School of  Public Health , and in the division of
cardiovascular medicine at  Harvard Medical School , said in a
statement.  Pregnancy Risks  Mercury is also known to stunt neurological development in
children. In 2004, the Environmental Protection Agency and FDA
 recommended  that children and women who are pregnant or might
become pregnant avoid certain kinds of fish and limit their fish
intake. Mercury exposure in the womb can affect a fetus’s
developing brain and nervous system, according to the
 Environmental Protection Agency ’s website.  This study’s failure to find an association between mercury
exposure and increased risk of cardiovascular disease in adults
shouldn’t alter public-health and policy efforts to lower
mercury contamination in fish and the environment, which could
still partly have the potential to “offset the net
cardiovascular benefits of fish consumption,” the authors
wrote.  “Our findings should also not alter advisories directed
toward women who are or may become pregnant or who are
nursing,” the researchers said in the report, citing the
potential for neurodevelopmental harm from mercury.  Long-Term Studies  The researchers analyzed data from two long-term studies,
the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study composed of men, and
the Nurses’ Health Study composed of women. Both groups have
been answering questions every two years about their medical
history and lifestyle.  Harvard researchers analyzed 3,427 patients who had
coronary artery disease or stroke and matched them to similar
controls. To compare levels of mercury, researchers divided the
participants into five groups, from lowest to highest exposure.
Those with the highest mercury concentration were no more likely
to have  heart disease  than those with the lowest levels in their
toenails.  Fish is a source of omega-3 fatty acids, which have been
shown to benefit heart health,  according to  the  American Heart
Association . Unlike many meats, it isn’t high in saturated fats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 