-- 
Harvey Nichols to Expand in Private Label as Sales Growth Slows

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-03-23T10:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/harvey-nichols-to-expand-in-private-label-as-sales-growth-slows.html
Harvey Nichols Group Ltd. , the
luxury department-store chain, will create a private-label
collection of women’s items and expand online in a bid to stave
off a slowdown in revenue growth since January discounts.  “We are quietly confident that with this in place we can
continue sustainable growth despite a very poor market
outlook,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Wan said in an
interview. Same-store sales growth slipped to 3 percent since
February from 7 percent to 8 percent in the last nine months of
2010, he said. “Things are clearly weakening quite rapidly.”  Harvey Nichols, bought by  Hong Kong  businessman Dickson Poon in 2003, plans to “aggressively” develop an own-label
range including women’s shoes and small  leather goods  for the
winter season, Wan said. The brand will be introduced slowly,
building on the range of men’s shirts and suits already sold.
Quality will be comparable to the “top brands” but at a price
15 percent lower, he said.  The move follows other luxury-department stores including
Harrod’s Ltd. in expanding private-label ranges as luxury brands
like Burberry Group Plc and Prada SpA reduce their dependence on
third-party distributors. With lower prices than mainstream
luxury brands, retailers’ labels can appeal to customers who are
more price sensitive.  U.K. consumer confidence fell to a record low in February
as Britons grew more pessimistic about the sustainability of the
economic recovery and the outlook for jobs, according to
 Nationwide Building Society .  ‘Feel-Good Factor’  Customers are still shopping but the “feel-good factor”
has gone with people splashing out less, according to Wan. Sales
of fine wine have fallen, with fewer than 10 bottles of 2,000-
pound 1982 Chateau Margaux wine sold last year at the store’s
Oxo Tower restaurant. Prior to the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc. in 2008, the retailer sold that many each month.  The privately held company is buying more lower-priced so-
called diffusion lines from popular brands like PPR SA’s
 Alexander McQueen ’s “McQ” range and Chloe’s “See by Chloe”
line to attract a newer customer base, the CEO said. A canvas
tote bag from See by Chloe sells for 70 pounds ($114), compared
to a leather version for around 1,000 pounds available on other
retailer’s websites.  Premium luxury collections also being added to the
company’s selection, including  Lana Marks , the U.S. maker of
baby alligator handbags, which sell for more than 50,000 pounds
per piece.  Revenue at Harvey Nichols’ online store will double as it
adds more expensive items to the site. New stores in Hong Kong
at the Pacific Place mall in 2011 and in  Kuwait City  in 2012
will also help drive growth, the executive said.  Harvey Nichols, founded in 1813 and sold for 137.5 million
pounds in 2003, has a flagship store in London’s exclusive
Knightsbridge area as well as outlets in Bristol, Manchester,
Edinburgh, Birmingham and Leeds and the Oxo Tower and Prism
restaurants in London. It also has stores in Dublin, Hong Kong,
Dubai,  Saudi Arabia ,  Turkey  and  Indonesia .  Upheavel in the Middle East is having no impact on its
stores in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia and Dubai, Wan added.  “So far nothing has pulled back our overseas opening
program,” he said. The retailer is in talks about opening
another three stores in “emerging markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  