-- 
Stocks in U.S. Climb as Mining Shares, Copper Gain; Portuguese Bonds Sink

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-23T21:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/asian-stocks-emerging-currencies-drop-on-japan-quakes-oil-euro-weakens.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing most of
yesterday’s drop, as higher metal prices lifted commodity
shares, while oil gained as allied forces struck Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops. Bonds of  Europe ’s most-indebted
nations sank amid concern Portugal will need a bailout.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to
1,297.54 at 4 p.m. in New York, reversing an early slide of as
much as 0.8 percent. Copper rallied 2.7 percent amid growth in
orders to draw the metal from exchange inventories. The yield on
Portugal’s five-year bond increased 20 basis points to 8.18
percent after earlier surging to a record 8.20 percent. The euro
weakened. Treasuries turned lower as the  Federal Reserve  bought
less debt than average during a quantitative-easing purchase.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  jumped 5 percent to
lead raw-material producers to the biggest advance among 10
groups in the S&P 500, which erased an early loss that followed
a drop in new-home sales to a record low. The slide in
Portuguese, Irish and Greek bonds came as lawmakers in Lisbon
debated the government’s austerity measures, which were rejected
in Parliament shortly before the close of U.S. exchanges.  “In a  bull market , investors tend to shrug off negative
news and buy on dips,” said Terry Morris, who manages $2.2
billion at National Penn Investors Trust Co. in Wyomissing,
 Pennsylvania . “We’re in a typical bull market, where you have
bad news and investors disregard it and use the weakness to buy.
They bought this morning on the bad housing news.”  Jabil, Adobe  The  S&P 500  erased most of yesterday’s 0.4 percent drop.
Jabil Circuit Inc. rose 11 percent for the biggest gain after
its profit forecast topped estimates. Adobe Systems Inc., the
largest maker of graphic-design software, slid 3.7 percent for
the worst decline in the index after forecasting second-quarter
earnings below analysts’ estimates because of reduced sales in
 Japan  following the country’s worst earthquake on record.  Equities in the U.S. began to recover after  Wells Fargo &
Co . said in a note to clients that the slide in home sales was
influenced by bad weather and was not a reflection of the
market’s “reality.” The bank’s analyst, Carl Reichardt, said
the number may likely be revised higher. Sales slid 16.9 percent
to a 250,000 annual pace, the Commerce Department reported.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a gain to a
290,000 rate, according to the median estimate.  Fed’s Bond Buys  The 10-year Treasury yield rose 1 basis point to 3.34
percent after earlier losing as much as 5 basis points. In
purchases made as part of the Fed’s $600 billion quantitative
easing program meant to suppress interest rates and bolster the
economic recovery, the central bank bought 24.6 percent of the
securities submitted by its primary dealers, down from 30.8
percent during a comparable operation on March 14.  The drop in Portuguese five-year bonds drove the difference
in yield with benchmark German notes of similar maturity to 5.65
percentage points. The yield on Ireland’s two-year securities
rose 38 basis points to 10.25 percent, while the 10-year yield
exceeded 10 percent for the first time since the euro was
introduced in 1999.  The cost to protect against default by U.S. banks from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Bank of America Corp. rose as
 Portugal ’s budget debate put Europe’s debt crisis back in the
spotlight.  Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs increased 3.3 basis
points to 117.8 basis points and contracts on Bank of America
rose 1.6 basis points to 140.7 basis points as of 1:09 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA.  ‘Seismic Shift’  “A seismic shift in attitudes is taking place across
Europe,”  Bill Blain , a strategist at Newedge Group in  London ,
wrote in a research note. “In the face of growing resentment
across the continent for a European dream that seems
inordinately in favor of the few rather than the many, Europe’s
elites may be wise to glance across the Mediterranean for a
reminder of what happens when the people say enough is enough.”  The euro weakened versus 15 of 16 major counterparts,
slipping 0.6 percent versus the dollar and 0.8 percent against
the yen. The pound depreciated against its 16-most traded peers
after  Bank of England  minutes from the March 10 meeting showed
policy makers voted 6-3 to keep  interest rates  on hold.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said forecasts by the
 Office for Budget Responsibility  see the economy growing 1.7
percent this year compared with a previous expectation of 2.1
percent, while delivering his budget to lawmakers today.  European Stocks  European stocks rose for the fourth time in five days as
mining companies climbed with metal prices. Rio Tinto Group
surged 2.9 percent, leading basic-resource producers higher.
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a Kazakh ferroalloy producer,
rallied 3.5 percent as profit doubled. Inditex SA gained 6
percent after world’s largest clothing retailer reported
earnings that topped estimates. J Sainsbury Plc sank 5.4 percent
as sales growth slowed.  Nestle SA, maker of the world’s largest bottled water brand
Pure Life, rose 1.8 percent in Zurich trading. Tokyo authorities
said tap water may be unsafe for infants after tests taken at a
water-treatment plant showed radioactive iodine levels that were
double the recommended limit following damage to nuclear
reactors after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Japan’s government estimated the damage from this month’s
record earthquake and tsunami at as much as 25 trillion yen
($309 billion), an amount almost four times the hit imposed by
Hurricane Katrina on the U.S.  Japan GDP  The destruction will push down gross domestic product by as
much as 2.75 trillion yen for the year starting April 1, today’s
report showed. The figure, about 0.5 percent of the 530 trillion
yen economy, reflects a decline in production from supply
disruptions and damage to corporate facilities without taking
into account the effects of possible power outages.  Egypt ’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  fell 8.9 percent, after tumbling 9.9
percent at today’s open, as trading resumed following an almost
two-month halt during an uprising that ousted President Hosni Mubarak. Rules aimed at limiting daily share moves to 10 percent
provided support amid concern that weeks of protests hurt the
economy.  The S&P GSCI commodity index rose for a sixth day, the
longest streak since November. Aluminum advanced as much as 1.5
percent in London to the highest since Sept. 15, 2008, on
speculation of reconstruction spending in Japan. Silver and
natural gas also led gains in commodities with advances of more
than 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in  New York  at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 