-- 
Asian Stocks Drop on Concern Over Iodine in Tokyo Water, Reactor Struggles

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-23T10:33:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/asian-stocks-drop-as-more-quakes-strike-near-nuclear-site-plants-closed.html
Asian stocks fell, with the
regional benchmark index set for its first loss in four days,
after levels of iodine unsafe for infants were reported in Tokyo
tap water as workers struggled to reconnect power to a damaged
nuclear reactor.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. slumped 4.5 percent after rising
as much as 7 percent before a Tokyo official warned against
giving infants tap water to drink. Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s biggest carmaker, declined 1.2 percent after extending
production halts.  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  plunged 6.1 percent
in Sydney after Australia’s second-largest airline forecast an
annual loss.  China  Coal Energy Co. slumped 9.1 percent in  Hong
Kong  after earnings missed estimates.  “Investor focus has moved to the medium-term consequences
of the natural disaster to the Japanese and global economies,”
said  Tim Schroeders , a money manager in  Melbourne  at Sydney-
based Pengana Capital Ltd., which manages about $1 billion.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent to 132.78 as
of 7:32 p.m. in Tokyo. About the same number of stocks advanced
as declined on the index. The gauge last week recorded its
biggest weekly drop since the height of the European debt crisis
in May, as  Japan  fought to prevent a nuclear disaster after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami, and as tensions escalated in
Libya.  “There are still a lot of uncertainties surrounding the
nuclear fallout, as well as aftershocks, and we won’t be seeing
a stable market for a while,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior
strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $104 billion. “No one thinks the nuclear crisis
has ended completely.”  Iodine Levels  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell for the first time in
three days, losing 1.7 percent, having surged 7.2 percent in the
previous two days. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 0.1
percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index slipped 0.1 percent, while
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent.  People in the Tokyo area should avoid giving tap water to
infants, a city official said in a televised conference. The
advice came after levels of iodine were found to exceed the
limits for infants at a water treatment facility in the Japan
capital, the official said. Tokyo-listed drinks makers including
Kirin Holdings Co. and Asahi Breweries Ltd. surged on the report.  Engineers at Japan’s stricken nuclear plant are unable to
connect power to one of four damaged reactors, marring progress
to cool the fuel rods. Restoring power is key to ending the
crisis at reactors that have leaked radiation into the ocean and
air and forced the government to evacuate thousands of local
residents.  Battling Meltdown  Fukushima Dai-Ichi Plant operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
has been battling to prevent a meltdown after losing electricity
that helps circulate cooling water to the units following the
temblor and tsunami. The company’s shares fell 4.5 percent to
1,049.  A series of earthquakes struck Japan’s Fukushima prefecture
today, starting with a magnitude 6.0 temblor at 7:12 a.m. local
time, according to Japan’s Meteorological Agency. The Japan
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said there has been no
impact on the Fukushima plant from the latest temblors.  “Anxieties about the nuclear issues aren’t gone yet, but
the situation is improving,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities
manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “Some
industries and stocks that declined significantly lately will be
bought back.”  Europe ,  Libya   Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent today. The index retreated 0.4 percent yesterday as the
price of oil rose amid unrest in Libya and concern grew that
Europe won’t find an immediate solution to its debt crisis.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 3.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.9 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.5 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  Honda Motor Co. dropped 1.8 percent to 3,090 yen in Tokyo
today. Japan’s second-largest carmaker by market value will
suspend production at three plants in Saitama, Mie and Kumamoto
prefectures until at least March 27. Daihatsu Motor Co. Japan’s
biggest minicar maker, lost 1.5 percent to 1,214 yen after
extending a production halt until March 24. Toyota slipped 1.2
percent to 3,305 yen.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  plunged 10 percent last week on concern the
effects of the earthquake and damaged reactors will hurt a
recovery in the world’s third-largest economy.  Virgin, China Coal  In Sydney, Virgin Blue plunged 6.1 percent to 31 Australian
cents after the airline forecast an annual loss on higher fuel
prices and the effects on tourism of from last month’s Cyclone
Yasi, which devastated parts of Queensland state, and the New
Zealand earthquake, which destroyed much of Christchurch.  China Coal, the nation’s second-largest producer of the fuel,
dropped 9.1 percent to HK$10.74 in Hong Kong. Net income
increased 1 percent to 7.47 billion yuan ($1.1 billion), China
Coal said yesterday, missing a mean estimate of 10.03 billion
yuan in a Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts.  Maanshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s second-biggest Hong
Kong-traded steelmaker, slipped 2.4 percent to HK$4.15 after
reporting that second-half earnings slumped 95 percent.  Among stocks that rose today, Taiheiyo Cement Corp.,
Japan’s biggest cement maker, surged 3.4 percent to 153 yen in
Tokyo and Sumitomo Osaka Cement Co. gained 0.8 percent to 252
yen, as building-materials suppliers rose on speculation they’ll
benefit from post-earthquake reconstruction.  Reconstruction Agency  Japan said it may set up a reconstruction agency to oversee
earthquake repairs, while data showed the central bank pumped
record liquidity into lenders as the nation grappled with its
worst disaster since World War II.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo
the government will weigh “some sort of system or
organization” to oversee spending following the earthquake,
adding that it’s too early to say when a spending bill will be
compiled. The  Bank of Japan  said yesterday lenders’ deposits
with the central bank more than doubled since March 11 to 41.62
trillion yen ($513 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 