-- 
AT&T’s $39 Billion Acquisition of T-Mobile May Hurt Startups, Gurley Says

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/at-t-s-purchase-of-t-mobile-may-hurt-startups-gurley-says.html
Bill Gurley, a venture capitalist
whose investments include  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  and  Zillow Inc. , said
 AT&T Inc. (T) ’s planned purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. will hamper
innovation among startups that sell services to mobile carriers.  Fewer wireless-service providers may mean diminished demand
for new mobile-phone applications and other products, Gurley
said in a televised interview with “Bloomberg West.”  “It has already become very difficult to seed ventures
where the primary customer was the carrier,” said Gurley, a
partner at Menlo Park, California-based  Benchmark Capital . “It
just becomes a more stodgy oligopoly.”  AT&T’s agreement this week to buy T-Mobile for $39 billion
would combine the second- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless
providers. The acquisition may take a year to receive government
approval, as regulators determine whether the transaction will
reduce customer choice.  Even before the proposal, many venture capitalists wouldn’t
invest in wireless-equipment companies because the carriers have
“too much market power,” Gurley said.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-biggest U.S. mobile
provider, is concerned the combination would harm the wireless
industry, Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse said in an
interview. He also cited concern that the deal “would stifle
innovation.”  AT&T and  Verizon Wireless  will hold 79 percent of the U.S.
market if regulators approve the deal, Hesse said. T-Mobile is
owned by  Germany ’s  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   OpenTable, Zillow  Most of Gurley’s investments are focused on companies that
distribute their products and services on the Web. OpenTable,
which operates an online restaurant-reservation service, first
sold shares to the public in 2009 and is now valued at $2.17
billion on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Zillow, an online real-
estate information service, has hired Citigroup Inc. to manage
its initial public offering, three people with knowledge of the
company’s plans said last week.  Benchmark, which gained prominence from its early bet on
EBay Inc. in 1997, is also an investor in social-networking
service Twitter Inc., question-and-answer forum Quora Inc., and
 Yelp Inc. , a local business-review site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  