-- 
Latecoere to Secure Partner in 2011 as Sales and Profits Rise

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-23T12:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/latecoere-to-secure-partner-in-2011-as-sales-and-profits-rise.html
Latecoere SA, the world’s largest
independent aircraft-door supplier, is in talks with prospective
partners about consolidating operations and aims to make a
choice by year-end. The shares jumped as much as 26 percent.  Rising air traffic and demand for new planes means the
company is in a better position to secure a partner, Chairman
 Pierre Gadonneix  said today. Latecoere last year restructured
debt and cut 20 percent of its workforce to return to profit.  The company, based in Toulouse,  France , forecasts growth in
sales and earnings as airframe makers including Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co. ramp up production. Latecoere has had to wait longer
than expected to get a return on 300 million euros ($426
million) of investment into new products over the past five
years because of Boeing’s delayed 787 aircraft.  “We’ve had expressions of interest from several parties,
and we’re pleased these come from companies with industrial
projects in mind,” Gadonneix told journalists in Paris today.
“In the coming months, our aim is to explore and identify the
project that brings the greatest value.”  Latecoere rose as much as 2.51 euros to 12.2 euros, the
biggest one-day gain since September 2009 in Paris trading
today. That followed an 8.5 percent rise yesterday, spurred by
media reports about potential buyers. Le Figaro reported  GKN
Plc (GKN) , Fokker-Stork of the Netherlands and  China ’s state-owned
AVIC had come forward. The company has yet to get any concrete
offers, Gadonneix said, declining to comment on the number and
origin of potential partners.  Keen to Merge  European airframe makers are eager to consolidate to get
greater economies of scale, Chief Executive Officer Francois Bertrand said.  Europe  has more than 20 companies making
structural parts for commercial aircraft, while in the U.S., the
field has been winnowed to just two -- Spirit Aerosystems
Holdings Inc. and Triumph Group Inc., which owns Vought Aircraft
Industries.  Latecoere isn’t in a position to buy any other companies,
yet it could be a takeover target, Gadonneix said.  Latecoere, whose largest customers are Airbus and  Brazil ’s
Embraer SA, gets 56 percent of sales from plane structures.
Wiring contributes 32 percent and engineering 12 percent. Sales
last year gained 3.3 percent to 464.4 million euros, while
operating profit almost tripled to 27.5 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  