-- 
Australian Dollar at Almost One-Week High Before RBA's Financial Review

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-23T15:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/australian-dollar-near-one-week-high-before-rba-releases-financial-review.html
The Australian dollar reached
almost a one-week high before the nation’s central bank releases
its twice-yearly Financial Stability Review.  Demand for the Aussie was bolstered as traders cut bets
that the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will lower  interest rates 
next month. New Zealand’s currency traded little changed as the
nation’s statistics bureau said the current-account deficit was
almost the smallest in a decade as a share of the economy.  “The Aussie may get bid up as the market removes the
chances of a rate cut and puts in the chances of a rate hike,”
said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia  in Sydney. “For the New Zealand economy to have a
current account deficit less than 4 percent is pretty good.”  Australia’s currency was little changed at $1.0107 as of
11:54 a.m. in  New York  from $1.0103 yesterday. The Aussie traded
at 81.80 yen, unchanged from 81.80 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar
traded at 74.01 U.S. cents from 74.01 cents, and 59.90 yen from
59.92 yen.  The probability of a reduction in Australia’s benchmark
interest rate on April 5 is 13 percent, down from as much as 34
percent last week, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG Index
based on swaps.  Official Rates  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  New Zealand’s current-account deficit is hovering near the
smallest since 2001 as a share of gross domestic product amid
rising milk, meat and lumber exports, and reinsurance payments
after a magnitude-7 quake struck the South Island city of
Christchurch in September. More payments for another, more
damaging temblor Feb. 22 may push the current account into
surplus this year.  The shortfall was 2.3 percent of gross domestic product in
the year ended Dec. 31. The gap in the year through September
was revised to 2.2 percent from a previously reported 3.1
percent.  Gains in both currencies were limited as the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of regional stocks fell, damping demand for
higher-yielding assets, and amid speculation a rally during the
past three days has been too rapid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  