-- 
Baidu Declines to Confirm, Deny FT Report of System

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-23T06:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/baidu-aims-for-box-computing-denies-ft-report-on-new-operating-system.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to say the company
won’t confirm or deny the report.)  Baidu Inc., operator of  China ’s
most popular search-engine, declined to confirm or deny a report
in the Financial Times that the company plans to create an
operating system for mobile devices.  Baidu plans to develop a “light operating system” for
mobile devices, the Financial Times reported today, citing an
interview with Chief Executive Officer Robin Li. Kaiser Kuo, a
spokesman at the Beijing-based company, declined to confirm or
deny that report. What Li discussed was the company’s vision for
“box computing,” which was first revealed almost two years
ago, Kuo said.  “Robin did not specifically say that Baidu is developing
an operating system for mobiles,” said Kuo, who refused to
comment on whether the company is actually doing so. “Box
computing has been the long-term vision of the company since
July 2009.”  The company’s vision is to “obviate” operating systems so
that the customer interface on any device, be it a personal
computer, notebook, tablet or smartphone, is a simple, yet
powerful search box using conversational language, Kuo said.
Baidu has said it intends to develop its box computing service
to link the provision of content including books, video games
and other entertainment, to online searches.  Baidu has more than 75 percent of the market for online
search ads in China, the world’s largest Internet market with
457 million Web users, according to research company Analysys
International.  --Edmond Lococo. Editor: Anand Krishnamoorthy, Young-Sam Cho.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 