-- 
BofA Joins JPMorgan Seeking Bigger Share of $4 Trillion Retirement Market

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/banks-angle-for-bigger-share-of-4-trillion-retirement-market.html
Retirement savings in the U.S. may
swell to $4 trillion over the next four years and the nation’s
largest banks are angling for a bigger share of that money.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  are adding staff, creating easier-to-use technology and
competing on fees in an effort to win more of the  $2.9 trillion 
Americans held in 401(k)s savings plans as of September from
traditional account managers such as  Fidelity Investments  and
Vanguard Group Inc. That number may reach $4 trillion by 2015,
according to  Cerulli Associates , a Boston-based research firm.  “It’s one of the top priorities,” at JPMorgan, said
Michael Falcon, whose job as head of retirement in the U.S. and
 Canada  for the bank’s asset management unit was created in
January. The New York-based company is the second-largest U.S.
lender by assets behind Bank of America.  The competition may mean lower costs and more choices for
employers and savers, said Laura Pavlenko Lutton, an editorial
director in the mutual-fund research group at Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Greeting-card seller Hallmark Cards Inc.
switched its plan to JPMorgan last year to reduce costs and
improve services for employees, said Tresia Franklin, head of
benefits and compensation for the Kansas City, Missouri-based
company.  Participants in the  most expensive plans  pay more than 6
percent annually, while the lowest-cost ones charge less than 10
basis points, according to Ryan Alfred, co-founder of San Diego-
based  BrightScope , which rates plans. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Fast-Growing  Over the past two decades, 401(k)s have become the fastest-
growing retirement-savings option for U.S. workers, according to
the Washington-based  Employee Benefit Research Institute .
They’re the most common type of defined-contribution plan, which
lets employees defer a portion of their salary into an
investment account and generally not pay taxes on the money
until it’s withdrawn during retirement.  These assets tend to be “sticky money,” said David Wray,
head of the  Profit Sharing/401k Council of America , which is
appealing to banks because of on-going fees and contributions to
the accounts. The banks also may get an opportunity to pitch
their proprietary mutual funds as plan investments and sell
products such as individual retirement accounts to workers who
leave their jobs and want to roll over their money.  Banks may have to overcome the perception that mutual funds
aren’t their expertise, said Morningstar’s Lutton. “Their main
business is taking deposits and making loans, and many have
gotten into the mutual-fund business as a way to grab wallet
share of their customers,” she said.  Fund Returns  The average 15-year return of mutual funds including stock,
bond, alternative and balanced investments from Wells Fargo and
JPMorgan as of January was about 6 percent, Morningstar data
shows. That compares with about 7 percent for mutual-fund
managers Fidelity, Vanguard and Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. Bank of America doesn’t offer its own proprietary
mutual funds, according to spokesman Matt Card.  Banks also will have to compete on investment management
fees with firms including Vanguard, which pioneered low-cost
index investing for individuals. The  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-
based mutual-fund manager charged an average 0.19 percent for
its target-date funds, according to a 2010 report by
Morningstar. Target-date funds are the most popular investment
in 401(k) plans for workers who don’t choose their own lineup.  The 0.62 percent average fee for Wells Fargo’s target-date
series was more than three times Vanguard’s cost. Fidelity’s
expense ratio was 0.71 percent and JPMorgan’s, 0.85 percent,
according to Morningstar.  Held Hostage  “There are a lot of individuals who are held hostage to a
bunch of mediocre, or worse, funds,” in their 401(k) plans,
particularly among plans that only offer investments from their
recordkeeper, said Adam Bold, founder of the Mutual Fund Store,
a registered investment adviser based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas ,
with $6.1 billion under management. “Over the last few years
there’s been a trend toward more plans giving open platforms,
where investors have more choice,” he said.  The banks’ push for more of workers’ savings may mean less
revenue for the top-three 401(k) administrators, Fidelity, Aon
Hewitt and Vanguard, which together had 43 percent of the market
at the end of 2009, compared with a combined share of less than
10 percent for Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo,
according to Cerulli.  ‘Upping the Ante’  “We’ve been upping the ante on retirement,” Andy Sieg,
head of retirement services for Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said in a January interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New
York . The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank added about $88
billion in 401(k) assets from its 2009 acquisition of Merrill
Lynch, according to Card, the bank spokesman. The bank has been
beefing up its retirement-services staff with executives brought
over from Fidelity and other rivals, including Rich Linton, who
had overseen Fidelity’s adviser retirement group and now has a
similar role with Bank of America.  JPMorgan roughly doubled its sales force dedicated to
 retirement plans  in the last year, according to Falcon. Wells
Fargo has been adding new features that allow employers to more
closely track the savings and investing behaviors of their
employees, said Laurie Nordquist, director of Institutional
Retirement and Trust for the San Francisco-based bank.  Banks are searching for new ways of making money as losses
on mortgages and regulation on fees have limited their revenue
sources, said Terry Moore, managing director of the North
America banking practice for  Accenture Plc (ACN) , a consulting firm
based in Dublin.  Interest Income Declines  Interest income for the largest 25 U.S. banks was down 15
percent in 2010 compared with 2007, Moore said. Regulation
requiring consumers to opt in for overdraft checking protection
will cost banks an estimated $5.6 billion annually, according to
Pleasanton, California-based Javelin Strategy & Research.  Administrators of 401(k)s are paid for their recordkeeping
service, which includes sending out account statements and other
communications to participants. They also may make money from
investment-management fees if their mutual funds are offered in
a plan and through an arrangement with third-party fund
providers known as revenue-sharing.  Revenue-sharing, where a mutual-fund company passes some of
the fee revenue it earns back to a plan’s recordkeeper, “is a
widespread practice,” a January study by the U.S. Government
Accountability Office found. Compensation can range from 5 basis
points to 125 basis points from those arrangements, the study
found.  Paying Attention  Employers are paying more attention to fees and investment
choices in their 401(k)s than ever before, said Wray of the
Profit Sharing/401k Council of America, a Chicago-based
nonprofit representing employers that offer retirement plans.
That scrutiny may allow some banks to win new business if they
offer lower fees, better investments or both, he said. Bank of
America, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo would not disclose the average
fees for plans they serve.  Hallmark moved its 401(k) administration to JPMorgan last
year after shopping its plan around in 2009, said Franklin.
JPMorgan had the best price for the services Hallmark wanted,
said Franklin. Hallmark has 16 funds in its plan including two
JPMorgan funds, Franklin said. She declined to disclose how much
they pay the bank in fees or quantify their savings.  The plan was previously administered by Aon Hewitt, which
declined to comment on the change or its fees, according to
spokeswoman MacKenzie Lucas in an email.  ‘Brain Transplant’  “I kind of compared it to doing a brain transplant,”
Franklin said of the switch. “It was a critical project for us.
Our vendor is really in many cases the face of Hallmark for the
employees.” Hallmark was able to streamline its automated
files, shift employees from paper to electronic statements and
re-emphasize its online investment-advice feature for
participants through the change, Franklin said. The company has
about 13,000 workers in its 401(k) plan with $2.4 billion in
assets, she said.  Employers who sought bids on their 401(k)s in the last year
were able to realize average cost savings of 31 percent, said
 Institutional Investment Consulting  Managing Director Michael
Kozemchak, based on the plans his firm works with. Kozemchak,
based in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, works with plan sponsors
that are choosing a 401(k) administrator.  Not all banks are rushing into defined contribution plans.
New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. lender by
assets, doesn’t have a 401(k)-administration business.  Product Offerings  “At the end of the day servicing investment assets is
probably not going to make or break any of the money-center
banks,” said Jeffery Harte, a Chicago-based banking analyst for
Sandler O’Neill & Partners. Assets in 401(k) plans for both Bank
of America and JPMorgan represented less than 10 percent of the
banks’ total assets of $2.3 trillion and $2.1 trillion,
respectively, at the end of 2010. Wells Fargo’s $158 billion in
401(k) assets at year-end was 13 percent of its total assets.  “It helps to round out their product offerings,” Harte
said. “And it probably enhances client relationships.”  Wells Fargo added $6.2 billion in defined contribution
assets during 2010 and Bank of America gathered an additional
$14.5 billion in 2010. JPMorgan’s recordkeeping assets rose by
$10 billion last year. By comparison, the market increased by
about $125 billion last year as of September, according to the
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  Comfortable With Competition  Fidelity, which dominates the business, is “very
comfortable” with the increased competition, said James
MacDonald, head of workplace investing for the Boston-based
mutual-fund company. Fidelity administers 27 percent of all
assets in 401(k) plans as of 2009, or three times more than its
closest competitor, Aon Hewitt, according to Cerulli. Fidelity’s
client retention rate is 97 percent and it administers plans for
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , among others, according to BrightScope.  Aon Hewitt is helped by its “independent, unbiased”
business model, said Alison Borland, retirement-strategy leader
for the consulting and human-resources outsourcing firm. Aon
Hewitt, a unit of Chicago-based  Aon Corp. (AON) , sponsors no
investments of its own and doesn’t accept commissions from
mutual-fund companies, which allows it to offer lower-cost
investment options than its competitors, Borland said.  Cross Selling  Many recordkeepers are aiming to capture new 401(k) clients
so they can pitch additional products such as IRAs to those
plans’ employees, said Institutional Investment Consulting’s
Kozemchak. Some providers won’t submit a bid for a company’s
plan unless they’re granted “unfettered access to cross sell”
other products to its participants, he said.  Cross-selling IRAs to employees is an “important source of
income” for 401(k) administrators, the GAO  report  said. Fees on
IRAs are typically 25 basis points to 30 basis points higher
than fees on 401(k)s, and can be as much as 65 basis points
higher, the report said. Participants in 401(k) plans often roll
over their accounts to an IRA when they leave a job.  Employers, rather than administrators, generally are held
responsible for making sure their 401(k) plans and investments
operate in the best interest of their employees, said Ryan Gardner, principal of Windsor, Connecticut-based Fiduciary
Investment Advisors.  DOL Rule  That may change if a regulation proposed by the U.S.
Department of Labor in October is adopted. The rule would apply
a fiduciary standard to firms advising employers about which
investments to offer and workers about what to do with their
savings when they retire.  Bank of America’s Sieg said his firm will be able to claim
market share by winning the plans of corporate customers of its
banking business.  “We have access to more client companies than any other
firm in the marketplace,” Sieg said. “We’re just beginning to
scratch the surface of that opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net . Elizabeth Ody in New York at 
   eody@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 