-- 
Bank of Montreal Targets $1 Billion Profit From U.S. Banking

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-23T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bank-of-montreal-targets-1-billion-profit-from-u-s-banking.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Chief Executive
Officer William Downe aims to reap C$1 billion ($1 billion) of
annual profit from U.S. consumer banking, a fivefold increase,
after integrating Wisconsin lender  Marshall & Ilsley Corp. (MI)   Bank of Montreal had C$184 million in profit from personal,
commercial and wealth-management businesses in the U.S. last
year, Downe, 58, told shareholders at the bank’s annual meeting
yesterday. “In the medium term, our aspiration is that these
businesses will generate a billion dollars of earnings
annually.”  Bank of Montreal,  Canada ’s fourth-biggest bank, agreed Dec.
17 to buy Milwaukee-based M&I for about $4.1 billion in its
biggest takeover. The deal will double the Toronto-based
lender’s U.S. deposits and branches and extend the reach of its
Chicago-based Harris Bank consumer-lending unit beyond the
Midwest.  “It’s ambitious, but I’d also say it’s achievable,”  Craig Fehr , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said of
Downe’s target. “I like the strategy. It represents a sea
change for them. This now makes their U.S. operation over time a
very meaningful contributor to overall profits.”  Profit at Bank of Montreal’s U.S. personal and commercial-
banking unit was C$176 million in fiscal 2010, representing
about 6.3 percent of the company’s net income. Profit for the
year ended Oct. 31 climbed 57 percent from 2009 to C$2.81
billion.  “It’s going to take two or three years to complete a great
deal of work,” Downe said in an interview yesterday after the
bank’s meeting. “To me, the most important thing is that we
demonstrate progress in 2012, 2013 and 2014 toward that
objective.”  U.S. Expansion  Downe expanded Bank of Montreal’s U.S. operations last year
by agreeing to buy assets of Amcore Bank in April after the
Rockford, Illinois-based lender failed, and by pursuing the
takeover of Marshall & Ilsley. Bank of Montreal agreed to
repurchase $1.7 billion of preferred shares acquired by the U.S.
government during its bailout of M&I, bringing the total cost of
the deal to about $5.8 billion.  Bank of Montreal expects to benefit from a lower reliance
on commercial deposits, cheaper borrowing costs given the
lender’s higher credit rating, and by attracting more deposits
from those who had been “on the sideline” as the  U.S. economy 
starts to improve, Downe said.  ‘Bold Objective’  “We have 900 bank branches in Canada, we’ll have 700 in
the  United States , and last year we made C$1.6 billion in
Canada,” Downe said. “On a proportionate basis, having a bold
objective is coming to what you think the potential of the
business ought to be and declaring it.”  Bank of Montreal expanded into the U.S. with its C$718
million takeover of Harris Bank in 1984. The company has spent
about C$2.5 billion buying U.S. banks since, tucking branches
into its Harris network.  Downe said he foresees “in-fill” acquisition in the
Midwest in the future, specifically in Kansas, Missouri,
 Indiana ,  Illinois ,  Wisconsin  and  Minnesota .  “Within your own footprint, the return on either opening
branches or buying branches is much more positive,” Downe said.
“I think there are plenty of in-fill opportunities in this
area.”  Bank of Montreal fe1l 13 cents to C$62.33 yesterday in
Toronto. The stock has advanced 8.4 percent this year, compared
with a 10.3 percent gain for the 10-member S&P/TSX Banks Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  or
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  