-- 
Bankers Watch Wind While We Sit in Dark: David G. Blanchflower

-- B y   D a v i d   G .   B l a n c h f l o w e r
-- 
2011-03-23T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bankers-watch-wind-while-we-stay-in-dark-commentary-by-david-blanchflower.html
The British do political theater
really well. The prime minister’s “Question Time,” which takes
place every Wednesday when the House of Commons is in session,
is the best free show in  London , as long as you line up early.  But there was a less confrontational  public event  that took
place in the Palace of Westminster in Committee Room 8 on March
15 that turned theater into farce. The topic: Who regulates the
regulator? The answer: Nobody, it seems.  In its U.K.  Economic Survey 2011  published last week, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development argued
that “the U.K. financial system was severely affected by the
financial crisis, which exposed weaknesses in the supervisory,
crisis management and resolution frameworks.”  The  Vickers Commission  will report later this year on
measures to improve the banking system and promote stability and
competition, including the degree to which retail and
investment-banking functions should be separated. In addition,
the  Bank of England  is to be given sweeping new powers over
financial regulation.  There was striking evidence last week that the bank needs a
better governance structure to support this enhanced role.  At the March 15 meeting, four of the nine part-time non-
executive members of the Court of Directors -- David Lees, Roger Carr,  Susan Rice  and  Brendan Barber  -- were questioned by
Members of Parliament from the Treasury Select Committee. The
court is responsible under the Bank of England Act of 1998 for
“determining the Bank’s objectives and strategy, and ensuring
the effective discharge of the Bank’s functions and the most
efficient use of its resources.”  Basic Questions  The hearings were advertised as examining the Bank of
England’s accountability. The four members failed to impress, to
say the least, being unable to answer even basic questions
including the extent to which resources had been moved to
financial stability since the crisis, which is part of their
remit. They even seemed to have problems recalling the names of
senior officials they were tasked to monitor.  A major issue in the questioning at the hearing was what
the court would do if senior bank officials stepped out of line,
perhaps by commenting on political matters outside their
purview, as some MPs claimed Governor Mervyn King had done.
Lees, the chairman of the Court and an industrialist -- not a
banker -- claimed he would call them in for a chat to sort
things out. Isn’t that what you would do, old boy?  Serious Chat  The chairman of the Treasury Select Committee,  Andrew Tyrie , pushed back further and asked what would happen if that
failed. Lees replied that he would bring them in for another
very, very serious chat to make sure the chap (they are all men)
did shape up. When pressed harder on what would happen when that
didn’t work, Lees, after a good deal of thought, proclaimed he
would come to the Treasury Select Committee for help.  From my own experience, the  Court of Directors  has
exercised inadequate oversight over the bank for many years.
During my three-year term on the MPC, I had no contact at all
with the court in any capacity other than meeting annually for a
friendly chat with its respected ex-chairman, John Parker. In
fact I never even met nine of the 15 members who held office
while I was on the MPC. Occasionally, a director would show up
to our monthly pre-MPC briefings, one or two quite regularly,
but for the most part they were conspicuous by their absence.  Secret Loans  The court has never made clear its views on whether it was
appropriate to keep information about the secret loans that were
made to  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  in the autumn of 2008 from external members of the
MPC. The first I knew about them was when I read about their
very existence in a newspaper report after I had left the MPC in
the autumn of 2009. The MPs also made it clear that they were
surprised the court had not initiated an inquiry into the Bank
of England’s role in the Northern Rock Plc fiasco.  There is no point in having a court if it is just a rubber
stamp. Giving lots of power to unelected officials at a central
bank has its advantages as they can take a long-run view and
remove themselves from day-to-day political pressures, but that
also has its dangers. In a democracy, these officials need to be
fully answerable to the people’s  elected representatives .  In the room where the court’s meetings are held, there is
still a working weathervane high up on one wall. A wind from the
east would mean the sailing barges could travel up the Thames to
unload and the demand for cash would rise. So in the days before
the Weather Channel and cell phones, the bankers needed to keep
an eye on the wind to know when cash was needed.  One wonders if the weathervane would provide better
guidance on the central bank’s decisions than the Court of
Directors offers today.  (David G. Blanchflower, a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is a professor of economics
at  Dartmouth College  and the  University of Stirling . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  