-- 
Bank of England Voted 6-3 to Hold Rate to Assess Impact of Increase in Oil

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-23T10:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bank-of-england-voted-6-3-to-hold-rate-to-assess-impact-of-increase-in-oil.html
Bank of England  policy makers voted
6-3 to keep  interest rates  on hold this month and saw “merit in
waiting” to assess the impact of rising oil prices on
inflation, which they forecast may exceed 5 percent.  Andrew Sentance  maintained his call for an increase in the
benchmark interest rate to 1 percent from a record low of 0.5
percent, while  Martin Weale  and  Spencer Dale  wanted a move to
0.75 percent. The remaining six members, including Governor
 Mervyn King , voted to maintain the current level.  Adam Posen 
kept up his push to expand stimulus with further bond purchases.  “It was not yet clear that the weakness in output growth
seen in the latter part of 2010 would prove temporary,”
according to the minutes of the  March 10 decision  published
today in London. “The uncertainty created by both developments
in the oil market and the recent indicators of household
spending and confidence meant there remained merit in waiting to
see how those factors evolved before altering the stance of
monetary policy.”  Among the majority of members who voted to hold the rate,
there were “differences of view” on the “risks associated
with an increase in inflation expectations materializing.”  “Some thought that this risk remained limited given that
the near term outlook for inflation could be explained by
reference to changes in energy and other commodity prices, VAT
and the sterling  exchange rate ,” the minutes said. “Others
thought that this risk had risen, given further upward revisions
to the near term outlook for inflation, and that the case for an
increase in  bank rate  had strengthened in recent months.”  Significant Risk  The pound fell almost 0.4 percent today, and traded at
$1.6302 as of 9.54 a.m. in London. Bonds rose, with the yield on
the 10-year gilt slipping 3 basis points to 3.57 percent.  “If they really want to look through all the volatility
they may decide to wait for more activity in the second quarter
before moving, and that makes August more likely,” said David Tinsley, an economist at National Australia Bank in  London  and a
former central bank official. “We do rule out, more or less, an
April move but a May movement is still on the cards.”  Britain’s inflation rate rose to 4.4 percent in February,
more than twice the central bank’s target, and the Monetary
Policy Committee sees a “significant risk” it may increase to
above 5 percent in the near term. As policy makers try to
balance price risks against the threat to the recovery from the
government’s budget squeeze, they also have to weigh the
potential impact of the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  and the
Middle East turmoil on the global economy and commodity prices.  Oil Prices  Crude  oil prices  have risen almost 40 percent in the last
six months on concern that turmoil in  Libya  and other nations
may curtail shipments from the Middle East. Corn has gained 30
percent in that period.  For the three members voting for an interest-rate increase,
the “near term outlook for inflation had deteriorated
further,” adding to “the risk of the perception arising that
the committee was more prepared to tolerate persistent
deviations of inflation from the target than in the past.”  On the bond plan, the MPC voted 8-1 to keep it at 200
billion pounds ($326 billion). Adam Posen kept up his vote to
expand it to 250 billion pounds. Still, he noted risks to
inflation, according to the minutes.  He “recognized the risk that a sustained upward trend in
medium term inflation expectations or global price pressures
could outweigh the forces pushing down on inflation, but did not
see this risk as material,” the minutes said.  BOE Debate  Sentance said in a speech yesterday that U.K. policy makers
are facing decisions that are “much less straightforward than
they appeared to be before the financial crisis.”  King said on March 1 that increasing the key rate to make a
gesture in the fight against inflation would be “self-
defeating.”  “I don’t believe we’ve yet seen significant evidence of a
pickup in medium-term inflation expectations,” he said. Still,
it’s “reasonable to believe that if we continue to experience
above-target inflation for long enough there could be an upside
risk to inflation expectations.”  The economy shrank 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter and
the recovery is at risk as Chancellor of the Exchequer
implements a spending squeeze to reduce the record budget
deficit. Osborne will announce his budget for the fiscal year
through March 2012 at 12:30 p.m. today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  