-- 
Barry Bonds Used Anabolic Steroids in '99, Ex-Business Partner Tells Jury

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/barry-bonds-s-ex-business-partner-says-ball-player-used-steroids-in-1999.html
Barry Bonds ,  Major League
Baseball ’s home-run record holder, used anabolic steroids in
1999, his boyhood friend and former business partner told jurors
at the former San Francisco Giants outfielder’s perjury trial.  Steve Hoskins grew up with Bonds in California, was his
personal assistant, and had a sports memorabilia business with
him selling lithographs he made of him and other baseball
players. Hoskins said Bonds complained to him in 2000 about the
effects of steroid injections in his buttocks.  “Just that the steroid, the shots were making his butt
sore,” Hoskins told the federal court jury in San Francisco
yesterday.  Hoskins said during three hours of questioning by Bonds’s
attorney that he wasn’t happy about a soured memorabilia
business deal with Bonds, that he made a secret tape recording
of Bonds’s doctor around the time the two were having a fallout
and that he disclosed the contents of another secret tape
recording he made of Bonds’s trainer to the  San Francisco 
Chronicle in 2004.  Bonds, 46, the holder of MLB records for career and single-
season home runs, faces four counts of making false statements
to a federal grand jury when he said he didn’t knowingly take
steroids given to him by his trainer Greg Anderson and that no
one other than his doctor gave him injections.  Grand Jury  His lawyer told the jury in an opening statement on
March 22 that Bonds truthfully told the grand jury he received
steroids from Anderson, yet the substances were so new that he
didn’t know what they were.  Hoskins was the government’s second witness at the trial,
which is expected to last four weeks.  “Was there a time when you became aware that the defendant
was using anabolic steroids?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella asked him.  “Yes,” Hoskins said. Parrella asked him when and he
responded, “In 1999.” Hoskins said Bonds asked him to find
information about the steroid Winstrol and its side effects.  Allen Ruby, Bonds’s attorney, told the jury in his opening
statement that Hoskins forged Bonds’s name on sports memorabilia
that he was selling. Ruby said Hoskins became a witness for the
government after Bonds turned over information about the forgery
to prosecutors, months before his grand jury testimony.  Investigation Dropped  Federal prosecutors dropped an investigation of the
forgeries, according to court documents.  Hoskins also testified yesterday that in 2000 he saw Bonds
and Anderson coming out of a bedroom at Bonds’s spring training
home and the trainer was carrying a syringe.  “I already knew what they were basically doing and I asked
Greg what he was doing,” Hoskins told the jury.  Parrella asked Hoskins repeatedly not to tell the jury what
Anderson said in response because that would be hearsay, which
couldn’t be used as evidence in the case.  Anderson was sent to jail March 22 after U.S. District
Judge  Susan Illston  found him in contempt of court for refusing
to testify at the trial. Mark Geragos, Anderson’s lawyer, said
the trainer didn’t agree to cooperate with prosecutors after he
pleaded guilty to steroids distribution in 2005.  Bobby Bonds  Hoskins said he secretly recorded a conversation about
steroids that he had with Anderson in 2003 at the Giants stadium
in San Francisco. Hoskins said he wanted to show Bonds’s father
Bobby “what was going on” after Bonds and Anderson denied
steroid use to the elder Bonds, who had also been a Giants
outfielder as well as a coach for the team.  “I was hoping Bobby would be the one to stop them from
doing it,” Hoskins said. “In 2003 I was even more concerned
because it seemed to be getting out of hand, I thought.”  After jurors left for a lunch break, Ruby objected to the
recording being played in front of them. Illston overruled that
objection.  The tape was played and a transcript was given to jurors
and displayed on a screen in the courtroom. Hoskins and Anderson
are heard discussing how repeated injections in the same spot of
the body can cause cysts. Hoskins then asks about “Barry’s”
shots.  “I never just go there, I move it all over the place,”
said a voice on the recording that Hoskins and a written
transcript said was  Greg Anderson .  Substances ‘Undetectable’  The substances used were “undetectable,” Anderson is
alleged to have said on the tape.  Hoskins, responding to a question by Parrella, said there
was no deal between himself and the government under which
prosecutors closed the forgery complaint in exchange for his
trial testimony.  Ruby later showed Hoskins documents that he said showed
that Hoskins told government agents that he had the tape
“enhanced.” Hoskins said by enhanced, he meant he had the
volume increased so it was easier to hear the voices.  Hoskins said he never played the tape for Bobby Bonds
because the elder Bonds was ill.  Ruby also asked Hoskins about a secret tape recording he
made of Bonds’s personal doctor around the time that he and
Bonds were parting ways. Hoskins said he made the recording to
help Bonds.  “The truth is, is it not, that you recorded” the doctor
“so you could use information to extort Barry, isn’t it?”
asked Ruby.  ‘A Very Good Friend’  “No,” said Hoskins. He said the whereabouts of that
recording were a “mystery” and perhaps the tape was never made
because “I don’t know what happened to it.”  Hoskins said he told a reporter for the San Francisco
Chronicle about the contents of the Anderson tape in 2004.  “You said your motives all along were good for Barry,”
said Ruby.  “Barry is a very good friend, he’s a very good person, he
is also one of the best baseball players there’s ever going to
be,” Hoskins responded. “That’s why from 1999 to 2000 I was
the one who tried to stop him from taking steroids, because I
thought it was bad for him.”  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  