-- 
Bats Plans to Close Chi-X Purchase by End of June, Hemsley Says

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-03-23T16:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bats-plans-to-close-chi-x-purchase-by-end-of-june-hemsley-says.html
Bats Global Markets  plans to
complete its acquisition of Chi-X  Europe  Ltd., Europe’s largest
alternative trading system, by the end of June, the head of its
European business said.  Bats will likely know by April 1 how much information it
needs to provide the U.K. antitrust regulator, Mark Hemsley,
chief executive officer of London-based Bats Europe said in an
interview at the World Exchange Congress in  Madrid  today.
Assuming that it concludes the purchase on schedule, Bats will
work to integrate the two trading systems from September through
to November, Hemsley said.  “After we close, we’ll look at a detailed business plan
and organizational structure,” Hemsley said. The company has
yet to decide which  London  office it will use for the enlarged
business, he added. He declined to say when the names of the new
senior management team will be released.  Bats, the fourth-largest operator of U.S. equity markets
and Europe’s second-biggest alternative trading platform, will
pay $300 million for Chi-X Europe plus an additional $65 million
if profit beats targets, two people familiar with the matter
have said. Bats has said it may convert its European markets
into registered exchanges, enabling it to build a listings
business.  Bats Chi-X Europe, as the combined business will be called,
will keep two public order books in Europe for buy and sell
requests, while operating both markets on Bats’ existing trading
platform, Hemsley said. Bats was founded in 2005.  Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  agreed to buy New York-
based  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  for $9.53 billion last month, creating the
world’s largest exchange operator. Also in February, London
Stock Exchange Group agreed to pay 1.94 billion pounds ($3.15
billion) to buy Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Madrid at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  