-- 
Bayer Yasmin Patents Survive U.K. Patent Lawsuit Brought by Gedeon Richter

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T16:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bayer-yasmin-patents-survive-u-k-patent-lawsuit-brought-by-gedeon-richter.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Europe ’s biggest drug and
chemical maker, won a U.K. court ruling upholding the validity
of two patents for its birth-control pill Yasmin after a
challenge by Hungary’s Gedeon Richter Nyrt.  The disputed European patents are valid because most of the
inventions they cover wouldn’t have been “obvious” to an
expert in the industry, Justice  Christopher Floyd  said in a
March 17 ruling in the High Court in London.  Elements of the patents deemed most important to Bayer’s
success “are not invalid for obviousness,” Floyd said in the
ruling. Although two “claims” in one of the patents were
deemed invalid, Gedeon’s case failed, according to the ruling.  The U.K. judgment, which followed a six-day trial last
month, contrasts with a U.S. case in 2008 in which Bayer’s
Yasmin patent was found to be invalid because the formula was
too obvious. That ruling, upheld on appeal, prompted Bayer to
agree to let a U.S.-based unit of Israel’s  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest generic-drug company, sell
the medicine under its own label in the country.  Bayer’s Yaz family of products, which includes Yasmin, had
sales last year of 1.11 billion euros ($1.56 billion), a 13
percent drop from 2009, the Leverkusen, Germany-based company
said on Feb. 28. The birth-control pills were Bayer’s
second biggest-selling drug last year after the multiple
sclerosis treatments Betaferon and Betaseron.  Bayer sued Mumbai-based  Lupin Ltd. (LPC)  in July 2010 to prevent
U.S. sales of generic copies of Yasmin and Yaz, a newer version
of the drug. Bayer wants the court to block approval until a
patent expires in 2013 and three others expire in 2014.  Gedeon Richter spokeswoman Zsuzsa Beke declined to comment
and a message left with the company’s law firm, Bird & Bird LLP
in  London , wasn’t returned.  Marc Doring , Bayer’s lawyer with the firm Simmons & Simmons
LLP in London, declined to comment on the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 