-- 
Beijing Bans Outdoor Advertising Promoting ‘Hedonism' as Wealth Gap Widens

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-23T11:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/beijing-bans-outdoor-ads-that-promote-hedonism-lavishness-.html
Beijing’s communist government,
faced with a widening gap between rich and poor, moved to make
the issue less visible by banning outdoor advertising that
promotes lavish lifestyles in the Chinese capital.  Promoting “hedonism, lavishness and the worship of foreign
things” on outdoor advertisements such as billboards will be
prohibited in Beijing by April 15, the city’s Administration for
Industry and Commerce said in a  statement  on its Website. Ads
that are in “poor taste,” contain vulgar language and advocate
“aristocratic lifestyles” will also be banned.  China, home to 150 million people who live on less than $1
a day, may surpass  Japan  to become the biggest  luxury goods 
market by 2015, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said March 7.
Premier Wen Jiabao last month pledged to narrow the wealth gap
as online postings called for “jasmine” protest rallies.  “The gap between rich and poor, and conspicuous
consumption have come up in the minds of the leadership,” said
Joseph Cheng, professor of political science at City University
of Hong Kong. “This is probably a response in the context of
maintaining stability to minimize causes for general
dissatisfaction.”  Inflation, Wealth Gap  China’s economy  grew 9.8 percent in the fourth-quarter from
a year earlier while consumer prices climbed 4.9 percent in
February, topping the government’s 2011 inflation target of 4
percent.  China ’s Gini coefficient, which tracks income distribution,
has climbed to almost 0.5 from less than 0.3 a quarter century
earlier, indicating the wealth gap is widening, according to Li
Shi, professor at the School of Economics and Business at
Beijing Normal University.  Sales of luxury items in China may more than double in five
years to 180 billion yuan ($27 billion) in 2015, as demand
increases for brands such as Louis Vuitton, Hermes and Prada,
McKinsey & Co. wrote in a March 8 report.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and  Hermes
International (RMS)  SCA are among luxury goods makers expanding in
China as it overtook Japan to become the world’s second-largest
economy last year. Italian fashion house Prada SpA, whose
products include Miu Miu bags, plans to be the first company
from that country to list in  Hong Kong  as China’s rising incomes
spur demand for luxury goods.  Ferrari SpA, the Italian sports-car maker, posted unit
sales growth of almost 50 percent in China last year, while
sales at Volkswagen AG’s Lamborghini division tripled.  “Unequal income distribution is a big issue here and is
something the government does take very seriously,” said Ben Cavender, an analyst at China Market Research Group in  Shanghai ,
which estimates luxury goods sales will grow an average of 20
percent annually in China over the next five years. “Consumers
are going to keep buying, they’re hungry for these brands.”  --Tim Culpan, Regina Tan, Editors: Frank Longid, Chua Kong Ho.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7547 or
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  