-- 
Belarus Dependent on Russia as Economy Worsens, Opposition Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-03-23T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/belarus-dependent-on-russia-as-economy-worsens-opposition-says.html
Belarus is growing increasingly
dependent on  Russia  to shore up its economy as the current
account deficit soars and a possible devaluation looms, an
opposition candidate in last year’s presidential election said.  “Debts are piling up quickly; they’re just not
sustainable,” Yaroslav Romanchuk said in an interview in Warsaw
yesterday. “And at the moment Russia is the only country that
is bailing Belarus out.”  Standard & Poor’s  last week cut Belarus’s debt rating by
one notch to B, five steps below investment grade. The downgrade
reflected the country’s “heightened vulnerability to negative
external financing trends” due to the “deterioration in usable
reserves,” S&P said in a March 15 statement.  The former Soviet republic is likely to devalue its ruble
as it runs out of foreign reserves because of an “intolerable”
current-account deficit, Danske Bank A/S said March 21. “The
situation seems to be escalating rapidly,” Sanna Kurronen, a
Helsinki-based analyst at the bank, wrote in a research note.  Belarus’s current-account deficit was 15.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By comparison,  Greece ’s current-account deficit
reached 15.3 percent of GDP in the third quarter of 2008 and
began 2010 at 12.2 percent before the country had to turn to the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  for a bailout.  Reserves Dwindle  Belarus saw its foreign reserves dwindle to $3.4 billion in
December, down 36 percent from a high of $5.3 billion in April
2010, IMF data compiled by Bloomberg show. According to Daniel
Krutzinna, a Minsk-based consultant at Uniter Investment Co.,
reserves have declined by around a third since November.  “The development of Belarus’s reserves since November has
definitely been unhealthy,” he said by phone yesterday.
“There’s been no catastrophe so far, but the reserves are topic
No. 1 at the moment.”  A country of 10 million wedged between European Union
member  Poland  to the west and Russia to the east, Belarus was
dubbed the “last dictatorship in  Europe ” by the administration
of former U.S. President  George W. Bush . President Alexander Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus since 1994, was returned to
office for a fourth term last year with almost 80 percent of the
vote in elections the  Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe  said were not free or fair.  While Lukashenko relaxed his hold on the country before the
Dec. 19 election, his regime cracked down on demonstrators after
the vote, arresting more than 700 people, including opposition
candidates.  ‘No Discussions’  “Dialogue is important, but it isn’t possible with
Lukashenko right now,” Alexander Milinkevich, an opposition
leader and a defeated candidate in the 2006 presidential vote,
said in an interview yesterday in Warsaw. “There can be no
discussions until all the political prisoners have been freed.”  Romanchuk said he believes Russia’s leaders are searching
for an alternative to Lukashenko and, after efforts by the EU to
forge  closer relations  with Belarus stalled following the post-
election crackdown, there is nobody to stop Russia gaining more
control over events in its western neighbor. The EU said on
March 21 it was adding a further 19 Belarusian officials to a
list of those banned from traveling to the bloc and whose assets
have been frozen.  “Russia’s becoming more serious about trying to find a
substitute for Lukashenko,” Romanchuk said. “It isn’t out of
love for its Belarusian brothers, though. Nobody can tell me
Russia has stopped being an empire. They would really like to
swallow us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  