-- 
Bernanke ‘Confident’ Small Banks Will Overcome Financial, Market Obstacles

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-23T17:52:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bernanke-confident-small-u-s-banks-will-overcome-challenges.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said small and mid-size U.S. banks have a “vital
role” in supporting the U.S. recovery and that he’s
“confident” the firms will overcome challenges.  “Community banks face substantial challenges in the months
and years to come, including still-difficult economic
conditions, continued uncertainties in real estate and other key
markets and a changing regulatory environment,” Bernanke said
today in a speech to bankers in  San Diego . “But community banks
have faced difficult times before, and the industry has remained
vibrant and resilient. I am confident that community banking
will successfully navigate these new challenges as well.”  Bernanke, in his first comments since last week’s Fed
policy meeting, didn’t elaborate on the outlook for the economy
and monetary policy. He used the speech to draw lines between
the biggest U.S. banks whose size and debt contributed to the
financial crisis and are now the main target of new regulations,
and smaller banks that expanded lending from mid-2008 to 2010.  “Focusing reform on our largest, most complex financial
firms makes sense,” Bernanke said to the Independent Community
Bankers of America’s annual conference. Last year’s Dodd-Frank
Act aims to mitigate threats to financial stability posed by
firms that investors may deem “too big to fail,” he said.  ‘Too-Big-To-Fail’  The “too-big-to-fail problem” creates “competitive
distortions by enabling firms with large systemic footprints to
fund themselves more cheaply than other firms because of the
implicit subsidy of too-big-to-fail status,” Bernanke said.
“This competitive distortion is not only unfair to smaller
firms and damaging to competition today, but it also spurs
further growth by the largest firms and more consolidation and
concentration in the financial industry.”  Bernanke, addressing a current legislative skirmish, said
the Fed is trying to ensure that a small-bank exemption from new
regulations on debit-card “swipe” fee caps works as intended.
The ICBA and other banking groups are lobbying against a Fed
proposal implementing the caps as required by last year’s Dodd-
Frank Act. The organization said last month that community banks
may eliminate free products, fire workers and shelve expansion
plans if the Fed imposes the caps.  “We are quite aware that the Congress, in writing this
law, intended for smaller issuers to be exempt, carved out from
the broader statute,” Bernanke said today. “In our rule-
writing, we will do everything we can and use all the powers we
have to try to make sure that that carve-out is effective,” he
said to applause.  Fee Caps  U.S. Senate and House lawmakers last week proposed
legislation to delay the proposed fee caps. The Senate bill
would put off implementation of the rule for two years while the
House version would delay it for one year.  The Fed is “delighted” that Congress let it retain small-
bank supervision powers in the Dodd-Frank Act that were
initially threatened, Bernanke said as he credited the ICBA’s
lobbying efforts. “We will be able to remain fully engaged with
grass-roots America,” he said, one of several lines that also
drew applause.  Bernanke said the Fed established a Board of Governors
subcommittee focused on community and smaller regional banks,
consisting of governors  Elizabeth Duke  and  Sarah Bloom Raskin .
The panel is “reviewing new policy proposals through the lens
of the effect those proposals could have on smaller
institutions,” the chairman said.  Improving Economy  Fed officials at their March 15 meeting indicated they see
an improving economy that lacks enough strength to warrant
removing record monetary stimulus. They left the benchmark
federal funds rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008. They also retained a pledge in
place since March 2009 to keep the rate “exceptionally low”
for an “extended period.”  Payrolls have increased by an average 134,000 a month for
the past five months and the  unemployment rate  has dropped by
almost 1 percentage point over three months to 8.9 percent in
February, the lowest level since April 2009.  The housing market is still struggling to recover. A report
today showed new-home sales fell to the slowest pace on record
in February, while prices dropped to the lowest level since
December 2003.  A survey of banks by the Fed released in January found that
most firms expect loan delinquencies and charge-off rates to
improve this year. Banks continued to ease standards and terms
for commercial and industrial loans in the fourth quarter, the
survey also showed. By contrast, changes in terms for consumer
loans were “small and mixed,” it said.  ‘Especially Hard’  “The financial crisis and its aftermath have hit some
community banks especially hard, and those institutions will
continue to need time to repair their balance sheets,” Bernanke
said today. “Although we are not yet where we would like to be,
the good news is that many community banks are recovering and
reporting stronger performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in San Diego at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  