-- 
Best Buy CEO Dunn Reboots to Win Back Customers From Wal-Mart, Amazon.com

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-03-23T20:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/best-buy-s-dunn-reboots-to-win-back-sales-from-wal-mart-amazon.html
Best Buy Co. is rebooting -- again.  Concerned that consumers are coming to view the world’s
largest consumer electronics merchant as just another big-box
chain, Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn is rethinking just
about everything the Richfield, Minnesota-based company does.  He’s reorganizing the stores; new test locations in
Pittsburgh and  Las Vegas  are less cluttered and bear more than a
passing resemblance to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s retail minimalism. Floor
walkers have been retrained to show shoppers how gadgets work
together -- a concept Dunn calls the “connected store.” The
company is moving to “everyday” pricing, a guarantee that
shoppers will get the lowest price Best Buy can offer.  “We have an industry that’s transforming, so naturally
we’re transforming,” Dunn, 51, said in a telephone interview.
“All of those initiatives show how we are transforming to what
our customers need and want from us.”  The connected store represents a midcourse correction for
Dunn, whose previous strategy involved loading up stores with
exclusive products, including an electric bike. Best Buy has
since lost customers to Apple, Amazon.com,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , say analysts.  Tomorrow, when the company reports fiscal 2011 earnings,
annual revenue may rise about 1 percent to $50.3 billion,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That’s the
slowest pace since 1990. Profit may rise 4 percent to $1.37
billion compared with a 31 percent increase the year before.  The connected store strategy won’t solve Best Buy’s
challenges, according to  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities in  Los Angeles  who rates the shares “neutral.”  ‘Irrelevant Solution’  “With the Internet and smartphones, we don’t need to shop
at Best Buy to figure out which TV or electronics we want,” he
said in a telephone interview. “Their solution may be good for
2011 but will be irrelevant by 2014. Technology is going to pass
them by like they’re standing still.”  Dunn, who has been CEO since June 2009, is betting big on
services. While trying to match the discounters on price, Best
Buy aims to sell add-ons Wal-Mart and Costco don’t offer,
including extended warranties, digital content streamed to
devices and remote home-monitoring and repair, says Mike
Vitelli, co-chief of the North American division.  Store No. 584 in the Pittsburgh suburb of North Fayette,
 Pennsylvania , provides a glimpse of Best Buy’s new direction.
Gone are the tall enclosing shelves that have long typified the
stores. Instead, a range of gadgets -- from tablets to cameras
to digital photo frames -- are displayed on low tables. Shoppers
get there via “the runway,” a stretch of blue tile leading
from the front doors through the center of the store.  Saturday Workshops  As few as half of the store’s employees were trained to
sell gadgets storewide. Now most are trained to sell across all
categories. On Saturdays the store holds workshops. In one, a
staffer demonstrates how to wirelessly display a photo on a TV.  “It used to be I could say, ‘This Blu-ray player can
connect to the Internet and it can do Pandora and Netflix,’”
said Mark Staub, a Pittsburgh store employee who oversees the
displays of connected devices. “Now I can say, ‘Hey, let’s walk
back there and I can show you how to do this.’”  Keen to reclaim customers who have defected to online
retailers such as Amazon.com, Dunn is bringing the Web to the
connected stores. Touch-screen kiosks allow customers to shop on
bestbuy.com, print out price comparisons and see gift card
balances. Just inside the front door, shoppers can pick up
merchandise ordered online. Smartphone-packing salespeople check
out customers right on the floor.  Geek Makeover  Best Buy’s Geek Squad is getting a makeover, too. Besides
installing and repairing entertainment and computer systems in
customers’ homes, the corps of technicians will staff consulting
booths and troubleshoot and fix simple problems in the stores.  In the interview, Dunn acknowledged that the new stores
look more Apple-like. Still, Best Buy didn’t take its cues from
Apple, whose products it sells, says Ken Morris, field executive
director for connected services.  “We heard from our female customers, ‘Lower your tables so
we can talk,’” he said. “We’ve created a conversation.”  Dunn’s strategy to sell exclusive merchandise ran aground
during the most recent  holiday shopping season  when Best Buy
stocked 3D and Web-connected televisions for as much as $4,000
at a time when consumers remained budget-conscious.  Many flocked to discounted TVs at Wal-Mart, Costco and
Amazon, and Best Buy’s third-quarter profit missed analysts’
estimates. In December, the retailer reduced its most bullish
full-year profit forecast by 30 cents a share to $3.40, and the
stock fell the most in eight years.  ‘Out to Pasture’  According to the average of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News, earnings will be $3.31 a share.  Best Buy rose 43 cents to $31.85 at 4:02 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Over the past 12 months the
shares have fallen 23 percent, compared with a 49 percent
increase for Apple and a 28 percent rise for Amazon.com.  With online retailers surging, Dunn’s latest strategy is
like “re-arranging pictures on the wall of the stable with the
horses already out to pasture,” said  Colin McGranahan , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “You can have pretty stores,” said McGranahan, who rates
the shares as “market perform.” “But with traffic declining,
is it going to fix the problem? I am skeptical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Clifford Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  