-- 
Blankfein Checks Profit Daily, Prefers Voice Mail to E-Mail

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/blankfein-checks-goldman-s-profit-daily-prefers-his-voice-mail-to-e-mail.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  checks his bank’s profit
daily, prefers voice mail to e-mail and makes unscheduled calls
to board members at times of market “uncertainty.”  His testimony at the insider trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam was intended by prosecutors to show how one of those
board members,  Rajat Gupta , who served in 2007 and 2008, passed
on information he learned from the board. Blankfein’s 3 1/2
hours on the witness stand yesterday before a packed Manhattan
federal courtroom also included a few questions about the CEO’s
personal life.  “Where did you grow up?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Michaelson asked Blankfein, who wore a blue tie, dark suit and
white shirt. “ Brooklyn ,” the 56-year-old CEO replied.  “Where did you go to high school?” Michaelson asked.
“Thomas Jefferson High School, East New York, Brooklyn,”
Blankfein said.  No other witness during the three-week trial has been asked
such questions. Prosecutors painted a picture of a CEO who grew
up in an outer borough of  New York City  to eventually run the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets. Along with asking him about
his roots, Michaelson explored his management style.  Blankfein, who responded in a deferential fashion,
testified he checks the firm’s “p-and-l,” or profit and loss,
daily and relies mainly on voice mail. In times of market
stress, he said he likes to have one-on-one conversations with
board members. An e-mail shown to jurors referred to such talks
as “just-checking-in-calls.”  Reading Habits  Even Blankfein’s reading habits were explored. Rajaratnam’s
defense lawyer,  John Dowd , asked Blankfein whether he was a
daily reader of the Wall Street Journal.  “Sometimes I do,” Blankfein testified, before hurriedly
adding, “Often I do. But not always.”  Most of his testimony, which concluded this afternoon, was
devoted to his conversations with Gupta, 62. Blankfein told
jurors he briefed his board on the bank’s losses in October 2008
-- the first losses ever, he said -- and the $5 billion
investment in the bank by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. at about the same time.  “Was it big news or small news for Goldman Sachs?”
Michaelson asked.  “Big news,” Blankfein replied.  “Was the news confidential?” the prosecutor asked.  “Yes,” the CEO said.  Lawyers and Executives  Some two dozen reporters scribbled notes as the CEO
testified, with an equal number of audience members, many in
business suits, watching him as well. Prosecutors contend Gupta,
who hasn’t been charged with a crime and has denied any
wrongdoing, related board discussions to Rajaratnam, who then
allegedly traded on them.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders such as Gupta. He denies
wrongdoing, saying he based trades on research.  Along with Goldman Sachs’s outside lawyer Karen Seymour,
and other attorneys for the bank, also in attendance for
Blankfein’s testimony was  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
and the chief of his securities fraud bureau, Christopher Garcia.  As Blankfein spoke, Rajaratnam sat among two rows of
defense lawyers. He listened quietly, reading documents posted
on a video screen and staring at the witness.  Not Looking  Blankfein rarely looked at the hedge fund manager, even
when he testified that he visited New York-based Galleon “a
long time ago” when he was vice-chairman of Goldman Sachs.  Under questioning by Dowd, Blankfein confirmed Galleon was
an important client of Goldman Sachs and that the firm ranks its
clients based on “who’s relatively more important and less
important.” The CEO said he was “not sure” whether Galleon
was considered a “tier one” client.  Blankfein hesitated slightly at times during his testimony.
Asked about the New York-based bank’s performance in October
2008, amid what he said was the great “uncertainty” of the
credit crisis, he responded haltingly.  “We were losing -- er, we were losing money,” he said.
“We generally made money.”  He also briefly shared his view of Goldman Sachs’s
function. Asked by the prosecutor about the bank’s market-making
business, Blankfein said, “We’re like a middleman.”  “It’s a service we do for the world,” the CEO testified.  He then changed the last two words to “our clients.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 