-- 
Bloodcurdling ‘Hunter’ Stars Mitchum as Deranged Preacher: DVDs

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-03-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bloodcurdling-hunter-features-mitchum-as-deranged-preacher-rainer-file.html
      March 23 (Bloomberg) - “ The Night of the Hunter ,” one of
the scariest Hollywood movies ever made, was practically ignored
when it came out in 1955 even though it starred Robert Mitchum,
featured a screenplay by James Agee and marked the directing
debut of Charles Laughton.  The film was such a colossal commercial flop that Laughton,
although he lived another seven years, never directed again.  He would have rejoiced in the film’s afterlife.  Slowly and steadily, the movie he once described as a
“nightmarish Mother Goose story” has come into its own. The
recent two-disc Criterion DVD of the digitally restored “The
Night of the Hunter,” with its bundle of extras, is a treasure
trove for cineastes.  Mitchum plays the deranged preacher Harry Powell, who
murders rich widows as he makes his way across the Depression-
era Ohio River valley. Harry has L-O-V-E tattooed across his
right fingers, H-A-T-E across his left.  His newest quarry is Shelley Winter’s Willa, whose husband
Ben (played by Peter Graves) was sent to prison for a botched
robbery in which someone was killed. Harry, picked up by the
police at a strip joint, was Ben’s cell mate and knows about the
money he stashed away.  Ben goes to the gallows with his secret and Harry descends
upon Willa and her two young children, John (Billy Chapin) and
his younger sister Pearl (Sally Bruce), to find out where the
treasure is hidden.  Gun-Toting Gish  John, who is about 10, swore to his father never to reveal
where its whereabouts. He loathes Harry, who resembles a coiled
cobra in preacher’s duds. It all ends with Harry’s ghastly
pursuit of the two children and their refuge with the film’s
Mother Goose, Lillian Gish’s rifle-toting Miss Rachel.  Mitchum was never more dynamic, or sexual, than he is here.
Shot by Stanley Cortez, Orson Welles’s cinematographer on “ The
Magnificent Ambersons ,” “The Night of the Hunter” combines
German Expressionism with the pastoralism of D.W. Griffith. The
storybook tone is a fusion of horror, slapstick and lyricism.  Elsa Lanchester, Laughton’s widow, kept 18 boxes of rushes
and outtakes from the film that her husband couldn’t bear to
part with. In 2002, after many years of painstaking
reconstruction, archivist Robert Gitt assembled a 2 1/2-hour
presentation of the best material.  This footage, which toured festivals and film societies,
constitutes the second Criterion disc. It’s the most revealing
peek behind the curtain of a masterpiece that I’ve ever seen.  Magic Trick  We get alternate takes of classic sequences, such as
Harry’s murder of Willa in their cryptlike bedroom, and we hear
Laughton, who liked to keep his camera running between takes,
giving direction to his actors. (He tells Winters, “Just lie
there Shelley and be seraphic.”)  It’s like witnessing the origins of a famous magic trick.  The biggest revelation is how intensely committed an actor
Mitchum was. (He often said Harry Powell was his favorite role.)
With just a suggestion from Laughton, he could instantly vary
the speed and heat of his performance and be equally good each
time.  The extras include a 1984 interview with Cortez in which he
describes his extraordinary collaboration with Laughton,
including his work as cinematographer on the less-than-masterful
“Abbott and Costello Meet Captain Kidd” in 1952.  There are also oddities such as Graves and Winters reading
a deleted scene from “Hunter” on “The Ed Sullivan Show.”
Plus a fascinating interview with actor and Laughton biographer
Simon Callow, who says, “I think he thought ‘The Night of the
Hunter’ represented the best of him.”  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  ---Editors: Rick Warner, Jeremy Gerard.  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  