-- 
BMG Is Said to Have Bid for Three Different Sets of Warner Music's Assets

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-03-23T14:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bmg-said-to-have-bid-for-three-sets-of-warner-music-assets.html
BMG Rights Management GmbH , the
music-rights company funded by Bertelsmann AG and KKR & Co.,
made bids for three different sets of assets from  Warner Music
Group Corp. (WMG) , said two people familiar with the talks.  One bid was for  Warner Music ’s Warner/Chappell publishing
business, one for selected European music catalog assets and one
for the whole company, the people said, declining to be
identified because the talks are private. The bids value the
publishing business at between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion and
the whole company at about $2.8 billion, one of the people said.  Warner Music hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to recruit
bidders for all or part of the company while it separately seeks
to buy EMI Group Ltd., people familiar with the plans said this
year. Citigroup Inc. seized control of EMI after the record
label struggled to meet the terms of loans used to finance its
takeover by  Guy Hands , opening the way for a sale.  BMG is not in talks with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s music unit about a
joint bid for Warner Music, one of the people said today. The
New York Post reported earlier that BMG and Sony may team up to
buy the company, without saying where it got the information.
Spokespeople for BMG and Sony declined to comment today.  Should BMG win the bid for all of Warner, it would consider
selling off some operations, and most likely keep the publishing
arm and some European catalogs, one of the people said.  BMG holds the rights to more than 100,000 songs including
Aerosmith’s “Walk this Way” and ZZ Top’s “Gimme All Your
Lovin.” Warner Music’s artists include Kid Rock, Missy Elliott,
and the Red Hot Chili Peppers.  A sale of the publishing assets is the most likely outcome
so Warner Music can bid for EMI, two people familiar with the
process said last month. Selling more than Warner/Chappell
publishing may end Warner Music’s pursuit of an EMI deal.  A decision on the sale of any of the assets is expected in
mid-April, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  