-- 
Top U.S. Republicans Question Purpose and Goals of Libya Military Mission

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-24T20:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/boehner-presses-obama-on-contradiction-between-u-s-un-goals-for-libya.html
Top Republicans in Congress
questioned the purpose and goals of U.S. military intervention
in  Libya  and complained that lawmakers weren’t consulted before
President  Barack Obama  decided that America would join the
international combat mission.  House Speaker  John Boehner  sought an explanation of what he
termed a “contradiction” between Obama’s stated goal of regime
change in Libya and the limitation of the United Nations-
sanctioned attack to curbing the ability of Muammar Qaddafi’s
forces to attack civilians.  Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, yesterday called for
congressional hearings on the mission as U.S. and allied
warplanes continued to strike Qaddafi’s ground forces.  “The administration has not adequately defined the U.S.
strategic interest in Libya or adequately articulated how the
conflict ends,” Lugar said in a letter to the panel’s chairman,
Democratic Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts .  The panel intends to conduct hearings on the Libya
situation “in the near future,” a committee aide said today.
Kerry “has been been traveling in the region” during this
week’s congressional recess “to get information firsthand from
our allies,” panel spokesman Frederick Jones said in a
statement.  Boehner Letter  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, in a separate letter yesterday
asked Obama how the Libyan leader would be removed from power,
since the UN resolution authorizing force against Qaddafi
“makes clear that regime change is not part of” the
international effort.  The “conflicting messages from the administration” and
coalition nations have produced “a lack of clarity over the
objectives of this mission,” Boehner wrote.  He said in his letter that the U.S. public needs to know
“what our national security interests are” in the mission
“and how it fits into our overarching policy in the Middle
East.” These concerns, he said, “point to a fundamental
question: What is your hallmark for success in Libya?”  Questioned about Boehner’s letter today, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters that “we have answered a
lot of those questions and will continue to answer them.”  ‘Not Clear’  Lugar, in his letter yesterday, said that “it is not clear
that the Obama administration has thought through the
consequences of this action for regional stability, the fight
against terrorism, the impact on oil markets, and other
factors.”  He said hearings were “especially vital because the Obama
administration did not consult meaningfully with Congress.”  The House Foreign Affairs Committee scheduled a March 31
hearing to question Deputy Secretary of State  James Steinberg  on
Libya’s importance to U.S. security,, according to a  notice  on
the panel’s Web site. The committee had invited Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  to testify a day earlier.  Boehner’s letter told Obama that it was “regrettable that
no opportunity was afforded to consult with congressional
leaders” before the decision to attack Libya was made.  ‘Apt’ Criticism  The Republican complaint of inadequate consultation drew
support from the No. 2 House Democrat, Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland . He said “in some sense the criticism is
apt” because “I don’t think there was a lot of consultation.”  Hoyer, the House Democratic whip, said in an interview that
“there was certainly no consultation” at a March 18 briefing
of congressional leaders by Obama. He said lawmakers were
“informed of an action the president was going to take within,
frankly, minutes of the ending of the meeting.”  White House aides defended the decision to participate in
the attacks on Libya and the consultation process with Congress.  “This intervention is taking place to prevent an
international humanitarian catastrophe, the potential massacre
of thousands, tens of thousands of people in major population
centers like Benghazi,”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national
security adviser for strategic communications, told reporters on
Air Force One as the president returned to Washington yesterday
from a trip to Latin America.  “We consulted with Congress before we took military
action,” Rhodes said. “We continued to brief Congress” after
the campaign began.  ‘Continued Consultation’  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California urged
more consultations with lawmakers. “U.S. participation is
strengthened by the president’s continued consultation with
Congress,” she said in a statement.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, told reporters that after Obama’s one-hour briefing of
congressional leaders, ‘I’ve been kept informed the entire
way.”  Boehner requested from Obama details about the “engagement
strategy” with Libyan forces opposing Qaddafi.  “If the strife in Libya becomes a protracted conflict,
what are your administration’s objectives for engaging with
opposition forces, and what standards must a new regime meet to
be recognized” by the U.S., Boehner asked.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, predicted that the Democratic-
controlled chamber wouldn’t constrain Obama’s direction of the
attack on Qaddafi’s forces.  Opponents of Obama’s decision to support the mission won’t
come “anywhere near success” getting the votes needed to
curtail it, Durbin told reporters on a conference call.  War Powers Act  When Congress returns from its recess next week, opponents
of the U.S.-led operation may try to cut off funding or force a
vote on congressional authorization under the War Powers
Resolution of 1973, which requires the president to seek
approval from Congress for military actions.  Obama said March 22 that the U.S. goal is to transfer
command of the operation to an international coalition that will
be orchestrated by North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies.  The U.S. and its coalition partners are trying to resolve a
disagreement over the role of  NATO  in the command structure of
the operation.  In his letter, Boehner pressed Obama for details on which
nations “will be taking the lead” and whether there are
“clear lines of authority and responsibility and a chain of
command.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{James Rowley} in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  