-- 
Boehringer, Pfizer’s Spiriva Bests Glaxo Drug for Lung Disorder

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-03-23T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/boehringer-pfizer-s-spiriva-bests-glaxo-drug-for-lung-disorder.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH’s drug Spiriva reduced flare-ups for patients
with a lung ailment caused by smoking more than  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) ’s Serevent, according to a study.  Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who
took Spiriva went 42 days longer than those on Serevent before
experiencing exacerbation of symptoms, according to the study
published in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The yearlong
trial, which involved 7,376 patients, also found that Spiriva
cut the risk of the first severe flare-up requiring
hospitalization by 28 percent.  Spiriva and Serevent are both standard treatments for COPD
and work in different ways to open the airways and ease
breathlessness. The study shows Spiriva may be better than
Serevent for patients with moderate COPD and a history of recent
exacerbations, Jadwiga Wedzicha, a professor of respiratory
medicine at the  University College London Medical School , wrote
in an editorial published alongside the study today.  Doctors may choose Spiriva to “ help minimize the risk of
exacerbations from early on, enabling patients to lead active
lives for longer,” Claus Vogelmeier, a professor in the
department of internal medicine at the  University of Marburg  and
the study’s lead investigator, said in a statement.  More than 12 million people in the U.S. are diagnosed with
 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and another 12 million
probably have it and don’t know, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . Also known as emphysema, chronic
bronchitis or smoker’s cough, the illness kills more than
120,000 Americans a year as blockages in the lungs lead to
shortness of breath and disability.  Boehringer, based in Ingelheim,  Germany , and New York-based
Pfizer sponsored the research. The German drugmaker is scheduled
to report last year’s sales of Spiriva on April 5. Sales in 2009
were 2.4 billion euros ($3.39 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  