-- 
Boeing May Increase Dividend as Dreamliner Deliveries Start

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-03-23T17:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/boeing-considers-buying-back-shares-boosting-dividend-in-2012.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  will consider increasing
its dividend in 2012 and repurchasing shares as the planemaker’s
cash flow improves with deliveries of its new 787 Dreamliner and
747-8 jumbo jet.  The Chicago-based company will also begin looking at
acquisitions once it has reduced its research & development
spending and paid back some debt, Chief Financial Officer  James Bell  said today in a JPMorgan conference that was broadcast on
the Web. Bloomberg analysis projects the dividend may increase
next year to 43 cents a quarter from 42 cents this year.  “We’d like to get back on track and make sure that our
dividend tracks with our profitability, and as we have the
liquidity to fund that, we will do it,” Bell told investors.  Boeing expects to deliver the first 747-8 freighter in the
middle of this year and the first 787 Dreamliner in the third
quarter, Bell reiterated. The planes are years behind schedule
and billions of dollars over budget because of problems with the
new materials and processes Boeing is using.  The Dreamliner has now completed 85 percent of the testing
required by the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  for
passenger service to begin, Bell said. The remaining tests are a
matter of “ticking off” the flight hours required to show the
plane’s durability, Bell said.  “These are not driven by technology, so we’re a lot more
comfortable that we’re over the critical ones and the next 15
percent will just take the time it takes to complete the
regimen,” he said.  The plane’s production and deliveries won’t be hampered by
the earthquake in  Japan , where 35 percent of the Dreamliner is
built by three Boeing partners near Nagoya, Bell said. While
some smaller Japanese suppliers have been hurt, the parts they
produce can be more easily replicated if a shortage arises
before the companies are able to recover, he said.  Plans to boost production of the 777 jet to record rates
are going ahead as planned, and the company is considering
raising output of its best-selling 737 to “42 and beyond,”
from 31.5 a month now, as delivery slots are sold out, he said.  Bell repeated his previous forecast that the first quarter
would produce about 15 percent of this year’s earnings, and that
profit would improve sequentially throughout the year. Analysts
project Boeing to post earnings of $4.13 a share this year, the
average of 25 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  