-- 
Bank of America Was Underprepared for WikiLeaks Disclosure, Moynihan Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-03-23T18:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bofa-was-underprepared-for-wikileaks-disclosure-moynihan-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said his company was caught
off guard when WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange told a magazine
he’d release internal documents from a U.S. lender.  “We weren’t as prepared at the moment we heard about it as
we should’ve been, and now we have done a lot of work” to be
ready for the possible disclosure of confidential information,
Moynihan said today in remarks to the  Detroit  Economic Club.  Assange told Forbes last year that he’d release documents
in 2011 showing “some flagrant violations, unethical
practices” at a bank he didn’t identify. He told  Computerworld 
magazine in 2009 that his group had records from the hard drive
of a Bank of America executive. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based lender fell 3.2 percent on the New York Stock Exchange the
day after the Forbes report.  Moynihan set up an internal  task force  late last year, led
by Chief Risk Officer Bruce Thompson, to prepare for the
possible release of company secrets, a person with knowledge of
the plan said in December. The bank also said it wouldn’t
process payments intended for the WikiLeaks.  “We just don’t know what they have, and honestly we don’t
know when, or if ever,” the information will be released,
Moynihan told business executives today in Detroit. “What I’d
say to you is, ‘if you haven’t thought this through from your
company’s perspective, I would go out and think about this, and
think about what you would do if it was you.’”  Confidential Information  Assange has told people privately that he was unable to
make sense of the Bank of America data and wasn’t sure if it was
newsworthy, Reuters  said  last month, citing three unidentified
people with knowledge of his private discussions.  WikiLeaks.org, a nonprofit group that releases information
governments and businesses want to keep confidential, in
November began posting on its website what it said are secret or
in some cases unclassified U.S. embassy cables written from
December 1966 to February 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
April Lee in New York at 
 Alee355@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  