-- 
Bank of America Says Fed Objected to Plans for a Dividend Increase in 2011

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-03-23T20:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bofa-says-fed-objected-to-planned-dividend-increase-in-2011-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, said the Federal Reserve rejected its
request for a dividend increase in the second half of 2011,
forcing the company to resubmit plans for a “modest” boost.  The bank submitted a capital plan in January that included
raising its 1-cent per-share dividend later this year, and was
informed of the Fed’s decision on March 18, the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based company said today in a regulatory filing. The
firm’s shares declined 1.7 percent in  New York  trading.  Bank of America is the only U.S. lender among the largest
four that didn’t announce a higher dividend after the Fed
finished a review of the companies’ financial health and capital
plans last week. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has
told investors for the past two months that he believed the firm
could raise its dividend this year.  “Some caution would appear warranted” for policy makers
examining Bank of America’s capital strength, said Jonathan Hatcher, a credit strategist at Jefferies & Co. in New York and
former bank examiner for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
“This is likely more of a soft warning shot to Bank of America
and others that the cops remain on the beat.”  Shares of Bank of America, which gained 4.1 percent this
year through yesterday, fell 23 cents to $13.65 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Bad Mortgages  Bank of America said in a March 18 e-mail that it planned
to resubmit its dividend proposal to the Fed and didn’t
elaborate on why the firm had to file another request.  Lenders including Bank of America, which had a 64-cent
payout until 2008, slashed dividends during the financial crisis
to conserve capital as loan losses piled up. Rivals including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co . were
allowed in the past week to boost dividends after the Fed
reviewed their ability to withstand another economic slump.  Bank of America faces too many unknowns about soured
mortgages for the Fed to allow a significant increase to payouts
until 2012,  Frederick Cannon , director of research at KBW Inc.
in New York, wrote in a note earlier this week.  “While Bank of America’s capital is sufficient for a bank
that is now operating at a profit, the capital levels were
simply too far behind peers,” Cannon wrote.  The firm “will continue to work with the  Federal Reserve 
and intends to seek permission for a modest increase in its
common dividend for the second half of 2011, through the
submission of a revised comprehensive capital plan,” the
company said in the filing.  The lender accepted $45 billion of U.S. bailout funds as
regulators became concerned that its purchase of Merrill Lynch &
Co. in January 2009 would destabilize Bank of America and the
financial system. The money has since been repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  