-- 
BOJ Cash to Support 2-Year Auction as Yields Fall

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-23T01:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/boj-injections-to-support-two-year-auction-as-yields-decline-japan-credit.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s 40 trillion yen
($494 billion) of cash injections since the nation’s biggest-
ever earthquake may support demand at tomorrow’s auction of two-
year government debt even as yields head for their first monthly
decline this year.  The flood of cash has helped push financial institutions’
deposits held in custody at the BOJ to a record 41.6 trillion
yen, based on central bank data yesterday. That is extra funding
banks can deploy at the 2.6 trillion yen sale of two-year notes.  Yields on the securities are at 0.218 percent, after rising
the previous two months to 0.25 percent on Feb. 28. The yield
spread between 2- and 20-year debt held near the most in two
months on speculation rebuilding from the quake will worsen
 Japan ’s finances.  “I’m not concerned about the two-year sale,” said Akio Kato, Tokyo-based team leader for Japanese debt at Kokusai Asset
Management Co., which runs the $33 billion Global Sovereign Open
fund. “The bottom line is that reconstruction efforts will
increase the nation’s debt burden, which is negative for super
long-term bonds. It will be difficult for the yield spread to
narrow.”  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters yesterday
the government hasn’t decided how much it will spend to rebuild
from the temblor and tsunami that struck on March 11, killing
more than 9,000 people and crippling a nuclear power plant north
of Tokyo. Bond sales and spending cuts are among the measures
that may be needed, Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru
Yosano  said.  Prior Sale  Demand dropped at the prior two-year sale on Feb. 24 for
the first time since November, with bids received worth 3.70
times the amount on offer, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of
5.33 at the January offering.  The 20-year yield gained three basis points yesterday to
2.045 percent. The yield gap between two-year notes and the
longer-maturity securities was about 184 basis points, after
reaching 186 on March 15, the most since Jan. 19.  The central bank added 2 trillion yen to the banking system
yesterday in a one-day operation, injecting funds for a sixth-
straight day.  “The BOJ has been very aggressive in injecting
liquidity,” said Tetsuya Inoue, chief researcher for financial
markets at Nomura Research Institute, a unit of Japan’s largest
brokerage. “After all, the cost to pump in funds is cheap with
 interest rates  near zero. People can bet firmly that the BOJ is
far away from a rate increase.”  ‘Very Aggressive’  Japan’s benchmark borrowing costs were cut to near zero
last year as officials sought to revive growth and end
deflation. The central bank on March 14 doubled to to 10
trillion yen a fund charged with buying assets including
 government bonds  and exchange-traded funds. Shirakawa said last
week the BOJ by law cannot underwrite government bonds.  The gap between yields on five-year inflation-linked debt
and conventional bonds of the same maturity, which reflects
investor expectations for average annual consumer price changes,
widened to minus 0.66 percent yesterday from minus 0.38 percent
on Feb. 16.  Three-month euroyen Tibor, a benchmark for corporate
lending, has been at 0.33615 since March 16, when it rose from
the 0.33538 percent level that been static since November.  Japan’s debt is set to reach 210 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, the highest among countries tracked by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting Japanese debt was
at 106 basis points on March 21, after jumping to 118 basis
points on March 16, according to CMA prices in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 