-- 
BP to Step Up Brazil Biofuels Spending After CNAA’s $680 Million

-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-03-23T14:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bp-to-step-up-brazil-biofuels-spending-after-cnaa-s-680-million.html
BP Plc (BP/)  aims to invest more in
 Brazil ’s ethanol and sugar market than the $680 million it paid
for 83 percent of Cia. Nacional de Acucar & Alcool as the
country’s potential is “mind blowing,” an executive said.  “We spent $680 million on the initial acquisition and
beyond that we will invest as appropriate to expand the assets
to the scale that we anticipate,” Philip New, head of BP’s
biofuels business, said in an interview today in Rotterdam. The
CNAA acquisition represents a “significant stepping stone in
our realization of our strategy to become a significant player
in the biofuels that we think are going to be important.”.  BP on March 11 said it would refinance all of CNAA’s
existing long-term debt. When the assets are fully developed,
the deal will increase BP’s Brazilian production to 1.4 billion
liters of ethanol equivalent a year, or 9 million barrels. The
expansion of BP’s ethanol business follows rival  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , which agreed to merge assets with Cosan SA Industria
& Comercio and share control of the world’s largest sugar-cane
processor.  Renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, geothermal
and biofuels will be the fastest-growing source of supply, with
their contribution to energy growth expected to increase to 18
percent in 2030 from 5 percent, BP said Jan. 19 in its Energy
Outlook 2030. The use of renewables will “continue to grow
strongly,” expanding to 6 percent of total energy use by 2030
from 2 percent.  “It begins to get the attention of energy companies and
eventually large companies with huge balance sheets need to be
employed to get this working,” New said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  