-- 
BP Veedol Oils Lure Suitors as Historic Brand Goes Up for Sale

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-03-23T13:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bp-veedol-oils-lure-suitors-as-historic-brand-goes-up-for-sale.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said more than 50 potential
bidders have registered an interest in its Duckhams and Veedol
car-lubricant brands that greased the engines of the first Model
T Fords and Lotus Formula 1 cars.  Oil companies , fuel retailers as well as lubricant makers
and car-accessory chains are vying for the global brands that
have more than 300 trademarks, BP’s Bruce Macfarlane, who is
overseeing the sale, said in a phone interview today. BP said
today that it’s looking for buyers for the portfolio of brands
and aims to complete the transaction by the end of the year.  The sale coincides with heightened investor interest in the
lubricant industry, highlighted by this month’s $9 billion
purchase of  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. Sold on gas-station forecourts, lubricants offer
higher margins and more resilience to economic slowdowns than
fuel. BP is focusing on its Castrol brand, Macfarlane said.  “We’ve got plenty of interest,”  Macfarlane said. “I’ve
got a big spreadsheet and now we are beginning the process.
You’ve got to work out who are the serious ones.” He declined
to specify the sum BP is seeking for the brands.  BP, based in London, initially set a March 12 deadline to
register interest in Veedol and Duckhams, which marketed its
hypergrade oil in the 1990s with the slogan “the engine’s
choice.” Macfarlane said a large Latin American  oil company  got
in touch yesterday, and BP is trying to “hold the door open” a
short while longer.  BP abandoned an attempt to sell Duckhams in the early
1990s, when it had a value of about 20 million pounds ($32
million). The Veedol brand, which also became one of  Germany ’s
leading lubricants, has been run down in the last 30 years.
Production of Duckhams, also sold in Malaysia, ceased in
January, Macfarlane said.  “It gives you a global brand presence and an emotional
presence in people’s head that you can tap if you’ve got the
right business model,” the executive said. “How many other 100
year-old brands are out there to buy?”  To contact the reporters on this story: Andrew Noel in  London  at
   anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  