-- 
Bradesco Asset Boosts Staff 20% on Foreign Demand for Brazil Stocks, Bonds

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-03-23T13:10:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/bradesco-asset-boosts-staff-20-on-foreign-demand-for-brazil-stocks-bonds.html
Bradesco Asset Management Ltd.,
 Brazil ’s third-largest money manager, plans to hire 25 people
this year to meet growing foreign demand for local stocks and
bonds, said Superintendent-Director Denise Pavarina.  BRAM, as Banco Bradesco SA’s asset management unit is
known, will add money managers and salespeople to its staff of
125 as it aims to increase funds under management by 15 percent
in 2011 from 197.5 billion reais ($120 billion) last year,
Pavarina said. The division hired 26 people since it began its
international expansion in 2010. Assets rose 13 percent last
year, while the number of funds managed rose to 539 from 495.  “Real talent is always hard to find, and it’s more
challenging now, when there is more demand for financial market
professionals,” Pavarina, 47, said in a March 21 interview in
 Sao Paulo . “There are many new entrants in the market looking
to hire, and the firms that are already established want to
strengthen their teams because Brazil is so hot right now.”  BRAM needs to hire money managers and salespeople to meet
growing demand from foreign investors who want to take advantage
of the best economic growth in Brazil in more than two decades,
fueled in part by record expansion in credit and employment.
Brazil’s gross domestic product grew 7.5 percent last year, the
fastest since 1986, according to the nation’s statistics agency,
IBGE.  Insufficient Talent Pool  Hiring in Brazil’s financial market is expected to increase
25 percent this year compared with 2010, according to Fesa, a
consulting company that specializes in recruiting in the
financial, industrial and consumer sectors. The current talent
pool in Brazil isn’t sufficient to meet demand from financial
firms, said Ricardo Amatto, Fesa’s director for the finance
industry.  “Companies are really fighting for experienced
professionals,” Amatto said in a telephone interview. “I’ve
never seen anything like it in Brazil.”  Foreign investors are playing a key role in BRAM’s plans to
expand its staff, Pavarina said. Overseas clients are taking a
longer-term approach to investing in Brazil, and aren’t
concerned by how local markets have underperformed peers so far
this year, said the executive.  The benchmark Bovespa stock index lost 2.5 percent so far
this year, while the global equity market gained 1.6 percent in
dollar-denominated terms, according to the MSCI AC World Index.
Brazil’s real is little changed in the period, the fifth-worst
performer among the 16 most actively-traded currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Infrastructure Investment  Investors in mainland  China  and  Hong Kong  have been
particularly interested in investing in Brazil, especially in
sectors related to infrastructure.  “They want to buy stakes in companies and keep those
investments for a while because they have no doubt in their
minds that Brazil will keep growing,” she said.  The new hires will mostly be money managers and salespeople
who will work abroad, selling funds in  Asia , Latin America and
 Europe . Bram is also planning to set up operations in the U.S.,
she said.  Joaquim Levy, head of strategy and management at BRAM, said
March 21 that the outlook for investment in Brazil is positive,
and that the transportation and logistics industries have the
potential to gain more than others because they are
“fundamental partners” for Brazil’s economic growth. Levy, a
former treasury secretary, was hired by BRAM in June last year.  BRAM lags behind the asset management division of  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3) , which ended 2010 with 373.5 billion reais under
management, and the asset management unit of  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA (ITUB4) , with 239.9 billion reais under management, according
to the local capital markets and investment banking association
known as  Anbima .  Bradesco’s asset management division already markets to
investors in Japan and  Chile  through partnerships with  Banco de
Chile (CHILE)  and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc (8306) , Pavarina said.
BRAM is using Bradesco’s investment-banking offices in
 Luxembourg  to cater to European clients, and in Hong Kong to
handle business in Asia, she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio De Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  