-- 
Brazil’s New Industrial Policy Aims to Boost High-Tech Goods

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-03-23T21:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/brazil-s-new-industrial-policy-aims-to-boost-high-tech-products.html
Brazil’s government plans to cut
taxes on domestically manufactured tablet computers as part of a
new industrial policy aimed at boosting production of high-end
consumer technology goods, Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said.  Under policies being drafted now, manufacturers such as
Positivo Informática SA and Itautec SA - Grupo Itautec, will be
able to produce tablets in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
without paying federal PIS and Cofins taxes, Bernardo said in an
interview in Brasilia yesterday. The two levies boost a
product’s cost by 9.25 percent, the electronics manufacturers
association says. Government policy may push the sticker price
of a tablet down as low as 500 reais ($301), Bernardo said.  “Positivo is entering this tablet business and it is
important to get an incentive from the government,” Luciana Leocadio, an analyst at Ativa SA CTVC brokerage, said in a
telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “Everybody was
expecting this move by the government, this new signal is good
for the industry and for the company.”  ‘Start Competing’  Companies, such as Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., are
assessing the possibility of manufacturing tablets in Brazil to
benefit from lower taxes, Bernardo said.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is also
“prospecting the Brazilian market.” Tablets, which are
portable computers that can be used without keyboards, produced
in Brazil could be exported across Latin America, he said.  Positivo rose 3.1 percent today to close at 8.29 reais in
 Sao Paulo . The Bovespa index rose 0.3 percent to 67795.51.  “We’ve already cut taxes on modems and net components,
we’re in this huge discussion because we’re interested in
bringing factories and technologies here to  Brazil ,” Bernardo
said. “We could start competing in this market, there’s no
company from the West.”  Motorola officials met Bernardo earlier this month to
discuss the possible production of tablets, though no decision
has yet been taken, Giuseppe Marrara, director of government
relations at Motorola Mobility in Brazil said in a statement.  An official at Apple’s Brazilian unit declined to comment.
Spokesmen for Positivo and Itautec SA - Grupo Itautec weren’t
immediately available for comment when called today by  Bloomberg
News .  Apple’s iPad, one of the best-known tablets, in Brazil is
priced from 1,399 reais ($842). By comparison, the iPad2 starts
at $499 in the U.S.  Incentives  Incentives for manufacturing tablets follow similar moves
made in 2005 by former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who
also cut taxes and created credit lines for purchases of
computers and laptops made in Brazil costing up to 3,000 reais.  “The government is revising the industrial policy and
that’s virtually agreed, I haven’t seen anyone speaking against
tax cuts,” Bernardo said. “We’ll cut the PIS and Cofins,
tablets will have the same tax benefits computers and laptops
do.”  The government will unveil the new industrial policy by
June, Bernardo said.  Pay TV, Cable  As part of the technology initiative, the Senate may
approve as early as April new rules for pay TV services, such as
cable, allowing telephone companies to compete in the market,
the minister said.  Companies such as Tele Norte Leste Participações,
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , Sercomtel SA Telecomunicacoes and Companhia de
Telecomunicacoes do Brasil Central, may offer such services,
increasing competition and cutting prices to consumers, Bernardo
said.  Sercomtel, a fixed-line and broadband provider in Parana
state, is preparing to take advantage of the new rules for cable
TV, said company President Fernando Kireeff in a phone
interview. “We understand that’s the trend, it will be
necessary that we act in this segment.”  Spokesmen for Telefonica, CTBC and Tele Norte didn’t
immediately respond to e-mail and telephone requests from
Bloomberg News for comment.  Brazil has 9.9 million homes with pay TV services, with  Net
Serviços de Comunicação SA  holding 45 percent of the market and
Sky Brasil Serviços Ltda another 26 percent, according to
Brazil’s telecommunications agency.  After changes in the law, the number of cities with cable
may increase to 1,000 by 2014, from 238 today, Bernardo said.  “Companies will offer cable TV, internet and phone, for
sure the price will fall and competition with cable TV will
increase,” Bernardo said. “We’ll set the rules and leave the
companies to battle between themselves and solve the problem of
the price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  