-- 
Brazil's Mid-Month Inflation Slowed Less Than Economists Expected in March

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-03-23T12:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/brazil-s-mid-month-inflation-slowed-less-than-economists-expected-in-march.html
Brazil ’s mid-month inflation slowed
less than economists expected, as the cost of transportation and
housing accelerated.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.6
percent in the month through March 15, their lowest mid-month
reading since September, the  national statistics agency  said in
Rio de Janeiro. Economists expected the index to rise 0.53
percent, according to the median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The annual inflation rate accelerated to 6.13 percent
from 6.08 percent in mid-February. Airplane ticket costs surged
29 percent in the month.  “The increase in air travel costs pushed the number above
expectations,” said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo . “But besides that,
 core inflation  was within estimates. This should only have a
modest affect on markets.”  Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in
Senate testimony yesterday that policy makers may adopt new
measures to curb the consumer credit growth in a bid to cool
heated domestic demand and slow inflation. Tombini said he has
“confidence” that interest rate increases, fiscal cuts and
curbs on credit will slow inflation to 4.5 percent -- the
midpoint of the government’s target range -- next year.  The yield on most interest-rate futures contracts due
January 2013, the most traded today in Sao Paulo, fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.83 percent at 8:39 a.m.
New York time. The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.6624 per  U.S.
dollar .  Housing costs jumped 0.39 percent in the month, compared
with 0.28 percent in mid-February. Transportation rose 1.11
percent, led by airplane flight prices, versus 1.04 percent in
the previous mid-month reading. Clothing prices fell 0.37
percent.  Rate Increases  Traders are wagering that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs by 0.5 percentage point for a third straight
meeting April 20 to cool inflation that is close to the top of
the central bank’s target range, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures.  “The central bank’s going to continue to be under pressure
for a hike,” said Enestor Dos Santos, senior Brazil economist
for BBVA in  Madrid .  Economists raised their 2011 inflation forecast to 5.88
percent, from 5.82 percent a week earlier, according to a March
18 central bank survey of about 100 economists. Economists
expect inflation to slow to 4.8 percent in 2012, the survey
found.  Monthly consumer prices will begin to slow in the second
quarter, while annual inflation should remain at higher levels
before slowing toward to the midpoint of the bank’s target range
in the last three months of this year, Tombini said in the
testimony.  Brazilian economists estimate that the credit curbs have
the same impact on inflation as a 0.75 percentage-point interest
rate increase.  Data published last week show Brazil’s economy may be
cooling more slowly than analysts had expected. Brazil’s
economic activity index rose at its fastest pace in nine months
in January.  January retail sales, which Tombini yesterday said are the
best reflection of the current state of the economy, beat
estimates and rose at their fastest pace in five months. Sales
rose 1.2 percent in January from December, up from a revised 0.2
percent the previous month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  