-- 
Broadcom Co-Founders Settle Shareholder Backdating Lawsuit

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T23:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/broadcom-co-founders-settle-shareholder-suit-over-backdated-stock-options.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  co-founders Henry Nicholas and Henry Samueli and the company’s former finance
chief agreed to settle a consolidated shareholder lawsuit over
allegation they improperly backdated stock-option grants.  Nicholas, the company’s former chief executive officer,
will pay Broadcom $26.6 million as part of the settlement, the
Irvine, California-based chipmaker said today in a statement.
Henry Samueli, Broadcom’s chief technology officer, will pay
$2.3 million to the Broadcom Foundation and the company will
cancel $24.3 million of his unexercised  stock options .  In 2009, a group of 10 former and current Broadcom
executives and directors agreed to settle the lawsuit, brought
by investors on behalf of the company, for about $118 million
that was to be paid by Broadcom’s directors’ and officers’
liability insurers.  Broadcom’s $2.22 billion restatement in January 2007 was
the largest by a U.S. company for misdated options.  The settlement wasn’t yet filed in  Los Angeles  federal
court, where it will need to be approved by the judge presiding
over the case. Kevin Downey, a lawyer for Nicholas, and Gordon Greenberg, a lawyer for Samueli, didn’t immediately return calls
to their offices.  Former Chief Financial Officer William Ruehle, who was also
a defendant in the case, agreed to drop a lawsuit seeking
$26 million in damages against Broadcom as part of the
settlement, the company said. Ruehle’s lawyer, Richard Marmaro,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  The case is In re Broadcom Corp. derivative litigation, 06-
3252, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 