-- 
Brown May Seek Ballot Initiative on Tax, Sacramento Bee Reports

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/brown-may-seek-ballot-initiative-on-tax-sacramento-bee-reports.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  may
seek a November referendum on extending tax increases using the
ballot initiative process, the Sacramento Bee reported, citing
an unidentified person.  Brown’s plan for a special election in June is stalled in
the Legislature, where he’s at least four votes short of the
required two-thirds majority. The 72-year-old Democrat might
consider another alternative and revise the bill to require only
a simple majority vote by the Legislature, the Bee said.  Democrats hold majorities in the Assembly and the Senate,
but fall short of two-thirds. Brown has been lobbying
Republicans to make up the difference, hoping to help close a
budget gap by getting voter approval to retain $9.3 billion in
higher taxes and fees that are expiring.  “There’s a lot of rumors going around the Capitol,” a
Brown spokeswoman, Elizabeth Ashford, said in a telephone
interview. “The governor’s focus is on getting the votes and he
believes he can get them.”  Brown won election to a third term on a promise to restore
fiscal stability to the nation’s most populous and most indebted
state as it faces a $26.6 billion deficit through June 2012.  Brown has two routes to the ballot: the two-thirds vote in
the Legislature, or a petition process requiring 504,760 valid
signatures,  according  to the Secretary of State’s website.  Brown has been pushing for a referendum on the tax question
June 7 or June 14. State law requires the Legislature to adopt a
balanced budget by July 1. It’s unclear how Brown would meet
such a requirement with a ballot initiative four months later,
in November.  Democratic majorities in the Legislature slashed $12.5
billion from spending March 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  