-- 
Buffett Says India Insurance Ownership Limit Deters Berkshire Investment

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-03-23T00:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/buffett-says-india-insurance-ownership-limit-deters-investment.html
Warren Buffett , visiting India for
the first time, said the country’s 26 percent foreign ownership
limit of insurance companies deters his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
from making an investment in the industry.  “India would be more attractive if we could buy more than
26 percent,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said at a media conference in Bangalore yesterday.
“That is a factor in the decision of not investing.”  Buffett, 80, is seeking deals in the U.S. and abroad as
earnings climb at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. He agreed
this month to pay about $9 billion for engine-additive maker
 Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  and last year bought railroad Burlington Northern
Santa Fe for $26.5 billion. Berkshire’s cash holdings rose to
$38.2 billion as of Dec. 31, prompting Buffett to tell investors
two months later that his “elephant gun has been reloaded.”  The billionaire is seeking to expand into  India  to tap
growth in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy. India’s
$1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25 percent in
the year starting April 1, the fastest pace since 2008, the
finance ministry forecast last month.  “We hope we spend some money here,” Buffett said. “I
don’t consider India as an emerging market. We tend to look at
larger countries like India, China, U.K., Brazil, Germany. Those
all fit us.”  Selling Insurance  Berkshire, which started selling insurance to Indian
consumers this month after forging an agreement with Bajaj
Allianz General Insurance, will keep doing business in India in
that form for the foreseeable future because of the foreign
ownership cap, he said.  India aims to raise the limit in the  insurance industry  to
attract companies in the $41 billion market,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of the nation’s Planning Commission,
said in December. He didn’t give a timeframe.  Allianz SE, Aviva Plc and ING Groep NV are among global
insurers that will be able to invest in their Indian ventures if
the limit is raised in an industry that the Life Insurance
Council forecasts is expanding 34 percent annually.  Nippon Life Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s biggest life insurer, on
March 14 agreed to buy a 26 percent stake in India’s Reliance
Life Insurance Co. to boost business overseas.  Buffett, whose largest non-U.S. acquisition was the 2006
purchase of Israel’s Iscar Metalworking Cos., is traveling in
 South Korea  and India to visit Berkshire’s operations and look
for opportunities. Iscar, purchased for $4 billion, makes
cutting tools. A stop in Japan was canceled after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. He visited  China  in September.  Buffett will meet customers of  berkshireinsurance.com , its
venture with Bajaj Allianz, on March 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  