-- 
Buy Abercrombie Calls Before Conference, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-23T20:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/buy-abercrombie-calls-before-investor-day-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy  Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. (ANF)  calls before the teen retailer hosts its first
investor day on April 5, which could boost the company’s stock
price,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  Derivatives strategists Katherine Fogertey and John Marshall recommended buying Abercrombie’s April $55 calls
because retail analyst Michelle Tan said the investor day will
be “bullish” and there is potential for high volatility. Tan
rates the  New Albany , Ohio-based retailer a “buy” and raised
the forecast price to $72 from $70 on March 3. Abercrombie
gained 0.3 percent to $55.05 today.  “Options are not pricing in a significant move,” the
strategists wrote in a note today. “We see the potential for
this analyst day to be stock-moving, and therefore do not see
the volatility discount as warranted.”  Abercrombie advanced 23 percent in the past year compared
with an increase of 16 percent for companies dependent on
 consumer spending  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The gain
in U.S. same-store retail sales in February surpassed analysts’
estimates and confidence among U.S. consumers rose last month to
the highest level in three years, according to a Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index, as a drop in unemployment
helped overcome concern over rising food and fuel costs.  The trade starts to profit if the shares close above $57.05
at expiration on April 15, the note said. The April $55 calls
were the second-most active contracts today.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 