-- 
California’s Lockyer ‘Skeptical’ Brown Tax Plan Will Be Put to Referendum

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-23T17:48:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/california-s-lockyer-skeptical-brown-tax-plan-will-be-put-to-referendum.html
California Treasurer Bill Lockyer
said he’s “skeptical” Governor  Jerry Brown  will assemble
enough votes in the Legislature to put $9.3 billion in tax
extensions to a statewide referendum in June.  Brown says he needs the revenue to help erase a $26.6
billion deficit. Without it, the governor’s spending reductions
would include the equivalent of slicing as much as eight weeks
off the school year, Lockyer said. If lawmakers block the
referendum, a November ballot initiative may follow, he said.  “I’m skeptical,” Lockyer said in an interview on
Bloomberg Televison’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” “If
there’s not an agreement, there are some very substantial cuts
that need to be made and some of these citizen groups that care
about these issues are talking about circulating petitions and
getting it on the ballot by initiative and having an election in
the fall.”  Failure to win approval for the referendum would mark
Brown’s first legislative defeat since taking office for a third
time in January. The 72-year-old Democrat pledged to repair
financial strains that have left California with the biggest
deficit and the lowest  credit rating  among U.S. states.  Brown has been pushing for a vote on the tax question on
June 7 or June 14 that is supported by both Democrats and
Republicans. He wants voters to retain $9.3 billion of higher
sales, income and vehicle taxes that were temporarily increased
in 2009. He needs at least four Republican votes to call the
referendum.  ‘Pretty Entrenched’  “The Republicans seem pretty entrenched in their positions
that the people should not be allowed to vote,” a Brown
spokesman, Gil Duran, said in an interview. “We are still
hoping that this can be changed.”  If the tax plan fails, Brown has said he’ll propose another
$10 billion of cuts. Combined with $12.5 billion Democrats
already slashed, that would equal almost a third of the state’s
general fund spending.  A citizen initiative in November would probably need to
seek a tax increase instead of simply asking voters to extend
existing higher levies, now due to expire July 1.  Democrats hold majorities in the Assembly and the Senate,
though they fall short of a two-thirds requirement to authorize
a referendum.  Republicans say they also want voters to have a choice to
curb public-employee pension benefits, to cap spending and to
rescind business and environmental regulations. They also say
tax increases would harm  California ’s nascent economic recovery.  The Sacramento Bee, citing an unidentified person, reported
yesterday that Brown is considering a November voter initiative
if he can’t win support for his plan by the end of this week.  “In California, we’re going to show that the people are
still in charge and that this is a government by the people, for
the people and of the people,” Brown said at a labor conference
March 21. “We’re not going to let a handful of legislators
prevent us from voting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in  San Francisco  at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  