-- 
Canadian Currency Fluctuates as Crude Oil Climbs, Federal Election Looms

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-23T21:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/canadian-dollar-drops-as-europe-s-sovereign-debt-crisis-discourages-risk.html
Canada ’s dollar fluctuated as crude
oil, the nation’s biggest export, reached a two-week high, while
opposition to Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s  fiscal plan  set
the stage for a federal election as early as May.  The currency weakened earlier versus its U.S. counterpart
as concern that Europe’s leaders are struggling to find a
comprehensive solution to the region’s debt crisis damped
appetite for assets related to economic growth.  Michael Ignatieff , Canada’s Liberal leader, said his party will
introduce a motion of no confidence in the government that will
be debated March 25.  “There’s some mild weakness with all the political
posturing, but at the end of the day the Canadian dollar is
still a longer-term buy,” said  John Curran , a senior vice
president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online currency
dealer. “We’re massively stable compared to everyone else.”  Canada’s currency, also known as the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated less than 0.1
percent to 98.16 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto,
from 98.07 cents yesterday. It weakened as much as 0.4 percent
and rose as much as 0.2 percent. It touched the strongest level
in three years, 96.68 cents, on March 9 and reached a one-month
low, 99.74 cents, on March 15. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0187.  The loonie dropped 0.7 percent over the past month in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro rose
1.5 percent, while the  U.S. dollar  fell 0.8 percent.  Oil Climbs  The Canadian dollar erased an earlier loss as crude oil for
May delivery rose as much as 2.3 percent to $106.34 a barrel in
New York. It was the highest level since March 7, when the
commodity cost the most in 29 months.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent after
earlier dropping as much as 0.8 percent.  “Sovereign flows are consistently purchasing the Canadian
dollar at opportune levels, and today is no different,”
CanadianForex’s Curran said.  Leaders of all three opposition parties said C$7.6 billion
($7.7 billion) in new measures announced yesterday by Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  in his budget presentation weren’t enough
to warrant their support. Opposition lawmakers hold a majority
of seats in the House of Commons.  Gilles Duceppe, leader of the  Bloc Quebecois , and Jack Layton of the  New Democratic Party  told reporters in Ottawa they
will support the Liberal no-confidence motion.  Harper, speaking today to reporters in Ottawa, said
Canada’s economy is not a political game and the opposition’s
rejection of the budget will hurt the nation.  Portuguese Vote  The loonie strengthened 0.7 percent against the euro to
C$1.3824. The shared currency fell versus most of its peers as
 Portugal ’s parliament rejected the government’s deficit-cutting
plan before the European Union opens a two-day summit tomorrow
on efforts to deal with the region’s debt crisis. The vote
raised the chance the country will need a bailout.  EU leaders are divided over how to let the European
Financial Stability Facility, the euro-region’s stopgap fund,
spend its full capacity of 440 billion euros ($624 billion) to
ease credit woes.  “ Europe  is front and center,” said  Steve Butler , director
of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotia Capital unit. “With the summit tomorrow, there’s more
potential for something negative to happen than for something
positive. It’s uncertainty that’s roiling the markets right now
and causing people to rethink risk.”  Bonds Fall  Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark
10-year note up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
3.20 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security due in June
2020 decreased 16 cents to C$102.35.  Canada sold C$3.2 billion of three-year notes at an average
yield of 2.022 percent, according to the  Bank of Canada ’s
website. The 2 percent securities, which mature in March 2014,
attracted bids of C$8.2 billion, 2.6 times the amount offered.  The nation’s borrowing this fiscal year will match a record
as the government begins a three-year plan to set aside C$35
billion in reserve funds to help safeguard against a financial-
market collapse.  Canada will increase deposits with financial institutions
and the central bank by C$25 billion over the next three years,
according to  budget documents  released yesterday. In addition,
Canada’s liquid foreign-exchange reserves will increase by $10
billion in the next year.  Note Sales  Sales of two-, three- and five-year notes will all be
increased in the fiscal year that starts April 1, Flaherty said
yesterday in Ottawa. Canada’s forecast C$102 billion in bond
sales in 2011-12 would match the record set in 2009-10.  A federal election campaign may make the Bank of Canada
more hesitant to raise  interest rates  as lawmakers likely focus
on Harper’s record on fiscal and economic issues.  An election lowers the odds of a rate increase at their
meeting next month as bank Governor  Mark Carney  would try to
avoid actions that could be used on the campaign trail, said
Angelo Melino, a former central-bank adviser and a  University of
Toronto  economics professor.  Policy makers raised the benchmark rate to 1 percent last
year and have kept it unchanged since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in  New York  at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  