-- 
Canada January Farm Product Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-03-23T13:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/canada-january-farm-product-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s farm product price index report for January from
 Statistics Canada .  In January, prices farmers received for their commodities rose
9.3% from January 2010, as both the livestock and animal
products index and the crops index increased.
Farm Product Price Index, Canada  The prices producers received for livestock and animal products
in January rose 10.2% compared with January 2010, as increases
were recorded for all livestock commodities. Cattle and calves
and hogs, the two largest contributors to the livestock index,
have posted year-over-year increases in the past 8 and 10 months
respectively.  Over the last few years, livestock producers have been affected
by the US Country of Origin Labeling legislation, lower demand
driven by the economic situation and higher feed grain costs. By
the end of 2010, the number of cattle on Canadian farms had
declined to their lowest level since January 1995, while hog
inventories recorded their first increase (+0.6%) on a year-
over-year basis since April 1, 2006.  The prices producers received for crops in January were 9.5%
higher compared with the same month a year earlier, as increases
were recorded in all crops except specialty crops. Oilseed
prices registered the largest increase. Estimates for oilseed
stocks continued to tighten, fuelled by growing demand from
emerging economies and biofuels.  In January, the total crops index rose 4.5% from December as all
commodities except specialty crops posted increases. The overall
livestock and animal products index was up 1.7% from December,
as all components except eggs and dairy increased.  Note: The growth rate of the total Farm Product Price Index
(FPPI) is derived from a weighted average of the component
indices using a different set of weights in consecutive months;
it is not a weighted average of the growth rates of its crop and
livestock components. Given this, the growth rate of the
composite FPPI can lie outside the growth rate of these
components.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  