-- 
Canada Budget Rejection Means Government Poised to Fall

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-23T21:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/canada-budget-rejection-means-harper-government-poised-to-fall.html
Canadians may face their fourth
federal election in seven years as early as May, after
opposition parties said they wouldn’t back Conservative Prime
Minister Stephen Harper’s  fiscal plan .  Leaders of all three opposition parties said that C$7.6
billion ($7.7 billion) in new measures announced yesterday by
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  weren’t enough to warrant their
support. Harper will face a Liberal motion of non-confidence on
March 25.  Opposition lawmakers are seeking to benefit from what they
say have been ethics violations by Harper’s administration,
including accusations by Liberal Leader Michael Ignatieff that
former Harper aide Bruce Carson was peddling influence with
companies seeking state contracts, as well as charges that
ministers have misled Parliament. Harper has said he doesn’t
want an election that could undermine the country’s recovery.  “The opposition parties are going to talk about contempt
of Parliament and ethics” to weaken the government’s position,
said Robert Drummond, a political scientist at  York University 
in Toronto. The Conservatives “are going to want to talk about
their economic record.”  Gilles Duceppe, leader of the  Bloc Quebecois , and Jack Layton of the New Democratic Party told reporters in Ottawa they
will support the Liberal non-confidence motion that will be
debated on Friday.  Polls  The motion will refer to a committee report that says the
Harper government has been “in contempt of Parliament, which is
unprecedented in Canadian Parliamentary history, and
consequently, the House has lost confidence in the government.”  Polls show the Conservatives are likely to win the
election, and may improve  their standing  in Parliament, making
Harper, 51, the first Conservative leader to win three
consecutive mandates in more than a century. Under Canadian law,
an election would take place on a Monday following a campaign of
at least five weeks, meaning a vote could be held as early as
May 2 if the government is defeated this week.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.1 percent at 4 p.m. in Toronto
to 98.16 cents per  U.S. dollar , from yesterday’s 98.07 cents. It
has traded in a range between 97.92 cents and 98.44 cents since
the budget was presented.  A Vision Critical/Angus Reid poll, published March 10, had
39 percent of voters supporting the Conservatives, followed by
the Liberals with 23 percent, and the New Democratic Party at 17
percent. It was an online survey of 1,021 Canadian adults
conducted from March 8 to March 9, with a 3.1 percent margin of
error.  Nearing Majority  A poll taken last week by Nanos Research showed the
Conservatives had the support of 38.6 percent of voters. Harper,
who has been prime minister since 2006, won 37.7 percent of the
vote in 2008 elections, which gave the Conservatives 143 seats
in the 308-member Parliament. A party generally needs about 40
percent support to form a majority government. Harper’s minority
government needs the support of at least one opposition party to
pass legislation.  The Liberals won 77 seats in  the 2008 election , the Bloc
Quebecois 49 and the  New Democratic Party  37 seats.  The Nanos poll suggests the ethics accusations may be
having an impact. While Harper remains the most trusted party
leader among voters, his score on that measure has fallen over
the past month to 26.6 percent from 29.1 percent. Layton was
considered the most trusted leader by 17.2 percent of voters,
and Ignatieff by 12.7 percent.  Ethics and Judgment  “The Liberals will likely seek to raise questions around
Harper’s ethics and his judgment” in an election, said Andre Albinati, a principal at Earnscliffe Strategy Group and former
adviser to Liberal Prime Minister Paul Martin.  Lawmakers today began debate on a committee report that
says the government held Parliament in “contempt” over its
reluctance to detail the cost of legislation, delaying debate on
the budget. Opposition parties have accused the government of
misleading Canadians on the costs of its initiatives, citing
 estimates  by Parliamentary Budget Officer Kevin Page.  Two former government officials also face possible
investigations by the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police , while four
Conservative Party organizers are being charged by the federal
public prosecutor with violations of election spending rules.  As well, International Cooperation Minister Bev Oda faced
charges she misled lawmakers regarding cuts in funding to a non-
government organization, while opposition lawmakers have called
for Immigration Minister  Jason Kenney  to resign after one of his
staffers sent a fundraising letter from his office, violating
Parliamentary rules.  Tax Reductions  At stake in an election are tax reductions valued at C$6
billion annually for businesses such as  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) 
that the Liberals say are unaffordable and have pledged to
reverse if elected. The Liberals also have said they would
cancel the government’s plans to acquire 65 of  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets.  In his budget yesterday, Flaherty used an improving fiscal
outlook to provide some new funding in a bid to assuage
opposition lawmakers, particularly the NDP, which was considered
the party most likely to support the budget.  The five-year fiscal plan projects a C$29.6 billion deficit
in the fiscal year that begins April 1, down from C$40.5 billion
this year and a record C$55.6 billion two years ago. A surplus
is projected for the 2015-2016 fiscal year.  The budget provides C$400 million for a program that
benefits homeowners who carry out energy-saving improvements,
and increases an income supplement for low-income seniors. NDP
Leader Layton said yesterday Harper’s budget “missed an
opportunity” to address his party’s concerns.  ‘Came Short’  Harper “came short”, said Robert Asselin, an assistant
director of the Graduate School of Public and International
Affairs at the University of Ottawa.  Recent data have shown  Canada ’s recovery is accelerating,
even as inflation remains tame. The economy added jobs for a
fifth straight month in February, and expanded at a 3.3 percent
annualized pace in the fourth quarter, the fastest in the Group
of Seven nations.  Canadian  government bonds  have returned 4.7 percent over
the past year according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data, compared with a 2.8 percent average for the G-7. Canada’s
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index has risen 17 percent in the
past 12 months, compared with a 7 percent gain for the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  