-- 
Caterpillar ‘in a Hurry’ to Meet Growing Demand, CEO Says

-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 
2011-03-24T00:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/caterpillar-ceo-says-it-s-in-a-hurry-to-expand-products.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest maker of construction equipment, is “in a hurry” to
expand its product range and meet growing demand, Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said.  “Business is booming outside the U.S.,” he said today in
a presentation at the CONEXPO-CON/AGG conference in  Las Vegas .
The CEO said he sees a “slow, steady increase” in North
American demand.  Caterpillar is betting on higher mining-equipment sales
with its $8.6 billion acquisition of Bucyrus International Inc.
as Asian demand drives up commodity prices. The Bucyrus deal is
expected to be complete in mid-2011. Caterpillar also bought
U.S. locomotive maker Electro-Motive Diesel in August and agreed
in October to purchase German engine producer MWM Holding GmbH.  Caterpillar plans to expand its manufacturing in  Asia . The
Peoria, Illinois-based company, which has capacity to make
180,000 units a year globally, aims to boost Asian capacity
alone to that level in 2015, Group President Rich Lavin said at
the conference.  The company is trying to better understand the needs of
customers in China and is working to tailor products for the
market, Chief Technology Officer Tana Utley said in an
interview. Some Chinese customers are focused more on price
rather than durability, she said. Caterpillar is hiring local
engineers, who now number in the hundreds, Utley said.  Logistics Unit  “We need engineers to talk to Chinese customers,” she
said.  Oberhelman acknowledged that the company’s market share in
 China  has slipped in the last couple of years for equipment such
as wheel loaders because “the market has grown faster than
we’ve grown capacity.” He said the company is planning to step
up investment in the country.  Caterpillar is examining options for its third-party
logistics business including a possible sale, the company said
in a statement earlier today. The business, part of Caterpillar
Logistics Services Inc., could also be restructured as an
independent unit. Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Robert W.
Baird & Co. are advising the company and a decision is expected
by the end of the year, Caterpillar said.  Oberhelman also reaffirmed the company’s earnings forecast
of almost $6 a share in 2011 and $8 to $10 in 2012. He also
confirmed a target compound annual growth rate in earnings per
share of 15 to 20 percent for 2008 through 2015.  Caterpillar dropped 3 cents to $106.76 in composite trading
on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have climbed 14
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  