-- 
Celesio Forecasts Profit Pressure From Government Cost Cuts

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-03-23T11:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/celesio-forecasts-profit-pressure-from-government-cost-cuts-1-.html
Celesio AG (CLS1) ’s profit will be hurt
again this year by government efforts to keep health-care costs
down, especially in the U.K., after restrictions held back
earnings last year, the German drug wholesaler said.  Regulators’ pricing measures cost the company 78 million
euros ($110.7 million) in 2010, Stuttgart-based Celesio said
today in a statement. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 11 percent last year to 699.2
million euros, beating the 678.6 million-euro average of 16
estimates compiled by Bloomberg and Celesio’s own forecast.  Profit got a boost from sales gains at the company’s
Panpharma division in  Brazil , Celesio said. There is
“uncertainty” about earnings growth in 2011 and 2012, though
Celesio’s effort to move into new markets will increasingly
contribute to earnings, it said.  Celesio plans to speed its expansion into unregulated
markets and regions to sidestep government price constraints on
drugs. “We have to escape the vise-like grip of government
measures and expand our non-regulated business,” Chief
Executive Officer Fritz Oesterle said during a press conference
in Stuttgart today.  This includes transactions like Celesio’s acquisition of a
majority stake in Panpharma in 2009. Because Celesio cut its
debt by 15 percent to 1.7 billion euros last year, it can
finance a 1 billion-euro acquisition and may even have more than
that available to spend, Chief Financial Officer Christian Holzherr said today.  Celesio shares fell 1 percent to 17.19 euros at 12:30 p.m.
in  Frankfurt .  Strengthening Retail  The company’s strategy also includes strengthening its
retail business, such as the sale of over-the-counter products
in its pharmacies, Oesterle said.  Celesio said today it appointed Stephan Borchert, who
previously worked at perfume retailer Douglas GmbH, to head its
patient and consumer solutions unit.  Celesio’s strategy may be weakened by Oesterle’s unexpected
decision, announced last week, to retire in June, Volker Braun,
an analyst with Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a report
before earnings were released. The CEO’s successor may
reorganize Celesio and sell some divisions, Braun said.  “Undisrupted high pressure from various local-government
measures has potentially triggered an intensified internal
discussion about portfolio alignments and restructuring
measures,” said Braun, who recommends investors add Celesio
stock to their holdings.  Celesio, citing the effects of U.K. regulations, said on
Nov. 11 that 2010 Ebitda would probably fail to reach the high
end of a forecast range of 670 million euros to 690 million
euros. Sales last year rose 8.3 percent to 23.3 billion euros,
matching the average analyst estimate.  Celesio proposed a dividend of 50 cents a share, unchanged
from last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  