-- 
Chance for Climate Deal Is ‘Slim’ as U.S. Moves Blocked, EU Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-23T16:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/chance-for-climate-deal-is-slim-as-u-s-moves-blocked-eu-says.html
The chance of reaching a legally
binding global agreement this year to protect the climate is
“slim,” said Artur Runge-Metzger, director for climate
strategy and negotiations at the European Commission.  Runge-Metzger was speaking at a climate seminar organized
by the European Journalism Centre in Budapest today.  Climate envoys worldwide are due to meet in Durban,  South
Africa , toward the end of this year for talks about the future
climate-protection framework after the  United Nations ’
greenhouse-gas reduction  Kyoto Protocol  expires in 2012.  On the U.S.:  “If I now look at what the chances are for Durban to
really move a big step forward toward a legally binding
agreement, I think the politics this year are probably even more
daunting than last year.  “Everybody knows what is happening on the  Capitol Hill  in
 Washington , that the Republicans undermine every attempt of the
Obama administration to put money on to climate, whether it is
domestically or outside. It’s a very difficult situation for an
administration that wants to do something on climate but can’t
because of the political situation at home.  “That will have a knock-on effect on the rest of the
world. That’s certainly a downside.”  On  China :  “On the positive note, I mentioned China. China said they
were going to implement Cancun. Let’s hope that many more
countries take China as an example and move forward. Then we may
be able to maintain that spirit.”  On the next climate summit in Durban:  “I think the chances that we will get the comprehensive,
binding agreement in Durban are rather slim.  “Still, we as the EU need to be determined. We’ve been
through the time when the U.S. was walking away from the Kyoto
Protocol. We’ve been able at that time to bring others on board
so that the protocol entered into force. That kept the
international climate negotiations alive. We have a similar role
again -- to make sure that if it is difficult, we’re going to
move forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Budapest at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 