-- 
Child Earthquake Survivors Relive Trauma as Radiation Fears Add to Stress

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-03-24T02:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/child-earthquake-survivors-relive-trauma-as-radiation-fears-add-to-stress.html
As the tsunami hit her school in
Sendai, kindergarten teacher Junko Kamada stood in the window of
a second story hall to block the children from seeing the
destruction caused by the 1.5-meter wave.  Amid dirt-caked chairs, soiled books and damaged equipment,
Kamada, 60, is preparing to bring the students back to the
school, about a mile inland from the coast. The children will
also need counseling to deal with the trauma they have
experienced, psychologists say.  “They’ve seen a shocking event and we need to keep them
occupied,” Kamada said. Working in rubber boots, rubber gloves and
a face mask, she and five other teachers are removing debris and
cleaning muddied walls that mark the depth of the March 11
tsunami that killed three of their 235 pupils ages 3 to 5.  Schools resumed two days ago in northeastern Japan, the
epicenter of the March 11 magnitude-9 earthquake. Classes --some
held in homes and makeshift spaces -- are providing a safe place
for children to reunite with friends and a semblance of
familiarity amid the nation’s worst disaster since World War II.  “We try to get children back into schoolrooms as soon as
possible because it’s one level of normality, even if it’s not
their own school,” said  Beverley Raphael , a professor of
psychological medicine at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra, and co-editor of the International Handbook of
Traumatic Stress Studies.  At least 9,452 people died in the earthquake and tsunami,
more than half of them in Miyagi, the prefecture of Kamada’s
school, 311 kilometers (193 miles) north of Tokyo. Radiation
leaks from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s stricken Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant in neighboring Fukushima are adding to the stress.  Post-Traumatic Stress  As many as a quarter of the worst-affected people may
suffer  post-traumatic stress disorder , a cluster of symptoms
that includes nightmares, sleeplessness and panic attacks,
Raphael said in an interview. While adolescents attuned to the
reality of death may act out their trauma, younger ones find it
harder to articulate their distress, she said.  People who suffer psychological ailments such as depression
in childhood are 10 to 20 times more likely than others to
experience those problems in adulthood, according to a  2010
study  in the journal Social Science & Medicine. Affected
individuals tend to leave school earlier and earn about 20
percent less over their lifetime, the authors found.  Regressive, Immature  “When children suffer from an acute fear, they tend to
depend on their mothers more for their safety, and display
regressive and immature behavior,” said Naotaka Shinfuku,
professor of psychiatry at Seinan Gakuin University in Fukuoka,
who studied the impact of the  1995 earthquake  in the Japanese
city of Kobe. “It’s good for children’s mental health to learn
and play in a safe environment if they wish to do so.”  Koharagi Elementary School in Kesennuma, a coastal city 90
kilometers north of Junko Kamada’s kindergarten, reopened two
days ago. None of the 67 students died, though the homes of half
were destroyed or damaged by the temblor and tsunami, deputy
principal Toshiyuki Saijo said.  “Kids saw their friends for the first time in days,”
Saijo, 53, said. “They were very happy, hugging each other --
something we hadn’t seen in a while.”  Psychiatrists are being sought to volunteer at hospitals,
clinics and evacuation sites in northern  Japan , the nation’s
psychiatric hospitals association said in a statement on its
website yesterday.  Mumps, Pneumonia  “There is an identified need for improved mental health
care,” said Margaret Aguirre, a spokeswoman for  International
Medical Corps.,  a  Santa Monica , California-based aid group.
Stress and anxiety may be causing more asthma, mumps and
pneumonia in children, she said.  The crisis is also likely to trigger symptoms among those
already dealing with depression, psychosis or anxiety disorders,
said Jeffrey Lieberman, chairman of the psychiatry department at
 Columbia University  in  New York .  “This is a public health disaster on multiple levels,”
Lieberman said in a telephone interview. “There’s this
pervasive effect on people’s emotions and their mental health
which will probably take weeks and years to fully manifest.”  That means the world’s mental-health community will need to
mobilize resources to aid the Japanese, just as rescue workers
and doctors dealing with physical injuries have chipped in,
Lieberman said.  ‘Emotional Consequences’  “It’s not just trying to fix the infrastructure and get
food to people and minister to physical injuries,” Lieberman
said. “There also needs to be a clear plan to tend to the
emotional consequences. If not, they are going to linger and
affect people’s ability to function and their mental health for
years to come.”  People with PTSD are thrown into states of panic or anxiety
when memories of a trauma are triggered by a sound, sight, or
other experience that remind them of the original crisis. The
most common treatment is an approach called exposure therapy, in
which patients are encouraged to imagine the initial trauma in a
safe setting or visit a site where it occurred.  Anxiety is mounting in  Tokyo , where authorities said tap
water may be unsafe for infants. Radioactive iodine levels from
a sample collected on March 22 at a treatment facility were
double the recommended limit for babies, the city’s department
of waterworks said in a statement yesterday.  Water Worry  Chiho Hasunuma, 26, who lives in a western Tokyo suburb,
said she was alerted to the contamination via a text message
from a friend telling her not to let her five-month-old infant
drink tap water.  “I’ve been very depressed and cried a lot since the
earthquake,” Hasunuma said. “But maybe it’s time to stop
thinking and move to Ehime,” where a relative lives, about 660
kilometers away, she said.  Information and counseling will counter radiation fears,
said Britt-Marie Drottz-Sjoberg, professor of psychology at the
Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim, who
studied  mental health  after the 1986  Chernobyl  nuclear disaster
in Ukraine.  Psychological consequences  were the biggest public
health problem from the accident, researchers said.  “If they know that everything is being done to help them
get into some sort of normal situation as soon as possible, I am
quite confident that the Japanese society will come through this
and rise again,” she said. “It’s a very resilient culture.”  At the Sakuragi Hanazono kindergarten, where Junko Kamada
began her teaching career almost 40 years ago, that means not
succumbing to grief.  “The teachers are incredibly sad,” Kamada said. “They
know children they have cared for have died, but they are trying
to get the school back on its feet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Singapore  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Kesennuma at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  