-- 
China’s Five Biggest Banks May Post Record Profit for Fourth Straight Year

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-23T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/china-s-biggest-banks-may-post-record-profit-for-fourth-year.html
China’s five largest banks are set
to report record profits for at least the fourth year as credit
demand bolstered by economic growth fueled an average 29 percent
growth in earnings.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s third-largest lender by
market value, may say today that 2010 net income climbed 22
percent to 99 billion yuan ($15 billion), according to the
average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the second-largest, is expected to
report a 30 percent advance in full-year profit this week.  Rising earnings may ease investors’ concerns that bad loans
may climb as China steps up measures to contain inflation and
cracks down on loans to local governments. Lending margins for
the five biggest banks, which control more than half of the
nation’s $7.5 trillion loan market, are increasing after the
central bank began raising  interest rates  in October.  “Investors can for the first time since 2009 really focus
on the earnings quality of Chinese banks, instead of
macroeconomic conditions, and value them accordingly,” Victor Wang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities
Ltd., said by telephone. “We’re looking for more clarity on
margins, asset quality, and regulatory policies going forward.”  Net interest margins, a measure of loan profitability, at
the five largest banks may have averaged 2.38 percent in 2010,
up from 2.25 percent in 2009, according to estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Stock Performance  Shares of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,
Construction Bank, Bank of China,  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. (1288)  and Bank of Communications Co. have outperformed  Hong
Kong ’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , which has declined about 1
percent this year.  ICBC, based in Beijing, is likely to cement its position as
the world’s most profitable lender on March 30, when it may
report that 2010 net income climbed 27 percent to 163.7 billion
yuan, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Agricultural Bank of
China  may post a 40 percent gain in profit and Bank of
Communications is expected to report a 26 percent increase when
they announce earnings next week.  Based on current exchange rates, ICBC’s profit is 43
percent more than that of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most
profitable bank outside China.  The Asian nation, which last year overtook  Japan  to become
the world’s second-largest economy, may grow 8 percent annually
for the next two decades to become twice the size of the U.S.,
World Bank Chief Economist Justin Lin said yesterday.  The People’s Bank of China has raised interest rates three
times since October and pushed the ratio of deposits the largest
banks must set aside as reserves to 20 percent, the highest in
at least two decades.  Borrowing Costs  Lending rates on more than 40 percent of China’s bank loans
were above the benchmark rate in December, 6 percentage points
more than a year earlier, according to the central bank.  China ’s Hong Kong-listed lenders, which include the five
biggest, may boost net interest margins by an average 17 basis
points this year and another 15 basis points in 2012, compared
with a 6 basis point-increase last year, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst Mike Werner. A basis point is 0.01
percentage points.  “Margin expansion will be more than enough to make up for
slower credit growth this year,” said Sophie Jiang, a Beijing-
based analyst at CCB International Securities Ltd. She expects
profit to climb at least 20 percent for the big banks in 2011.  Credit Slowdown  Loan growth will slow this year after the government
adopted a new system that will penalize banks with excessive
lending by requiring them to lodge additional reserves with the
central bank, ICBC President Yang Kaisheng, Construction Bank
Chairman Guo Shuqing and  Bank of China  Chairman Xiao Gang said
this month.  The tightened monetary policy is helping slow lending.
Domestic banks offered 1.58 trillion yuan of new loans in the
first two months of this year, 25 percent less than the same
period a year earlier, according to the central bank.  An unprecedented $2.7 trillion of loans extended by
domestic banks in the past two years has fueled inflation to
near a two-year high and raised concerns about loan defaults.
China faces a 60 percent risk of a banking crisis by mid-2013 if
a property bubble bursts,  Fitch Ratings  said earlier this month,
citing a macro-prudential monitor it tracks.  China’s banking regulator has required lenders to limit
credit to the real estate industry, assign higher risk-
weightings for loans to local governments’ financing vehicles,
and move off-balance sheet assets back onto their books.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  