-- 
Chinese Stocks Rise for Fourth Day, Led by Developers, Solar-Power Shares

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-23T07:26:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/china-s-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-led-by-developers-solar-power-shares.html
China ’s stocks rose for a fourth
day on speculation fresh earthquakes in  Japan  will boost demand
for non-nuclear energy and local governments will set targets
for housing prices that are higher than analysts’ estimates.  A gauge of real-estate companies jumped the most in two
weeks, led by China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest listed
developer. TBEA Co., a manufacturer of electrical transformers,
and solar cell maker Zhejiang Sunflower Light Energy Science &
Technology Co. jumped more than 3 percent after a series of
temblors struck near Japan’s crippled nuclear power station.  “In general, stocks’ valuations are low and that’s enough
to attract buying interest for bargains,” said Luo Bin, general
manager at  Shanghai  Mingyu Xiaoyang Investment Management Co.,
which manages the equivalent of $60 million. “Japan’s
earthquake wouldn’t pose too big a problem to  China’s economy .”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained the most in a week, rising 29.3,
or 1 percent, to 2,948.48 at the 3 p.m. close. The measure
trades at 13.8 times estimated earnings, near the record low of
11.9 set in January 2006, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 1.3 percent to 3,264.93 today.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 5 percent this year on
optimism the world’s second-biggest economy will withstand
tighter monetary policies. The central bank has raised  interest
rates  three times since October to cool inflation that reached
4.9 percent in February, exceeding the government’s 4 percent
annual target. It has boosted banks’ reserve requirements nine
times since the start of 2010, including an increase on March 18.  New Temblors  A gauge of 34 real estate stocks on the Shanghai Comosite
jumped 2.7 percent, the most since March 4 and the biggest gain
among the five industry groups. Vanke rose 2.4 percent to 8.50
yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second largest, advanced
3.9 percent to 13.29 yuan.  “There’s market speculation that local governments will
set a target of limiting housing price gains to between zero
percent and the GDP growth rate,” said Wang Weijun, a
strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai. “That’s much
better than the target of below zero percent anticipated by the
market.” Local governments may announce their price control
targets next week, Wang said.  China’s State Council, or the cabinet, ordered local
governments in January to set pricing control targets for newly
built houses while raising the minimum down payment for second-
home purchases.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slumped 1.7 percent today.
A series of earthquakes struck near a crippled Fukushima nuclear
plant this morning, starting with a magnitude 6.0 temblor this
morning. Quakes of magnitude 4.1, 5.8, 4.9 and 4.3 followed,
according to Japan’s Meteorological Agency.  China has suspended approvals of new nuclear projects after
the March 11 temblor and ensuing tsunami caused damage to the
Fukushima nuclear power plant in Japan, stoking speculation
demand for thermal and solar power will increase.  Alternative Energy   TBEA jumped 4.6 percent to 21.79 yuan. XJ Electric Co., a
manufacturer of power transmission equipment, advanced 5 percent
to 38.13 yuan.  Zhejiang Sunflower added 3.4 percent to 28.18 yuan. Haitong
Food Group Co., through which Changzhou Eging Photovoltaic
Technology Co. plans a backdoor listing, climbed 1 percent to
54.86 yuan. Changzhou Eging makes solar panels.  China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s largest coal
producer, rose 2 percent to 28.75 yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.,
the listed unit of China’s fourth-biggest coal miner, climbed
4.7 percent to 33 yuan.  Crude for May delivery dropped as much as 59 cents to
$104.38 a barrel in electronic trading in  New York . It was at
$104.47 at 2:10 p.m. Singapore time. Oil advanced earlier today
as a U.S.-led alliance prepared to direct more attacks in  Libya ,
the holder of  Africa ’s largest crude reserves.  Rate Outlook  China may increase its benchmark interest rates within
weeks as unrest in the Middle East drives up  oil prices  and
reconstruction in Japan threatens to boost raw-material costs.  Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., Citigroup Inc., and UBS AG
predict the nation’s fourth increase in six months before the
end of April. All 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast a move by the end of the second quarter.  Emerging-market stocks may start outperforming developed-
world equities as the economic slowdown policy makers engineered
from countries such as China paves the way for sustainable
growth, according to Wells Capital Management.  A ratio of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index to the Standard
& Poor’s 500 reaches so-called consolidation in the aftermath of
global recession before rallying, according to  James Paulsen ,
chief investment strategist at Wells. In such a period, emerging
markets match or underperform the broader market.  Cross-border EFTs  Bosera Asset Management Co. and Hua An Fund Management Co.
plan to introduce exchange-traded funds in China that track U.S.
and U.K. stocks, a move that may improve investment returns and
slow Chinese currency gains.  Bosera, which oversees $28 billion, proposed an ETF linked
to the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index, Jim Wang, chief investment
officer of ETF and Quantitative Investment, said in an interview
at a conference in Shanghai yesterday. Hua An plans to introduce
an ETF linked to the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , said David Xu, whose
company oversees $12.6 billion. The ETF may be introduced later
this year or in the first half of 2012.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  