-- 
China May Match India as World's Biggest Gold Consumer on Investor Demand

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T07:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/china-may-match-india-as-world-s-biggest-gold-consumer-on-amazing-demand-.html
Chinese consumption of gold may
climb to rival that of  India , the top user, as investors buy the
metal as a store of value, said GFMS Ltd. and INTL FCStone.  Demand in China, the world’s second-biggest economy, almost
tripled to 580 metric tons last year from 206 tons in 2001, data
from the producer-funded  World Gold Council  show. Use in India
may slump 5 percent to 26 percent this year from 963 tons in
2010, Morgan Stanley said in a report yesterday.  Bullion soared to a record $1,444.95 an ounce on March 7
and rallied 30 percent last year for a 10th annual gain as
investors sought to preserve their wealth against inflation,
Middle East unrest and currency debasement. Consumer prices in
 China  climbed 4.9 percent in February from a year ago, exceeding
the government’s 4 percent goal for the full year.  “The level of interest in gold as an asset class is just
amazing,” Jeffrey Rhodes, global head of precious metals with
INTL FCStone in Dubai, said in an interview. “There is
potential for China to catch up to India.”  Protests partly linked to record food costs erupted across
North Africa and the Middle East this year, spurring conflict in
 Libya  and toppling leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . The unrest
pushed crude oil above $100 a barrel, increasing concern that
global inflation would accelerate.  Purchases by China increased to 200 tons in the first two
months of 2011, according to  UBS AG (UBSN)  on March 1. The nation
imported more than 300 tons last year, People’s Bank of China
Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said in Beijing Feb. 26.  Property, Cars  “We’re seeing healthy demand” this year, Wang Lixin,
China general manager at the World Gold Council, said yesterday.
“Investors continue to find gold an attractive investment
because of government restrictions on other big-ticket
investments such as property and cars.”  Lion Fund Management Co. , the first such vehicle in China
to invest in gold-backed exchange-traded products overseas,
received approval to as much as double its fund raising, media
affairs manager Yang Zi said on March 7.  The company had raised more than 3.2 billion yuan ($483
million) for the fund, using up the $500 million initial quota
from the  State Administration of Foreign Exchange , a company
statement said on Jan. 11. Gold investment in China may gain 40
percent to 50 percent this year, the council said Feb. 17.  Cultural Imperative  Immediate-delivery gold was little changed at $1,429.26 an
ounce at 3:19 p.m. in  Singapore  today and has advanced 29
percent in the past year. India and China represent 40 percent
of world consumption, according to council data.  “In India a huge amount of demand is a cultural and social
imperative; you have to buy gold for the dowry and the wedding
and that is something hard-wired into Indian society,”  Paul Walker , chief executive officer of industry researcher GFMS,
said in an interview from  London . In China, the imperative
around weddings “is less hard-wired,” he said.  India’s total demand exceeded China’s by 383.5 tons last
year, narrowing from 496.5 tons in 2001, council data show.  “There’s absolutely no reason not to believe that at some
juncture Chinese demand might go above that of India,” he said.
FCStone’s Rhodes said demand in China and India could converge
in the next five years.  China displaced  South Africa  as the world’s biggest gold
producer in 2007.  ---With assistance from Feiwen Rong in Beijing. Editors: Thomas
Kutty Abraham, James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net ; 