-- 
China Can Grow 8% for 20 Years to Become Twice U.S. Size, World Bank Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-23T07:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/china-can-grow-8-for-20-years-to-top-u-s-world-bank-economist-lin-says.html
China  can grow 8 percent annually
for the next two decades to become twice the size of the  U.S.
economy , World Bank Chief Economist Justin Lin said.  The nation can continue to exploit a “latecomer”
advantage by borrowing the technologies and industries of
advanced countries at low risk and cost, Lin said in a speech
prepared for an event in  Hong Kong  today.  The world’s second-biggest economy may be twice as large as
the U.S. in two decades’ time, based on so-called purchasing-
power parity calculations, Lin said. Using market exchange rates,
it may be the same size, he added. China’s growth averaged more
than 10 percent over the past decade as the economy vaulted past
 Japan ,  Germany , the U.K and France.  China can enjoy “the advantage of backwardness’” and has
“the potential to achieve another 20 years of 8 percent
growth,” Lin said.  Lin, who defected to mainland China from Taiwan in 1979,
endorsed China’s decision to keep the yuan steady against the
dollar during the global financial crisis. He said the move
helped to avert competitive devaluations between East Asian
nations, which was “a tremendous contribution” to the recovery.  Global risks include surging food, commodity and fuel
prices that pose a threat to social stability, “as demonstrated
by events that unfolded in Tunisia and Egypt,” Lin said.  Lin was the founder and director of the China Center for
Economic Research at  Peking University , and became the World
Bank’s chief economist in 2008. The job has also been held by
former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers and Nobel Prize-
winning economist Joseph Stiglitz.  --Paul Panckhurst. Editors: Sunil Jagtiani, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at +852-2977-6603 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  