-- 
China to Build Nuclear Plant Using Fourth-Generation Technology in April

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-03-23T09:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/china-to-build-nuclear-plant-using-fourth-generation-technology-in-april.html
China will start building a nuclear
power plant next month using fourth-generation technology that
may be less susceptible to meltdown than  Japan ’s damaged
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The “world’s first high-temperature, gas-cooled reactor”
will be installed at Rongcheng in Shandong province, Cui
Shaozhang, deputy general manager at Huaneng Nuclear Power
Development Co., a unit of China Huaneng Group Corp., the
nation’s largest power group, said in an interview yesterday in
Singapore.  “There are differences between the Japanese and Chinese
reactors,” Cui said. “Japan’s Fukushima plant was using  old 
technology while Chinese reactors are more advanced.”  Japan is trying to prevent a meltdown at Fukushima, where
the oldest reactor started operating in 1971, after cooling
systems were knocked out by a 9.0-magnitude earthquake and
tsunami on March 11.  The Rongcheng plant will use helium, an inert gas, in its
cooling system, and reactor cores will be able to withstand
temperatures exceeding 1,600 degrees Celsius (2,912 degrees
Fahrenheit) for several hundred hours without melting down,
 China  Business News said this week.  “The Chinese government has encouraged us with the pre-
condition of safety and efficiency,” Cui said.  New Technology  China, planning to build more nuclear reactors than any
other country, said on March 16 it suspended approval of all new
atomic projects until a safety review is carried out. The
country’s existing reactors use second-generation technology,
the official Xinhua News Agency said on July 22.  “This fourth-generation reactor will make cooling totally
independent of external power sources, making it much more
safer,” said Jerzy Grynblat, nuclear business director at
Sundbyberg, Sweden-based consultant Scandpower AB, said in
Singapore today. “Developing new technologies where safety will
be increased is very significant after what happened in Japan
and countries re-looking their nuclear future.”  China Huaneng, China Nuclear Engineering Corp. and  Tsinghua
University  are joint investors in the 200-megawatt Rongcheng
demonstration project, according to Huaneng’s brochure. China
National Nuclear Corp., the country’s biggest atomic plant
builder, last July reported a successful test of an experimental
reactor using fourth-generation technology.  China started operating its first commercial nuclear
station in 1994. It currently has 14 reactors in operation, 26
under construction and 28 planned, according to data on the
 World Nuclear Association’s  website.  Rising Capacity  The nation’s nuclear power capacity may reach 40 gigawatts
by 2015 and exceed 70 gigawatts by 2020, Han Wenke, head of
energy research at the NDRC, said in June. China had 10.82
gigawatts of nuclear power capacity at the end of 2010, the
state-owned China Electricity Council said in February.  The nuclear industry has developed several generations of
reactors starting with the first in 1950-60s, according to the
 World Nuclear Association ’s website. There’s no such reactor
today outside the U.K. The second generation units are used in
the U.S. and  France  while early generation-3 reactor designs
have been operating in Japan since 1996, according to the WNA.  “Generation IV designs are still on the drawing board and
will not be operational before 2020 at the earliest,” it said.
“Late 3rd generation designs are now being built.”  China’s fourth-generation helium gas-cooled reactor was
designed and constructed by Tsinghua University of China,
according to a research paper by Shouyin Hu on the IAEA  website .  China Huaneng Group aims to produce about 35 percent of its
electricity using cleaner technology by 2020 to cut pollution,
President Cao Peixi said March last year. The company plans to
reduce coal consumption per kilowatt-hour of electricity by
about 10 percent by 2020, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in  Singapore  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in Singapore at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  