-- 
China Should Revive ‘Through-Train’ Hong Kong Investment Plan, Guotai Says

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-03-23T23:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/china-should-revive-through-train-hong-kong-investment-plan-guotai-says.html
China  should revive a plan to allow
its citizens to invest directly in Hong Kong stocks, said Yim Fung, chief executive officer of  Guotai Junan International
Holdings Ltd. (1788) , a unit of China’s second-largest brokerage.  The so-called “through-train” program was unveiled by
regulators in August 2007, and helped push the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  to a record high that October. The State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said it had scrapped the plan
in January 2010 and instead expanded the qualified domestic
institutional investor system for investment overseas. SAFE
didn’t reply to faxed questions sent on March 22.  People’s Bank of China Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said in
February that regulators should “slightly” ease restrictions
on outbound investment as part of its efforts to refocus growth
and reduce the balance of payments surplus. Policy makers were
worried three years ago that Chinese individual investors would
buy over-valued assets when the market was at its peak, Yim said
in a March 21 interview in  Hong Kong .  “Doubts on investment value were addressed as the Hong
Kong stock market has retreated,” he said. The program should
be revived because of “the need for capital outflows, the
appreciation pressure on the yuan and inflation concerns,” he
said.  The Hang Sang Index has declined 28 percent from its peak
in October 2007. China’s yuan reached a 17-year high this week
on speculation policy makers will raise  interest rates  and allow
more currency appreciation to curb inflation. Consumer prices in
China climbed 4.9 percent in January and February from a year
earlier, according to official data.  Mainland Decision  Huang Xingguo, mayor of Tianjin， said on March 11 that the
city has prepared a plan for a “through-train” trial and is
waiting for the government’s approval, China News Service
 reported . An official at the municipal press office of Tianjin
wouldn’t comment on the issue over the phone.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. said it wouldn’t be
appropriate for it to comment on the issue. The “through-
train” program is “a policy matter for the mainland
authorities to decide,” Scott Sapp, a spokesman for the
company, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  “ Guotai Junan  and other Chinese brokerages in Hong Kong
will be the major beneficiaries if the through-train program is
revived,” said Kenson Yeung, research analyst at Phillip
Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. “The magnitude of what Guotai Junan
could gain depends on how big the pie will be. It’s very likely
for China to cap the capital flow in this program with a
quota.”  Yeung said regulators may focus first on allowing Chinese
investors to buy yuan stocks sold by global companies in
Shanghai.  Expansion Plans  Guotai Junan International has expanded its staff to 200
and is offering more financing to customers trading equities.
The company plans to boost its margin-loan business by doubling
the amount of funds available to clients to more than HK$2
billion ($257 million), Yim said.  Yim, who has more than 18 years of experience in the
securities industry, holds a doctorate in economics from the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences  and a bachelor degree in
environmental engineering from  Tsinghua University , both in
Beijing.  Chinese authorities are promoting greater use of the yuan
in global trade and finance to reduce reliance on the  U.S.
dollar . Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s real estate investment trust
may begin gauging investors’ interest for Hong Kong’s first
yuan-denominated initial public offering this week, according to
terms for the sale.  Sales of yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong, also known as
dim sum bonds, totaled 35.7 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) in 2010,
from 16 billion yuan the previous year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are in talks with our bank and corporate clients on
issuing bonds in Hong Kong,” Yim said. “We are in the
preparation stage,” he said, declining to name the issuers his
firm was working with.  -- Judy Chen  in  Shanghai . Editors: {Andrew Janes}, {Sandy Hendry}  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  