-- 
Christie Calls Judge's Criticism of His New Jersey School Spending `Crazy'

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-23T19:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/christie-calls-judge-s-criticism-on-new-jersey-schools-crazy-.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
a former U.S. attorney, said a judge’s report criticizing his
budget cuts in school spending was “crazy.”  The first-term Republican said he hasn’t considered how to
balance the budget of the state with the highest tax burden if
he’s ordered to spend more than $1 billion extra on public
schools.  Judge Peter Doyne, in a report to the state Supreme Court,
said Christie and the Democrat-controlled Legislature
underfunded schools by $1.6 billion last year. Doyne concluded
that the budget cuts violated the state Constitution.  “Our courts have become crazy,” Christie, 48, said in his
monthly call-in show on WKXW-FM in Trenton yesterday. “This is
like banging your head on the wall.”  Asked what he could cut to compensate for increased
education spending if the  Supreme Court  agrees with Doyne’s
conclusion, Christie said: “I don’t know. We’ll have to see.”  Doyne’s report released yesterday said $1.6 billion in
education cuts had prevented New Jersey schools from offering
the “thorough and efficient” education required by the state
Constitution. The Supreme Court could prescribe a remedy.  In the radio appearance, Christie said the ruling addressed
the narrow question of funding for disadvantaged schools,
excluding the bigger picture of New Jersey’s finances.  ‘Can’t Print Money’  Christie said at a press availability in Camden today that
he is confident the high court will rule in his favor.  “The Supreme Court will see that the state of New Jersey
can’t print money,” he said.  In an exchange last night with a caller identifying herself
as Penny, Christie said he wants to raise worker health-care
contributions to 30 percent, from an average of 8.5 percent.  Penny, who didn’t give her surname, said she earns less
than $8 an hour as a government employee and can’t afford to
contribute more toward health care. She asked how he expected
her to live.  “How I expect you to live, Penny, is you have to choose
another health plan that’s not as rich as the one you have
now,” Christie said. “That’s how.  “We can no longer afford to pay 90-plus percent of your
health care,” he said. “The benefits are too rich and what you
pay is too little.”  Elected officials have scrutinized the cost of employee
benefits as a way to cut the cost of government. Forty-four
states face combined deficits of more than $100 billion for
fiscal year 2012, according to the Washington-based Center on
Budget & Policy Priorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  