-- 
Cocoa Rises as Ivory Coast Conflict Escalates; Coffee Advances

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-23T11:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/cocoa-rises-as-ivory-coast-conflict-escalates-coffee-advances.html
Cocoa climbed for a third day in
London on concerns supplies of the beans may be further
disrupted as conflict escalates in  Ivory Coast , the world’s
largest producer. Coffee advanced.  West African leaders must find ways of ousting Ivory
Coast’s incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  to avoid a civil war,
Louise Arbour, president of the  International Crisis Group , said
yesterday. A meeting of the  Economic Community of West African
States  in the Nigerian capital, Abuja, today and tomorrow should
agree to mobilize military forces to protect civilians in Ivory
Coast, Arbour said in an open letter to Ecowas presidents.  “It looks like cocoa has found some buying support,”
Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank International in London,
said in an e-mail today. “With so much uncertainty over future
supply out of Ivory Coast still, prices could only fall so
far.”  Cocoa for May delivery rose 18 pounds, or 0.9 percent, to
2,107 pounds ($3,432) a metric ton at 10:49 a.m. on NYSE Liffe
in  London . The price fell as much as 6 percent on March 18.
Cocoa for May delivery climbed 0.7 percent to $3,286 a ton on
ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Ivory Coast has been wracked by violence between Gbagbo’s
security forces and supporters of  Alassane Ouattara , the
internationally-recognized winner of the disputed Nov. 28
elections. Cocoa supplies from the country have been disrupted
since Jan. 24, when Ouattara imposed an export ban in a bid to
cut off funds for Gbagbo.  ‘Fight the Rebels’  Security forces last week shelled a market in Abidjan, the
commercial capital, killing as many as 30 people. Gbagbo called
on the population to mobilize to “fight the rebels.” Tens of
thousands of people have already fled Abidjan, according to
 Amnesty International . The deteriorating situation now
constitutes “a serious and imminent threat to peace and
security throughout West Africa,” Arbour said.  White, or refined-sugar futures for May delivery were
little changed at $700 a ton in London. Raw-sugar futures for
May delivery climbed 0.11 cent, or 0.4 percent, to 27.27 cents a
pound on ICE.  Sugar supplies will exceed demand by 1.3 million tons in
the 2010-11 season, down from 1.7 million tons forecast in
November because of crop damage in Australia, India and  China ,
according to F.O. Licht GmbH. The surplus after two years of
shortages will barely change the ending stockpiles by the end of
the season on Sept. 30, Ratzeburg, Germany-based Licht said in
the report yesterday.  Robusta-coffee futures for July delivery gained $5, or 0.2
percent, to $2,438 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Arabica-coffee futures
for May delivery rose 0.6 percent to $2.7510 a pound on ICE
Futures U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 