-- 
Colgate to Buy Unilever’s Sanex Personal-Care Unit for About $940 Million

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-23T20:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/colgate-to-buy-unilever-s-sanex-personal-care-unit-for-about-940-million.html
Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  agreed to buy
Unilever’s Sanex personal-care unit for about $940 million,
pursuing its biggest purchase in more than a decade to expand in
deodorant and body wash overseas.  Colgate also will sell its Colombian laundry detergent
business to Unilever for $215 million, according to a statement
from the New York-based company today. Sanex, which Unilever had
to sell to allay European Union competition concerns, generated
sales of about $260 million last year.  The acquisition is Colgate’s first since 2006 as Chief
Executive Officer Ian Cook aims to expand into more profitable
products. Colgate, which generates more than 80 percent of sales
outside  North America , will gain a foothold in key parts of the
personal-care market in Western  Europe  as a result of the
transaction, he said.  Unilever’s disposal of Sanex “looks like a decent deal to
me,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec in London, said
today. “They sold it for more than three times sales, which I
think for a forced sale has got to be a good multiple.”  The past five years have yielded 275 deals for personal-
care companies globally. The buyers in 25 of those deals paid a
median of about 1.1 times their targets’ sales over that period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Colgate paid about $1
billion for Latin American toothpaste maker Kolynos Oral Care in
1995.  Unilever shares rose 1.6 percent to 21.66 euros in
Amsterdam. Colgate fell 14 cents to $78.29 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Asset Disposal  Unilever, which bought Sanex as part of its 1.2 billion
euro ($1.7 billion) acquisition of  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ’s
international toiletries unit, was forced to dispose of the
brand by the European Union, which raised concerns about
competition issues in Europe. Combining Sanex with the company’s
Dove and Rexona brands would “likely have led to price
increases” in seven countries including the U.K. and  Spain ,
according to the European Commission.  Sanex also drew interest from  Procter & Gamble Co . and
Henkel AG, people briefed on the discussions said this month.
Unilever didn’t want to sell the business, because Sanex was the
brand it wanted most, according to the people.  Unilever, under the leadership of CEO Paul Polman, aims to
double sales through expansion into faster-growing developing
markets and health and personal-care products. The  London  and
Rotterdam-based company is acquiring Alberto Culver Co., adding
hair-care products including Nexxus and TRESemme, for $3.7
billion in cash, its biggest deal in a decade.  Colgate will pay all cash for the shares and net assets and
expects to close the acquisition by the end of the second
quarter.  “We like these moves,” Connie Maneaty, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, wrote in a note today. “We are also pleased
that CL is expanding its portfolio of brands, a move that we
believe will increase its competitive strength.” New York-based
Maneaty rates the shares “market perform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  