-- 
Copper Stocks to Reach Record Low in 3rd Quarter, Barclays Says

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-03-23T09:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/copper-stocks-to-reach-record-low-in-3rd-quarter-barclays-says.html
Copper stockpiles will fall to a
record low in the third quarter as demand outpaces supply and
China, the world’s biggest consumer of the metal, resumes
buying, according to  Barclays Capital .  “We think the market is in such a large deficit this year
that sometime in the third quarter, copper stocks are going to
hit the lowest level they’ve ever been,”  Kevin Norrish , a
managing director at Barclays, told reporters in London
yesterday.  Inventories monitored by the London Metal Exchange are up
15 percent this year to the highest level since July, daily LME
figures show. Demand will exceed supply by 889,000 metric tons
this year, Barclays estimated in a March 15 report, more than
projections of 400,000 tons from Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and 371,000 tons from VM Group and ABN Amro Bank NV.  “We’ve not changed our views,” Norrish said. “We are
still seeing an incredibly tight market. I think what’s going on
in  China  is that there has been a little bit of a pullback
because prices are so high.”  Imports of refined copper into China slumped to a two-year
low of 158,185 tons in February, customs figures showed on March
21. LME copper rose to a record $10,190 a ton on Feb. 15.  Norrish cited “strong buying interest” from China last
week, when prices fell below $9,000 a ton. The Asian nation,
which represents about 45 percent of global copper demand, will
likely resume purchases “before too long,” he said.  No Substitutes  “One way or another, China has to buy copper,” Norrish
said. “They can’t find substitutes.”  LME prices dropped as low as $8,944.50 a ton last week.
Copper for three-month delivery on the exchange traded at $9,648
at 9:36 a.m.  London  time today. The metal is up 0.5 percent this
year and has averaged about $9,634 so far in 2011, compared with
the annual average of $11,500 predicted by Barclays in the March
15 report.  The first exchange-traded products backed by industrial
metals are unlikely to win over investors in the same way that
precious-metals funds did, according to Norrish. Industrial-
metals ETPs have higher storage fees, he said.  Investors in industrial-metals ETPs also won’t benefit from
backwardation in the same way as financial investors, Norrish
said. Backwardation is a market structure in which metal for
nearby delivery trades above later-dated contracts, potentially
signaling concern about supply.  ‘Enormous Backwardation’  “If the copper market develops in the way we think it
would, there will be an enormous backwardation,” Norrish said.
“In the backwardation, you’d benefit having financial exposure
to copper, but you won’t benefit in the same way holding
physically backed exchange-traded product, because you won’t be
rolling your position down the futures curve. You will just be
paying your storage fees for that physical copper.”  ETF Securities Ltd. introduced the first ETPs holding
physical copper, nickel and tin in December. ETFS Physical
Copper held 1,599.99 tons of the metal as of today, according to
the company. Holdings rose to 2,219 tons on Feb. 2.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BlackRock Inc. have said they may
also open ETPs backed by industrial metals. ETF Securities said
March 21 it would delay the introduction of products backed by
aluminum, lead and zinc.  “If you look at ones that have been launched so far,
they’ve definitely underperformed market expectations,” Norrish
said of industrial-metals ETPs. “So there is a real question
mark about their raison d’etre.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 