-- 
Credit Suisse Advises Clients to Buy Turkish Lira, Sell Rand

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-23T16:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/credit-suisse-advises-clients-to-buy-turkish-lira-sell-rand.html
Credit Suisse advised clients to
buy lira and sell  South Africa ’s rand on expectations the
Turkish currency will gain as the country’s  central bank  raises
 interest rates  and increases banks’ reserve requirements.  The lira could rise as high as 4.74 rand, Credit Suisse
analysts led by London-based Saad Siddiqui said in a research
note. The Turkish currency traded at 4.458 rand as of 5:18 p.m.
in Johannesburg.  The lira strengthened against all its emerging-market peers
today after the Central Bank of Turkey increased lenders’
reserve requirements for the third time since December. The bank
left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 6.25 percent,
compared with a 5.5 percent rate in South Africa. The Central
Bank of Turkey is more likely to raise its benchmark rate in
coming months than its South African counterpart, Credit Suisse
said.  “We think that the Central Bank of  Turkey  will follow a
path of tightening monetary policy by hiking reserve
requirements and possibly by hiking policy rates as early as
May,” Siddiqui wrote. “We expect the South African  Reserve
Bank , however, to be more dovish, as core inflation remains
contained.”  The lira declined 11 percent against the rand in the fourth
quarter of 2010 after the central bank cut its overnight deposit
rate by 450 basis points to 1.5 percent. Since then, the Turkish
currency has clawed back only 3.7 percent.  “The lira has been trading increasingly cheap to the level
we would expect based on a historical regression,” Siddiqui
wrote. “We believe this represents an opportunity to go long”
lira, he said.  Credit Suisse recommends buying lira at around 4.44 rand
and selling at 4.74 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 