-- 
Crude Oil Increases to Highest Price in Almost 30 Months on Libya Strikes

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-23T19:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/crude-oil-trades-near-two-week-high-as-alliance-prepares-attacks-in-libya.html
Crude climbed near a 30-month high
as the U.S. and its allies attacked Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops and protesters clashed with government forces
in  Syria , bolstering concern supplies will be disrupted.  Oil rose 0.7 percent as coalition forces targeted tanks,
artillery, supply lines and communications points, said U.S.
Rear Admiral Gerard Hueber. Prices have advanced 16 percent this
year as unrest spread from  Tunisia  to  Egypt , Yemen, Bahrain and
Syria. The U.S. government said that crude supplies increased as
gasoline stockpiles fell to the lowest level this year.  “Prices are moving up because of the fear premium,” said
Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in New
York. “Oil inventories continue to build, but nobody cares
because they are afraid about what’s taking place in the Middle
East. The fundamentals don’t matter right now.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose 78 cents to $105.75 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Sept. 26, 2008. Prices have advanced 29 percent
in the past year.  Brent crude  oil for May settlement slipped 15 cents to end
the session at $115.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised its estimates for Brent crude
for 2011 to an average of $105.80 a barrel and for West Texas
Intermediate on the Nymex by 10 percent to $93.80, the Zurich-
based bank said in a note today. It cited higher demand growth
and Middle East output disruptions as reasons for the increase.  Bomb Attack  Prices briefly extended gains after a bomb blast at a bus
stop outside of  Jerusalem ’s central station injured at least 31
people today. Retaliatory strikes by  Israel  have bolstered oil
in the past because they raise the prospect of a halt in
shipments from the region.  “Prices even moved on a bomb attack in Jerusalem, which
shows just how nervous the market is,” Horwitz said.  Libyan government forces have increased their attacks on
cities, killing 16 people today in embattled Misrata and six in
the nearby coastal town of Zentan, opposition spokesman
Abdulhafid Ghoga said at a news conference in Benghazi.  The Libya conflict, which began in February, is the
bloodiest in uprisings that have spread across the Middle East.  “There isn’t any reason for prices to move lower given the
geopolitical situation,” said Ric Navy, a broker at BNP Paribas
SA in  New York . “It looks like we will continue moving higher,
it’s just a question of how choppy it will be.”  Syrian Shooting  At least four people were killed today in a shooting near a
mosque in the southern Syrian town of Daraa in protests that
have engulfed the country for the past week. Yemeni President
Ali Abdullah Saleh won backing from parliament to enforce
emergency rule, while agreeing to hand over power by the end of
the year.  “Qaddafi has sworn to fight to the end and we’re seeing
increased violence in Syria and Yemen, which all point to
falling supply,” said  Mike Fitzpatrick , a partner with the
Kilduff Group in New York, a hedge fund that concentrates on
energy. “The U.K. cut its GDP forecast and we should see other
European countries follow suit, which will hit demand.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the British
economy will grow more slowly than previously forecast in 2011.
The  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicts annual growth in
2011 of 1.7 percent, down from the 2.1 percent forecast in
November, Osborne said.  Purchases of new U.S. homes declined in February to the
slowest pace on record, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in  Washington .  Geopolitical Premium  “Prices are up because of fear related to all of the
headlines from the Middle East,” said  Edward Meir , senior
analyst at MF Global in New York. “None of these countries are
very important for oil supplies, other than  Libya .”  U.S. crude inventories rose for a third week, climbing by
2.13 million barrels to 352.8 million in the seven days ended
March 18, the Energy Department report showed. Supplies were
forecast to increase by 1.5 million barrels, according to the
median of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline stockpiles fell 5.32 million barrels to 219.7
million, the lowest level since December. Supplies were forecast
to decline by 2 million barrels.  “There continue to be big drawdowns in gasoline, which is
quite bullish, while crude supplies continue to rise,” said
Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in
Jupiter,  Florida . “Gasoline demand is rising as the economy
recovers and soon gasoline may start to outperform crude.”  Total fuel demand increased 1 percent to 19.3 million
barrels a day. Gasoline consumption climbed 2.8 percent to 9.07
million barrels a day.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 461,698
contracts as of 3:10 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 542,371
contracts yesterday, 33 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.5 million contracts, the
lowest level since Jan. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  