-- 
Cuomo Reminds New York Lawmakers a `Shutdown’ May Happen Without a Budget

-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 
2011-03-23T15:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/cuomo-reminds-new-york-lawmakers-a-shutdown-may-happen-without-a-budget.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
reminded lawmakers that if there is no agreement on the budget
they are negotiating, he could force them to choose between
accepting his plans or shutting down the government.  Cuomo, a Democrat, said he was still optimistic that a
budget deal will be reached by the April 1 start of the fiscal
year, even though there are unresolved issues about spending for
education, health care and prisons.  “I’m hopeful we can get it on time, amicably,” Cuomo, 53,
said at a press conference in  Albany  yesterday. If there is no
agreement, “there’s a new option,” he said, referring to his
ability to submit spending  bills  that lawmakers would have to
pass, or else the government would shut down.  “If the Legislature fails to pass the budget on time, the
government will not have the funds to operate and it may be
forced to shut down,” Cuomo said in a  video  released to
television stations today.  Cuomo said the government would be prepared for a shutdown,
without elaborating on what services might be exempted.
Lawmakers  approved  appropriations for the state’s $56.4 billion
of debt on March 16, so those interest and principal payments
wouldn’t be interrupted by the lack of budget appropriations for
other activities.  Paterson’s Move  That threat of a shutdown was used last year by then-
Governor  David Paterson  to push through a budget in August,
after lawmakers failed to reach an agreement.  If legislators are adamant in rejecting the budget he
wants, “well then I’ll send you a bill, it will be an extender
bill. You don’t want to do it, don’t pass it, shut down the
government and then let’s take the case to the people,” Cuomo
said at the press conference.  An extender bill is submitted after the start of the fiscal
year so the state has legal authority to spend money. State law
doesn’t allow lawmakers to change the governor’s appropriation
bills.  Cuomo, elected with 61 percent of the vote in November,
said, “I’m confident in taking the case to the people.”  Medicaid, School Funds  Cuomo’s $132.5 billion  budget  would cut $2.85 billion from
aid to schools and $2.85 billion from Medicaid, compared with
spending required under state laws. Most lawmakers in both
chambers of the Legislature favor smaller cuts in school aid.  Democrats, who hold a majority in the Assembly, favor
extension of the state’s top 8.97 percent income tax rate, which
Cuomo and Republicans want to let expire at Dec. 31.  Republicans, who control the Senate, oppose some of the
governor’s Medicaid cuts and plans to close upstate prisons
based in districts they represent. Republicans also are against
a proposal favored by Cuomo and Democrats to require a “living
wage” higher than the federal minimum for health-care workers.
Democrats oppose a Cuomo proposal for limits on medical
malpractice awards that are favored by Republicans.  Cuomo said he doesn’t expect any budget agreement to
include extension of  New York  City rent-control laws sought by
Democrats in the Assembly or a cap on property taxes set at the
lower of 2 percent or the rate of inflation, which Republicans
want. Both issues may be deemed by lawmakers as “too complex”
to include in the budget, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  