-- 
Czech Central Bankers ‘Didn't Agonize’ Over Keeping Main Rates Unchanged

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-03-24T13:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/czech-central-bank-may-hold-rate-at-record-low-as-recovery-slows.html
The Czech central bank kept the
benchmark interest rate at a record low for a seventh policy
meeting as inflation hovers below its target and an economic
recovery slows following a recession.  The Ceska Narodni Banka board voted 5-1 to keep the two-
week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a quarter-point below the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate, in line with forecast of 18
out of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. One member voted for a
quarter-point increase, Governor Miroslav Singer told reporters
today in Prague.  The Czech central bank’s peers in Hungary and  Poland  have
raised rates by 75 basis points and a quarter-point respectively
as policy makers around the world react to accelerating
inflation, driven by rising food and fuel prices. The ECB may
raise borrowing costs next month, President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said on March 3.  “I would dare to say that I didn’t notice any agonizing
over the decision today,” Singer said.  Czech inflation unexpectedly slowed to 1.7 percent in
January from 2.3 percent in December, and the February reading
of 1.8 percent remained less than the central bank’s 2 percent
target. The bank  estimates  inflation will match its 2 percent
target in the first quarter of 2012 and accelerate to 2.1
percent in the following three months.  Balanced Risks  The inflation forecast remains consistent with stable
market interest rates near current levels and an increase is
likely only from the end of 2011, the bank said in a
presentation before Singer commented on the decision.  Risks to the inflation forecast are pro-inflationary ahead
of a proposed increase in value-added taxes in 2012, while risks
to the central bank’s monetary policy forecast are
“approximately balanced.”  The main pro-inflationary risks in the economy are higher
commodity prices and the outlook for interest rates abroad, the
bank said. Anti-inflationary risks are weak demand pressure from
the Czech economy and the “slightly stronger” exchange rate of
the koruna, it said.  “We can say there are practically non-existent signals of
domestic demand-driven inflation,” Singer said.  Three of seven board members voted for a quarter-point
increase at the previous meeting on Feb. 3. One of the
supporters of higher borrowing costs,  Robert Holman , has since
left the central bank’s board at the end of his term and was
replaced by Lubomir Lizal on Feb. 13. Another board member who
voted for higher rates in February, Kamil Janacek, didn’t attend
today’s policy meeting.  ‘No Acute Need’  There are “doves as far as the eye can see and hardly a
hawk in sight” on the central bank’s board, Commerzbank AG
analysts wrote in a report to clients before the rate decision.
”There is no acute need to act by the central bank as
inflationary pressure is limited at present.”  The Czech koruna weakened 0.4 percent to 24.493 against the
euro as of 2:54 p.m. in Prague. The koruna has gained 2.1
percent against the euro so far this year, making it the third-
best performer among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after Romanian leu and Hungarian forint.  The central bank isn’t under pressure to increase rates
immediately as the economy lacks demand-led inflation pressures,
policy maker Pavel Rezabek said in a March 14 interview.  Rezabek said he “would expect a slight monetary-policy
tightening” sooner than the bank’s last forecast for a raise
near the end of the year.  Growth Prospects  The economy returned to growth last year as demand for
Czech products, including cars assembled by Volkswagen AG’s unit
Skoda Auto AS, improved in western  Europe , mainly  Germany . Gross
domestic product expanded an annual 2.6 percent in the final
quarter of 2010, compared with a revised 2.7 percent in the
previous three months.  Investors have increased their bets that Czech rates will
start rising earlier than suggested in the forecast after
Trichet’s comments that the ECB may lift rates as early as next
month.  Czech forward-rate agreements locking three-month interest
rates in three, six and nine months’ time have since dropped,
while still maintaining a premium over the Prague Interbank
Offered rate, or PRIBOR. The FRA rate locking in the three-month
offered rate in three months’ time fell to 1.44 percent from
1.52 percent on March 7, according to Bloomberg data. The PRIBOR
was 1.21 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  