-- 
Danish Bond Losses, Solvency II, Swiss Banks,  Hanoi Exchange: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-23T12:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/danish-bond-losses-solvency-ii-swiss-banks-hanoi-exchange-compliance.html
Denmark  is trying to persuade the
rest of Europe to match rules exposing bondholders to losses
after the failure of a regional bank last month left lenders in
the Nordic country risking higher funding costs.  The collapse of Amagerbanken A/S on Feb. 6 forced a 41
percent loss on unsecured senior bonds and prompted Moody’s
Investors Service 10 days later to cut ratings on five Danish
lenders, including Denmark’s biggest, Danske Bank A/S, as it
factored out state protection. The insolvency was the first to
test rules Denmark put in place in October and set a European
Union precedent for senior creditor losses amid a region-wide
debate on burden sharing.  Thomas Broeng Joergensen, acting director of international
financial affairs at the Copenhagen-based  Financial Supervisory
Authority , said in a March 20 e-mail that “a level playing
field in Europe is crucial for ensuring an effective,
transparent single market.”  Denmark is arguing the financial crisis hasn’t adequately
stemmed risk-taking amongst bond investors and wants the EU to
enforce the “possibility of debt writedowns” to discipline
markets, according to a March 4 letter sent to the  European
Commission . EU financial services chief  Michel Barnier  in
January said bank regulators should be able to write down
lenders’ senior debt, though a final agreement has yet to be
reached.  Separately, Bank of England Chief Cashier Andrew Bailey
said creating a “credible” plan to force bank bondholders to
share losses when a lender collapses will increase discipline in
running banks. Bailey made the remarks at  The Economist’s Future
of Banking  conference in Paris yesterday.  For more about Denmark, click here.  For more about Bailey’s remarks, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Insurer Rules Will Need ‘Fine Tuning,’ Regulator Eiopa Says  Solvency II, the planned risk-based regulatory framework
for European insurers, needs to be simplified before it’s
introduced in 2013, the regulator overseeing the industry said.  Gabriel Bernardino, chairman of the  European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority , made the remarks to reporters
in Frankfurt yesterday.  The proposed regime for EU insurers, which is being
developed by the European Commission, Frankfurt-based Eiopa and
local regulators, has been criticized by the industry for being
too complex. The rules were tested in a fifth quantitative
impact study, named  QIS5 , from August to November.  Regulators will work on reducing volatility that may be
induced by the rules, “especially for long-term insurance
products,” Bernardino said. It would also “make sense” to
allow for transitional periods in areas such as “equivalence,
hybrids and technical provisions,” he said.  Eiopa will publish details this week on a  stress test  that
will be conducted among European insurers,  Carlos Montalvo ,
executive director-elect of Eiopa, said at a press conference.  Swiss  Christian Democrats  Back Too-Big-To-Fail Bank Proposals  Switzerland’s  Christian Democrats  are backing the
government’s proposals to limit risk-taking by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   The proposals were criticized by three of the country’s
four biggest political parties, casting doubt on the timetable
for parliamentary approval.  While the Social Democrats said the capital requirements
are insufficient, the Swiss People’s Party wants “concrete
measures” to split up the banks in a crisis situation so that
failing units don’t threaten the economy. The Swiss Liberals, by
contrast, said the government’s organizational requirements, in
case of a potential failure, are too harsh.  Swiss rule-makers want UBS and Credit Suisse, which each
have assets more than twice the size of the Alpine economy, to
hoard capital to cut the risk of an Icelandic-style collapse.
Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand yesterday said
he remains confident that the proposals will be turned into law.  Parties and industry groups had until today to comment on
too-big-to-fail  proposals  based on an Oct. 4 report from a
government-appointed panel of experts. The proposals will be
updated and sent to lawmakers next month. They could be approved
at the earliest during parliament’s three-week autumn session,
which starts on Sept. 12, Swiss parliament spokesman Mark Stucki
said last month.  For more, click here, and click here.  FDIC to Weigh Mortgage Risk and Living Will Rules on March 29  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. may vote to seek
comment next week on a proposal for requiring lenders to retain
risk when they bundle mortgages for sale to investors, according
to a statement released by the agency.  The FDIC board will consider a notice of proposed
rulemaking on credit risk retention at a board meeting in
Washington on March 29, the FDIC said yesterday in the
 statement .  U.S. regulators including the FDIC may propose that loans
have at least a 20 percent borrower down-payment to be exempt
from the requirement that lenders keep a stake, a government
official with knowledge of the discussions said on March 1.  In addition to the FDIC, five other federal agencies must
agree to the proposal.  Separately, FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said so-called living
wills required by the Dodd-Frank Act will help systemically
important financial firms “rationalize” their business models
and mitigate some of the risks that exacerbated the credit
crisis in 2008.  The agency will seek comment on the proposed rule, part of
its expanded mandate under the financial-regulation law, to
guide systemically important companies in drafting plans for
unwinding their business in the event of a collapse, Bair said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg News.  FDIC board members will consider the agency’s living will
proposal on March 29, according to a statement released
yesterday.  Compliance Action  Hanoi Exchange to Limit Share Price Moves on Debut by May  The  Hanoi Stock Exchange , Vietnam’s second-biggest, said it
will require companies to set an initial share price on debut
and limit moves to a maximum 30 percent from that level after
“unreasonable” disparities between prices and value.  Companies seeking to list on the bourse will have to submit
their proposed initial price for approval starting in May, the
 bourse  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The rule will
apply to listings on Hanoi’s informal “over-the-counter”
market, known as UpCoM, starting in April, with price moves on
debut limited to 40 percent, the exchange said.  Some investors have ordered shares at “unreasonable prices
-- too high or too low -- compared with stock values, affecting
the reference prices of companies in subsequent trading days,
and that led to an erroneous reflection of the indexes,” the
exchange said in the statement. There is currently no maximum
move on debut. The daily limit is 7 percent after the first day.  Vietnam is seeking to improve its stock market’s image
after the benchmark VN Index dropped 2 percent last year, the
second-worst performance among Asia’s 15 biggest markets.  Irish Program Able to Meet Capital Needs, Regulator Says  Ireland’s top financial regulator, Matthew Elderfield, said
the country’s bailout program is capable of handling any
outcomes from next month’s stress tests on banks.  Regulators have earmarked as much as 35 billion euros ($50
billion) from the country’s bailout package as extra capital to
inject into the banks. The stress tests, which will be published
on March 31, will determine the final amount. Ireland may need
to spend more than 35 billion euros, Reuters reported March 21,
citing unidentified euro-area sources.  Ireland, which has already pumped 46.3 billion euros into
lenders after bad debts soared, is carrying out its third round
of stress tests to determine how much capital lenders should
hold in reserve against potential losses. The assessment’s
worst-case scenario includes a 60 percent decline in  house
prices  from their peak, a contracting economy and a jump in
unemployment.  Elderfield said yesterday that this year’s stress tests
will be “more conservative, more transparent” and have
“stronger external verification” than previous assessments.  For more, click here.  Mizuho Faces Regulatory Action After ATM System Outages  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  will face regulatory action
after system failures following Japan’s March 11 earthquake
delayed salary payments to 620,000 Japanese and forced the
banking-unit head to refuse a top lobbying post.  Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi said at a press
briefing yesterday that the agency would ask Mizuho to submit a
formal report “at the correct time,” on the cause of the
outage, after which it would take “appropriate action.”  The breakdown of Mizuho’s automated teller machines
nationwide last week delayed transactions valued at 829.6
billion yen ($10 billion) and curtailed access to funds as the
nation grappled with food, water and power shortages in the
aftermath of the temblor. ATMs located at Mizuho’s 440 branches
have resumed operating, spokesman Nariyuki Murakami said
yesterday.  The bank, Japan’s third-biggest by market value, is
studying the cause of the problem that started on March 15, four
days after the country’s most powerful earthquake, and delayed
1.16 million transactions.  For more, click here.  Federal Reserve  Allows Some Banks to Increase Dividends  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  were among lenders that disclosed more than $16.2
billion in common stock buybacks and $5.4 billion of annualized
dividend increases last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Federal Reserve told U.S. banks whether capital plans
they submitted in January were approved. Banks deemed strong
enough were cleared to raise dividends and buy back shares. Some
also are repurchasing trust preferred securities, or TruPS.  For more, click here.  Creditex Expands U.S. Electronic Credit-Swaps Index Trading  Creditex, the credit-swaps brokerage owned by
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., said it expanded its electronic-
trading options for indexes as it prepares to meet new
derivatives regulations.  Creditex, bought by Intercontinental for $625 million in
2008, has been offering electronic trading for credit-default
swaps since 2004 in Europe and 2009 in the U.S., the company
said in a statement yesterday. The brokerage, which also offers
telephone-based execution, has been offering trades via computer
for the Markit CDX investment-grade and high-yield, high-risk
indexes since March 7. It plans to register as a swap-execution
facility under the Dodd-Frank Act passed last year.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities
and Exchange Commission have until July to finish writing
regulations for swap-execution facilities.  S&P Has Chance to Settle EU Antitrust Probe, Almunia Says  Standard & Poor’s may be able to reach a settlement with
European Union antitrust officials to end a probe over licensing
fees for securities identification numbers, the region’s
competition chief said.  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s antitrust
commissioner, made the remarks while appearing before the
European Parliament in Brussels yesterday.  The European Commission sent an antitrust complaint to S&P
in 2009 over the fees it charges financial firms and
information-service providers for using International Securities
Identification numbers in their databases. The EU antitrust
agency opened the probe into S&P after the Brussels-based
 European Fund and Asset Management Association  said that S&P’s
fees were unfair.  S&P, owned by publisher McGraw-Hill Cos., has had “open
and frank” talks with regulators, Michael Privitera, a
spokesman in New York, said in an e-mail. The ratings company is
“learning how we may be able to provide products and services
more uniquely suited to the European market,” he said.  For more, see Interviews/Speeches section.  Courts  Deutsche Bank Loses First German High Court Case Over Swaps  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, lost a case over
interest-rate swaps in the first ruling by Germany’s highest
court concerning sales of the products that have spurred
lawsuits against lenders throughout Europe.  The bank must pay  Ille Papier Service GmbH  541,074 euros
($770,000) plus interest over the swap purchase, Federal Court
of Justice Presiding Judge Ulrich Wiechers said. The bank didn’t
adequately disclose the risks of the products, he said.  The ruling will influence dozens of disputes Deutsche Bank
has with local German governments, community-owned utilities and
companies that claim the lender sold swaps without adequately
disclosing risks and fees for the products that were designed to
lower interest payments. Cases over derivatives sales have
spread throughout Europe.  Deutsche Bank lawyer Christian Duve said his client needs
to analyze the written ruling. The “number of open disputes
over these swaps is limited,” he said. “The bank has taken
adequate risk provisions for this.”  There are eight cases pending at the top court and 17 in
lower courts over the same type of derivative, according to
Deutsche Bank.  Banks may fare better in the U.K., where dozens of swaps
cases have been filed.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  CFTC’s Gensler Says Swap Rules Need International Consensus  Effective oversight of the $583 trillion global swaps
market hinges on cooperation between regulators drafting new
rules in the U.S. and Europe,  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  Chairman  Gary Gensler  said.  Gensler made the remarks in a speech to lawmakers at the
European Parliament in Brussels yesterday.  U.S. and European Union regulators oversee a “significant
majority” of the swaps market and must “find general
consensus” on derivatives regulations, Gensler told members of
the EU Parliament’s  Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee .
Convergence of rules is “critical” he said, in response to
questions from lawmakers.  Regulators are drafting rules governing the derivatives
market after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis. The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange
Commission  are leading U.S. efforts, required under the Dodd-
Frank Act, that seek to reduce risk and boost transparency by
having most swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded on
platforms such as exchanges.  The EU’s focus only on derivatives traded away from
exchanges may lead to gaps in regulation in the region compared
with the U.S,, Gensler said.  For more, click here.  Almunia Says EU Will ‘Look Carefully’ at Bourse Merger  European Competition  Commissioner Joaquin Almunia talked
about  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s proposed acquisition of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
and competition in the region, among other topics.  He spoke to the  European Parliament ’s economic and monetary
affairs committee.  For the video, click here.  Frank Says Republicans Face Hurdles Altering Law: Charlie Rose  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , the Democrat who co-
authored legislation overhauling the financial industry last
year, talked with Charlie Rose about Republicans’ chances of
altering the law.  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  Comings & Goings  EU Lawmakers Endorse Candidates for Financial Regulator Posts  Lawmakers in the European Parliament’s economic and
monetary affairs committee voted to approve three executive
directors for newly formed financial supervisory agencies.  Verena Ross’s appointment at the  European Securities and
Markets Authority , Carlos Montalvo’s appointment at the  European
Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority  and Adam Farkas’s
appointment as executive director of the  European Banking
Authority  were approved.  European Union nations and the parliament agreed last year
to establish the three authorities in London, Paris and
Frankfurt to regulate the banking, securities and insurance
industries respectively. The  European Parliament  approved the
appointment of the chairmen of the EBA, ESMA and Eiopa in
February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 