-- 
JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon Makes $20 Billion AT&T Loan in Bid to Be ‘Dominant’

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-23T11:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/dimon-makes-20-billion-at-t-loan-deal-in-bid-to-be-dominant-.html
Three years after  Jamie Dimon 
became the nation’s lender of last resort in the rescues of Bear
Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc., he is leading the
industry by financing a $20 billion loan to  AT&T Inc. (T)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief executive officer solidified
his firm’s spot as the top U.S. mergers-and-acquisitions bank 
over  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  with the March 20 announcement 
that it’s advising AT&T on a $39 billion bid for Deutsche Telekom
AG’s U.S. wireless unit, T-Mobile USA Inc. New York-based
JPMorgan committed to providing $20 billion to AT&T.  “He wants to win, and he doesn’t want to win by a small
amount,”  Richard Bove , an analyst for Rochdale Securities LLC
in Lutz, Florida, said yesterday in an interview. “He wants to
win big and dominant. He wants to be known as the next J.P.
Morgan.” Bove has a “buy” rating on JPMorgan.  Bove called the AT&T deal a “blockbuster transformational
transaction” and said Dimon may be the most powerful U.S.
banker since his company’s namesake, John Pierpont Morgan,
helped resolve the panic of 1907.  Dimon, 55, flew to  Tokyo  from Hong Kong today to speak with
employees and meet clients affected by the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, said a person with knowledge of the trip who
declined to be identified because the travel plans haven’t been
made public.  Wielding Assets  Dimon may be the only banker in the U.S. who could complete
an unsecured loan as large as the AT&T deal as he wields
JPMorgan’s $2.12 trillion in assets, Bove said.  “This is not the first time that they’ve used their
balance sheet to gain market share,” said  Moshe Orenbuch , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York . “They have
enough capital that they don’t have to shy away from clients.
They can take on a large commitment.” Orenbuch rates JPMorgan
“outperform.”  Dimon’s only possible competition on a transaction that
large would be Goldman Sachs, led by CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , or
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , “and Jamie’s going to feel more comfortable
where his capital is,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for
the Federal Reserve bank of Philadelphia and analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “This gives Jamie Dimon
a huge advantage out there.”  Goldman, Citigroup  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
less than half the common equity of JPMorgan with $70 billion
while Morgan Stanley has about $48 billion, according to Bove.
Rivals including Citigroup Inc. and Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  have been hobbled by soured mortgage
investments and losses from other consumer loans, Bove and
Miller said.  Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan’s
 Jennifer Zuccarelli  and Pen Pendleton of Morgan Stanley, the
sixth-largest U.S. bank, declined to comment.  JPMorgan agreed to buy Bear Stearns amid the credit crisis
in March 2008, helping the investment bank avert a bankruptcy
that could have further damaged the  U.S. economy . Later that
year, Dimon bought Washington Mutual for $1.9 billion after the
Seattle-based thrift was seized by federal regulators.  Dimon, who’s been CEO since the end of 2005, maintained
profits throughout the financial crisis. After graduating from
Harvard Business School in 1982, he went to work for family
friend and mentor Sanford Weill. Together, the two built the
firm that became Citigroup, now the third-largest U.S. bank.  Bank One  Dimon was fired by Weill in 1998 and in 2000 was hired to
run Bank One, a regional lender in  Ohio  that was acquired by
JPMorgan in 2004.  JPMorgan, which was third behind Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley in M&A advisory for 2010, is leading the league tables
this year. The bank’s North American M&A operation is run by Jim Woolery and Chris Ventresca.  Its investment bank, run by Jes Staley, ranked No. 1 for
the third year in a row among the 20 highest-paid investment
advisers in 2010, collecting $4.14 billion in fees for M&A as
well as debt and equity underwriting, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Andrew O’Brien, JPMorgan’s co-head of syndicated and
leveraged finance, put together the package for Dallas-based
AT&T.  “JPMorgan can now go around to the biggest corporations in
the world and say, ‘Look at what I did, look at how I protected
my customer,’” Bove said. “They have enormous advantages in
the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  