-- 
Asian Stocks Rise on Commodity Price Gains, Japanese Factory Resumptions

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-24T02:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/dollar-index-near-15-month-low-on-global-recovery-signs-kiwi-strengthens.html
The Dollar Index was within 0.9
percent of a 15-month low before reports today that economists
said will show the U.S. job market and French manufacturing
improved, damping demand for the safety of the U.S. currency.  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened for a fifth day versus
the greenback after a government report showed gross domestic
product expanded at a faster pace than economists forecast. The
euro erased an earlier gain after the Expansion newspaper said
Moody’s Investors Service will cut the credit ratings of Spanish
banks. South Korea’s won rose on optimism Asian exports will
grow and as foreigners bought more of the nation’s stocks.  “Things are generally turning up,” said  Joseph Capurso , a
currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
the nation’s largest lender by market value. “There’s still a
fairly good, solid and growing amount of risk appetite. The
dollar will be quite heavy.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against those
of six major U.S. trading partners, was at 75.943 as of 11:55
a.m. in Tokyo from 75.877 in  New York  yesterday, after falling
to 75.249 on March 22, the lowest since December 2009. The
dollar was at 81.04 yen from 80.92 yen. The euro traded at
$1.4086 from $1.4088 after earlier rising as much as 0.2 percent.
The single currency was at 114.14 yen from 114.00.  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits fell by 2,000 to
383,000 last week, a Bloomberg News survey showed before today’s
report. An index based on a survey of French purchasing managers
in manufacturing industries rose to 56 in March from 55.7 in
February, according to a separate Bloomberg survey before Markit
Economics releases the data today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks gained 0.1 percent as
some investors bought higher-yielding assets.  N.Z. Dollar  New Zealand’s dollar appreciated against all 16 of its
major counterparts after the nation’s economy avoided a second
consecutive quarter of contraction.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in the three
months to Dec. 31 from the previous quarter,  Statistics New
Zealand  said in Wellington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast 0.1 percent growth.  “Clearly the GDP report has been taken well by the market,
which was nervous about a negative number,” said  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“The kiwi will do reasonably well against the  U.S. dollar  as
risk appetite is proving to be quite resilient.”  New Zealand’s currency jumped 0.6 percent to 74.51 U.S.
cents, and rallied 0.8 percent to 60.39 yen.  ‘Massive’ Downgrades  Demand for the euro was damped after Expansion reported
that Moody’s will make “massive” cuts to their credit ratings
of Spanish lender.  “Worries are reemerging that some European nations may not
be able to procure funds,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and
currency dealer at Okasan Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “It’s a
negative for the euro.”  The euro slumped yesterday by the most in two weeks after
the vote in Portugal’s parliament prompted Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  to resign, fueling speculation the nation will take a
European bailout. “This crisis occurs in the worst possible
moment for Portugal,” Socrates said.  The won approached a two-week high after a Japanese report
showed export growth accelerated in February, adding to evidence
Asia’s economies are improving. Japan’s overseas shipments
increased 9 percent from a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry 
said, using data taken before the nation’s strongest earthquake
on March 11 shut factories and caused power shortages.  “Japan’s data showed that before the earthquake, trade was
improving, which is consistent with the sense that growth was
continuing in the region at the start of the year,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist for Action Economics who has
previously worked for the U.S. Federal Reserve. “ Asia ’s growth
should continue in 2011, which is positive for risk appetite.”  The won gained 0.1 percent to 1,123.50 per dollar from
yesterday when it rose to 1,118.88, the strongest since March 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 