-- 
Developer Donald Trump Plans Trip to Iowa for Republican Party Fundraiser

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-23T12:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/donald-trump-plans-trip-to-iowa-for-republican-party-fundraiser.html
Real estate developer  Donald Trump ,
a potential 2012 Republican presidential candidate, will speak
at a June 10 fundraising dinner in  Iowa , traditionally the first
step in the nomination process.  Trump, 64, will appear at the annual Lincoln Dinner in Des
Moines, marking his first potential campaign trip to the state,
 Matt Strawn , the Republican state party chairman, said in a
statement today.  “We are excited to have Mr. Trump share his vision for a
better America through his experiences as an individual who has
made a career as an entrepreneur and job creator,” Strawn said.  The Iowa caucuses are tentatively scheduled for Feb. 6,
2012.  Other Republicans considering a challenge to President
Barack Obama’s re-election bid have already been traveling to
Iowa and other early voting states such as  New Hampshire , South
Carolina and Nevada.  Former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty, 50, announced March
21 that he is forming a committee to explore a bid, becoming the
first major prospective candidate to do so. Former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , 67, said March 3 he was creating a  website  to
explore a run.  Four years ago, when no incumbent was in the presidential
contest, a total of 17 Republicans and Democrats had signaled
their candidacies or set up exploratory committees by the end of
January 2007, including Obama and then-Senator Hillary Clinton
of  New York , who now serves as secretary of state.  Obama Fundraising  Obama, 49, has already started raising money and rallying
supporters for Democratic races in 2012, including his own. The
headquarters for his re-election bid will be based in Chicago,
his adopted hometown.  Some of 2012’s other prospective Republican candidates
include former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who won the Iowa
caucuses in 2008, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney,
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, Governor Mitch Daniels of
Indiana, and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who is stepping
down as ambassador to  China  in April.  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour has also expressed
interest in the race, as has former Senator Rick Santorum of
Pennsylvania.  The lack of a clear Republican frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
a Tea Party favorite, to position themselves for potential runs.  Trump was viewed favorably by 37 percent and unfavorably by
43 percent of respondents in a Bloomberg National Poll taken
March 4-7. Among Republicans, 39 percent held a favorable
impression, while 48 percent of Tea Party supporters said they
felt that way. The survey of 1,001 adults had a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points on the full sample.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 