-- 
Dubai World Signs Restructuring Deal With Creditors on $25 Billion of Debt

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-03-23T12:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/dubai-world-signs-restructuring-deal-with-creditors-on-25-billion-of-debt.html
Dubai World , the state-owned
holding company that sought to alter the terms on about $25
billion of debt, signed a final deal with creditors, marking the
end of a restructuring that roiled global markets in 2009.  Nakheel PJSC, the developer of palm-shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast, separately said it expects to reach an agreement
with its trade and bank creditors on restructuring $10.5 billion
of debt in the first half of the year. Restructuring agreements
will be issued shortly to trade creditors and the final term
sheet to its bank coordination committee, Nakheel said in an e-
mail today.  The Dubai World agreement included about 80 creditors, the
Dubai government’s media office said in an e-mailed statement
today. Dubai World’s asset value has risen in the past few
months because of the recovery in global markets, it said.  Dubai World and some other state-controlled entities in the
emirate faced problems repaying debt after property prices
slumped amid the global financial crisis and frozen credit
markets prevented them from raising new loans to repay older
ones. Dubai Holding LLC, another one of the emirate’s three main
state-owned holding companies along with Dubai World and
Investment Corporation of Dubai, is also negotiating new terms
on about $9 billion of loans, according to bankers.  More than 99 percent of Dubai World’s creditors agreed to
new debt terms in September and all of the about 80 lenders
consented the following month. The formal signing of the
restructuring agreement awaited documentation by lawyers.  Bond Yield Declines  Dubai’s five-year dollar bond advanced after the signing of
the Dubai World deal was announced. The yield on the 6.7 percent
note maturing in October 2015 dropped 13 basis points to 6.47
percent as of 1:44 p.m. in the emirate, the lowest level since
November. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Dubai’s benchmark share index rose to a one-month high,
helped by news of the Dubai World deal. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
increased 0.6 percent to 1,529.4, the highest since Feb. 20. The
cost of insuring Dubai government debt against default was
unchanged at 417.8 basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Dubai spent billions of dollars since 2002 on developing
its property industry and transforming itself into a tourism,
trade and financial-services hub. In the process, the emirate
and its state-owned companies ran up debt of at least $129.3
billion, according to estimates by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Dubai’s Debt  Of its $25 billion debt, Dubai World owes $14.7 billion to
financial institutions and about $10 billion to the Dubai
government. It plans to return $4.4 billion to bank creditors in
five years and $10.3 billion in eight years. It will pay an
average fixed interest rate of 2.4 percent on the loans,
according to today’s statement, a below-market rate.  The company will raise money to repay principal by selling
assets, which include port operator  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  and stakes in
casino company MGM Resorts International and luxury retailer
Barneys New York Inc. The $10.5 billion of loans to the Dubai
government will be converted into equity as part of the deal.  As part of the restructuring Dubai named Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , the head of Emirates airline, as chairman of
Dubai World in December, replacing Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem. The
government also named a new board to lead the company.  Nakheel, earlier a Dubai World subsidiary, will be owned
directly by the Dubai government after the restructuring as the
emirate committed $8 billion last year to support its
refinancing and help finish stalled projects.  Banks including HSBC Holding Plc,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
 Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  are among
Dubai World’s biggest creditors. All of them have had to book
provisions of 10 percent to 15 percent of the value of their
loans as a result of the debt restructuring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  