-- 
The Lady Will See You in Myanmar as Suu Kyi Shows Land Besieged

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 
2011-03-23T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/the-lady-will-see-you-in-myanmar-as-suu-kyi-shows-land-besieged.html
The voice on the end of a crackling
phone line is soft and conspiratorial: “So you have arrived in
Rangoon? Come at 10:30 a.m. Wednesday. The Lady will see you
then.”  In Myanmar, a Southeast Asian nation ruled for 49 years by
a military junta, “The Lady” is code for  Aung San Suu Kyi , the
Oxford University-educated Nobel Peace Prize laureate who spent
15 of the past 21 years imprisoned in her decaying lakeside
home. Though she was released in November from her most recent
seven-year spell of house arrest, arranging an interview with
the leader of the banned National League for Democracy party
still requires subterfuge, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its May issue.  A visit to Myanmar, a Texas-sized former British colony of
55 million people that was previously known as Burma, can be a
cloak-and-dagger affair. Reporters arriving in the dilapidated
main city, Rangoon, which the regime renamed Yangon, must play
hide-and-seek with dictator General Than Shwe’s secret police.  Meeting Suu Kyi, 65, for the first time in her ramshackle
party office nevertheless evokes a sense of deja vu. Slender in
a blue longyi, the traditional Burmese sarong, and sporting
fresh, yellow roses in her jet-black hair, she remains instantly
recognizable as the defiant, sylphlike figure whose first
challenge to the generals in 1988 drew comparisons with  Nelson Mandela  and the Dalai Lama.  In 1990, Suu Kyi’s  NLD  won a landslide election victory,
capturing 392 of 485 seats in the national assembly. Yet the
military blocked her from taking power by nullifying the poll, a
move that drew the condemnation of Western nations and, along
with subsequent human rights abuses, triggered economic
sanctions.  Economic Debate  Now, Suu Kyi is back at the center of international
attention as Western governments and investors debate whether to
help pull Myanmar out of the economic wilderness in the wake of
her release.  Suu Kyi, who still refers to her country as Burma, says
that while Myanmar may one day be open for business, investment
should also benefit its people.  “I worry about the fact that so many businesses look on
 Burma  as virgin land to be exploited at will,” she says. “Even
hardened businessmen can see this is a situation where they
might be able to do some good rather than just squeeze out a lot
of profit.”  Suu Kyi says now it’s premature to lift sanctions because
there’s no evidence yet that the generals are moving toward
democracy and respect for human rights. Although Suu Kyi has
been freed, some 2,200 political prisoners languish in jail.  ‘Sanctions Have Failed’  The Brussels-based International Crisis Group disagrees.  “Isolation and sanctions have failed to promote reform and
must end,” the  ICG , which advises governments on resolving
conflict, said in a March 7 statement.  Myanmar, strategically sandwiched between the world’s two
emerging giants,  China  and  India , is a treasure trove of natural
resources.  These include a proven 20 trillion cubic feet (570 billion
cubic meters) of natural gas, mines that are potentially the
world’s greatest source of high-quality rubies and jadeite jade
(popular with Chinese consumers) and waters so abundant that
fishermen joke that their country is the only place where prawns
die of old age.  “The opportunities in Myanmar are enormous,” says
billionaire U.S. fund manager Jim Rogers, chairman of Singapore-
based Rogers Holdings. “I am doing my homework on how to invest
there.”  Black Market Rates  It’s clear that Myanmar is in need of investment.  Its per capita gross domestic product is only $582, making
its citizens poorer than those of Haiti, Bangladesh and Burkina
Faso, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The
currency, the kyat, is so worthless that it requires 850 to buy
one  U.S. dollar  on the black market compared with the official
exchange rate of 6 to $1. Only 1 person in 100 owns a mobile
phone and 1 person in 500 uses the Internet, according to the
Geneva-based International Telecommunication Union.  Myanmar’s pariah status means that companies such as Lonely
Planet have been criticized in the past by Burmese democracy
activists for issuing guidebooks to the country. Today, this
land of gold-spired pagodas and crumbling British colonial
buildings draws about 300,000 visitors annually -- compared with
neighboring  Thailand ’s 15.8 million.  Davos Message  Many Western businesses would seek access to Myanmar only
if the U.S., the European Union and other Western countries lift
sanctions. The final word may rest with one woman.  “If Suu Kyi calls for an end to sanctions, it could very
well happen,” says Thant Myint-U, a former head of policy
planning in the United Nations Department of Political Affairs.
“Over Western policy, she has an amount of influence.”  In January, Suu Kyi, who can’t leave Myanmar for fear of
not being allowed to return, sent a recorded  message  to the
World Economic Forum in Davos,  Switzerland .  In it, she called on Myanmar’s generals to initiate legal
reforms to attract foreign direct investment, adding, “I look
forward to the day when there will be a political and social
environment that is favorable to a wide range of investments in
Burma.”  In a separate statement in February, her party called for
negotiations with the U.S., EU,  Canada  and  Australia  to
determine under what circumstances sanctions might be modified.
Those governments have yet to officially respond.  Billionaire George Soros, chairman of Soros Fund Management
LLC, says the desire for democracy in Myanmar means the junta
could go the way of deposed rulers in Tunisia and Egypt.  “Recent events in the Middle East and North Africa
demonstrate that change can come at any time and any place,”
Soros says. “If I were General Than Shwe, I would think about
starting a real dialogue with the opposition.”  Investment Rush  Ending Myanmar’s outsider status could lead to an
investment rush, says Luc de Waegh, managing partner of
Singapore-based  West Indochina , a consulting firm that runs
trips into the country for foreign businessmen. Consumer product
companies would find a market for everything from toothpaste to
motorcycles; mining services firms could supply items such as
helicopters and rubber boots, says de Waegh, who declines to
name the companies who have sent executives to Myanmar.  On her release, Suu Kyi told cheering crowds that she bore
no grudges toward, and would be prepared to talk to, the
generals.  Leadership Question  Since then, she says, they haven’t responded. Complicating
the issue is the decision by Than Shwe, 78, to step further into
the shadows following elections in November in which the junta-
backed Union Solidarity and Development Party claimed to have
won 76 percent of the seats after the NLD boycotted the poll.  The government is now officially headed by a president,
former General Thein Sein, 66, although above him sits a state
supreme council headed by Than Shwe.  “We don’t know who’s at the helm,” Suu Kyi says.  While Western nations and investors debate the ethics of
investing in Myanmar, Asian companies are profiting from the
lack of competition for assets. Chinese, Indian, Korean, Thai,
Singaporean and Malaysian companies are drilling for oil and
gas, building ports and pipelines and trading jade, rubies,
sapphires and timber.  Even some Western companies continue to do business there.
French energy company  Total SA (FP)  and its minority partner, San
Ramon, California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , are extracting Myanmar’s
natural gas at an offshore field in the Andaman Sea called
Yadana.  Grandfather Clause  Total and Chevron aren’t in breach of U.S. and European
sanctions because they were there before Myanmar was declared an
international outcast by the West. Under a grandfather clause,
they’re barred from increasing their investments in Myanmar,
according to Gareth Johnstone, a Singapore-based Chevron
spokesman.  Both companies say their operations in Myanmar create jobs
and improve living conditions for ordinary citizens. China
National Petroleum Corp.,  South Korea ’s  Daewoo International
Corp. (047050)  and GAIL India Ltd. are developing another gas field to
the north.  Already, natural gas from Myanmar provides 20 percent of
neighboring Thailand’s energy needs. By 2013, it will be flowing
through pipelines to Kunming, capital of Yunnan, the
southwestern Chinese province that adjoins Myanmar. Beijing is
also building two ports at which oil from the Middle East can be
offloaded and then piped overland to China, reducing the
security risks attached to shipping it through the narrow
Malacca Strait, a choke point between Indonesia on one side and
Malaysia and  Singapore  on the other that could be easily blocked
by potential enemies in the event of war or even disrupted by
terrorists.  Thai Investment  Thailand’s biggest construction company, Bangkok-based
 Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD) , is putting together a group that
wants to spend $80 billion during the next 10 years to transform
250 square kilometers (96.5 square miles) of Myanmar’s southern
coast near Dawei into a port and petrochemical hub.  “The consequence of this foreign investment will change
the Myanmar landscape,” says Somchet Thinaphong, the engineer
in charge of the project.  For the moment, Soros supports targeted sanctions and says
existing Asian investments can perpetuate abuses.  “The  cash flow  from oil and gas continues to be used to
oppress rather than benefit the people,” says Soros, founder of
the philanthropic  Burma Project , which supports democratic
change in Myanmar.  Struggle for Freedom  Of more than 60 military coups that took place in the world
from 1962 to 1974, only two regimes installed then remain in
power today: Myanmar and Libya, according to Bertil Lintner,
author of Outrage: Burma’s Struggle for Democracy (Review
Publishing, 1989).  Suu Kyi is watching events in Egypt and Tunisia, where
absolute rulers were ousted, and in Libya, where  Muammar Qaddafi 
was fighting to hold on to power in the face of an insurgency
and the subsequent UN-backed no-fly zone over his country.  “It confirms what I have always believed: that ultimately
people do not like to be ruled by despots and autocrats,” she
says.  Could it happen in Myanmar? “It’s always possible,” she
says. “In five years’ time, I don’t know which regime will be
in place or what kind of government, but the scene will not be
the same. This is an age of change.”  Suu Kyi says that change won’t be easy for Myanmar. The
daughter of Aung San, a resistance hero who fought British and
Japanese occupation, she says she has a harder job than her
father, who was assassinated in 1947.  Home for All  “Internal struggles and civil strife are much worse than a
war with any external enemy,” she says. “The Japanese and the
British had a country to go back to. But I want this country to
be a home for everyone, including the military.”  Dislodging Myanmar’s military could be a much bigger
challenge than anything seen in the Middle East. In 1988 and
2007, Burma’s leaders fired on their own people when students
and Buddhist monks led street protests. They have also fended
off the impact of Western sanctions, fought ethnic secessionists
and succeeded in keeping Suu Kyi out of power.  “This little group of village-born soldiers has run
circles around everyone,” says Thant Myint-U, whose
grandfather, U Thant, was a former UN secretary-general and
opponent of the regime.  Restlessness continues to exist among a population that
either lives without electricity or suffers daily power outages
in a country that exports oil and gas. Car owners can wait in
line for five hours to buy fuel.  Inflation Woes  There’s no stock market, meaning the closest Myanmar
residents can get to betting on equities is an underground
lottery based on the daily closing price of the Stock Exchange
of Thailand.  Ordinary citizens say inflation makes their lives
miserable.  “A year ago, a bag of rice cost me 1,200 kyats,” says U
Tun, 76, a retired university professor. “Now, it’s 1,600
kyats. Myanmar is a rich nation, but the people are poor.”  Inflation is currently running at a rate of 30 to 50
percent a year, according to Sean Turnell, an economics
professor at Macquarie University in Sydney.  The only global indicators in which Myanmar scores highly
are narcotics production (No. 2 opium producer in the world,
according to the U.S.  government , after Afghanistan) and
corruption (joint No. 2 with Afghanistan in Transparency
International’s latest annual  index ).  Once Rich  It wasn’t ever thus. Under British rule, it was the richest
country in  Southeast Asia , according to Turnell, author of Fiery
Dragons: Banks, Moneylenders and Microfinance in Burma (NIAS
Press, 2009). In 1942, the British were driven out by Japanese
forces helped by Burmese fighters led by Suu Kyi’s father, Aung
San.  Soon, however, Aung San and his comrades became
disillusioned with the Japanese and joined forces with the
British, who recaptured Rangoon in 1945. In 1947, Aung San
negotiated self-rule with the British and won a subsequent
election. He never lived to lead the country to full
independence. In July 1947, at the age of 32, he was
assassinated on the orders of a political rival, U Saw. His
 daughter  was 2 years old at the time.  For most of the next 14 years, Burma was governed by a
democratically elected government of the Anti-Fascist People’s
Freedom League, the party formerly led by Aung San, before the
military coup of 1962 that followed a period of political
turmoil.  Oxford Education  By then, Suu Kyi had moved to India, where her mother had
been appointed Burma’s ambassador by the democratic government.
She moved to  England  to study philosophy, politics and economics
at Oxford, where she met her future husband, Michael Aris, and
had two sons.  One March evening in Oxford in 1988, when the couple were
reading after putting the children to bed, Suu Kyi, about to
begin work on a doctorate in Burmese literature, was told her
mother was seriously ill in Rangoon.  “She put the phone down and at once started to pack,”
Aris later wrote. “I had a premonition that our lives would
change forever.”  Suu Kyi arrived back in Burma to find student protests in
full swing. Soon, she became one of the opposition leaders, co-
founding the NLD. The protests were suppressed by soldiers, who
massacred some 3,000 people.  House Arrest  The following year, Suu Kyi was put under house arrest for
the first time. In 1990, the generals agreed to call elections
and then refused to recognize the NLD’s victory. Suu Kyi spent
much of the next two decades under house arrest away from her
sons, becoming a global icon of nonviolent opposition. In 1999,
Suu Kyi’s husband, whom she hadn’t been allowed to see for four
years, was diagnosed with terminal cancer. The generals refused
him a visa to make a final visit to Suu Kyi before he died that
same year.  Suu Kyi survived a 2003 assassination attempt when, during
a period of freedom, her motorcade was ambushed near the town of
Depayin by what Western governments claimed was a junta-backed
gang. Some 70 of her supporters were killed, and she escaped
only because her driver sped away from the mob.  Suu Kyi says she doesn’t fear for her safety.  “We don’t go around inviting trouble, but on the other
hand, we don’t avoid what we ought to do because it might
possibly be dangerous,” she says.  Soros isn’t so sure about Suu Kyi’s security.  “She’s always in danger of re-arrest or worse,” he says.  New Capital  In 2005, the generals overnight stripped the nation’s
largest city of its role as capital, having in total secrecy
carved a grandiose new one out of jungle 400 kilometers (250
miles) to the north. The new capital, Naypyidaw, boasts a
parliament building as big as the U.S. Capitol. The nearby
presidential palace is perhaps twice the size of the White
House. A zoo features a climate-controlled penguin house that
ensures that the inmates can bask in a cold environment even
though they have been transplanted to the tropics.  While the generals and their public servants decamped to
Naypyidaw, Yangon began to experience a commercial property boom
as crony businessmen profited from a government sell-off of some
state assets. While the crumbling downtown skyline began
sprouting high-rise office towers, in the northern suburb of
Golden Valley, new McMansions were selling for as much as $3
million, according to Thant Myint-U, who says the new rich
include genuine entrepreneurs as well as cronies.  Wealth Gap  “We Burmese say there are only two kinds of people in
Burma -- the ones who have nothing to eat and the ones who have
nowhere to put their riches,” Suu Kyi says.  Ultimately, investors may simply be deterred by the
immaturity of the market and horror stories of foreign investors
falling foul of local partners. And there’s also competition
from other, better markets, says investor Marc Faber, who
oversees $300 million at Hong Kong-based Marc Faber Ltd.  “So many markets are opening up: Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam
and Central Asian republics,” says Faber, who publishes the
Gloom, Boom & Doom Report. “Based on my experience with
Vietnam, you are not missing much for the first 10 years.”  Back at Suu Kyi’s offices, “The Lady” is about to leave
for her next appointment. She knows there may be years of
struggle ahead to restore democracy.  Is the continuing sacrifice worth it?  “You mustn’t use the word sacrifice,” she says. “I find
it very embarrassing. It is a choice I made.”  Soon, Western investors will face their own choice: whether
to put their money into a fragile yet promising economy or to
stand back and watch rivals with fewer qualms about political
oppression exploit the country’s riches -- while at the same
time propping up the world’s longest-running military
dictatorship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill
 at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 