-- 
East European Central Banks May Ignore ECB Signal to Raise Interest Rates

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-03-24T12:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/east-european-central-banks-may-ignore-ecb-interest-rate-signal.html
Eastern Europe’s central banks will
probably keep borrowing costs unchanged in the coming weeks as
they try to bolster an economic recovery, ignoring accelerating
inflation and a signal that the  European Central Bank  will raise
its benchmark rate.  Czech policy makers left rates unchanged today and the
central banks of  Hungary  and  Romania  will follow suit next week,
according to all seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Four of
the seven also expect no change in Poland at a policy meeting on
April 4-5. Eleven of 17 economists forecast no change in
 Russia ’s main rate when central bankers meet tomorrow.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and the price of oil rises amid
turmoil in the Middle East. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said on March 3 that an increase in the main rate from a record-
low 1 percent is “possible” in April.  “Many of these central banks wouldn’t react to an
inflation shock like they did in the past,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura International Plc
said by phone. “They are looking at growth more than the ECB.
That means a slower hiking cycle than the market was pricing
in.”  Money Markets  Money markets in the region show that investors have scaled
back wagers on how far borrowing costs will rise. Forward-rate
agreements used to lock in interest costs in nine months from
now indicate Polish rates will increase 86 basis points by year-
end; two weeks ago they predicted 1 percent. The Polish
 reference rate  is 3.75 percent.  Hungarian contracts show about a quarter-point increase,
compared with rate bets of 41 basis points two weeks ago, while
contracts for the  Czech Republic  signal an increase of 72 basis
points, compared with 76 basis points two weeks ago. Hungary’s
base rate is 6 percent and the Czech two-week repurchase rate is
0.75 percent.  Nomura recommends a receiving trade on these contracts,
betting they are bound to decline. Investors who receive rates
for contracts quoted in interest rates make money when the rate
falls and lose money if it rises.  ‘Totally Overpriced’  “The market is totally overpriced in terms of the amount
that the central banks are going to hike,” Montalto said.  The central bank board in  Prague  left the benchmark
interest rate at a record low today as the economic rebound that
followed a recession falters. The Czech inflation rate rose to
1.8 percent in February, holding below the central bank’s 2
percent target.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has kept the two-week repurchase
rate at a record low since May, a quarter-point below the ECB’s
benchmark. Czech policy makers voted 4-3 in February to leave
the rate unchanged. It will rise to 1.25 percent by year-end,
according to the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey. The
koruna has gained 2.6 percent this year on expectations of
higher interest rates.  “The market appears to be thinking we will automatically
follow the ECB,” Czech rate setter Pavel Rezabek told Bloomberg
News on March 15. “The relation between the ECB and Czech
monetary policy is not that automatic.”  In  Poland , which avoided a recession throughout the global
crisis, the central bank cited “uncertainty regarding economic
growth,” for holding rates in March, according to minutes
published on March 17. The bank expects the economy to expand
4.5 percent this year, while Hungary’s central bank predicts 3.1
percent growth for its gross domestic product.  ‘Hangover’  “The economies are still in after-recession hangover and
the Polish economy is not as red hot as it was” before the
financial crisis, Miroslav Plojhar, a London-based economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone. “I don’t think inflation
is a big problem.”  The Russian central bank is also considering borrowing
costs tomorrow. It will probably leave the key refinancing rate
unchanged, after lifting rates by a quarter-point on Feb. 25.
Bank Rossii’s refinancing rate stands at 8 percent.  Poland’s inflation rate held steady at 3.6 percent in
February, while Hungarian consumer prices rose an annual 4.1
percent in February.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised borrowing costs in January
for the first time since June 2008, and left them unchanged in
March after the  unemployment rate  rose to 10-month high. Polish
rates will rise to 4.25 percent from 3.75 percent, according to
the median of seven analysts’ forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘No Choice’  Though policy makers “have no choice” other than to raise
rates at the first sign that higher food and fuel prices are
feeding through to wage demands, markets are overestimating the
scale of the Polish tightening, central bank Governor Marek Belka told the central bank-run Obserwatorfinansowy.pl website
on March 22.  “Like a good physician, the central bank shouldn’t
administer medicine beyond the normal dosages,” he said.  Policy makers in Budapest last raised the country’s
benchmark a quarter-point to 6 percent in January. They left
rates unchanged last month after three consecutive increases,
citing a slowing of inflation, a decline in wages and an
improved risk perception, minutes published on March 18 showed.  The Bloomberg survey predicted Hungarian rates will stay on
hold throughout the year, according to the median estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  