-- 
London ‘Land Grab’ Looms as Branson Mulls Virgin Atlantic Fate

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/heathrow-land-grab-looms-as-branson-mulls-virgin-atlantic-fate.html
Richard Branson  may create a
“once-in-a-generation” chance for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Air
France-KLM Group to grow at  London Heathrow ,  Europe ’s busiest
airport.  The U.K. billionaire is considering options for his Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd., whose 288 takeoff and landing slots at
Heathrow are 3 percent of the total. A buyer would be able to
use the slots to add lucrative flights to U.S. and Asian
business markets, said  Ray Neidl , senior aerospace specialist at
Maxim Group in  New York .  “This is huge, and we’re probably never going to have this
happen again in our lifetime,” Neidl said in an interview.
Heathrow slots are “hard to come by even in ones and twos. It’s
a once-in-a-generation opportunity.”  Delta, Air France and their SkyTeam alliance are the
smallest airline group at Heathrow, with 5 percent of slots,
trailing 47 percent for British Airways’ Oneworld and  Star
Alliance ’s 25 percent. Slots are so valuable that Continental
Airlines paid $209 million for four pairs three years ago.  Branson is studying the sale of his 51 percent stake after
hiring Deutsche Bank AG to review options, and Etihad Airways
has signaled interest, said a person familiar with the matter,
who declined to be identified because talks are private.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is assisting a possible Delta-Air France bid,
London’s Sunday Times reported Feb. 20, without citing anyone.  ‘Be a Target’  Virgin Atlantic’s allure reflects “a bit of a land grab
for scarce slots,” said Laurie Price, director of aviation
strategy at consultant Mott MacDonald Group Ltd. in Croydon,
 England . “Anybody who owns those slots has got to be a
target.”  Spokesmen for Delta, Air France-KLM and Etihad declined to
discuss Crawley, England-based Virgin Atlantic.  “Virgin Atlantic is a strong, independent business with a
good growth position at both London Heathrow and Gatwick so we
are not surprised that there is interest in us,” said Janine
Doy, a spokeswoman for the airline. “We cannot comment any
further at this stage.”  European Union rules require the zone’s airlines to be
under European control, so a Virgin Atlantic ownership change
would have to involve an EU partner such as SkyTeam’s  Air
France-KLM (AF)  or Star’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , according to Price.  Singapore Airlines  A sale of Singapore Airlines’ 49 percent stake, which the
carrier acquired in 1994, would be open to all bidders. Having
that holding on the market also would create an opening for a
U.S. buyer such as Atlanta-based Delta to participate alongside
Air France-KLM.  Control of Virgin Atlantic’s slots at Heathrow is “the
whole rationale for Delta and Air France being interested,”
said Jim Higgins, an analyst at Soleil Securities in New York
who recommends buying Delta. A sale of Singapore Airlines’
holdings may tempt Lufthansa, he said.  “No decision has been made about an immediate divestment
of our stake,” a Singapore Airlines spokesman, Nick Ionides,
said in an e-mail. He said the carrier regularly reviews options
and was open to “any interesting opportunities.” A Lufthansa
spokeswoman, Claudia Lange, declined to comment.  Heathrow is about 15 miles (24 kilometers) from London,
compared with 30 miles for Gatwick airport, making it a magnet
for the business travelers prized by airlines. It’s also at 99
percent capacity and has no expansion planned.  Heathrow Squeeze  Virgin Atlantic faces mounting Heathrow competition after
British Airways and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines , a Oneworld
partner, gained antitrust immunity in July, allowing them to
coordinate prices and schedules on trans-Atlantic flights.  That added to pressure from Lufthansa, which in 2009
exercised an option to buy a controlling stake in British
Midland, known as BMI, the No. 2 slot owner at Heathrow. With
that move, Lufthansa kept BMI’s slots, now totaling 780, off the
open market while expanding Star’s size advantage over the
independent Virgin Atlantic.  While Delta CEO Richard Anderson declined on a December
conference call to discuss the status of any talks with Virgin,
the company has indicated its interest in Heathrow, where it has
10 daily flights.  “We think there is room to grow there,” Delta Executive
Vice President Glen Hauenstein told investors on the same call.  Delta, the world’s second-largest carrier after Star member
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , dwarfs Virgin Atlantic’s fleet
of 39 jets and revenue of 1.98 billion pounds ($2.76 billion)
for the year ended February 2010. Delta had 815 planes at the
end of 2010 and revenue of $31.8 billion.  Open Skies Treaty  What it lacks is a big footprint at Heathrow, where it
didn’t win clearance to fly until the approval of the 2007 U.S.-
EU Open Skies treaty.  “SkyTeam has a relative weakness there,” said Jonathan Wober, a London-based analyst at  Societe Generale . While Air
France-KLM has a hub in Paris, its home city, “the London
market is huge, particularly in the premium market,” he said.  Branson, 60, must consider the future of the Virgin brand
in deciding how much control to cede, said  John Strickland , an
airline analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd. in  London . The 26-year-
old Virgin Atlantic is the flagship of Branson’s wider
portfolio, ranging from space travel and luxury vacations to
gyms and mobile phones, Strickland said.  Should Branson give up command, Virgin Atlantic’s new owner
would get Heathrow assets that would rise in value along with
 travel demand , said George Hamlin, president of Hamlin
Transportation Consulting in  Washington .  “The economy is better and traffic is up,” Hamlin said.
“And they’re not making any more slots.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  