-- 
ECB’s Lipstok Says Risk of Higher Euro-Area Inflation Has Risen

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-03-23T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ecb-s-lipstok-says-risk-of-higher-euro-area-inflation-has-risen.html
European Central Bank  Governing
Council member  Andres Lipstok  said the risk of “persistently”
higher euro-area inflation has increased as global price
pressures aren’t easing.  “Global price-rise pressures have been annoyingly enduring
and don’t show any signs of abatement,” Lipstok, who is also
the governor of the Estonian central bank, wrote in an opinion
article published in the  Postimees  newspaper today. “The risk
of a persistently higher inflation rate in the euro area has
increased.”  Lipstok became a voting member of the ECB’s Governing
Council in January when Estonia became the 17th euro-area
member. It’s his first public comment on monetary policy since
joining the council. Analysts including Carsten Brzeski, senior
economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels, have said Lipstok will
probably bolster a German-influenced faction on the council
given the Baltic nation’s history of tight spending controls.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told the European
Parliament on March 21 he has “nothing to add” to his March 3
remarks, when he said policy makers may raise the benchmark rate
from a record low of 1 percent at their next meeting on April 7.  “It should be stressed that the Governing Council of the
European Central Bank is monitoring the economic situation very
carefully and will not commit to future decisions in a form that
would render the Council a prisoner of their own words,”
Lipstok wrote.  Inflation in the 17-member euro area accelerated to 2.4
percent in February and has been in breach of the ECB’s 2
percent limit since December. The ECB is concerned workers will
demand higher wages to compensate for increased living costs.  “The prevention of excessive inflation and the alleviation
of inflation fears is the best that a central bank can do to
support long-term economic growth,” Lipstok said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  