-- 
Medieval Stronghold Mirrors Ireland’s Weakness at Bargain Price

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/medieval-stronghold-mirrors-ireland-s-weakness-at-bargain-price.html
Kilkea Castle, built in the 12th
century, became a stronghold in the heart of medieval Ireland.
More than 800 years later, it’s turned into a symbol of weakness
after the country’s economic collapse.  The castle, south of Dublin, is on the market for 6 million
euros ($8.4 million), said CB Richard Ellis Group, which is
handling the sale. A year ago, the price tag was 16 million
euros. Kilkea had operated as a hotel and golf  resort  before
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. seized control of the property last year.  “There are buyers out there, but they are looking for
tremendous value,” said Paul Collins, a broker at CB Richard
Ellis in Dublin. “They are sitting on their cash.”  Ireland is sifting through the debris of its shattered
property market, whose demise all but bankrupted what was
western  Europe ’s fastest-growing country in the decade until the
financial crisis took hold in 2007.  The first multi-lot auction of distressed real-estate
assets will take place in Dublin next month after  house prices 
sank by more than 30 percent since 2007 and commercial property
dropped about 70 percent.  Wilsons Auctions  will invite offers
for building equipment on March 26. Fifteen cranes go under the
hammer, along with forklifts, excavators, and cement tanks.  “Some people might say the cranes were symbols of the
greedy years, when people lost the run of themselves,” said
Ricky Wilson, who runs the Dublin business. “It will probably
be a while before we see the tower cranes littering the Dublin
sky again.”  Recovering Loans  An hour’s  drive  from the capital, Kilkea was converted into
a hotel in the 1970s and the sale includes 36 bedrooms, 27 golf
lodges, 140 acres (57 hectares) of land and a disused nightclub.  In October, Anglo Irish, nationalized by the state, had a
receiver appointed to the business and is looking to sell the
property to recover loans.  Prices of castles and large country houses in  Scotland  have
also fallen since 2009 as buyers refused to meet the
expectations of sellers, according to Jamie Macnab, head of
country sales in Scotland for  Savills Plc. (SVS)  The company has
reduced asking prices by 15 percent, said Macnab, who described
the Scottish market as “fairly turgid.”  Of 900 registered hotels in Ireland, about 60 are in
receivership, said Collins, who is also handling the sale of the
Blarney Golf Resort in Cork with a golf course designed by John Daly. The asking price is about 10 million euros.  Assets for Sale  London-based  Allsop LLP  and Irish property consultants
Space will sell assets in the Shelbourne Hotel in Dublin on
April 15, according to a statement on Allsop’s website.  The sale will include more than 80 properties, it said. A
three-bedroom apartment in the center of Dublin, formerly on the
market for 900,000 euros, is going for 220,000 euros. A studio
in  Temple Bar , the city’s popular night spot, is going for
80,000 euros, while a three-bedroom semi-detached house located
in the Irish midlands is on sale for 22,500 euros.  In January, Wilsons Auctions held a sale, which included
four tower cranes overlooking the abandoned shell of  Anglo
Irish ’s new headquarters, Ricky Wilson said. Of 15 cranes sold,
at least a dozen went overseas, he said. The Anglo Irish cranes
sold for between 45,000 euros and 60,000 euros, he said.  As for Kilkea, Collins said he’s confident this time round
the castle will shift.  “We’ve had some strong early interest,” he said. “It’s
one of the last inhabitable castles in Ireland and we’re
throwing in the ghost for free.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net 
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  