-- 
Egypt Shares Trading at Premium to GDRs, Abu Dhabi Signal Deeper Declines

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T17:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/egypt-shares-trading-at-premium-to-gdrs-abu-dhabi-signal-deeper-losses.html
The selloff in Egyptian stocks that
sent the  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  to a 23-month low yesterday left shares in
Cairo valued at a premium to global depositary receipts and
regional markets, signaling deeper losses.  The EGX 30 tumbled 8.9 percent as the Egyptian Exchange
opened yesterday for the first time in almost two months. The
retreat left three of the four biggest Cairo-traded stocks,
including EFG-Hermes Holding SAE and  Commercial International
Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , at higher prices than their London-listed GDRs.
The EGX 30’s valuation slid to 1.4 times net assets, still more
than twice as expensive as Dubai’s equity index and a 27 percent
premium to shares in  Abu Dhabi , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Egypt ’s economic growth and corporate earnings are set to
slow after tourists fled and companies closed during the revolt
that toppled  Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-year-old regime. Egyptians are
selling shares as the need for cash outweighs prospects for
political stability following a March 19 referendum that
approved amendments to the constitution, said Walaa Hazem, who
helps oversee about $1 billion in Egyptian assets at Cairo-based
HC Securities & Investment.  “The risks in Egypt are higher than pre-revolution,” said
Mark Krombas, who helps oversee about $3.5 billion as a money
manager at Charlemagne Capital in London. “We would look for
selective opportunities on a further sell-off.”  Today’s Tumble  The EGX 30 dropped 3.7 percent to 4,950.82 today. Shares of
EFG-Hermes sank 10 percent and Commercial International Bank
retreated 9.4 percent.  Egyptians voted to change the constitution, paving the way
for presidential and parliamentary elections by the end of the
year. The vote helped bring down the government’s borrowing
costs and sent the yield on Egypt’s 10-year dollar bond to 6.51
percent yesterday, the lowest in more than a month. The cost of
protecting against Egypt’s default dropped to 358 basis points
from this year’s high of 442 on Jan. 31, according to credit
default swap prices from CMA in  London .  “The referendum was undoubtedly a step in the right
direction, but there are still a lot of unknowns,” said Shehzad Janab, the head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC, which oversees more than $1.5 billion. “Once
analysts start factoring in this new risk premia you will start
to see a raft of earnings downgrades coming through adding
further pressure to the market.”  GDR Discount  Analysts have already downgraded at least 11 of the EGX 30
companies, including real-estate developers Palm Hills
Developments SAE and Talaat Moustafa Group Holding. Their two-
day declines helped push the EGX 30 down 31 percent for the
year, making it the world’s worst performer.  “The process of political transformation, economic healing
and restoration of investor confidence is going to take time,
and I would not necessarily view this first dip as a buying
opportunity,” said Lewis Kaufman, an emerging-market money
manager at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New
Mexico .  Dubai’s benchmark index has dropped 4.8 percent in 2011,
while Abu Dhabi’s slid 3.2 percent. Abu Dhabi has about 7
percent of the world’s proven oil reserves and has avoided the
protests sweeping across the Middle East.  EFG-Hermes, Egypt’s biggest investment bank, also plunged
by the daily limit to 23.78 pounds yesterday. Commercial
International Bank, the country’s largest publicly traded
lender, slumped the most since October 2008, to 32.86 Egyptian
pounds. The shares traded yesterday at a premium of 14 percent
and 5.5 percent respectively to their London-listed GDRs.  ‘Buying Spree’  EFG-Hermes’s premium was erased today and the Cairo shares
now trade at a 1 percent discount to the GDRs. Commercial
International Bank’s local shares are priced at a 4 percent
discount to the London-listed securities.  Orascom Construction  Industries, Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded builder, tumbled by the daily limit of 10 percent to
204.37 Egyptian pounds yesterday. The stock traded at 2.5 times
net assets and 13 times reporting earnings, compared with an
average ratio of 1.8 times and 11 for construction companies in
the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Orascom
Construction gained 0.2 percent today.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE dropped 2.8 percent yesterday,
leaving the shares valued at 5.9 times analysts’ estimates for
2011 earnings, less than half the average of 12 times for global
peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock closed 79
percent below the average 12-month price estimate of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. It rallied 9.9 percent today.  Economic Impact  “Once the dust settles people will appreciate that the
current prices in Egypt are quite low and you will see a buying
spree that will bring the market to stability,”  Naguib Sawiris ,
the billionaire chairman of Orascom Telecom, told Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Egypt’s bourse, North Africa’s second-largest after  Morocco 
by market value, resumed trading two days before a deadline that
could have led to its removal from the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index.  The EGX 30 rose 15 percent last year and 35 percent in 2009
at a time when Egypt’s economic growth weathered the global
financial crisis better than most countries in the region,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The government lowered its growth forecast for this fiscal
year to 4 percent from 6 percent, Finance Minister Samir Radwan
said in a telephone interview on Feb. 12. That may be
optimistic, according to John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based
chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi, who lowered his forecast
for economic growth to 2.1 percent from 3.7 percent.  “I expect wholesale and retail to be impacted, tourism,
financial and business services, transportation and
manufacturing,” he said. “The political dust hasn’t settled
yet and the economy will be severely impacted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  