-- 
Egypt Suspends 46 Stocks Until They Meet Disclosure Rules

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-23T14:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/egypt-suspends-46-stocks-until-they-meet-disclosure-rules-2-.html
Egypt ’s stock market suspended
trading of 46 companies after they failed to meet disclosure
requirements, the head of the bourse said.  Ezz Steel (ESRS) , the country’s largest publicly traded steel
maker and Delta Sugar, the biggest sugar refiner, were among
those halted, the stock exchange said in separate statements
today. The companies didn’t disclose whether they have assets or
shareholders under investigation, it said.  “The market has been closed for almost 60 days, so we
required all companies to tell us how they’ve been affected and
if they have shareholders under investigation,” bourse Chief
Mohamed Abdel Salam said in a televised press conference on
state television. “Investors have the right to know the status
of their companies.”  Trading of at least 10 companies resumed after they made
the required announcements, including resorts developer  Amer
Group Holding (AMER)  and  National Societe Generale Bank SAE (NSGB) , according
to statements sent by the exchange. Trades in 16 companies that
took place before their shares were suspended today will be
canceled, the bourse said.  “The bourse has the right to suspend companies to protect
investors if they don’t respond to its inquiries,” said Rehab
Taha, equity analyst at Cairo-based Prime Securities SAE.  Ahmed Ezz, Ezz Steel’s chairman and a former senior
official in Mubarak’s  National Democratic Party , is being tried
on corruption charges. He has denied any wrongdoing.  Trading in Egypt resumed today after a two-month suspension
caused by unrest that toppled the North African country’s
government last month. The benchmark EGX30 Index fell 8.9
percent to 5,142.71, the lowest since April 2009, at the 1:30
p.m. close in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  