-- 
Egypt Shares Slump, Sending Index to Two-Year Low After Two-Month Closure

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-23T14:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/egyptian-shares-slump-index-drops-to-lowest-since-april-09-after-closure.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index fell
to the lowest level in almost two years after a two-month
suspension amid a popular revolt that toppled the North African
country’s president.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , the world’s worst performing stock
measure this year, retreated 8.9 percent to 5,142.71, the lowest
level since April 2009, at the 1:30 p.m. close in Cairo. Trading
was halted today for 30 minutes after the EGX 100 index fell 7
percent. Orascom Construction Industries, the nation’s largest
publicly traded builder, retreated to the lowest since July
2009. Commercial International Bank plunged 10 percent.  The drop “is normal given the lock-up period and the
political and economic circumstances,” said Walaa Hazem, who
helps oversee about $1 billion in Egyptian assets as vice
president for asset management at HC Security & Investment in
Cairo. Shares may fall another day or two, he said.  Egypt ’s bourse, North Africa’s second-largest after  Morocco 
by market value, resumed trading two days before a deadline that
could have led to its removal from the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. The bourse will allow the EGX 100 Index to drop as much
as 10 percent, exchange spokesman Hisham Turk said today. The
measure lost 9 percent at the close.  Slow Recovery  President  Hosni Mubarak  bowed to mass protests and resigned
Feb. 11 after three decades in power. The uprising against his
regime caused tourists to flee, companies and banks to shutter
and raised the government’s borrowing costs.  The yield on Egypt’s 10-year dollar bond fell for a seventh
day to 6.5 percent, the lowest level since the middle of
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate reached 7.21
percent on Jan. 31. The cost of protecting Egyptian government
debt against default fell 2 basis points to 351 from the  London 
close yesterday, according to CMA prices. They have dropped 25
basis points this week.  The  Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority , which
regulates financial markets, said last month trading will be
halted for 30 minutes if the EGX 100 Index falls more than 5
percent. If the drop extends to 10 percent, trading will be
suspended for a period to be set by the bourse chairman. Daily
share price movements will be limited to 10 percent and trading
reduced to three hours from four.  “The circuit breakers are hurting the market and they have
to be removed soon so we can get back to a free market,” said
Ashraf Akhnoukh, senior equity sales trader at Cairo-based
Commercial International Brokerage Co. “We expected this to
happen.”  Egypt’s stock exchange suspended trading of 46 companies
today after they failed to meet disclosure requirements. Ezz
Steel, the country’s largest traded steel producer, and property
developer Amer Group were among those whose shares were halted.
Ahmed Ezz, the Ezz Steel’s chairman and a former senior official
in Mubarak’s  National Democratic Party , is on trial for
corruption charges. He has denied any wrongdoing.  Best Performer  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, North Africa’s biggest mobile-
phone operator by subscribers, rose as much as 7.7 percent after
shareholders of  Russia ’s VimpelCom approved issuing stock to
complete a merger with its mother company, Wind Telecom SpA. The
shares closed 2.8 percent lower, making them the best performer
in the EGX 30.  The merger may be completed within weeks even though a key
shareholder opposes it, Khaled Bichara, Wind’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview on March 17. Wind holds a 51.7
percent stake in Orascom. Moody’s Investors Service placed
Orascom’s B2 corporate family rating on review for a possible
upgrade on March 21.  Economic Toll  Egyptians voted in a March 19 referendum to change the
constitution, paving the way for presidential and parliamentary
elections by the end of the year. The vote was the first since
Mubarak’s ouster.  “While there have been positive developments on the
political side, the protests in Egypt did take a toll on the
economy,” Yong Wei Lee, who helps oversee about $1.2 billion as
a senior  fund manager  at Emirates NBD Asset Management in Dubai,
said yesterday. “It’s too early to consider bargain hunting.
The Egyptian market will remain volatile for a while.”  Finance Minister Samir Radwan said in a telephone interview
on Feb. 12 that economic growth may slow to 4 percent in the
fiscal year through June from an earlier estimate of 6 percent.  The EGX 30 Index is the world’s worst-performing gauge this
year after plunging 28 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The measure rose 15 percent last year and 35 percent
in 2009.  Further Declines  Orascom Construction fell 10 percent to 204.37 Egyptian
pounds, before announcing a plan to buy back 750,000 shares
after trading ended. Commercial International Bank, the biggest
publicly traded lender, also slid 10 percent to 32.86 pounds.  Egyptian shares tumbled in  New York  and London yesterday,
with the Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF, a U.S.-listed fund that
holds Egyptian stocks, retreating 5.7 percent. London-listed
global depositary receipts of  Orascom Construction  fell 2
percent today, declining for a third day.  “We expect that the Egyptian market may fall by 20 percent
to 30 percent in the first few weeks of trading post-reopening,
with the pace slowed by circuit breakers,” Simon Kitchen,
strategist at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, wrote in an e-
mailed report before trading started today. “The market’s
recovery will be slow and will depend on the pace of political
developments and the extent of economic recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  