-- 
Lehman Asks Judge to Approve Completion of Swig's Manhattan Condo Project

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-23T17:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/lehman-asks-judge-to-approve-completion-of-nyc-condo-project.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  asked
the judge in charge of its bankruptcy to allow for the
completion of a stalled  Manhattan  condominium project that the
firm plans to foreclose on, according to a court filing.  New York-based Lehman is seeking to invest $25 million in
two adjacent properties, including  25 Broad St. , a condo
conversion project in lower Manhattan by developer Kent Swig.
The outstanding balance on the building’s loans is about $399.6
million and the developer has defaulted on payments, according
to the filing yesterday with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. The second property is a development parcel at 45
Broad St. that Lehman wants to foreclose on and sell, the court
filing said.  “The additional investments will help enable LBHI to
maximize the value of its existing investment in the properties
and, by extension, recoveries for its estate,” Lehman said in
court documents.  Lehman, which has invested $39.9 million in 25 Broad since
the developer defaulted, wants to complete renovations of 281
 apartment units , finish demolition of the building’s south wing
begun under Swig, and redesign the outdoor tenant amenity space,
the company said in the filing. Development rights for the land
under the demolished south wing, totaling 64,000 square feet
(6,000 square meters), will be transferred to 45 Broad to make
the vacant site more attractive to potential buyers.  Project Financing  Lehman refinanced Swig’s acquisition costs for 25 Broad in
2007 and loaned the developer money for the conversion of the
site from an apartment building into a condo-and-retail
development, according to court filings. Lehman also provided
mezzanine, or secondary, financing for the project, which was to
be known as The Exchange at 25 Broad, according to property
listing website StreetEasy.com.  “Upon entry, you’ll experience the grandeur of our
majestic lobby with its 18-foot coffered ceilings, marble-clad
walls, and terrazzo floors,” according to a StreetEasy
description. “Amenities include a superbly equipped health club
and spa, exclusive residents’ lounge, dining room with full
catering kitchen, and private theatre.”  ‘Expects to Prevail’  Lehman initiated foreclosure in January 2009 through
mortgages it made on 25 Broad. The company “expects to
prevail” in the foreclosure action after the third quarter, it
said in the filing.  The renovations are necessary to allow for the leasing of
units at 25 Broad Street, which would provide  cash flow  to cover
building operations, Lehman said in court documents.  Rose
Associates Inc. , an owner and operator of Manhattan apartment
buildings, lists 25 Broad as a “new rental building” available
for lease by June of this year.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman Brothers, did
not immediately return a voice mail seeking comment. Alan Segan,
a spokesman for Swig Equities LLC, declined to comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  