-- 
Elizabeth Taylor, Academy Award Winning Actress, Dies in Los Angeles at 79

-- B y   F e l i x   K e s s l e r
-- 
2011-03-23T14:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/elizabeth-taylor-oft-married-beauty-oscar-winner-dies-at-79.html
Elizabeth Taylor, the violet-eyed
beauty whose hectic off-screen love life often eclipsed her most
sultry film roles, has died. She was 79.  She died today at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los
Angeles , her four children by her side, according to a statement
from her publicist. She was hospitalized six weeks ago for
treatment of congestive heart failure, a condition that had
stabilized, “and it was hoped that she would be able to return
home,” the statement said. “Sadly, this was not to be.”  The former child actress grew into a voluptuous and jewel-
drenched movie star, making headlines with stormy love affairs
and eight marriages. Her husbands included actor  Richard Burton 
(twice), singer Eddie Fisher, U.S. Senator John Warner and
producer Mike Todd.  “I never planned to acquire a lot of jewels or a lot of
husbands,” she said in an  interview with Kim Kardashian  posted
by Harper’s Bazaar on Feb. 9. “For me, life happened, just as
it does for anyone else. I have been supremely lucky in my life
in that I have known great love, and of course I am the
temporary custodian of some incredible and beautiful things.”  Though critics panned many of Taylor’s performances, the
actress and her fans proved she could strike gold at the box
office. In 1963, she signed a then-record $1 million contract to
appear in “Cleopatra” with Burton -- and earned $6 million
more because of delays in filming.  Two Academy Awards  Over the years, she won two Academy Awards, for playing a
call girl in “ Butterfield 8 ” and a shrewish professor’s wife
opposite Burton in “ Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? ” She also
received Oscar nominations for three other films.  She became an early AIDS activist, raising millions for
research and treatment. She also supported a number of charities
and, in a business venture, sold perfumes and scents under her
name. In 1999, she was made a Dame of the British Empire by
 Queen Elizabeth II .  “Acting is, to me now, artificial,” she told the
 Associated Press  at an AIDS clinic dedication in 2005. “Seeing
people suffer is real.”  Her movies, public dramas and health problems made Taylor a
frequent topic of cover stories in Life, People and other
magazines. By the time she won her first Oscar at age 28, Taylor
had been married four times. “What do you expect me to do?
Sleep alone?” she said.  Loyal Friend  Aside from her many love interests, Taylor was known as a
loyal friend. She met Montgomery Clift early in her career and
remained a lifelong friend. She was a steadfast ally of her
friend  Michael Jackson , speaking out on his behalf after he was
charged with child abuse. Jackson died of an overdose of
 prescription drugs  in June 2009.  When Rock Hudson died of AIDS in 1985, Taylor became one of
the first figures in Hollywood to raise money and campaign
against the disease. And she stayed the course, helping
establish the  American Foundation for AIDS Research  in 1985 and
the  Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation  in 1991.  “She was one of the first public voices to speak up about
the AIDS crisis while many others stayed silent in the 1980s,
and she helped raise millions of dollars to fight the disease,”
Joe Solmonese, president of the Human Rights Campaign, said in a
statement today.  Taylor battled health issues throughout her career, as well
as drug and alcohol abuse that landed her in the Betty Ford
Clinic, where she met her seventh husband, construction worker
Larry Fortensky.  “My mother was an extraordinary woman who lived life to
the fullest, with great passion, humor and love,” her son,
Michael Wilding, said in a statement. “We know, quite simply,
that the world is a better place for Mom having lived in it.”  Born in  London   Elizabeth Rosemond Taylor was born on Feb. 27, 1932, to
American parents living in London. In 1939, at the outset of
World War II, her mother Sara, a former actress, took Elizabeth
and brother Howard to  California . By 1943, Elizabeth was in
“Lassie Come Home” and the following year attained stardom in
“ National Velvet .”  “She wasn’t a kid,” recalled “Velvet” co-star Mickey Rooney on a CNN program. “She had the essence of a growing,
beautiful child who was going to be more beautiful every day.”  Her early  movies  tracked the young star’s life: “Life With
Father” (1947) and “A Date With Judy” (1948) led to “Little
Women” (1949) and “Father of the Bride,” which came out in
1950, the year of her first marriage, to Conrad Hilton Jr.  Early romantic roles included “A Place in the Sun” (1951)
and “Giant” (1956), followed by her first Oscar nomination for
“ Raintree County ” (1957). She was nominated and again failed
to win for well-regarded performances in “Cat on a Hot Tin
Roof” (1958) and “Suddenly, Last Summer” (1959), before
scoring in “ Butterfield 8 ” (1960).  Real-Life Dramas  In her movies, Taylor sometimes revealed a character’s
unexpected vulnerability by a familiar catch in her throat, a
portrayal that seemed to echo her real-life dramas.  A pattern was established by the 18-year-old Taylor, whose
marriage to hotel heir Hilton began with a three-month honeymoon
and ended in divorce nine months later.  She then married actor Michael Wilding, whom she divorced in
1957 after five years and two children. Three days later she
married producer Mike Todd, who died in a plane crash a year
later.  “I never thought I’d love again” after Todd died, Taylor
said, according to  CNN . “It was a disaster.”  Still, love again she did. A year after Todd’s death,
Taylor married Fisher, Todd’s best friend. When Fisher met
Taylor, he was married to actress Debbie Reynolds. “In the old
days, if Elizabeth saw a man she wanted, she got him, no matter
who she stepped over,” Reynolds told Hello! magazine in 2001.  Health Problems  Even as her movies proved her box-office luster, Taylor was
beset by health crises. (Her Oscar for “Butterfield 8” came
after she underwent a widely reported tracheotomy.)  Fisher and Taylor divorced after she and Burton -- who was
also married -- began their much-publicized love affair on the
set of “ Cleopatra ” in  Rome . The shoot ran well over budget,
almost bankrupting 20th Century-Fox, and the torrid affair
brought unneeded publicity to an already troubled film. Overtime
due to various delays earned Taylor $7 million for the movie.  Taylor became seriously ill during production and director
Joseph L. Mankiewicz neared a nervous breakdown, but, after
three directors, five writers and a cast of literally thousands,
the picture was finished -- and then smashed box-office records
even as it failed to impress the critics.  Second Try  Taylor and Burton shed their old mates and were married in
1964. They made 11 more pictures together, most memorably
“Virginia Woolf.” None gained the notoriety of “Cleopatra”
even as Taylor’s and Burton’s relations grew more tempestuous in
the course of a 10-year marriage that ended in divorce in 1974.
They remarried in 1975, then divorced again 10 months later.
 Burton  died in 1984.  In November 2004, Taylor said she’d been diagnosed with
congestive heart failure but would continue raising money for
AIDS research. Among other contributions, she auctioned a
diamond-and-emerald engagement ring Burton had given her.
Earlier she sold a $1 million diamond from Burton to fund a
hospital in  Botswana .  In addition to breaking her back several times, which
hobbled her over the years, she was hospitalized in February
1997 for removal of a brain tumor. The tumor proved benign but
she suffered a seizure six days after her discharge and had to
be re-hospitalized.     In early November 2005, wearing a
billowy black pantsuit and much jewelry, Taylor appeared in a
wheelchair to help dedicate a UCLA clinical research and
education center. With bracelets dangling from her arms and a
huge diamond on her left hand, the 73-year-old actress  announced 
creation of the  Elizabeth Taylor  Endowment Fund to support AIDS
research.  Scent of Jewels  Aside from her charities, Taylor over the past two decades
promoted a line of scents and perfumes with such names as
Passion, White Diamonds, Black Pearls, and Diamonds and Rubies,
thus playing off her well-known romance with costly jewelry.  She had two sons, Michael and Christopher, with Wilding; a
daughter, Elizabeth, with Todd; and a daughter, Maria, whom she
and Burton adopted.  To some, Shakespeare’s reference to Cleopatra seemed to fit
Elizabeth Taylor as well: “Age cannot wither her, nor custom
stale her infinite variety.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felix Kessler in New York at 
 fkessler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  