-- 
Tenet Healthcare Settles Class-Action Lawsuit Over Katrina Hospital Deaths

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-03-23T19:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/tenet-healthcare-settles-class-action-lawsuit-over-katrina-hospital-deaths.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-
largest publicly traded hospital chain, agreed to settle a
class-action lawsuit over patient deaths at a New Orleans
medical center in the wake of  Hurricane Katrina .  Families of patients who died sued the company over the
actions of officials at Memorial Medical Center in August 2005.
At least 34 patients died at the hospital after the hurricane
knocked out power and the temperature inside the building rose
to more than 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius). The
hospital’s windows couldn’t be opened.  The family of Leonard Preston, who sued on behalf of people
who were at the hospital or had a relative who died, claimed the
center wasn’t prepared to care for patients and had no emergency
plan to evacuate. Patients waited four days to be rescued. A
trial began yesterday in state court in  New Orleans  with jury
selection.  “This has been a long and difficult situation for all
concerned,” Rick Black, a Tenet spokesman, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “The parties are pleased to be able to
announce that an amicable resolution has been reached.”  Both sides agreed to keep the terms confidential until the
court approves the settlement, Black said. The lawsuit filed in
2005 was the first against Tenet to go to trial, Black said
yesterday in an e-mail. The Dallas-based company settled 11
other cases over Katrina, he said.  ‘Reasonable Actions’  Judge Rosemary Ledet disclosed the settlement in court
earlier today. “I cannot discuss anything until there has been
preliminary approval by the court,” she said.  Joe Bruno, the lead plaintiffs’ attorney, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on
the settlement.  “Tenet and Memorial were reasonable in their actions,”
Tony Clayton, an attorney for the hospital, said yesterday in an
interview.  Katrina damaged six Tenet hospitals with losses totaling
more than $150 million. Memorial Medical and Lindy Boggs Medical
Center, also in New Orleans, were closed for months after the
hurricane.  Preston was recovering from surgery to amputate his knee
and awaiting transfer to a rehabilitation facility when Katrina
struck, according to the complaint. He died after being
“abandoned by the staff” following the storm, according to the
complaint.  The hospital failed to implement an adequate safety
evacuation plan and chose certain patients for evacuation and
abandoned others, the Preston family said in the complaint. The
hospital also abandoned patients without any type of life
support, according to court records.  Fair Jury  Katrina, the third-deadliest U.S. hurricane, flooded 80
percent of New Orleans, killing 1,800 people in  Louisiana  and
Mississippi and causing more than $80 billion in damage.  Memorial Medical filed requests before jury selection
yesterday for a mistrial and change of venue, citing media
reports of victims being “cooked” to death in the heat in the
facility following the hurricane.  “It will be virtually impossible for us to get a fair
jury,” Clayton told Ledet yesterday.  The case is Preston v. Tenet Healthcaresystems Memorial
Medical Center Inc., 05-11709-B-15, Civil District Court, New
Orleans Parish.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  