-- 
Menthol May Pose Lower Lung-Cancer Risk, Vanderbilt Study Finds

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/menthol-may-pose-lower-lung-cancer-risk-vanderbilt-study-finds.html
Menthol cigarettes may pose a lower
risk for lung cancer than unflavored versions, according to
researchers at  Vanderbilt University .  A seven-year study of almost 86,000 adults in 12 southern
states found that menthol smokers also use fewer cigarettes a
day than non-menthol smokers, said a report published online
today in the  Journal of the  National Cancer Institute .  The researchers urged the  Food and Drug Administration  to
include their findings in its analysis as the agency weighs
whether to restrict U.S. menthol sales. A yearlong review by an
FDA advisory panel  concluded  on March 18 that removing menthol
cigarettes from the U.S. market would benefit public health. The
advisers’ non-binding report must be submitted to the agency
today. The FDA has no deadline for deciding whether to issue
menthol rules.  An “undue emphasis on reduction of menthol relative to
other cigarettes may distract from the ultimate health-
prevention message that smoking of any cigarettes is injurious
to health,” the researchers said in the report.  Menthol smokers of 20 or more cigarettes a day were 12
times more likely to get  lung cancer  than nonsmokers, the study
found. Among non-menthol users who smoked the same amount, the
odds of getting lung cancer were 21 times greater than
nonsmokers’. The study was funded by the U.S.  National Cancer
Institute  in Bethesda, Maryland.  Among current smokers in the Vanderbilt study, 86 percent
of blacks and 23 percent of whites used menthol cigarettes.
Blacks who used menthol smoked an average of 1.6 fewer
cigarettes a day than black non-menthol smokers, according to
the report. White menthol smokers used an average of 1.8 fewer
cigarettes daily than whites who smoked non-menthol.  46 Million Smokers  More than 20 percent of adults in the U.S., or  46 million
people,  smoke cigarettes, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. Smoking is the biggest cause
of preventable death in the U.S., killing about 443,000 people a
year.  The FDA advisory panel’s investigation, required by a  2009
law , found that menthol smokers don’t face more risks of
tobacco-related disease than people who use regular cigarettes.
The panel still concluded that menthol harms public health by
increasing the overall number of smokers.  Menthol  is derived
from mint leaves.  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the Greensboro, North Carolina-based maker
of the top-selling menthol brand Newport, rose the most in more
than two years on March 18 after the FDA advisers released a
draft of their report and analysts said it probably won’t
persuade the agency to ban menthol.  Menthol Market  Menthol products account for about  30 percent  of the $85
billion in annual U.S. cigarette sales. Newport generates $5
billion a year in revenue for Lorillard, followed by Marlboro
Menthol from  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit and
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s Camel Menthol, Kool and Salem,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Altria, Reynolds and
Lorillard are the three biggest U.S. tobacco companies.  Vanderbilt’s menthol analysis was led by William Blot, a
professor of medicine at the Nashville, Tennessee-based
university and chief executive officer of the  International
Epidemiology Institute  in Rockville,  Maryland .  The researchers evaluated data from 85,806 adults enrolled
in the  Southern Community Cohort Study , a multiyear project by
Vanderbilt, IEI and Nashville-based  Meharry Medical College 
examining racial disparities in disease risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  