-- 
Tepco Said to Discuss $25 Billion Loans With Banks After Reactor Crippled

-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-23T08:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/tepco-said-to-discuss-25-billion-loans-with-banks-after-reactor-crippled.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator
of the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, is in talks
with  Japan ’s three biggest banks for loans totaling as much as 2
trillion yen ($25 billion), according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  are in
final negotiations with the utility, the people said, declining
to be identified before an announcement. Shinya Matsumoto, a
spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ in Tokyo, said the bank is
“positively considering” a loan, though nothing is decided.  Tokyo Electric, whose shares have plunged 51 since a March
11 earthquake and tsunami damaged the nuclear station north of
the capital, aims to arrange the credit this month, the people
said. Radiation leaked from the plant has contaminated
vegetables, milk and the water supply, and the company has
implemented rolling blackouts in Tokyo to conserve power.  “Bank support and government support is anticipated,”
Kenji Okamoto, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in
an interview. “They’re such a huge, important company providing
energy for Tokyo.”  Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. and  Chuo Mitsui Trust Holdings
Inc. (8309)  are also considering offering credit to Tokyo Electric, the
people said. Tokyo Electric approached each of the banks
separately for the loans, the people said, declining to
elaborate on the terms of the financing. The total amount would
be between 1 trillion yen and 2 trillion yen, they said.  Kyodo
News  reported the discussions earlier today.  Borrowing Needs Rising  “While we have enough liquidity in hand, we expect our
borrowing needs to increase next fiscal year and will raise
funds as needed,” Hajime Motojuku, a spokesman for Tokyo
Electric, said by phone. He declined to comment on whether the
company is speaking with banks and how much it needs to raise.  Sumitomo Mitsui spokeswoman Chika Togawa declined to
comment on individual transactions, while saying the bank will
support  Tokyo Electric  because the utility provides “vital
infrastructure.” Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman for Mizuho, said
she couldn’t comment on specific transactions.  Workers are trying to prevent a meltdown at the Fukushima
plant after losing electricity that drove reactor cooling
systems following the 9.0-magnitude earthquake, the country’s
worst in recorded history, and ensuing tsunami.  Tokyo Electric faces a maximum 120 billion yen in costs to
cover third-party damages resulting from the accident, according
to Japanese law. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said this
week that the government will aid farmers if Tokyo Electric is
unable to bear the costs.  Tokyo Electric shares fell 4.5 percent today, halting a
two-day rally, after authorities in the capital said its tap
water may have iodine levels that are unsafe for infants.  The cost of insuring the company’s debt against default has
surged six times since the earthquake on concern it will be
harder to service net borrowings, CMA data show. The company has
debt of 4.96 trillion yen, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  