-- 
Lequizamo Fires Up ‘Ghetto Klown’; Bard’s Bad ‘Double’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-23T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/lequizamo-nails-al-pacino-in-fiery-ghetto-klown-bad-bard-jeremy-gerard.html
The expletives flew when John Leguizamo tried to insert some Method acting into a movie scene
with  Al Pacino .  In “Ghetto Klown,” Leguizamo’s ferociously funny new
Broadway show, the young actor explains that he was eager to
show off his serious actor skills while playing a pimp in Brian De Palma’s 1993 “Carlito’s Way.”  Prowling the stage of the Lyceum Theatre with feline
precision, Leguizamo nails all three players in this little
comedy: the miffed star, the peace-at-all-costs director and the
young actor desperate to break the mold.  Over the course of the evening, Brando, Lee Strasberg, Kurt Russell,  Wesley Snipes  and Patrick Swayze are also definitively,
sometimes scathingly, captured.  The non-stars, though, are more compelling. They include
his Colombian family, his best friend, several girlfriends and a
wife. Most important is the abusive, often absent father whose
wrath the young man fears but whose love he craves.  Leguizamo, 46, can be seen as a bail bondsman opposite Matthew McConaughey in the just-released “The Lincoln Lawyer.” Films
have rarely captured his range, though Baz Luhrmann cast him as
a chilling Tybalt in “Romeo and Juliet” and, later, as
Toulouse-Lautrec in “Moulin Rouge.”  On stage, however, as a comedian with a hunger, Leguizamo
has brought audiences into his highly populated, ever-evolving
life. Success has come with a price, of course.  In “Ghetto Klown,” more than in his previous solo
Broadway shows (“Freak” and “Sexaholix...a Love Story”), he
uses many masks ultimately to reveal a naked self capable of
astonishing stupidity, leading to depression and self-medication
with the usual mix of alcohol, drugs and sex.  Happy Massee’s set is dominated by a screen on which Aaron
Gonzalez throws images from the star’s Jackson Heights, Queens,
neighborhood as well as clips from movies.  Director Fisher Stevens has clearly spent a lot of time
helping Leguizamo shape what can sometimes be unshapely --
there’s a lot of territory to cover, and perhaps 15 minutes too
long is spent covering it. But when the inevitable father-son
reconciliation comes, the actor takes us way beyond laughter.  At 149 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: ***  ‘Double Falsehood’  There’s continuing debate over what contribution
Shakespeare made, if any, to “Double Falsehood,” credited as a
collaboration between the Bard in retirement and his
contemporary, John Fletcher.  An unsavory drama concerning good and evil brothers and
their female prey, it includes rape, abduction and a marriage
only a woman-hater could love. “Double Falsehood” lacks the
strain of humanity and forgiveness that lends similar
Shakespeare plots any palatability. If this is by the Bard, it’s
bad Bard.  The always adventurous  Classic Stage Company , abjuring its
usual star-studded casting, has done the drama no favors with
Brian Kulick’s amateurish production.  We face a wall of oriental-style rugs, which also take the
place of a set. They’re moved around fussily to denote changes
of location. In a mostly youthful and untested cast, the
standouts are bald-pated Slate Holmgren as the nasty brother,
Henriquez, and Mackenzie Meehan as his victim. I mean wife.  Through April 3 at 136 E. 13th St. Information: +1-212-
352-3101;  http://www.classicstage.org 
Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 