-- 
Merkel Says EU Governments Stand Ready to Recapitalize Banks

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-03-23T16:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/merkel-says-eu-governments-stand-ready-to-recapitalize-banks.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said European governments will step in if necessary to bolster
faltering banks in the event that a new round of stress tests
exposes capital deficits.  Merkel said that more stringent stress tests will
strengthen investor confidence in the European banking system.
Governments will respond quickly to the tests, she said,
referring to a March 11 pledge by euro-area leaders to assemble
plans to deal with undercapitalized banks.  “All member states stand ready really to carry out a
recapitalization of their banks based on the result of the
stress tests,” Merkel told finance executives and investors at
a conference today in Frankfurt. “Of course it’s important that
in the first instance the banks attempt to do it themselves, but
otherwise the  states stand ready .”  Leaders of the 17 euro nations this month backed a plan to
tighten economic cooperation, clearing Merkel’s condition for a
comprehensive package to counter a sovereign debt crisis that is
to be negotiated at a European Union summit beginning tomorrow.  EU regulators are struggling to agree on rules for the
annual examinations one month before an April deadline for
disclosure of stress-test methodology. Last year’s EU stress
tests were criticized for not being sufficiently stringent.  Merkel said that progress in creating a European bailout
fund, part of the package of measures expected to be finalized
in Brussels, will be moot without a shored up financial system.  “If the banks aren’t functioning then it won’t work
anyway,” Merkel said at the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  