-- 
Merkel Ally Barthle Says Ruling Lawmakers Satisfied With ESM Euro Backstop

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-23T09:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/merkel-ally-barthle-says-german-lawmakers-satisfied-on-euro-backstop-deal.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  overcame resistance among key coalition lawmakers to
paying into a permanent euro backstop, the ruling party’s budget
spokesman said.  “It’s logical that budget committee members don’t jump for
joy when 22 billion euros ($31 billion) have to be paid cash
into a fund,”  Norbert Barthle , the parliamentary budget
spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic
Union , said in an interview. “But after listening” to a
presentation by Schaeuble in Berlin yesterday, lawmakers see
this as “a better solution than expanding the guarantees.”  Barthle’s comments suggest that lawmakers will approve
Germany’s contribution to the creation of the 500 billion-euro
European Stability Mechanism in 2013, after finance ministers
agreed on its shape at a meeting in Brussels two days ago. The
ESM is part of a package of debt crisis-fighting measures due to
be ratified at a March 24-25 summit of European Union leaders.  In a non-binding resolution passed by  Germany ’s lower house
of parliament on March 17, lawmakers mapped out what they expect
from Merkel at the summit. While Merkel’s bloc and its Free
Democratic Party ally failed to block bond purchases by the
post-2013 ESM, Barthle said they got most of what they wanted.  “We’ve reached many of the goals laid down in our
resolution: there won’t be any automatic transfers and there
won’t be any euro bonds,” Barthle said in Berlin late
yesterday. “For any extension of aid, important conditions have
to be met.”  Capital Share  Germany’s capital share will be 27.1 percent of the total,
Schaeuble told reporters after the March 21 meeting of finance
ministers. Ministers agreed that half of the ESM capital must be
paid in by 2013 and the rest later, in three annual
installments. Germany, as  Europe ’s biggest economy, is already
the biggest contributor to last year’s 177.5 billion euros in
aid for Greece and Ireland.  Merkel told lawmakers yesterday that she will seek at this
week’s summit to stretch out capital payments into the ESM from
2013, a federal election year in Germany, to keep some leeway
for possible tax cuts, two CDU party officials said on condition
of anonymity because the briefing took place in private.  The chancellor, whose party will contest two state
elections on March 27, is under public and political pressure to
minimize the amount that Germany pays to help snuff out the
crisis.  Germany’s parliament insists that it has to approve
individual aid measures and may put demands to the chancellor
before any votes at EU level, thus preserving “parliament’s
sovereign right” of the purse, Barthle said.  Parliamentary Approval  “We will certainly include the involvement of parliament
in the law that governs the terms of the ESM,” Barthle said.
“How this is done, whether  parliament as a whole  has to be
involved or whether it’s in the hands of the budget committee,
still has to be negotiated.”  Barthle said he can live with the decision to fund the ESM
by paid-in and callable funds, saying that continued reliance on
guarantees would have boosted the capital requirement to about 1
trillion euros. The ESM will draw on 80 billion euros of paid-in
capital and 620 billion euros of callable capital, enabling it
to lend the full 500 billion euros.  Merkel and Schaeuble managed to “stabilize the euro,
protect the economy and the labor market and set the conditions
for improved economic policy in other countries,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in
 London , said on Deutschlandradio public radio today. The
government “has negotiated in an excellent way so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at  at
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  