-- 
Ethanol Prices May Delay Brazil Sugar Production, Kingsman Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-23T17:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ethanol-prices-may-delay-brazil-sugar-production-kingsman-says.html
Sugar output in  Brazil , the world’s
largest producer, may be delayed by soaring ethanol prices and
above-average rainfall, according to broker and researcher
Kingsman SA.  Brazilian ethanol prices “skyrocketed” over the past
week, jumping as much as 20 percent, figures from Lausanne,
Switzerland-based Kingsman show. Rains this month may hurt
sugar-cane yields in the main Brazilian producing region, said
Patricia Luis-Manso, Kingsman’s ethanol analyst.  Sugar production in Brazil may only get under way in early
May because of the initial concentration on ethanol, according
to Fabienne Pointier, Kingsman’s sugar analyst. The bulk of the
national cane crop is usually harvested between March and
December in the Center South region.  “It is normal that millers start by focusing on ethanol,
due to the relatively lower yields in this period, but this may
be amplified this year by the current shortage of ethanol and
consequent high prices,” Luis-Manso said by phone today.  Stocks of hydrous ethanol may dry up before the middle of
April, Kingsman said in a report today. That’s the variety used
in so-called flex-fuel cars in Brazil, which can operate on
fuels other than gasoline. Inventories of anhydrous ethanol,
used for blending into gasoline, should suffice until the second
half of April, the report shows.  Price Jump  Hydrous ethanol rose 12 percent to 1,900 reais ($1,144) a
cubic meter (264 gallons) over the past week, according to Luis-
Manso. The anhydrous variety climbed 20 percent to 1,950 reais,
the analyst said.  The Brazilian Sugarcane Industry Association, known as
Unica, urged mills to start crushing as quickly as possible to
help avert a domestic shortage of ethanol, Marcos Jank, the
industry group’s president, told reporters in Brasilia March 17.  Rains this month caused landslides and destroyed three
bridges on the BR 277 federal road that runs to the port of
Paranagua, a press officer for toll-road operator Ecovia said by
phone March 14.  A press official at Paranagua, Brazil’s second-biggest
port, said March 14 that while trucks were unable to make
deliveries, the port was keeping up with scheduled shipments
using stored grains. The official asked to remain anonymous,
citing company policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 