-- 
Mets Owners Settling Case May Cause Default on Debt, Madoff Trustee Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-24T19:12:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/mets-may-default-on-debt-after-settling-madoff-case-trustee-picard-says.html
The New York Mets baseball team’s
owners may default on their debt if they pay $100 million or
more to settle a lawsuit brought by the trustee liquidating
Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, according to a court filing.  Sterling Equities Inc., the company headed by  Fred Wilpon 
that owns the Major League Baseball team, restructured more than
$500 million in debt after Madoff was arrested in December 2008,
trustee  Irving Picard  said in the filing in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  Manhattan .  Sterling’s bankers, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
JPMorgan Chase and Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , may declare the debt
in default if Sterling loses the Madoff case, or agrees to
settle for specified amounts, Picard said in a March 18
complaint seeking $1 billion from the Mets owners and related
parties.  Sterling’s restructured loan agreement says that a “final
nonappealable” order or settlement, which may be as little as
$50 million, or more than $100 million, would constitute “an
event of default under those facilities,” Picard wrote in the
complaint. Such a default would trigger guarantees by affiliates
of Mets partnerships, so any proceeds they received from a sale
of the Mets would go to the banks, he said.  If a borrower violates a provision in a loan agreement or
misses a payment, banks may have the right to demand their loans
back or seize assets in payment.  The Mets said in January they are seeking to sell as much
as 25 percent of the team to raise money because of uncertainty
surrounding the Madoff-related lawsuit.  Team Operations  “Proceeds from the sale of a minority stake in the Mets
will be reinvested in team operations and will not be used to
repay Sterling debt,” said  David Cohen , the Mets’ lawyer, in a
phone interview. Sterling said the same thing in a court filing.  Commenting on the bank covenants, Cohen said, “An event of
default relating to a judgment does not reflect an expectation
that a judgment will occur.”  Winnie Lerner, a Sterling spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the restructuring, as did Citigroup spokeswoman
Danielle Romero-Apsilos.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan
spokeswoman, declined to immediately comment.  Sterling American Property Inc., consisting of real estate
funds formed and run by Sterling Equities and American
Securities LP, has bought more than $4.6 billion of property,
according to Sterling’s website.  $1 Billion Sought  Picard sued Sterling to recover $1 billion in alleged phony
profit and principal from Madoff’s scheme. Also named are
Wilpon, 74, who is chairman of Sterling as well as the Mets;
Mets and Sterling President Saul Katz; Wilpon’s son, Jeff, who’s
chief operating officer of both Sterling and the Mets; and other
related parties. Picard claimed in court papers that the loan
restructuring attempted to block him from recovering assets on
behalf of Madoff investors.  Picard blamed the banks -- at least seven negotiated the
restructuring, he said -- as well as Sterling.  “Sterling and the lender banks attempted to elevate the
payment priority of Sterling’s restructured debt ahead of the
trustee’s recovery of funds on behalf of the estate,” making
the banks senior to “thousands of innocent” investors, his
complaint said.  Sterling asked a judge on March 20 to dismiss Picard’s
lawsuit. Defending the restructuring, it said Picard had no
evidence that the partners anticipated a legal judgment, “let
alone one in excess of the sum contemplated by those
agreements.”  No Red Flags  “Let us be very clear: We did not know that Madoff was
engaged in a fraud,” Katz and Wilpon said in a statement.
“There were no red flags and we received no warnings.”  Picard’s suit, filed in December, was kept under seal until
last month.  Mario Cuomo , the former  New York  governor and father of the
state’s current governor,  Andrew Cuomo , was appointed Feb. 10 to
mediate the dispute between Picard and the Sterling defendants.
The mediation process is under way.  In the debt restructuring, at least 40 loans to Sterling
entities were consolidated into five new secured credit
facilities, according to Picard. There were two new facilities
of $100 million each, owed by trusts of Saul Katz and Fred
Wilpon.  The Mets fell to fifth from third in Forbes magazine’s list
of Major League Baseball team values. The team, which went 79-83
in 2010, is worth $747 million, 13 percent less than a year ago,
Forbes said in a statement about the annual ranking.  A sale of 20 percent to 25 percent would be worth
$149.4 million to $186.8 million, based on the Forbes figures.  False Profit  Picard’s calculation that the Sterling partners and
companies made $300 million in false profit from the  Ponzi
scheme  ignored their Madoff accounts that had net losses,
Sterling said in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York.
After losses, Sterling’s fake profit was about $150 million over
25 years, according to the filing.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to masterminding the fraud in
March 2009 and is serving a 150-year prison sentence. At the
time of his arrest in December 2008, his account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with stated balances of $68 billion.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, Picard has said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10:05287, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 