-- 
Europe’s Banks Would Need $355 Billion of Capital in S&P Stress Scenario

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-03-23T12:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/europe-s-banks-would-need-355-billion-in-s-p-stress-scenario.html
Europe ’s banking system would need
as much as 250 billion euros ($355 billion) of new capital if
faced with a “sharp” increase in yields and a “severe”
economic contraction,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report.  The ratings company imagines three stages happening from
2011 to 2015, including soaring yields triggered by an interest-
rate shock, restricted  market access  for weaker sovereigns and a
“very severe” downturn in the economies of Greece, Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Spain . Under this scenario, stress in Italy would
be “substantial,” while in  France ,  Germany , the U.K. and the
rest of the European Union it would be “moderate,” according
to S&P.  Of S&P’s sample of 99 financial institutions covering 70
percent of Europe’s banking system, 22 would need new capital at
a total cost of about 161 billion euros, according to the
report. Extending that to the full European banking system would
cost 200 billion euros to 250 billion euros, or about 2 percent
of economic output of those lenders’ jurisdictions, S&P said.  “The overall effect on the creditworthiness of western
European countries, if it were to happen, would be severe,” S&P
analysts led by Paris-based Chief Credit Officer Blaise Ganguin
and European Economist Jean-Michel Six, said in the report. “It
would lead to substantially higher debt levels for all
sovereigns throughout the region; hardly sustainable fiscal
positions,” as well as the bank recapitalizations.  ‘Assumptions’  The scenario is based on “assumptions that do not reflect
our current thinking,” including that the rest of the world
isn’t affected by “major stress,” and that issuers don’t take
“corrective action,” S&P said.  “In recent downturns we have repeatedly observed that high
investment-grade issuers show significant resilience across
sectors,” the analysts wrote. They can “adjust rapidly by
diversifying their revenue streams, reducing costs and paring
down their investment programs,” they wrote.  The analysis is also influenced by a sample that isn’t a
perfect reflection of the economy, according to the report.  The most affected issuers would be sovereigns, local and
regional governments, speculative-grade companies and regional
banks, the analysts wrote. The least affected would be large,
geographically diversified companies and banks, as well as
insurers.  Extreme Scenario  In the extreme stress scenario, which assumes a 20 percent
cumulative economic contraction over five years in  Greece ,
Ireland, Portugal and Spain and “lesser, yet still-painful
adjustments” for other nations, sovereign borrowing needs would
soar, according to the report.  Greece’s gross borrowing need would increase to 179 billion
euros in 2015, compared with 57 billion euros under S&P’s base
case scenario, according to the report. In Ireland it would
double to 38 billion euros from a base case of 19 billion euros
that year, S&P said. Spain’s gross borrowing need would more
than double from the base case, rising to 346 billion euros from
151 in 2015, according to S&P.  New York-based S&P assumes that governments would
recapitalize banks with Tier 1 capital ratios that slip below 7
percent. In the stressed scenario, five Spanish lenders fall
below that level and require support, while Greece,  Italy  and
Ireland each have to prop up four. Germany would need to put new
money into two banks, according to the report.  The Spanish banking system would suffer the most in
absolute terms, requiring close to 64 billion euros in support,
or about 6 percent of economic output, S&P said. Greece would be
hardest hit in relation to the size of the economy, needing
about 34 billion euros, equivalent to 15 percent of gross
domestic product, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  