-- 
European Stocks Climb; Rio Tinto Leads Rally in Mining Shares

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-03-23T17:12:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-asian-shares-snap-three-day-rally.html
European stocks rose for the fourth
time in five days as mining companies climbed with metal prices,
outweighing an unexpected drop in U.S. new-home sales and
speculation that Portugal’s budget vote may trigger a bailout.  Rio Tinto  Group surged 2.9 percent, leading basic-resource
producers higher. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a Kazakh
ferroalloy producer, rallied 3.5 percent as profit doubled.
 Inditex SA (ITX)  gained 6 percent after world’s largest clothing
retailer reported earnings that topped estimates.  J Sainsbury
Plc (SBRY)  sank 5.4 percent as sales growth slowed.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.5 percent to 273.11
at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, having swung between gains and
losses at least 20 times. The gauge has still fallen 6.2 percent
from this year’s high in February as Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi
sought to quash a revolt aimed at ending his 41 years in power,
sending oil surging, and  Japan  battled to stop its Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant from leaking radiation following the
March 11 earthquake.  “There are opportunities to take advantage of some cheaper
prices in equities given the drop since the end of February,”
said Henk Potts, an equity strategist at Barclays Wealth in
 London , which oversees $239 billion. “We believe the
fundamentals look strong for equity markets and valuations are
still below 10-year averages.”  Cheapest Since 2009  The gauge’s 10 percent plunge from Feb. 17 through March 16
dragged the measure’s valuation to less than 11 times the
estimated earnings of its companies, the cheapest since April
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx 600 fell as much as 0.4 percent earlier as
purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in February to
the slowest pace on record and prices dropped to the lowest
level since December 2003, adding to evidence the industry is
floundering. Sales of new homes decreased 16.9 percent to a
250,000 annual pace, figures from the Commerce Department
showed.  Portuguese lawmakers began discussing the government’s
deficit-cutting plan today. The opposition  Social Democrats ,
CDS-PP, Left Bloc and Communist parties all tabled resolutions
against the plan. A vote against the proposals which may push
the country toward early elections and the need for a European
Union bailout.  Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
forecasts produced for the Treasury by the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  see the economy growing 1.7 percent this year
compared with a previous prediction of 2.1 percent.  BOE Minutes  Minutes of the Bank of England’s March 10 meeting published
today showed policy makers saw “merit in waiting” to examine
the effect of higher  oil prices  on inflation, boosting
speculation it will leave  interest rates  on hold for longer.
Policy makers voted 6-3 to keep interest rates at a record low.  In Japan, the government estimated the damage from this
month’s record earthquake and tsunami at as much as 25 trillion
yen ($309 billion), an amount almost four times the hit imposed
by  Hurricane Katrina . Tokyo authorities said babies should avoid
drinking tap water after finding traces of iodine.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
advanced 2.9 percent to 4,128 pence.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  gained 3.5
percent to 1,422.5 pence. Copper, lead, nickel and tin climbed
on the London Metal Exchange.  ENRC rallied 3.5 percent to 929.5 pence. The London-based
company said net income advanced to $2.19 billion in 2010,
topping the $1.92 billion average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inditex, Sainsbury  Inditex surged 6 percent to 57.25 euros, the biggest gain
since June. The owner of the Zara chain said fourth-quarter net
income advanced 14 percent, beating analyst estimates, as it
sold more clothing and opened stores in  Asia .  Sainsbury sank 5.4 percent to 335.3 pence, the largest
decline since June 2009, as the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket
owner said sales slowed more than analysts had predicted.  ITV Plc (ITV)  sank 5.1 percent to 80.35 pence after Jefferies
Group Inc. downgraded the U.K. broadcaster to “underperform”
from “hold,” citing “dire” consumer confidence numbers plus
potential margin squeeze from commodity price inflation in the
retail sector.  “We see downside risk to top line,” London-based analyst
Nicholas Bell wrote in a note to clients. “Scope for additional
cost cutting is now limited and returns on investment in content
and online are uncertain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  