-- 
Euro-Area Permanent Crisis Mechanism Backed by EU Parliament

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-23T16:47:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/euro-area-permanent-crisis-mechanism-backed-by-eu-parliament-1-.html
The European Parliament approved a
planned treaty change to create a permanent debt-crisis
mechanism for euro-area countries in 2013.  The European Union assembly endorsed the amendment to the
EU treaty today in Brussels as government leaders prepare to
sign off on a package of measures meant to soothe investors’
concerns about a possible debt default in the euro area.
Governments approved most of the elements in the run-up to the
March 24-25 EU summit.  Among the steps is the establishment of a European
Stability Mechanism, which requires a treaty change. The ESM
will succeed the European Financial Stability Facility, which
was set up for  three years  in 2010 after a loan package for
 Greece  failed to prevent increases in the borrowing costs of
other euro nations with high budget deficits.  “The euro is a major success for  Europe  and we want to
secure its future,” said Elmar Brok, a German member who helped
draft the position of the 27-nation EU Parliament. The assembly
said it was satisfied that EU institutions would be adequately
involved in the ESM, which is an “intergovernmental”
arrangement among the 17 countries sharing the euro.  Debt-Crisis Package  The ESM will be able to provide loans totalling as much as
500 billion euros ($706 billion) and will have the right to buy
bonds directly from governments. Among the other measures in the
debt-crisis package are a reduction for Greece in  interest rates 
on its loans, an extension of their maturity and a widening of
the EFSF’s role -- which is now to sell bonds to finance rescue
aid -- to include purchases of bonds on the primary market in
the way that the ESM will be able to do.  The package “will be a real game-changer,” Jose Barroso,
president of the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
told the Parliament.  Other elements include toughening enforcement of EU limits
on budget deficits, aligning national policies in such areas as
wages, pensions and taxes and raising to the maximum 440 billion
euros the lending capacity of the  EFSF , whose need for buffers
to secure a AAA credit rating now caps possible aid from the
facility at around 250 billion euros.  “The elements of a comprehensive economic-policy response
are now finally there,” said EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn . “Determination to safeguard financial
stability and a strong European commitment has prevailed: we
will soon have what it takes to strengthen the foundations of
the economic and monetary union and to reinforce confidence into
the European economy.”  Rescue Loans  Lower interest rates on rescue loans for Ireland, which in
November became the first country to tap the EFSF, is also a
possibility. The leaders of other euro-area nations are seeking
a pledge of support from Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  for
efforts to promote more tax-policy coordination in Europe as a
condition for cheaper loans.  The ESM-related EU treaty change is an addition that reads:
“The member states whose currency is the euro may establish a
stability mechanism to be activated if indispensable to
safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole. The
granting of any required financial assistance under the
mechanism will be made subject to strict conditionality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  