-- 
European Industrial Orders Increase on Intermediate Goods

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-23T10:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/european-industrial-orders-increase-on-intermediate-goods-1-.html
European industrial orders
increased for a fourth month in January, led by demand for
intermediate goods such as  car engines  and steel, adding to
signs the economy is gathering strength.  Orders in the euro area rose 0.1 percent from December,
when they increased 2.7 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a gain
of 1 percent, the median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Orders jumped 21 percent from a year earlier.  The euro-region recovery is gaining momentum as companies
in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, boost output and hiring to
meet export demand, encouraging  consumer spending . While  Japan ’s
earthquake and tsunami have clouded global growth prospects and
eroded investor confidence, companies are relying on faster-
growing economies such as  China  to boost sales.  “Sentiment indicators may show a slight dent, but hard
indicators such as industrial orders will continue to point
upward,” said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. “We’ll see a rather robust first quarter in
terms of economic growth with the following three months
slightly weaker. Exports continue to fuel growth.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data were released, trading at $1.4186 at 10:04 a.m. in  London ,
down 0.1 percent on the day.  China Growth  Germany is driving the euro region’s expansion as countries
from Ireland to  Spain  struggle to close budget deficits. German
unemployment plunged last month to the lowest since September
1992 and business confidence increased to a record. European
services and manufacturing growth also quickened last month.  In China, economic growth accelerated to a 9.8 percent
annual pace in the fourth quarter, overtaking Japan as the
world’s second-biggest economy. U.S. service industries expanded
in February at the fastest pace since 2005 and fewer Americans
filed claims for jobless benefits.  Industrial orders in Germany increased 3.7 percent in
January from the previous month, when they dropped 2.9 percent,
today’s report showed. French orders slumped 7.8 percent and
Italy reported a drop of 1.5 percent. In Spain, orders increased
3.2 percent from December.  ‘Extraordinarily Difficult’  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, on March 17 forecast higher sales and earnings for 2011
after profit jumped more than eightfold last year. The
Heidelberg, Germany-based company said the March 11 earthquake
in Japan may lead to a shortage of cement and rising prices in
 Asia  as the country rebuilds infrastructure.  “No one knows how the situation will further develop” in
Japan, Norbert Reithofer, chief executive officer of carmaker
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , said on March 15. “It is
extraordinarily difficult to shift to everyday business after
the shocking events.”  Euro-area orders for intermediate goods jumped 4.4 percent
from December, when they rose 1.5 percent, today’s report
showed. Orders for durable  consumer goods  advanced 2.8 percent
and those for capital goods slipped 2.6 percent. Orders
excluding heavy transport equipment such as ships and trains
rose 1.6 percent from December.  While the euro’s 5.9 percent ascent against the dollar may
curb export growth by making goods less competitive abroad, it’s
also helping soften the impact of higher energy costs as Middle
East unrest boosts commodity prices.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of
Mercedes-Benz cars, and tire maker Continental AG both expect
higher raw-material costs to hurt earnings this year.  Increased Uncertainty  The  European Central Bank  signaled earlier this month that
it’s ready to raise borrowing costs from a record low of 1
percent to stem price pressures. ECB council member Yves Mersch
said on March 21 that “strong vigilance” is necessary to keep
a lid on inflation in the euro-region economy.  “The uncertainty has increased, in particular due to the
events in Japan and due to the geopolitical situation in other
regions,” ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said in a
March 18 interview with Japan’s Nikkei, which was published by
the central bank yesterday. At the same time, “there are good
reasons to normalize the monetary-policy stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  