-- 
Hewlett-Packard Shareholders Vote Against Executive Compensation Packages

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-03-23T23:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/hewlett-packard-shareholders-vote-against-executive-pay-1-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  investors,
gathered at an annual meeting today, voted against proposed
compensation packages for top executives, signaling that
shareholders want more influence over how managers are rewarded.  At the  meeting , held in a hotel in Arlington,  Virginia , the
computer maker said 50 percent of shareholders voted against
approving the pay packages, while 48 percent were in favor. At
the same time, shareholders ratified a slate of 13 directors.  The nonbinding vote on pay was hailed as a victory by
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., an adviser on
 corporate-governance  matters. Proposed compensation would reward
executives even if the company performs poorly, ISS said. The
firm also faulted Hewlett-Packard for its choice of directors,
saying new board members with ties to Chief Executive Officer
 Leo Apotheker  may not govern independently.  “For this season, they’re clearly the poster company on
this issue,” Patrick McGurn, an executive director at ISS, said
in an interview. Hewlett-Packard shareholders used the
compensation issue rather than rejection of board members to
send a message to management, McGurn said.  “Most shareholders will act on compensation,” he said.
“They’re not going to belt-and-suspender it by voting against
members of the board at the same time.”  In recommending against the compensation plans, ISS cited
Apotheker’s “inappropriate participation” in selecting new
board members, as well as his severance package, according to a
March 2 report to its clients. ISS valued Apotheker’s proposed
pay at $47 million, not including the severance package.  Shareholders’ Perspectives  “While we are disappointed with the outcome of the
advisory shareholder vote, HP intends to carefully consider our
shareholders’ perspectives regarding executive compensation
matters,” Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman  Mylene Mangalindan  said
in an e-mailed statement.  Apotheker, 57, may earn as much as $85 million in the next
five years, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in
San Francisco.  “For the biggest job in tech, I don’t think that’s out of
the ordinary,” said Marshall, who has a “buy” rating on
Hewlett-Packard shares.  The proposal that shareholders voted against today included
compensation for fiscal 2010 for senior executives, including
Chief Financial Officer  Cathie Lesjak , who served as interim CEO
last year before Apotheker took over;  Todd Bradley , who leads
the PC unit; and former CEO  Mark Hurd .  ‘Broader Dissatisfaction’  “It signals a broader dissatisfaction with the company,”
 Charles Elson , director of the University of  Delaware ’s  Weinberg
Center For Corporate Governance , said in an interview. “You
cannot move forward with a majority of shareholders opposing the
pay package.”  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard, the world’s
biggest computer maker, in January replaced four directors with
five new board members, several of whom had business ties to
Apotheker and Chairman  Ray Lane . Both executives began their
jobs on Nov. 1.  ISS, a unit of MSCI Inc., had also recommended that
shareholders vote against three sitting directors -- Lawrence Babbio, Sari Baldauf and G. Kennedy Thompson -- because they
shouldn’t have let Apotheker play a role in the nomination of
the five new board members.  The directors who joined the board were Shumeet Banerji,
CEO of Booz & Co.;  Patricia Russo , former CEO of Alcatel-Lucent
SA; Dominique Senequier, CEO of AXA  Private Equity ;  Meg Whitman ,
former CEO of EBay Inc.; and Gary Reiner, former chief
information officer of General Electric Co.  Lane’s Rebuttal  Lane lambasted the ISS evaluation earlier this month,
saying it was based on a misunderstanding of how Hewlett-Packard
picked its new directors.  The new board members “aren’t buddies of Apotheker,” Lane
said in a March 10 interview. “I knew these people better than
Leo. But because Leo and I know the industry it would be hard to
pick any name we don’t know.”  At today’s meeting, Lane said Hewlett-Packard has been
communicating with shareholders about compensation.  “We feel pretty good about the input we’re receiving,” he
said.  Focal Point  Companies are more often finding the need to justify their
executives’ pay in conjunction with U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission requirements that compensation packages be submitted
for a regular vote, said Bruce Goldfarb, CEO of Okapi Partners,
a  New York  firm that advises investors on proxy-advisory
services’ policies.  “Compensation issues become a focal point for investors
and certainly media attention,” he said in an interview.
Companies may increasingly argue against advisory services’
recommendations, as Lane did, he said.  “We may see more of that kind of rebuttal from companies
this year,” Goldfarb said.  Gary Hewitt, a spokesman for ISS, said the firm has counted
four lost “say-on-pay” votes this year. The others are Beazer
Homes USA Inc., Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Shuffle Master
Inc., he said. Last year, a majority of shareholders also voted
against pay packages at KeyCorp, Occidental Petroleum Corp., and
the former Motorola Inc., which has since split into two
companies, McGurn said.  Lipton Memo  Attorney Martin Lipton said in a March 17 memo that
Hewlett-Packard didn’t run afoul of corporate-governance rules
when it appointed directors who are acquainted with Apotheker
and Lane. Lipton, a founding partner of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen
& Katz in New York who helped draft New York Stock Exchange
governance rules, faulted ISS for its criticism of Hewlett-
Packard.  Apotheker and Lane were named as CEO and chairman Sept. 30
after Hurd left last August. Hurd, now a co-president at  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , departed Hewlett-Packard after the company said
inaccurate expense reports filed by Hurd or on his behalf
concealed a personal relationship with a contractor, in
violation of Hewlett-Packard’s standards of business conduct.  Apotheker is overhauling Hewlett-Packard’s $41 billion
personal-computer division and says he will use acquisitions to
expand in the software market, dominated by rivals such as
Oracle and International Business Machines Corp.  Hewlett-Packard could earn $7 a share by fiscal 2014,
Apotheker said at a company event in San Francisco on March 14.
That same day, Hewlett-Packard also raised its quarterly
dividend for the first time in 13 years, increasing it to 12
cents a share from 8 cents.  Hewlett-Packard rose 33 cents to $42.07 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have declined 9.1
percent since Aug. 6, when Hurd left the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  