-- 
Hedge Fund Manager Jailed for Death Threats Says Regulators Out to Get Him

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ex-fund-manager-charged-in-sec-death-threat-blames-retaliation-for-plight.html
For Vincent P. McCrudden, the
former hedge-fund manager charged with threatening to kill
financial regulators including U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro, his prosecution is the
culmination of a decade-long government vendetta.  McCrudden was arrested Jan. 13 on charges he used
profanity-filled e-mails and Web posts to threaten 47 current
and former officials of the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the National Futures Association and the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. According to him, he is being
persecuted for fighting back against unfair regulatory actions
that destroyed his career.  The 50-year-old ex-commodities trader sits in a  New York 
City jail near  John F. Kennedy International Airport , facing a
maximum sentence of 10 years in prison on two federal counts of
“transmission of threats to injure.” Prosecutors alleged
McCrudden had an “execution” list on his company  website . “Go
buy a gun, and let’s get to work in taking back our country from
these criminals,” he wrote on the site, according to
prosecutors. “I will be the first one to lead by example.”  McCrudden, according to Finra, worked at New York firms
Tullett & Tokyo Liberty Securities Inc., now Tullet Prebon Plc,
Pali Capital Inc., and Centurion Securities LLC. He denied he
meant to harm anyone. He claims regulators’ pursuit of him,
while failing to detect frauds including  Bernard Madoff ’s
$20 billion Ponzi scheme, shows their warped priorities.  “The most important thing to me, obviously, is the
perception of due process and fairness,” he said in a phone
interview from the Queens detention center where he’s being held
without bail. No trial date has been set.  ‘Kill You’  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch in Brooklyn, said in an e-mail that the government is
prepared to present the evidence against McCrudden at trial. He
declined to comment further. In court papers, the U.S. alleged
McCrudden did indeed intend harm, writing in a Sept. 30 e-mail
to NFA Chief Operating Officer Daniel A. Driscoll that “It
wasn’t ever a question of ‘if’ I was going to kill you, it was
just a question of when.”  The message was purportedly from CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , though the government said that its language and origin
in Singapore, where McCrudden lived, pointed to him.  McCrudden, a divorced father of two, denied sending the
e-mail.  “I’m in jail on an e-mail I didn’t write,” he said in the
March 5 phone interview.  Long Island   McCrudden grew up in Kings Park on New York’s Long Island,
and in upstate Nicholville, said his sister Kathleen Warszycki.
He left the University of  Rhode Island  in 1983 without
graduating to play professional soccer, which he did for less
than a year with the Tampa Bay Rowdies in  Florida  and the
Minnesota Strikers.  He has worked on  Wall Street  since 1987, running trading
desks for gold, crude oil and credit derivatives, according to
court papers. McCrudden was once global head of foreign-exchange
derivatives at Garban Plc, now part of London-based  ICAP Plc. (IAP)   “I’ve executed hundreds of billions of dollars of
financial instruments during my whole career,” the former
hedge-fund manager said. “What I’m most proud of is I’ve never
had a customer complaint.”  McCrudden’s troubles began in 1996 after he started Hybrid
Fund LP and it suffered losses on copper trades. He allegedly
masked shortfalls in statements to his investors by including
money he expected to get in a lawsuit, prosecutors said.  Federal Indictment  He later made good on those losses through a settlement of
the suit, in which  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  was accused of manipulating
the copper market. In 2002, McCrudden was indicted by a federal
grand jury on 15 counts of mail fraud over the alleged false
statements he made.  “That’s really the crux of what started my journey,”
McCrudden said from jail.  At his 2003 trial in federal court in  Central Islip , New
York, about 50 miles east of  Manhattan , the jury deliberated for
less than an hour before finding him not guilty, according to
court records.  Seeking to re-establish his career, McCrudden applied in
2004 for registration with the NFA. The association  denied  his
application because of the alleged overstatements that resulted
in his 2002 indictment. The association held a one-day hearing
in which the main evidence was the criminal-trial transcript. No
account statements were cited, according to court papers.  Potential Recovery  The NFA said McCrudden’s testimony, that NFA and CFTC staff
members whose names he couldn’t remember told him he could
include the potential Sumitomo recovery as an asset, wasn’t
credible.  “The jury believed that the allegations against him were
extremely weak,” said Barry J. Pollack, a lawyer at Miller &
Chevalier Chartered in  Washington  who represented McCrudden in
an appeal of the NFA decision. “Then the CFTC came after him on
the same facts.”  The  CFTC  in 2006 and the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan
in 2008 upheld the NFA decision to deny McCrudden’s
registration. Karen Wuertz, a senior vice president at  NFA , and
 Scott Schneider , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  After the NFA turned down his request for materials he said
he needed for an appeal, McCrudden allegedly told an NFA lawyer
he was “coming out to  Chicago ” to get him, according to a
later ruling by the National Adjudicatory Council, which hears
appeals of Finra decisions.  McCrudden said he agreed to see a psychologist for a year
to address anger-management issues rather than be prosecuted for
making threats. As part of the deal, McCrudden wasn’t allowed to
contact the NFA or CFTC, he said.  Extend the Therapy  He agreed to extend the therapy rather than be prosecuted
after the government said he sent a package with public filings
and newspaper clippings about him to the CFTC, according to his
lawyer.  McCrudden, who pleaded not guilty in the current case, said
the package is another reason he’s still in jail today. He said
he didn’t send it.  The former trader’s lawyer,  Bruce A. Barket , contends
regulators have gone after his client because of the 2003
acquittal, and because “it irritates them to have their
unfairness, their inequity highlighted.”  McCrudden’s case presents a “chicken-and-egg” question of
whether the regulators pursued him because of his stridency, or
he became increasingly strident because of the pursuit, said
Barket, of  Quadrino Schwartz  in  Garden City , New York.  “Certainly that language that’s been reported that he used
is not excusable, but at the same time the level of frustration
is understandable,” Pollack said.  Current Prosecution  In the current prosecution, U.S. District Judge Denis R. Hurley in Central Islip denied McCrudden bail last month, saying
he feared the money manager “will carry through on some of
these threats.”  Stanley G. Tobin, a friend of McCrudden and a former
trader, said that while McCrudden is “extremely honest” and
“warm and caring,” he has “taken an extremely unwise approach
in how he deals with his legal and regulatory issues.”  “He feels that he’s been mistreated, as many people do
when they deal with a regulatory agency,” Tobin said.  McCrudden’s ex-wife wrote in a letter filed with the court
that, “although he is hot tempered and lashes out at times with
words, he has never ever done anything to harm another person.”  In June 2008, Finra brought a complaint against McCrudden
after an investigator discovered an e-mail allegedly firing him
from New York broker-dealer  Hedge Fund Capital Partners LLC ,
which he joined in 2005 as a trader. The investigator compared
it with a regulatory form stating that he left voluntarily.  Negotiated a Deal  McCrudden said the situation came about because of disputes
with HedgeCap, including one over his commissions. After that
e-mail was sent, his lawyers negotiated a deal that included his
voluntary departure, he said. Howard Jahre, HedgeCap’s founder,
declined to comment.  Finra found that McCrudden induced HedgeCap to file a false
form and that his “string of profanity-laced, threatening
communications” with HedgeCap management “violated the high
standards of commercial honor required by participants in the
securities industry.”  The agency  fined  him $12,500 and suspended him for 35 days.
The adjudicatory council  increased  the fine to $50,000 and the
suspension to one year. Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for Finra,
declined to comment.  Finally, last Dec. 1, the CFTC alleged in a lawsuit filed
in federal court in Central Islip that McCrudden illegally
started his Hybrid Fund II LP in May 2008 without registering
with the commission.  Close the Fund  McCrudden said he was forced to close the fund in part
because of “false disclosures” by regulators and negative
publicity stemming from the NFA and CFTC decisions against him.  The ex-hedge fund manager learned of the CFTC lawsuit while
in  Singapore , where he moved because his fiancée took a position
there, he said. Following the CFTC action, law-enforcement
officials visited one of McCrudden’s company websites and saw
the alleged threats that are at the center of his prosecution.  McCrudden said he posted the pages in response to the CFTC
lawsuit. He defined “execution” on the site as “the formal
process by which a contract is made valid and put into binding
effect.” He added that definition later, prosecutors said.  “I will defend 100 percent of what I’ve written and
they’ll just take one sentence from it,” McCrudden said.  Permanent Ban  The CFTC seeks to permanently ban McCrudden and his
companies from registering with it and to prevent him from
trading for himself. On March 2, the agency said McCrudden never
responded to the lawsuit and asked Hurley, who is presiding over
both the CFTC suit and the criminal case, for a default
judgment.  “That Mr. McCrudden may have written vile and grossly
inappropriate e-mails or Web postings, literally from the other
side of the earth, is a far cry from a present intention to
actually injure anyone,” Barket wrote in a Feb. 2 court filing
seeking bail for his client.  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-00061, and
the civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-05567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in U.S. District Court in  Brooklyn , New York, at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 