-- 
Former Qwest Chief Nacchio Sues Trial Lawyers for Malpractice, Overbilling

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-23T16:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ex-qwest-chief-nacchio-sues-lawyers-claiming-they-billed-him-for-underwear.html
Joseph Nacchio , the former  Qwest
Communications International Inc. (Q)  chief executive officer
convicted of  insider trading , sued his defense lawyers, claiming
they were negligent and “grossly overbilled him” for costs
including underwear.  Nacchio, 61, is serving a 70-month prison sentence after
his conviction in 2007 for illegally selling $52 million of
stock in Denver-based Qwest in 2001 based on inside information.
Nacchio claimed in a lawsuit filed today that he was convicted
“as a result of” professional negligence by attorney Herbert Stern and his law firm,  Stern & Kilcullen LLC  in Roseland, New
Jersey.  The firm billed Nacchio more than $25 million to defend
criminal and civil matters, charging tens of thousands of
dollars for staff breakfasts, attorney underwear and in-room
movies during the trial in federal court in Denver, according to
the complaint in state Superior Court in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  “S&K was negligent and careless in handling the defense of
the criminal action,” according to the complaint. “Among other
things, they were barred by the trial court from calling a
critical expert witness by virtue of their blatant failure to
comply with basic litigation procedures.”  Nacchio, who is serving his term at the federal prison in
Minersville,  Pennsylvania , is seeking compensatory and punitive
damages, as well as attorney’s fees.  Stern’s partner, Kevin Kilcullen, also was named as a
defendant. The two men didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  Resentenced  Nacchio, of Rumson, New Jersey, was resentenced last year
by U.S. District Judge Marcia Krieger in Denver after a federal
appeals court ruled a different trial court judge incorrectly
calculated his gains from stock sales. Krieger’s 70-month
sentence reduced Nacchio’s original term by two months.  After his conviction, Nacchio was fined $19 million and
agreed to forfeit $44.6 million. Last month, he withdrew an
appeal of his sentence.  His appeal had contended that the trial judge improperly
excluded “the heart of Nacchio’s defense” -- the expert
testimony of Daniel Fischel, a securities law specialist and
former dean of the  University of Chicago Law School .  Fischel was planning on rebutting the government’s
contention that the undisclosed information, once it was
released to the public, was responsible for a drop in the
company’s stock price.  “As a result of bad lawyering, my client has a 70-month
jail and nearly $70 million in fines,” said attorney Bruce Nagel of Nagel Rice in Roseland, New Jersey, who filed the
complaint today. “He’s innocent, and he didn’t get his best
shot with the lawyer he had.”  The case is Nacchio v. Stern & Kilcullen, Superior Court of
New Jersey (Newark). The appeals case is U.S. v. Nacchio,
07-01311, 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Denver). The trial
court case is U.S. v. Nacchio, 05-00545, U.S. District Court,
District of  Colorado  (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  