-- 
Mexico Builder ICA Names Quintana as Chief Operating Officer

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-23T22:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/mexico-builder-ica-names-quintana-as-chief-operating-officer-1-.html
Mexican builder Empresas ICA SAB
appointed Alonso Quintana, the company’s finance chief, to the
position of chief operating officer as part of an ongoing
“leadership transition process.”  Quintana will report to Chief Executive Officer Jose Luis Guerrero, Mexico City-based ICA said in a statement. Victor Bravo, head of the company’s airport unit, will become chief
financial officer. The changes will talk place on July 1.  ICA began a leadership transition when it split the CEO and
chairman positions in 2007, naming Guerrero as chief executive
while Bernardo Quintana remained as chairman, the statement
said.  “Since then, we have been steadily renewing the leadership
of the company at all levels,” Bernardo Quintana, the father of
Alonso Quintana, said in the statement. “Today’s announcement
is the next step of this process.”  Porfirio Gonzalez was named to replace Bravo as CEO of
Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte SAB, the company’s airport-
operating unit.  ICA also created a new five-member executive committee to
coordinate ICA’s operations across its units. The committee will
be headed by Alonso Quintana.  The company said it will nominate Luis Horcasitas, Ruben Lopez and Melissa Boisson to the board of directors to replace
Sergio Montano, Luis Zarate and Juan Claudio Salles.
Shareholders will vote on the nominations during the company’s
annual meeting.  ICA rose 36 centavos, or 1.4 percent, to 26.49 pesos today
in Mexico City trading. The shares have dropped 16 percent this
year. OMA, as the airport unit is known, fell 1 centavo to 22
pesos today and has declined 7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  