-- 
Explosion at Jerusalem Bus Station Kills 1, Hurts 30; Palestinians Blamed

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-23T18:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/explosion-at-jerusalem-bus-station-kills-1-hurts-30-palestinians-blamed.html
A bomb blast near a bus stop
outside  Jerusalem ’s central station killed one person and
injured at least 30.  Public Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch said
Palestinians were behind the explosion, and that it was caused
by a bomb placed in a bag. Interior Minister Eli Yishai linked
the blast to the rising number of rocket and mortar attacks on
southern Israel from the  Gaza Strip  and warned that “if the
trend continues then, no doubt, we will have to take action.”  “We heard a blast and started running to the central bus
station,” Moti Buchenstein, a worker with the Magen David Adom
rescue service, said on Army Radio. “All the windows of a bus
were blown out and people were lying in pools of blood.”  Today’s explosion comes amid increasing violence between
 Israel  and the Islamic militant Hamas group that rules the Gaza
Strip. Earlier today, a rocket launched from Gaza injured an
Israeli in the southern city of Beersheba. Yesterday, at least
seven Palestinians were killed, including several civilians, in
what Israel said were attacks aimed at stopping rocket fire.  “We are not looking to escalate but if this continues
there is a possibility that this could also lead to a Cast Lead
2,” Vice Prime Minister Silvan Shalom said on Israel Radio.
“This isn’t what we would have wanted but it is a possibility
that could come out of future developments.”  Cast Lead  Israel in December 2008 launched Operation Cast Lead, a
three-week offensive against Hamas in what it said was a bid to
stop rocket fire. More than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis
were killed in that conflict.  The TA-25 Index fell 1 percent to 1,284.04 at the close in
 Tel Aviv  and the shekel weakened 0.2 percent to 3.5380 per
dollar. The cost of insuring Israeli debt jumped 16 basis points
to 164, the biggest increase since Jan. 28, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps.  Palestinian Authority  Prime Minister Salam Fayyad said he
“strongly condemns” the attack, “irrespective of who stands
behind it.” He issued his remarks in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in a written statement
that he condemned “in the strongest possible terms the bombing
in Jerusalem today, as well as the rockets and mortars fired
from Gaza.”  Islamic Jihad  In Gaza, Islamic Jihad’s military wing said it welcomed the
bombing. Abu Ahmad, a spokesman for the group, didn’t say it
took responsibility for the attack. He spoke by telephone.  Hamas seized full control of Gaza in 2007, ending a
partnership government with Fatah, the main movement within the
Palestinian Authority, after winning parliamentary elections the
previous year. The Palestinian Authority controls the  West Bank .
Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
European Union and the U.S.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delayed his
departure to Moscow for several hours to meet with the chief of
staff and defense minister, his office said in a text message to
journalists.  Jerusalem’s police chief, Aharon Franco, said on Channel 2
television that at least 31 people were injured in the blast.
One of the injured later died of her wounds, Carmit Orpaz-Yamin,
a spokeswoman for Hadassah hospital said today.  Since March 19, at least 70 rockets and mortar shells have
been fired from Gaza into Israel, injuring at least three
people, the army said.  Earlier today, Netanyahu said his government is determined
to protect its citizens from rocket attacks and the situation
“may involve an exchange of blows for a certain period of
time.” Netanyahu spoke in parliament and his comments were sent
in a text message to reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 