-- 
Fan Milk of Ghana Sees Growth Slowing in 2011 After Product Price Increase

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e   a n d   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-03-23T12:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/fan-milk-of-ghana-sees-growth-slowing-in-2011-after-product-price-increase.html
Fan Milk Ltd. (FML) , the second-biggest
consumer-goods company on Ghana’s stock exchange, expects sales
growth to slow this year after raising prices for its major
products, said Managing Director Jesper Jeppesen.  The Accra-based company, which distributes ice cream,
frozen yogurt and milk through a network of 12,000 bicycles,
pushcarts and kiosks, increased prices for its  FanYogo , FanIce
and FanChoco products as much as 25 percent in January as fuel
and milk-powder costs climbed and a new tax on plastic packaging
was levied.  “Our products are very price-sensitive,” Jeppesen said in
an interview yesterday. “The moment we increase prices it
sometimes takes a year for us to come up to the same volumes we
were operating at before.”  Fan Milk is adding more distribution centers and may build
a new plant in 2014 as it seeks to increase sales in Ghana,
 Africa ’s newest oil exporter, Jeppesen said. The West African
nation’s economy may grow 13 percent this year following the
December start of crude production for export, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “We are covering the country but not as effectively as we
would like,” Jeppesen said. “Gold mines are springing up here
and there and that is creating a better economic environment in
large parts of the country.” Ghana is Africa’s second-biggest
gold producer after  South Africa .  Essien’s ‘Secret’  At 60 pesewas ($0.39), Fan Milk’s cost for a sachet of
frozen yogurt is on par with a bottle of Coca-Cola, he said.
Michael Essien, a Ghanaian midfielder for Chelsea in English
soccer’s Premier League, stars in advertisements for Fan Milk in
local media, declaring its strawberry-flavored FanYogo is “my
secret.”  Profit, which increased 11-fold since 2001, rose 27 percent
in 2010 to 19.3 million cedis, while revenue grew 26 percent to
103.8 million cedis. Fan Milk plans to spend 30 million cedis on
projects this year, including the expansion of refrigerated
warehouses in Kumasi,  Ghana ’s second-largest city, and the port
city of Tema. The company won’t borrow money from banks because
lending rates top 20 percent, Jeppesen said.  The company’s shares declined for a second day, losing 0.8
percent, or 2 pesewas, to 2.46 cedis by 12:26 p.m. in Accra.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason McLure and Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at   jmclure@bloomberg.net  and  mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 