-- 
Father Who Escaped Tsunami on Bicycle Searches For His Family

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-03-24T09:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/father-who-escaped-tsunami-on-bicycle-searches-for-family-in-ruins-of-town.html
Chuichi Sato heard the loudspeaker
warning of the wave heading toward the town of Minamisanriku
even before the shaking from the earthquake stopped. The 65-
year-old bundled his wife and son into their car and told them
to speed to higher ground while he shut the house.  “I thought the car would be faster,” said the retired
Japanese truck driver, standing yesterday in front of one of
hundreds of bare concrete foundations where 13 days ago there
were single-story homes. “The roads were chaos as everyone fled
at the same time.”  That was the last Sato saw of his family, who never arrived
at the meeting point atop a hill he reached by bicycle. Instead
he watched as the water surged inland, swallowing hundreds of
cars that were stuck in traffic.  “We didn’t leave our homes naked,” he said in tears.
“But it feels like we’ve got nothing left.”  In a section of the town near the water, only three
structures have remained intact, including a supermarket and an
apartment block. The hospital is gutted up to the fourth floor,
higher than the 7.3 meter- (24-foot) maximum  height  of the
tsunami offshore reported by the  Japan Meteorological Agency .  Waves in one town may have reached 23.6 meters when they
struck land, according to a study by  Japan ’s Port and Airport
Research Institute.  ‘Higher Ground’  “They’re not going to rebuild here,” he said surveying
the damage. “Anybody with any money is going to build on higher
ground. For those without any money it won’t be in their
hands.”  At dusk, as temperatures dropped to  freezing , Sato stood in
front of the concrete foundations, wrapped in a thick brown
jacket. He spoke with a woman, a former neighbor, as they tried
to pinpoint the location of their obliterated homes.  “I thought it was this one,” he said, gesturing to one of
the water-filled holes. “Look,” she countered, pointing to a
ramp that provides an identifying marker. “That one’s yours.”  Sato is now living in one of three schools converted into
shelters, a refuge he found after spending the first night
huddled in the cold on a hill with other townspeople. He and
hundreds of others in the makeshift lodging haven’t bathed since
the March 11 quake, he said, and they are surviving on rice
balls, which have become more plentiful, and a bottle of water a
day.  ‘Nowhere Else’  “We’ve got nowhere else to go,” he said.  He has visited the town’s other shelters searching for his
family. After relief workers and members of the country’s self-
defense forces cleared a path through the debris, he made his
way down to the general location of his former home.  He’s gone there every day for the past three days but his
family is still missing. He holds little hope, he said, of
finding them alive.  Sato’s wife and son are among the 16,501 people who were
still missing as of 3 p.m. today, according to the  National
Police Agency  in Tokyo. The  toll  from the disaster rose to
9,737.  Many of those unaccounted for are from Minamisanriku, where
two days after the 9.0-magnitude earthquake local officials said
they couldn’t locate about 10,000 residents, more than half the
population. Over 300,000 Japanese remain homeless, according to
the  United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs .  Search Teams  Because of the devastation, many overseas search-and-rescue
teams headed to Minamisanriku, a fishing and farming town. The
foreign teams included a 72-member group from  Australia  and a
team from  Doctors Without Borders , who first reached the
destruction by helicopter, General Director Filipe Ribeiro said
by phone yesterday.  While the government has reconnected power to about 90
percent of the quake-affected areas, according to the UN report,
in the low-lying areas of Minamisanriku there is nothing to
connect to. Parts of the town near the sea where the wave came
ashore are clean even of debris. Several kilometers inland there
are smashed cars and 10-meter long fishing boats.  “There is nothing really to say about this town anymore,”
Sato said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in  Tokyo  at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  