-- 
Fed to Conduct Reverse Repos With Funds Added as Counterparties This Year

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-23T14:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/fed-to-conduct-reverse-repos-with-funds-added-as-counterparties-this-year.html
The  Federal Reserve  will resume
conducting tri-party reverse repurchase agreements tomorrow as
it prepares for the eventual withdrawal of the unprecedented
monetary stimulus provided by the central bank.  The transactions, part of a series of open-market
operations first announced in December 2009, don’t represent any
change in monetary policy, according to a statement on the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  website.  One set of
operations tomorrow will involve only the money market mutual
funds added as potential counterparties in January. A second
series tomorrow will be open to all eligible counterparties.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to the dealers and money funds. The Fed expanded its
counterparties last year as the 20 securities firms that act as
primary dealers work to shore up their own balance sheets after
the worst financial crisis in decades.  ``The Fed's reverse repos tests are all part of due diligence
before they enter into the exit strategy,'' said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at primary dealer Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York.
``This has no implications for current or near-term monetary policy.''  Policy makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are
considering how to withdraw the more than $1 trillion they have
pumped into the financial system to combat the deepest recession
since the 1930s. Along with raising the overnight bank lending
rate, Fed officials have said they may use tools including
reverse repos to withdraw or neutralize cash in the banking
system.  Tri-Party Repo  The operations beginning tomorrow have been designed to
have no material impact on the availability of reserves or
market rates, the Fed said today. The Fed has drained $6.85
billion in reserves from the banking system through tri-party
reverse repos since December 2009.  The Fed cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low
range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 and then adopted
asset purchases as its main policy tool. It is scheduled to
complete $600 billion in Treasury purchases in June.  The Fed began conducting tri-party reverse repurchase
agreements with money funds as counterparties in October. In a
tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the agent for
the transaction and holds the security as collateral. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. are the only banks
that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-party repo
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  