-- 
Fed’s Fisher Sees ‘Extraordinary Speculative Activity’ in U.S. on Stimulus

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-23T15:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/fed-s-fisher-sees-extraordinary-speculative-activity-in-u-s-on-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard W. Fisher said he sees “extraordinary
speculative activity” in the U.S. after the central bank pumped
record amounts of stimulus into the economy.  “There is an enormous amount of liquidity sloshing
around,” the regional bank chief, who votes on monetary policy
this year, said in a speech today in Berlin. “There is abundant
liquidity in the machine we know as the United States economy.”  The Fed will likely complete its planned $600 billion of
Treasury purchases in June, Fisher said, reiterating his view
that no further monetary stimulus will be needed after that.
The 62-year-old bank president has criticized the plan, which
policy makers voted to keep in place after their March 15
meeting in  Washington .  “The word that we gave was that the program would end in
June,” Fisher said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“That’s what I expect to happen. And the markets have in my
opinion adequately discounted that.”  Fisher repeated remarks he made yesterday in Frankfurt that
he’s seeing signs of excess evidenced in the surge of so-called
covenant-lite loans and the return of payouts by private equity
firms.  “We have done our job,” Fisher said at a forum hosted by
the  American Academy  in Berlin. “We are certainly at risk of
doing too much now.”  ‘Self-Sustaining’  The U.S. economic recovery is “self-sustaining” and will
withstand turmoil overseas, Fisher said in the Bloomberg
Television interview. The earthquake in  Japan  may impact the
 U.S. economy  through some “price and supply chain effects short
term,” and the “wars in North Africa” won’t have a “long-
term impact on the nature of monetary policy,” Fisher said.  “These can of course pinch a nerve or they can give you a
bit of a shiver,” Fisher said. “I don’t think they’re going to
derail what’s happening in terms of the economic growth
occurring in the U.S. or here in  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  