-- 
FERC Ready for Role in Power-Line Cost Planning, Chief Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-23T23:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ferc-prepared-to-take-over-power-line-planning-chief-says.html
The  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  is prepared to step in and determine how to pay for
new electricity power lines if regional groups are unable to
complete the task, Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said.  The commission is asking transmission providers to
collaborate on a regional basis to decide who should shoulder
the costs of building the new lines.  “If they don’t do it, we’ll do it for them,” Wellinghoff
said today at a conference in Washington. “I don’t expect to
have to do that.”  FERC may issue final rules on transmission planning and
cost allocation as early as next month. Senators Bob Corker of
Tennessee and Richard Burr of North Carolina, both Republicans,
and Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, are co-sponsors of
legislation that would limit costs for new  power lines  to those
who benefit.  Wellinghoff said FERC isn’t dictating the cost allocation
formula to regional authorities.  The proposed rule specifies “no benefits-no costs,”
Wellinghoff said today. He said FERC is not dictating the cost
allocation formulas to the regions. Instead, the agency wants
the regions to give FERC their cost methodologies.  “FERC cannot simply defer to regional plans,” Bruce
Edelston, executive director of the Coalition for Fair
Transmission Policy, a group concerned that FERC’s proposal will
spread transmission costs among those who don’t benefit, said in
an e-mail.  The coalition’s members include Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  and Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO)   Lawmaker Calls  Wellinghoff said he isn’t worried about the reliability of
the electricity grid as lawmakers and state officials call for
closing reactors after the crisis in Japan, triggered by a March
11 earthquake and tsunami.  “I haven’t heard anybody talking seriously about shutting
down any nuclear  power plants ,” he said.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, has called for
the closing of  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point nuclear power plant,
which sits on an earthquake fault line north of  New York City .  California Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein,
also Democrats, have asked U.S. nuclear regulators to provide
information on the safety and reliability of two nuclear power
plants on fault lines in the state.  A 2009 U.S. Energy Department report identified Southern
California and the mid-Atlantic region, including New York City,
as “critical congestion areas” on the nation’s electric grid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  