-- 
Florida Courts Face Budget Deficit From Drop in Foreclosures

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-03-23T18:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/florida-courts-face-budget-deficit-from-drop-in-foreclosures.html
Florida ’s  court system  faces a
budget deficit of $72.3 million due to an unexpected drop in
mortgage foreclosure filings, according to the chief justice of
the Florida Supreme Court, who asked the state for help.  Florida Governor Rick Scott yesterday approved the transfer
of $14 million from two other court funds to the courts’
operating fund. His administration said the money should keep
the court system running through April and give court officials
time to explain what led to the emergency request for cash.  Scott “wants a better understanding of the circumstances
that led to this short-notice funding requirement,” said Brian
Hughes, a spokesman for the Republican governor.  Chief Justice Charles T. Canady of the Florida Supreme
Court sent a letter to the governor last week, saying
$8 million was needed to keep the court system running through
the end of the month. He said 64 percent of the $462 million
operating budget was projected to come from foreclosure filing
fees.  “For current Fiscal Year 2010/11, the mortgage foreclosure
filings have dropped dramatically below the official projections
on which the budget was based,” Canady wrote.  Canady asked for $42.5 million in emergency funds. Without
them, he said, the court system would impose “extensive
furloughs” of personnel. Craig Waters, a spokesman for the
Florida courts, declined to comment immediately on the funding
issue.  U.S. foreclosure filings fell last month to the lowest
level in three years as lenders under legal scrutiny struggled
to process a backlog of defaults and put new systems in place
for home seizures, according to RealtyTrac Inc., the Irvine,
California-based data seller.  Foreclosure filings in Florida fell 74 percent in February
from a year earlier, according to the court. There were 8,205
foreclosures filed in Florida that month, the fewest since
November 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .;
Simone Baribeau in Tallahassee, Florida,
at   sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 