-- 
Fondiaria Full-Year Loss Widens on Writedowns, Non-Life Unit

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-03-23T16:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/fondiaria-full-year-loss-widens-on-writedowns-non-life-unit.html
Fondiaria-Sai SpA (FSA) ,  Italy ’s second-
biggest insurer, said its full-year loss widened after writing
down holdings in other companies and on lower earnings at the
non-life business.  The net loss increased to 717.6 million euros ($1 billion)
from a deficit of 342.6 million euros a year earlier, the
Florence-based insurer said in a statement today. That missed
the median estimate for a loss of 432 million euros by four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fondiaria, which gets most of its revenue from its property
and casualty businesses, plans to sell new shares to become
profitable again. The insurer is seeking to shed non-strategic
assets and cut costs to meet 2011 targets.  Fondiaria dropped as much as 25 cents, or 3.7 percent, to
6.40 euros and traded at 6.47 euros at 4:20 p.m. in Milan,
giving the company a market value of 971 million euros.  The company’s combined ratio, or claims and expenses as a
proportion of premiums, rose to 109.4 percent in 2010 from 108
percent a year earlier. A figure above 100 percent means an
insurer’s claims and costs exceed premium income, giving it a
loss from underwriting. The company wrote down stakes in
companies such as Assicurazioni Generali SpA,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Monte dei paschi di Siena SpA and which totalled 596.6 million
euros in the period.  Rights Issue  UniCredit SpA will acquire 6.6 percent of Fondiaria after
agreeing to buy shares from  Premafin Finanziaria SpA. (PF)  Italy’s
biggest bank yesterday agreed with the Ligresti family to pay
about 170 million euros for Premafin’s rights in Fondiaria’s
planned share sale. The family owns Premafin, the holding
controlling Fondiaria, which also approved a share sale.  Separately,  Milano Assicurazioni SpA (MI) , the insurer
controlled by Fondiaria, today approved a plan to raise as much
as 350 million euros by selling new shares after posting its
second consecutive annual loss. The three companies will raise
as much as 800 million euros to boost capital and strengthen
finances.  “Fondiaria’s and Milano’s capital increases will allow”
for the improvement of “our solvency ratios,” Fondiaria Chief
Executive Officer Emanuele Erbetta said on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 