-- 
Forth Ports Would Have Disclosed ‘Serious’ Counterbid, CEO Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-23T11:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/forth-ports-would-have-disclosed-serious-counterbid-ceo-says.html
Forth Ports Plc (FPT) , which yesterday
agreed to a 746 million-pound ($1.21 billion) cash takeover,
would have informed shareholders of any prospective counterbid,
Chief Executive Officer Charles Hammond said in an interview.  “If any third party was to make any form of serious
approach, we have got an obligation to announce it,” Hammond
said today by telephone after the DealReporter website reported
that Shanghai International Port Group Co. may make a rival bid.  Forth Ports said yesterday that it had accepted a takeover
offer worth 1,630 pence a share by London-based Arcus European
Infrastructure Fund 1 LP, which already owns almost 23 percent
of the Edinburgh, Scotland-based docks operator. Shanghai
International Port didn’t respond to calls seeking comment.  “A competing bid is extraordinarily unlikely for practical
reasons,” said Gerald Khoo, an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities
Ltd. in  London  with a “neutral” rating on Forth Ports stock.
“Unless someone talks to Arcus first and asks ‘what is it going
to take to change your mind,’ it doesn’t make sense.”  Arcus’s approach for Forth Ports is the only one since a
group including the fund made a bid last year, the London-based
 Daily Telegraph  reported today, citing an interview with David Richardson, the company’s chairman.  Forth Ports rose as much as 0.4 percent to 1,641 pence, 11
pence higher than the agreed bid, and was trading at that price
as of 11:03 a.m. in London. Under terms of the Arcus takeover,
investors will also keep a final dividend of 20 pence a share
due to be paid on May 13 and based on holdings as of April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 