-- 
Syria Clamps Down on City of Daraa After at Least Seven Killed in Protests

-- B y   L i n a   I b r a h i m   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-23T18:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/four-people-killed-in-renewed-unrest-in-southern-syrian-town.html
Syrian troops are forcing people to
stay at home in the southern city of Daraa after seven people
were killed in renewed anti-government protests that have swept
across the country,  Amnesty International  said.  Unidentified human rights activists cited by Agence France-
Presse said the unrest in Daraa today left at least 15 people
dead and seven wounded.  “People are being asked through loudspeakers to remain at
home or they will be shot,” Neil Sammonds, a researcher on
Syria for Amnesty, said by telephone from  London . Snipers are
enforcing the orders and all the city’s entrances are being
watched, he said. “The town is besieged.”  The rallies in Syria mark the latest expansion of the
political turmoil that has engulfed the region this year.
Uprisings have toppled the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt  and
threatened the rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya , where United
Nations-backed international forces are carrying out air strikes
to protect civilian protesters.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad fired Faisal Kalthum, the
governor of Daraa, state television reported today.  Raids, Arrests  Syrian forces, including plain-clothed intelligence agents,
were raiding Daraa neighborhoods to make arrests, Sammonds said.
Amnesty estimates that between 100 and several hundred people
have been detained, taken to unknown locations and prevented
from having access to their families or lawyers, he said. “We
are concerned as torture is common practice,” Sammonds said.  Thirteen people have been killed in the protests since
March 18, he said.  The state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency , citing an official,
said a doctor, a paramedic and a driver were killed overnight
when an armed gang attacked their ambulance, and that a member
of the security forces also died when his unit confronted the
attackers and arrested some of them. The  Associated Press , the
BBC and Al Arabiya television said the deaths took place when
security forces attacked protesters. The reports couldn’t be
independently confirmed.  Syrian state television showed footage of what it said were
assault rifles, guns, hand grenades, ammunition and stacks of
banknotes inside al-Omari mosque. Sammonds said  Amnesty  had “no
evidence” that protesters were armed in any of the incidents
that occurred since protests erupted in  Syria .  Weapons Cache  SANA said the security forces will continue to pursue armed
gangs, which it said are scaring civilians, committing murders,
stealing and burning public and private buildings in Daraa.  “The armed gangs in Daraa have stored weapons and
ammunition in al-Omari Mosque, and used children they had
kidnapped from their families as human shields,” according to
the state agency.  Daraa residents have been demanding the trial of those
responsible for the March 18 killings, the release of detainees
recently jailed on political charges, the dismissal of some
officials and permission to sell land in border territories
without government approval.  Sammonds said key demands include the release of a large
number of children, with an average age of 10, who have been
detained for two weeks for writing graffiti in Daraa saying:
“the people want the fall of the regime.”  Assad has sent a representative to Daraa to listen to the
demands, SANA reported separately, citing Vice President Faruq Al-Shara. The government will quash any attempt to stir up chaos
or target state installations and private properties and vowed
to block any foreign interference, Al-Shara was cited as saying
by SANA.  Foreign Involvement?  State television accused “foreign parties” that it didn’t
identify of spreading lies about the situation in Daraa to
incite the people. A Syrian activist who asked not to be named
for security reasons said domestic authorities are attempting to
contain the protests, making them appear to be local incidents.  Arabiya television aired footage of what it said was a
recent funeral in Daraa where the crowds were chanting: “No
 Iran  and no Hezbollah, we want a Muslim who is afraid of
Allah!” Syria and its regional ally, Iran, are the main backers
of the Lebanese Shiite Muslim Hezbollah, which has been leading
guerrilla warfare against  Israel .  Assad became Syria’s president in 2000 after the death of
his father, Hafez al-Assad, who had ruled for 29 years. Hafez
al-Assad crushed a rebellion led by Islamic-group members in the
city of Hama in 1982, killing as many as 10,000 people,
according to estimates cited by  Human Rights Watch .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  