-- 
Fukushima Engineer Says He Helped Cover Up Flaw at Dai-Ichi Reactor No. 4

-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-23T00:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/fukushima-engineer-says-he-covered-up-flaw-at-shut-reactor.html
One of the reactors in the crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant may have been relying on flawed steel to
hold the radiation in its core, according to an engineer who
helped build its containment vessel four decades ago.  Mitsuhiko Tanaka says he helped conceal a manufacturing
defect in the $250 million steel vessel installed at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 4 reactor while working for a unit of
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  in 1974. The reactor, which Tanaka has called a
“time bomb,” was shut for maintenance when the March 11
earthquake triggered a 7-meter (23-foot) tsunami that disabled
cooling systems at the plant, leading to explosions and
radiation leaks.  “Who knows what would have happened if that  reactor  had
been running?” Tanaka, who turned his back on the nuclear
industry after the Chernobyl disaster, said in an interview last
week. “I have no idea if it could withstand an earthquake like
this. It’s got a faulty reactor inside.”  Tanaka’s allegations, which he says he brought to the
attention of Japan’s Trade Ministry in 1988 and chronicled in a
book two years later called “Why Nuclear Power is Dangerous,”
have resurfaced after  Japan ’s worst nuclear accident on record.
The No. 4 reactor was hit by explosions and a fire that spread
from adjacent units as the crisis deepened.  No Safety Problem  Hitachi spokesman Yuichi Izumisawa said the company met
with Tanaka in 1988 to discuss the work he did to fix a dent in
the vessel and concluded there was no safety problem. “We have
not revised our view since then,” Izumisawa said.  Kenta Takahashi, an official at the Trade Ministry’s
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, said he couldn’t confirm
whether the agency’s predecessor, the Agency for Natural
Resources and Energy, had conducted an investigation into
Tanaka’s claims. Naoki Tsunoda, a spokesman at  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co., which owns the plant, said he couldn’t immediately
comment.  Tanaka, who said he led the team that built the steel
vessel, was at his apartment on Tokyo’s outskirts when Japan’s
biggest earthquake on record struck off the coast on March 11,
shaking buildings in the nation’s capital.  “I grabbed my wife and we just hugged,” he said. “I
thought this is it: we’re dead.”  For Tanaka, the nightmare intensified the next day when a
series of explosions were triggered next to the reactor that he
helped build. Since then, the risks of radioactive leaks
increased as workers have struggled to bring the plant under
control.  Fukushima No. 4  Tanaka says the reactor pressure vessel inside Fukushima’s
unit No. 4 was damaged at a Babcock-Hitachi foundry in Kure
City, in Hiroshima prefecture, during the last step of a
manufacturing process that took 2 1/2 years and cost tens of
millions of dollars. If the mistake had been discovered, the
company might have been bankrupted, he said.  Inside a blast furnace the size of a small airplane hanger
the reactor pressure vessel was being treated one last time to
remove welding stress. The cylinder, 20 meters tall and 6 meters
in diameter, was heated to more than 600 degrees Celsius (1,112
degrees Fahrenheit), a temperature that softens metal.  Braces that were supposed to have been placed inside during
the blasting were either forgotten or fell over when the
cylinder was wheeled into the furnace. After the vessel cooled,
workers found that its walls had warped, Tanaka said.  Warped Walls  The vessel had sagged so that its height and width differed
by more than 34 millimeters, meaning it should have been
scrapped, according to nuclear regulations. Rather than
sacrifice years of work and risk the company’s survival,
Tanaka’s boss asked him to reshape the vessel so that no-one
would know it had ever been damaged. Tanaka had been working as
an engineer for the company’s nuclear reactor division and was
known for his programming skills.  “I saved the company billions of yen,” said Tanaka, who
says he was paid a 3 million yen bonus and presented with a
certificate acknowledging his “extraordinary” effort. “At the
time, I felt like a hero,” he said.  Over the course of a month, Tanaka said he made a dozen
nighttime trips to an International Business Machines Corp.
office 20 kilometers away in Hiroshima where he used a super-
computer to devise a repair.  Meanwhile, workers covered the damaged vessel with a sheet,
Tanaka said. When Tokyo Electric sent a representative to check
on their progress, Hitachi distracted him by wining and dining
him, according to Tanaka. Rather than inspecting the part, they
spent the day playing golf and soaking in a hot spring, he said.  Wining and Dining  “The guy wouldn’t have known what he was looking at
anyway,” Tanaka said. “The people at the utility have no idea
how the parts are made.”  After a month of computer modeling, Tanaka came up with a
way to use pumpjacks to pop out the sunken wall. While it would
look like nothing had ever happened, no-one knew what the effect
of the repair would have on the integrity of the vessel. Thirty-
six years later, that reactor pressure vessel is the key defense
protecting the core of Fukushima’s No. 4 reactor.  “These procedures, as they’re described, are far from
ideal, especially for a component as critical as this,” Robert
Ritchie, Professor of Materials Science & Engineering at the
 University of California  of Berkeley, said in a phone interview.
“Depending on the extent of vessel’s deformation, it could
possibly lead to local cracking in some of its welds.”  Chernobyl Breakdown  Tanaka quit Babcock-Hitachi in 1977, when he was 34 years
old and became a writer. A graduate of Tokyo Institute of
Technology, his Japanese-language books include “Options in
Complex Systems: Natural Science and Economics on the Edge of
Chaos,” and a book for young adults called, “How do we Know
the Earth is Moving?”  After the meltdown at  Chernobyl  in 1986, Tanaka was asked
to narrate a Russian movie documenting the disaster. A team of
Soviet filmmakers had taken 30 hours of footage inside the
plant, getting very close to the ruptured core. The  movie’s
director  died of radiation poisoning about a year after the
filming. While watching the footage, Tanaka had a breakdown.  “All of a sudden I was sobbing and I started to think
about what I’d done,” Tanaka said. “I was thinking, ‘I could
be the father of a Japanese Chernobyl.’”  Two years later Tanaka says he went to the Trade Ministry
to report the cover-up he’d been involved in more than a decade
earlier. The government refused to investigate and Hitachi
denied his accusations, he said.  “They said, if Hitachi says they didn’t do it, then
there’s no problem,” Tanaka said. “Companies don’t always tell
the truth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  