-- 
Goldman, Galleon, JPMorgan, Matrixx, Apple in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-23T10:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/galleon-jpmorgan-matrixx-bt-group-bank-leumi-apple-in-court-news.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chairman
 Lloyd Blankfein  will be called by U.S. prosecutors to testify as
a government witness at the insider-trading trial of Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  In a letter sent March 21 to U.S. District Judge Richard
Holwell, who is presiding over Rajaratnam’s trial in Manhattan,
prosecutors sought to limit Blankfein’s cross-examination by
Rajaratnam’s lawyers.  In calling Blankfein as a witness, prosecutors in the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said they
don’t want Blankfein to be questioned about “whether Goldman
Sachs is presently the subject of any pending investigations by
either the Department of Justice or the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission” or whether the bank bears any
responsibility for the 2008 financial crisis.  Rajaratnam’s lawyer, John Dowd, in a separate letter to
prosecutors March 21, said, “Today, counsel learned for the
first time that neither Mr. Blankfein nor Goldman Sachs has been
notified that they are a target (or for that matter a subject)
of any active investigation.”  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He denies
wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  The U.S. subpoenaed Blankfein to testify about former
Goldman Sachs director Rajat Gupta and his interactions with
Rajaratnam, prosecutors said in their letter. Blankfein may
testify “as early as this week,” Dowd said in a March 20
letter to Holwell.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on the government’s letter.  Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  In court yesterday, Rajiv Goel, who worked in  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
treasury group, told a federal jury how he passed confidential
information to his “pal” Rajaratnam.  Goel, who is testifying for prosecutors in a bid for
leniency after pleading guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud, said he told Rajaratnam about Intel’s earnings in 2007
and a $1 billion transaction in 2008.  “Raj and I were very good friends,” Goel, 52, testified,
as Rajaratnam watched from across the well of the courtroom in
lower Manhattan. “He was a good man to me. I was a good pal, a
good person to him, so I gave him the information.”  Goel, who was a managing director at Intel, is the second
government cooperator to directly implicate Rajaratnam in
insider trading. Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey & Co. partner who
also pleaded guilty, earlier testified about information he
leaked about clients. Other government witnesses have also
testified about leaks to Rajaratnam.  Rajaratnam says his trades were based on legitimate
research, and his lawyers say Goel is accusing Rajaratnam to
save himself from a long prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more about Blankfein, click here.  For more about Goel’s testimony, click here.  Hong Kong  Regulator Says Ex-JPMorgan Salesman’s Ban Must Stay  Hong Kong’s securities watchdog wants a former JPMorgan
Chase & Co. equity salesman’s life ban for insider trading
reinstated, a lawyer for the city’s Securities and Futures
Commission told an appeal court.  Justice Robert Tang for the Court of Appeal, heard
arguments yesterday from lawyers for the regulator and for David
Tsien, whose ban was reduced to 10 years in September, before
ending the hearing.  Tsien, who accepted that he had told two fund managers
JPMorgan was negotiating a share placement for  China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  in 2004,  won  the reduction from the
Securities and Futures Appeals Tribunal, which said a life ban
for the executive in his early 50s was “manifestly excessive.”
The fund managers avoided a HK$1.4 million ($179,542) loss as a
result of the inside information.  Mark Strachan for the SFC said earlier that a life ban is
the normal punishment for insider trading to maintain public
confidence in the financial system.  Strachan declined to comment after the hearing.  Tsien’s lawyer Laurence Li said a decision from the three
judges wasn’t likely for a couple of months.  Tsien was accredited to JPMorgan or its predecessor
companies from 1988 to 2006. His securities dealing and advisory
license was revoked by the regulator in April, 2006, when he
left his job at the bank, according to Li.  Marie Cheung, a Hong Kong spokeswoman for the bank declined
to comment on the case.  SFC spokesman Ernest Kong declined to comment on the case.  The case is between Tsien Pak Cheong David and the
Securities and Futures Commission, CACV226/2010, Hong Kong Court
of Appeal.  Drugmaker Investor Lawsuits Backed by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court, allowing a lawsuit over the
withdrawn Zicam cold remedy, gave shareholders more power to sue
drugmakers and biotechnology companies for failing to reveal
indications about dangerous side effects.  The justices unanimously said  Matrixx Initiatives Inc. (MTXX) ,
acquired in February by HIG Capital LLC, must defend against
accusations that it should have told investors that some Zicam
users had lost their sense of smell.  Matrixx argued that drugmakers need not say anything until
reports of side effects become statistically significant. The
high court yesterday rejected that argument, saying that less
definitive evidence in some cases is enough to require
disclosure under the federal securities laws.  “Given that medical professionals and regulators act on
the basis of evidence of causation that is not statistically
significant, it stands to reason that in certain cases
reasonable investors would as well,” Justice Sonia Sotomayor
 wrote  for the court.  Matrixx stopped selling its Zicam nasal spray and gel in
June 2009 after the Food and Drug Administration warned
consumers the treatments may cause a loss of smell, a condition
known as anosmia. Matrixx says it disagrees with the FDA’s
findings.  A lawyer representing Matrixx said the company is confident
it will be able to refute the allegations when the case returns
to a federal trial court in Arizona.  “There was certainly no intentional or reckless failure to
disclose any information to the public,” said the lawyer,
Michael Yoder, a partner at O’Melveny & Myers LLP in Newport
Beach,  California .  The case is Matrixx Initiatives v. Siracusano, 09-1156,
U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  For more, click here.  BT Loses U.K. Appeal Over $68.3 Million Wireless Overcharges  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , Britain’s largest phone company, lost an
appeal to a regulator’s finding that it overcharged wireless
providers such as  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  by 41.7 million pounds
($68.3 million) for access to circuits.  The  Competition Appeal Tribunal  in  London  yesterday
rejected BT’s claim that the regulator,  Ofcom , misused a dispute
resolution process by seeking repayment of the overcharges
instead of setting fair prices for the future.  “Ofcom’s use of the dispute resolution process in this
case was unimpeachable,” the tribunal said in the 106-page
 ruling . The regulator correctly used its power “by ordering
that the entire amount of BT’s overcharge should be repaid.”  Ofcom said in October 2009 that London-based BT should
repay with interest money overcharged from 2004 to 2008 for
access to so-called partial private circuits, which wireless
companies use to connect some customers to phone networks. BT
said in a May 2010 statement that it set aside 52 million pounds
to cover potential repayments in the case.  “BT is disappointed with the outcome of the appeal” and
will now “consider the range of options open to us for what we
might do next,” Gemma Thomas, a spokeswoman for BT, said in an
e-mail.  At a hearing in the appeal in May, BT’s lawyer said the
watchdog’s finding was “inherently wrong.”  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Google’s $125 Million Digital Library Settlement Rejected  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $125 million settlement with publishers and
authors was rejected yesterday by a U.S. judge who said the deal
to create the world’s biggest digital book library would be
unfair to authors.  The expansive nature of the settlement, calling for
copyright owners to opt out or be automatically included,
“would simply go too far,” said U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin
in Manhattan, who was a district-court judge when the case first
came before him. He suggested the settlement would have a better
chance at approval were it revised to cover only those who opt
into the agreement.  As written now, the settlement “would grant Google
significant rights to exploit entire books, without permission
of copyright owners,” Chin wrote. It “would give Google a
significant advantage over competitors, rewarding it for
engaging in wholesale copying of copyrighted works without
permission, while releasing claims well beyond those presented
in the case.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, was sued in
2005 by authors and publishers who said the company was
infringing their copyrights on a massive scale by digitizing
books. The agreement includes a  Book Rights Registry  to
compensate copyright holders.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Yahoo! Inc., along
with the German and French governments, said the agreement would
give Google unfair control over digitized works and expand its
power in the search engine market. Some  author groups  who
weren’t part of the settlement said they would lose control of
their copyrights.  “He shoots down the settlement on three important grounds,
which are the same three grounds that Google is under siege from
around the world,” said Gary Reback, co-founder of the  Open
Book Alliance , the group formed with Amazon.com, Microsoft and
authors groups to oppose the deal. “It would give Google
dominance in the search area. There are intrusions into the
privacy of people. And Google is taking the copyrighted work of
other people without permission.”  The case is Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 05-cv-08136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  J&J’s Risperdal Letter Violated Consumer Law, Jury Finds  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit violated consumer-protection laws
by sending South Carolina doctors a misleading letter about the
safety and effectiveness of the antipsychotic drug Risperdal, a
jury concluded.  Jurors in state court in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
deliberated more than six hours before finding yesterday that
J&J’s Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit engaged in
“unfair and deceptive acts” by sending a 2003 letter touting
Risperdal as better and safer than competing drugs to more than
7,000 doctors across the state. A judge will decide later
whether the drugmaker should pay $360 million in penalties over
the mailings.  “The verdict they handed down is just and speaks the
truth,” John White, a Spartanburg-based lawyer representing the
state, said in an interview. Jurors also found that J&J’s
warning label information on Risperdal was deceptive.  The state’s case centered on drug-safety claims that New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and Janssen made in November
2003 correspondence to about 700,000 doctors across the U.S.,
including 7,200 in South Carolina.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration responded with a
warning letter saying J&J made false and misleading claims that
minimized the potentially fatal risks of diabetes and overstated
the drug’s superiority to competitors’ products.  “We are disappointed,”  Greg Panico , a J&J spokesman, said
in a statement. “Janssen acted responsibly and believes it did
not violate” South Carolina law, he said.  South Carolina officials argued in the case that J&J sent
the letter to protect billions of dollars in sales of the
antipsychotic drug.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-4201438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  For more, click here.  Bank Leumi Wins $19 Million U.K. Ruling Over Wachner Trades  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd., the country’s biggest lender,
won a U.K. lawsuit against ex-New York Stock Exchange board
member Linda Joy Wachner over 13.4 million euros ($19 million)
she lost in foreign-exchange trades.  Wachner, 65, must repay the bank’s U.K. unit what she lost
in 2008 through dollar-euro transactions that went
“disastrously wrong,” Justice Julian Flaux ruled yesterday in
the High Court in London. Flaux rejected Wachner’s claim that
Bank Leumi irresponsibly classified her as a professional client
with direct access to dealers on the lender’s U.K. trading
floor.  “Despite the somewhat helpless image she now seeks to
portray, that was certainly not her self-assessment at the time
as to her foreign-exchange experience and expertise,” Flaux
said in the 88-page ruling. “One suspects that any attempt to
reclassify her and restrict her access to the dealing room would
have been met by indignation bordering on outrage.”  The dispute involves so-called reverse knock-in options,
both in the form of calls and puts, which had losses during the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in September 2008,
according to the ruling. Wachner, a NYSE director from 1997 to
2000 who had traded foreign exchange with the bank since 2003,
portrayed herself in the case as a “novice” who was led into
trades she didn’t understand, according to the ruling.  Wachner may take legal action in New York in response to
yesterday’s ruling, her lawyer Sue Prevezer, with the firm Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in London, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Our client does not view this matter as closed,”
Prevezer said. “She maintains that she was incorrectly
classified by Bank Leumi and treated as a professional trader
which exposed her to unjustified levels of risk.”  “We are pleased that the court vindicated our position,
rejected Ms. Wachner’s counterclaims and found that the bank
properly discharged its regulatory responsibilities in this
matter,” Bank Leumi (U.K.) Plc said in a statement.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  MBIA Loss Forecast Was at Least $12 Billion Short, Banks Say  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s projected losses on structured-finance
guarantees were at least $11.8 billion short when New York
regulators approved the bond insurer’s 2009 split, 11 banks
seeking to annul the move claimed.  A  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  unit, hired by the banks for their lawsuit
to analyze potential claims against the insurer at the time of
the regulators’ review, estimated MBIA faced at least $13.8
billion in possible losses on $50.1 billion of securities backed
by home loans and commercial real estate, according to filings
yesterday in New York state Supreme Court. The regulators lacked
a basis to approve the restructuring because MBIA at the time
had loss reserves of about $2 billion, the banks argue.  The banks, including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, are fighting a split that moved more
than $5 billion from the company’s MBIA Insurance Corp. unit
into a new insurer in a bid to jumpstart its business of
guaranteeing state and municipal debt. MBIA and other bond
insurers, which sold guarantees to the banks, were shut out of
the market after rising losses on mortgages they backed prompted
ratings firms to strip them of their top rankings in 2008.  “According to BlackRock’s analysis, the expected insurance
losses on less than one quarter of MBIA Insurance’s portfolio
rendered MBIA Insurance deeply insolvent as of December 31,
2008,” the banks said.  Chuck Chaplin, MBIA Inc. president and chief financial
officer, said the banks’ arguments “are without merit and we
remain confident that the court will affirm the New York State
Insurance Department’s decision to approve MBIA’s
transformation, which came after a thorough and careful
analysis.”  “MBIA Insurance Corp. was solvent then and remains so
today, two years and two unqualified audit opinions later,” he
said in an e-mailed statement.  The banks sued under New York state’s Article 78, which
allows court review of state administrative decisions, to
challenge former insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo’s
authorization of the split in February 2009. The approval was
based on a “rushed, cursory and inadequate” review of facts
and on assumptions that at times were outdated and inflated, the
banks claimed in a 187-page court filing.  Ron Klug, a spokesman for the state insurance department in
Albany, New York, declined to comment. Dinallo couldn’t be
reached for comment, said Suzanne Elio, a spokeswoman for
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, the law firm Dinallo joined in
December.  The banks separately sued the bond insurer to challenge the
restructuring in a lawsuit dismissed by a lower court. The
appeal of that suit, which claimed MBIA made the split to avoid
its obligations to policyholders and to defraud creditors, will
be argued in the state’s highest court May 31.  The Article 78 case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-
2009, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Foreclosure Terms May Cause ‘Moral Hazard,’ Four States Say  Four more Republican state attorneys general are opposing a
plan to resolve a nationwide probe of foreclosure and mortgage-
servicing practices because the terms may foster a “moral
hazard.”  In a letter yesterday to Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller,
a Democrat who has taken the lead in the investigation, the
officials objected to new documentation requirements and
principal reductions outlined in the proposed settlement
submitted to the country’s top mortgage-servicing companies this
month.  The letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News,
was signed by attorneys general Kenneth Cuccinelli of Virginia,
Greg Abbott of Texas, Pam Bondi of Florida and Alan Wilson of
South Carolina. The attorneys general of Oklahoma, Alabama and
Nebraska sent Miller a letter with their objections on March 16.  The settlement offer “appears to reach well beyond the
scope of our enforcement role, and, in some instances, far
exceeds the scope of the misconduct which was the subject of our
original investigation,” according to the letter, which was
verified by Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli.  A key objection is the “moral hazard” created by the
proposal to reduce homebuyers’ loans because it “rewards those
who simply choose not to pay their mortgage,” the attorneys
general said.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, said by e-mail
that while there are disagreements among the states, there is
consensus on the need to work together on the foreclosure
problems. The current proposal is “a starting point,” he said.  Gottstein and Lauren Bean, a spokesman for Abbott, declined
to comment, as did Mark Plowden, a spokesman for Wilson.  Jennifer Meale, a spokeswoman for Bondi, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment after regular
business hours.  Federal agencies and state attorneys general on March 3
delivered a 27-page settlement proposal that would set standards
for how mortgage servicers conduct foreclosures and service
loans. Those banks include Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   For more, click here.  Apple’s Jobs Must Answer Questions in ITunes Antitrust Suit  A federal magistrate judge ordered  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief
Executive Officer Steve Jobs to answer questions in an antitrust
dispute alleging the company operated a music-downloading
monopoly.  Lawyers for consumers who filed the 2005 complaint won
permission to conduct limited questioning of Jobs, under an
order issued March 21 by U.S. Magistrate Judge Howard R. Lloyd
in  San Jose , California. The deposition can’t exceed two hours
and the only topic allowed is changes Apple made to its software
in October 2004 that rendered digital music files engineered by
 RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK)  inoperable with Apple’s iPod music player.  “The court finds that Jobs has unique, non-repetitive,
firsthand knowledge about the issues at the center of the
dispute over RealNetworks software,” Lloyd wrote.  Apple spokeswoman  Kristin Huguet  declined to comment.  ITunes customer Thomas Slattery sued Apple in 2005 seeking
class-action status on behalf of consumers claiming the
Cupertino, California-based company illegally limited consumer
choice by linking the iPod to its iTunes music store.  Slattery asserted antitrust claims allegedly arising from
Apple encoding its digital music files with proprietary software
called FairPlay. This allowed music files purchased from the
iTunes Store to be played only on iPods, and not using products
by other manufacturers. FairPlay also prevented digital music
sold by other companies’ online stores from being played on
iPods, according to the complaint.  The case is Apple iPod, iTunes  Antitrust Litigation , C05-
0037JW, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more, click here.  Belvedere Asset Seizure by  Hedge Funds  Approved by Court  Belvedere SA (BVD)  Chief Executive Officer Jacques Rouvroy and
his deputy Christophe Trylinski lost an appeals court bid to
recover shares in the French vodka-maker seized by hedge funds
in June.  Hedge fund firms Maple Leaf Capital LLP and Astin Capital
Management Ltd. may get as much as 15 million euros ($21.3
million) from the men under yesterday’s ruling by an appeals
court in Dijon, France, a lawyer for the funds said.  “It is a question of weeks until they are out of
Belvedere’s capital structure,” said Fabrice Marchisio, a
lawyer for the funds. The shares have been frozen pending the
appeals court decision.  The Maple Leaf funds seized the shares, which directly and
indirectly account for about 15.5 percent of Belvedere’s share
capital. They were executing a 2009 ruling by the High Court in
London ordering the men to compensate the funds for losses
incurred on stock options they had subscribed to in exchange for
financing the executives’ efforts to regain control of the
beverage company in 2007.  The order can’t be enforced because the assets are owned
jointly with Rouvroy’s and Trylinski’s wives, Belvedere lawyer
Alain Ribeyre said in a telephone interview.  “Maple Leaf cannot touch any of their estates,” Ribeyre
said. “Neither their shares, nor the buildings, nor any of
their assets” because all are jointly owned with the men’s
wives, who weren’t parties to the contract with the funds.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 