-- 
Gates Rejects Russian Slap at Libya Air Strikes, Predicts Easing

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-23T00:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/gates-rejects-russian-slap-at-libya-air-strikes-predicts-easing.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
rejected Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s criticism of a
U.S.-led coalition’s air strikes on the forces of Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi , saying military action will ease in the coming
days.  “The coalition is going to great lengths to avoid civilian
casualties, and most of the targets are air defense targets
isolated from populated areas,” Gates said in remarks alongside
Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov after their meeting in Moscow
yesterday. “I also told Minister Serdyukov that I thought the
significant military fighting that has been going on should
recede in the next few days.”  The visit, which was to have focused on missile defense
cooperation and the next level of U.S.-Russia defense relations,
was partly hijacked by Putin’s comments the previous day. Putin
said the  United Nations Security Council resolution  authorizing
the  Libya  strikes and resulting allied offensive amounted to a
“medieval call for a crusade.”  The Libya campaign, as a result, figured prominently in
talks Gates held with Serdyukov and a meeting of almost an hour
later in the day with President  Dmitry Medvedev  at a dacha on
the outskirts of Moscow, said  Geoff Morrell , Gates’s spokesman,
who is traveling with him.  Gates found a measure of support with Serdyukov and
Medvedev, who had dismissed Putin’s comments publicly as
“unacceptable.” Serdyukov said Qaddafi’s violence against
Libyan civilians should stop.  Civilian Casualties  Medvedev expressed concerns to Gates over reports
circulating in Russia about civilian casualties in Libya,
according to a U.S. defense official who was familiar with the
meeting and briefed reporters on condition of anonymity. Still,
the Russian president stood by his government’s decision not to
veto the UN resolution, which it could have done as a permanent
 Security Council  member, the official said.  Still, civilian deaths in Libya “shouldn’t have been
allowed,” Serdyukov told the assembled reporters as Gates sat
next to him in a guest house at the  Defense Ministry .  “We urge all belligerent parties to do their best to stop
the violence,” Serdyukov said. “We believe that only a cease-
fire and a dialogue between the belligerent parties would be the
surest way to” ensure the security of civilians.  Gates said allied strikes against Qaddafi’s forces are
consistent with the UN resolution that authorized them for
protecting civilians.  Russia’s Abstention  Allied forces expanded their air campaign over Libya to
thwart fighters loyal to Qaddafi and enable rebels to regain
control of cities. Russia joined four members of the Security
Council in abstaining from last week’s vote that authorized the
strikes, action intended to limit civilian casualties from the
conflict.  Medvedev defended  Russia ’s decision to abstain on the
resolution, saying the agreement “broadly” reflected the
country’s position.  Gates swiped back at the talk of civilian casualties, even
as he complimented Serdyukov’s balancing act between Putin and
Medvedev.  “He threaded the needle pretty well between them,” Gates
told reporters traveling with him after the meeting. “It
sounded to me like his comments were closer to President
Medvedev” rather than Putin.  Gates said he’s “a little curious, frankly, about the tone
that has been taken.” He said “the vast majority” of civilian
casualties have come at the hands of Qaddafi’s forces.  ‘Outright Lies’  “We’ve been very careful about this,” he said. “It’s
almost as though some people here are taking at face value
Qaddafi’s claims about the number of civilian casualties, which
as far as I’m concerned are just outright lies.”  The turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa also
spilled over into discussion of a topic that had been on the
agenda all along -- missile defense. The U.S. has devised a
Europe-based system of radar and interceptor rockets that can
shoot down incoming missiles from potential aggressors such as
 Iran .  Gates told Medvedev such a system, coordinated jointly,
would be a strong deterrent for a range of future foes, Morrell
said.  “He expressed to President Medvedev his belief that if we
were able to cooperate on missile defense, it would send a
powerful signal to the rest of the world,” Morrell said. “And
it would be helpful not just for the threat emanating from Iran,
but from unknown threats that may emerge from the upheaval in
the Middle East.”  Missile Defense Talks  Gates is the latest high-level Obama administration
official to visit Russia in recent weeks for talks on missile
defense. The U.S. aims to end Russian leaders’ opposition to the
system, insisting that it is intended to guard against potential
attacks from Iran rather than to weaken Russia’s offensive
capabilities.  Vice President Joseph Biden earlier this month said the
U.S. seeks an agreement with Russia on missile defense “this
year.”  While the defense chiefs didn’t achieve a breakthrough
today, officials had said that wasn’t the purpose of this trip.  “This is one of these issues in which neither we nor our
U.S. counterparts have a simple and unequivocal answer to,”
Serdyukov said.  Building Confidence  Gates has said the two sides are discussing practical and
confidence-building steps such as exchanging launch information,
setting up a joint  data center  and conducting a joint
assessment.  The data fusion center would be different from a system
first proposed a decade ago to ease Russian qualms in that it
would focus on sharing information on launches by third parties
rather than by each other.  Serdyukov said the discussions between the two sides will
continue. Working groups are due to meet again in April, the
State Department is conducting diplomatic talks on missile
defense, and Serdyukov and Gates are scheduled to meet again in
June at a NATO-Russia Council meeting of defense ministers in
Brussels.  “We have a common understanding that cooperation is better
than confrontation,” Serdyukov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Moscow via 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  