-- 
General Motors Sues Vehicle Hauler, Seeks Return of 1,700 ‘Hostage’ Cars

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-03-23T18:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/general-motors-sues-vehicle-hauler-allied-seeks-return-of-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  sued Allied
Systems Ltd., seeking to force the vehicle hauler to return cars
being held at Allied facilities.  “Defendant is holding hostage 1,704 new GM vehicles, with
an estimated value of $46.6 million,” GM said yesterday in a
complaint in federal court in  Detroit . Allied “simply has no
claim to the vehicles; they are GM’s property,” the carmaker
said.  GM, based in Detroit, said Allied breached a contract and
asked the court to order Allied to return the vehicles
immediately and award damages. Allied is a subsidiary of Allied
Systems Holding Inc. in Atlanta.  Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker operated by  Fiat
SpA (F) , said yesterday it sued Allied in  Canada  to force the
supplier to return 700 vehicles being held at facilities in
Windsor, Ontario. The suit was filed in Ontario Superior Court,
Chrysler said in an e-mailed statement.  “Allied, one of Chrysler’s finished vehicle hauling
suppliers, made the decision to stop servicing us as well as
other” automakers, said Katie Hepler, a Chrysler spokeswoman
“We have re-sourced the business to other suppliers and are
working to ensure a smooth transition.”  John Blount, a spokesman for Allied in Atlanta, didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  March 29 Hearing  U.S. District Court Judge Marianne O. Battani set a hearing
for March 29 in the GM suit, ordering Allied to appear in court
“to show cause, if any, why plaintiffs should not be awarded
possession of the 1,704 vehicles.”  If Allied doesn’t appear at the hearing, she might issue an
order directing Allied to release the vehicles, Battani said.  Chrysler won a court order for immediate access to 200 of
the vehicles, Hepler said today in an e-mail. “Chrysler has
recovered these vehicles.” The Windsor court will hold a
hearing on the recovery of the rest either March 28 or March 29,
she said.  The case is General Motors Holdings LLC v. Allied Systems
Ltd., 2:11-cv-11162, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Michigan  (Detroit). The Chrysler case is Chrysler Group LLC v.
Allied Systems, CV-11-16091, Superior Court, Ontario (Windsor).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  