-- 
Germany Backs More Troops in Afghanistan After Libya Rejection

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-03-23T09:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/germany-backs-more-troops-in-afghanistan-after-libya-rejection.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet approved the deployment of more troops to Afghanistan
after the government withdrew its Mediterranean forces not
participating in the  Libya  mission.  As many as 300 more German personnel will be dispatched to
patrol Afghan airspace, allowing NATO commanders to transfer
additional forces to the Mediterranean to take part in the
operation against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Germany, which
has rejected military intervention in Libya, withdrew four
vessels from the Mediterranean.  “This will alleviate NATO and it’s also a political signal
of solidarity in the alliance with respect to the mission in
Libya,” German Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere said today
in an interview on  Deutschlandfunk  radio.  Germany joined Russia,  China , India and Brazil in
abstaining from a March 17 vote in the United Nations Security
Council in favor of military action to stop Qaddafi’s campaign
against rebels.  De Maiziere said the withdrawal of German naval and
surveillance forces from the Mediterranean was necessary because
they lacked a parliamentary mandate now that the mission
involves military engagement. Germany pulled two frigates and
two other vessels with crews of about 550, as well as 60 to 70
surveillance personnel.  “It must be possible in an alliance that you can have
differing opinions on individual questions or that you don’t
take part in certain activities,” de Maiziere said. “You can’t
take part a little bit, either you take part or not at all.”  The deployment to  Afghanistan  also requires parliamentary
approval and will be voted on by lawmakers this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  