-- 
Irish Notes, Portuguese Bonds Drop as Debt Crisis Deepens Ahead of Summit

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-23T17:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/german-bunds-advance-as-asian-stocks-decline-lifting-demand-for-safety.html
Irish two-year notes slumped,
leading the bonds of the region’s most-indebted nations lower,
on concern a permanent solution to the fiscal crisis will elude
European Union leaders meeting at a summit starting tomorrow.  The declines drove the yield on the security to more than
10 percent for the second consecutive day, while the spread
investors demand to hold Irish 10-year bonds instead of German
bunds climbed to a record. Portuguese bonds slid before Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates  faced a vote today against his deficit-
cutting plan, which may spur early elections and the need for an
EU bailout.  “It’s death by a thousand cuts,” said  Charles Diebel ,
head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
London. “We’re waiting for Portugal. There isn’t actually a
solution to the problem. Yields remain at unsustainable levels,
technically forcing insolvency.”  The yield on the two-year Irish note surged 30 basis points
to 10.17 percent as of 4:46 p.m. in London and earlier reached
10.70 percent. The yield has climbed from 9.09 percent at the
end of last week. The 10-year yield advanced 21 basis points to
10.05 percent, widening the spread over bunds by 24 basis points
to 681 basis points.  The Portuguese 10-year yield climbed 14 basis points to
7.63 percent, with the similar-maturity Greek yield up five
basis points to 12.56 percent. The Portuguese five-year note
yield rose to as much as 8.19 percent, the highest since before
the euro was introduced in 1999.  EFSF Boost  So-called peripheral bonds stayed lower amid reports that
European governments won’t conclude the overhaul of the European
Financial Stability Facility until June due to elections and
“internal procedures” in some countries. Euro-area leaders are
committed to boosting the EFSF’s lending capacity to 440 billion
euros ($622 billion), a European diplomat told reporters on
condition of anonymity in Brussels today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government will put
proposed changes to bolster the size of the fund to parliament
by the summer, an official told reporters in Berlin today. The
EFSF changes are part of a package of measures to backstop the
euro that will be put to parliament before the summer recess,
the official said on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said Germany has an objection to
the proposal on paid-in capital for a permanent bailout facility
to be established in 2013.  “Germany now has an issue on one detail, though it is
small,” Juncker told reporters in Luxembourg today. “We will
clarify this at the summit starting tomorrow.”  Portuguese Vote  Portugal’s lawmakers began discussing the government’s
planned austerity measures this afternoon. The opposition Social
Democratic and Communist parties both pledged yesterday to table
resolutions against the plan.  “The likelihood that the  Portuguese government  will fall
this week looks high,” Nicola Mai, a London-based economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note yesterday.  Portugal  will
thus likely tap the EU rescue fund “in the near term, despite
the current government’s efforts to avoid this outcome.”  CDS’s, German Auction  The cost of insuring Portuguese government debt against
default rose as much as 10.5 basis points to 544.5, the highest
since the record 555 reached on Jan. 10, before slipping to 530,
according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps. Contracts tied
to Irish bonds increased five basis points to a seven-week high
of 622 before sliding to 612, according to CMA.  The 10-year German bund, the euro-region’s benchmark
security, snapped a four-day decline. Its yield fell three basis
points to 3.23 percent, with the price rising 2.2 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 93.95. The two-year note yield
dropped one basis point to 1.69 percent.  Germany  sold an additional 3.4 billion euros of the 10-year
bund at an average yield of 3.24 percent. Investors bid for 2.2
times the amount on offer, up from a so-called bid-to-cover of
1.9 at the previous auction of the securities on Feb. 16.  Demand at the sale was “very strong,”  Chiara Cremonesi , a
strategist at Unicredit Bank AG in London, said in an e-mailed
note. “ Risk aversion , mainly driven by peripheral jitters, and
the fact that this will be the last reopening of this benchmark,
may have been supportive factors for demand.”  German bonds had declined this week as European Central
Bank policy makers including President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
reiterated that they may raise  interest rates  as soon as next
month to contain an inflation rate that has quickened past their
2 percent target, even as the region grapples with a debt crisis
that forced  Greece  and Ireland to seek outside aid.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.8
percent this year, with U.S. Treasuries returning 0.5 percent,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Greek bonds returned
1.4 percent even as they lost 1.1 percent this month. Irish
securities have lost 4.2 percent this year, while Portuguese
debt dropped 4.1 percent, the EFFAS indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  