-- 
Germany Tops Europe on Profits After Worst Loss Since May

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-03-23T08:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/germany-beats-europe-in-stocks-on-profit-growth-after-worst-loss-since-may.html
Profits at German companies are
headed for the highest level on record, keeping stock valuations
below the rest of Europe even after the  DAX Index (DAX)  surged at
twice the region’s rate.  Earnings are forecast to climb 19 percent in the next 12
months to the most since at least 2006 after more than doubling
last year, according to more than 2,000 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Rising income has pulled the DAX’s
valuation down to 12.4 times earnings, compared with 13.4 for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, where profits increased half as
fast. The ratios were 25 and 19.9 a year ago, the data show.  Expanding exports, rising employment and factory orders and
the highest business confidence in two decades under  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  are spurring Semper Constantia Privatbank AG, BNP
Paribas and Notz Stucki & Cie. to bet the DAX will extend its
9.7 percent advance excluding dividends during the last year.
The German gauge is beating the Stoxx 600 by more than 5
percentage points even after losing 4.5 percent last week
following Japan’s earthquake, the worst retreat since May  “Germany has better earnings growth and better earnings
momentum,” said Philipp Musil at Semper Constantia, who helps
manage $11.5 billion in Vienna including shares of  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
 Daimler AG (DAI)  and Kloeckner & Co. “They are the gainers in the
globalization play. This will be seen in better performance of
German stocks against those in other countries.”  Economic Conditions  Profits in Germany have jumped 129 percent in the past 12
months amid demand for the nation’s industrial goods and luxury
cars, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s more than twice
the 55 percent gain for Stoxx 600 companies. The DAX has climbed
13 percent including dividends over the past year. The Stoxx 600
returned 8.2 percent, Bloomberg data show. The DAX slipped 0.3
percent to 6,759 at 9:40 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  Siemens, Europe’s largest engineering company, said on Jan.
25 that earnings from continuing operations will rise by as much
as 35 percent this fiscal year as the Munich-based company ships
more automation equipment and wind turbines to emerging markets.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in Munich reported 2010 profit on
March 10 that beat analysts’ estimates, helped by Chinese sales
of its 5-Series cars.  Overseas sales were equivalent to 39 percent of Germany’s
gross domestic product last year, according to Eurostat, the
European Union’s statistics office. That compares with 30
percent for the 27-nation EU, 19.9 percent for  France , and 18.3
percent for the U.K., the data show.  Above Trend  “Global growth is now running above trend but the
geographic divergence in this growth is unusual,” Citigroup
Inc. strategists including Adrian Cattley in  London  wrote in a
Feb. 24 report on Germany. “While emerging markets are expected
to remain the driver of global growth, Germany should remain the
engine of European growth.”  Of eight western European countries whose exports are
tracked by Macquarie Group Ltd., Germany is the second-most
reliant on emerging nations behind  Italy . More than 27 percent
of its overseas sales went to developing economies in 2010,
according to data from the  International Monetary Fund  compiled
by the Sydney-based bank.  The DAX tumbled the most in 10 months last week as  Japan ’s
March 11 earthquake damaged cooling systems at an atomic power
plant and caused the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.
German exporters fell on concern that demand from the world’s
third-largest economy will suffer and power companies plunged as
Merkel reviewed plans to extend the life of nuclear plants.  Earthquake, Violence  The Asian nation’s biggest temblor on record followed
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak’s ouster, battles between
forces loyal to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi and rebels, and
protests in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Yemen that sent oil above
$100 a barrel. The DAX has lost the second most this month among
24 developed-market indexes tracked by Bloomberg, exceeded only
by Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  “There has to be risks,” said Alex Tedder, who invests in
German companies as part of managing $11 billion in global
stocks at American Century Investments in  New York . “A slowdown
in emerging markets is a risk, given how much  Germany  has
benefited from these markets in recent years, although we don’t
see that happening. Geopolitical risk and global uncertainty is
also going to affect an export-oriented economy like Germany a
lot if it continues.”  Debt Crisis  German equities are vulnerable to losses from the euro-
region’s debt crisis. The DAX slid 2.8 percent in May last year
amid concern that the weakest European economies will have
difficulty taming their budget deficits.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit rating by
three steps on March 7, citing a “materially increased” risk
of a default, and on March 10 it reduced the rating on  Spain ,
saying the cost of shoring up the country’s banking industry
will eclipse government estimates.  Portuguese 10-year bond yields this month climbed to the
highest since Bloomberg began collecting data in 1997 as
investors boost speculation the country will require a bailout.
Yields on Italian  government bonds  reached a two-year high while
Spanish yields approached an eight-year high.  Declines in the DAX make German stocks more attractive,
according to Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP
Paribas in Luxembourg.  “There has been a correction, but the economic context
remains positive,” said Duchesne. “The shares aren’t very
expensive and this correction can be an entry point.”  Swiss Franc   German exports have benefitted from a weakening of the
euro, which touched a four-year low against the dollar in June.
By contrast, competitors in  Switzerland  faced a fifth
consecutive annual strengthening of the franc against the
greenback. The Swiss currency is trading near a record high
versus the dollar as traders sought its relative safety after
Japan’s disasters.  Factory orders in Germany jumped 2.9 percent in January,
more than economists forecast, the Economy Ministry said March
8. The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
52,000 to 3.07 million in February, the lowest since September
1992, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said March 1.  German executives are the most confident since records for
a reunified nation began in 1991, according to the Munich-based
Ifo institute. An indicator measuring current economic
conditions compiled by the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim rose to the highest level in almost four
years this month.  Weber Forecast  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  forecast last month that
Germany’s economy may expand 2.5 percent this year after a
record 3.6 percent in 2010. The euro area may increase at 1.5
percent, the European Union predicted in November.  “We’re confident about the German market,” said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  at Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva, who
helps oversee $7 billion. “If the debt problem in  Europe 
continues, the German market will see less of a negative impact
than others,” he said. “We like to have more German stocks
because we’re more protected if things don’t go well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 