-- 
Germany Wants to Extend ESM Pay-In Time, Official Says

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-23T17:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/germany-wants-to-extend-esm-pay-in-time-official-says-2-.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will press
for changes to the pay-in period for the permanent euro safety
net from 2013, a German government official said.  Payment installments for the European Stability Mechanism
should be prolonged to ease the impact on the German budget, the
official told reporters in Berlin on condition of anonymity
because the discussions are private. The official wouldn’t
specify the number of years preferred.  Germany  isn’t questioning
the 80 billion euros ($113 billion) of paid-in capital to be
made available to the ESM fund, the official said.  The ESM is part of a package of measures to fight the debt
crisis that European Union leaders are due to discuss at a two-
day summit in Brussels beginning tomorrow. EU leaders are poised
to pass the package, the official said. Merkel is scheduled to
outline her summit aims to parliament at 9 a.m. tomorrow.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of finance ministers from euro countries, said
Germany’s demand for more time to pay into the ESM is “one
detail, though it is small.”  “We will clarify this at the summit tomorrow,” he told
reporters in Luxembourg. Euro-area governments are still
discussing details of the future rescue system with the rating
companies, he said.  Germany’s capital share will be 27.1 percent of the total,
or almost 22 billion euros, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told reporters after a March 21 meeting of finance ministers
that agreed on the ESM’s form. Half of the ESM capital is to be
paid in by 2013, followed by three annual installments, they
agreed.  Resistance Overcome  Schaeuble overcame resistance among key coalition lawmakers
to paying into the fund at a presentation in Berlin yesterday,
 Norbert Barthle , the parliamentary budget spokesman for Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , said in an interview.  “It’s logical that budget committee members don’t jump for
joy when 22 billion euros have to be paid cash into a fund,” he
said. “But after listening” to Schaeuble, lawmakers see this
as “a better solution than expanding the guarantees.”  In a speech in  Frankfurt  today, Merkel hailed the ESM as an
important piece of the jigsaw needed to resolve the debt crisis,
including the need to force investors to take losses in the
event of a debt restructuring.  Thanks to Trichet  Merkel also thanked European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet for not insisting on joint euro-area bonds, which
she opposes.  “I am grateful that  Jean-Claude Trichet  said eurobonds
would only be one way, but not the best way” to proceed, Merkel
told the Frankfurt Finance Summit.  On the eve of the EU meeting, Germany is waiting for Irish
proposals that may allow a cut in the interest rate it pays on
bailout loans, the German official said. Ireland rejects calls
to raise its 12.5 percent corporate tax rate, and the official
said a deal is unlikely at this week’s summit.  The German government will put proposed changes to bolster
the size of the main European rescue fund to parliament by the
summer, the official said. Any changes to boost the firepower of
the temporary fund set up last year, the European Financial
Stability Mechanism, will probably be included in that package,
the official said.  Kurt Lauk, who heads a business lobby within Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , said the chancellor was preparing to agree
to a “transfer union” from richer states to poorer ones, when
she should be insisting on “painful structural reforms.”  “The federal government has too often crossed its self-
defined borders over the euro rescue,” Lauk said in an e-mailed
statement. “Hardly anything is left of the chancellor’s former
promises to reject aid for  Greece , introduce automatic
sanctions, include private creditors, limit the rescue umbrella
or to forbid the buying up of  government bonds .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  