-- 
Goldman’s Blankfein Testifies Gupta Violated Firm’s Policies

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-24T03:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/goldman-s-lloyd-blankfein-will-testify-today-in-galleon-trial.html
Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , told a jury that former
Goldman board member Rajat Gupta violated the firm’s
confidentiality policies by allegedly telling Raj Rajaratnam
about the firm’s earnings and strategic plans.  Prosecutors called Blankfein to the stand to help build
their case that Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund co-
founder, traded on inside information about Goldman Sachs he
obtained from Gupta. Rajaratnam, 53, is being tried in federal
court in  Manhattan  on insider trading charges.  Blankfein testified that Gupta had confidential information
about Warren Buffett’s $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs in
October 2008, Goldman’s earnings projections for that quarter
and strategic discussions the firm had about acquiring a
commercial bank or insurance company in late June 2008.
Prosecutors allege that Gupta passed the tips to Rajaratnam,
allowing him to make about $1 million for Galleon in September
2008 and avoid millions in losses the next month.  “We are a public company,” Blankfein said. “We don’t
want information about our company to get outside before the
time is appropriate. There is a process and a protocol for
speaking to the outside world.”  Largest Crackdown  Rajaratnam is in the third week of his trial in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He
denies wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  In addition to the Goldman Sachs tips, prosecutors claim
Gupta gave Rajaratnam information on quarterly earnings and
financial results for  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also
a director.  Blankfein told jurors that Gupta and other board members
were told in October 2008 that Goldman was facing the
possibility of a quarterly loss for the first time since it went
public in 1999.  He said that Goldman Sachs’s quarterly net revenue is
typically “$9 billion to $10 billion.” At the time, when
analysts wrongly believed Goldman was making a profit, it was
running a $171 million loss so far in the quarter.  “I’d round it to about flat,” Blankfein said.  Prosecutors have alleged that in October 2008, Gupta tipped
Rajaratnam, who sold off all of the fund’s entire position in
Goldman and “saved Galleon millions in losses.”  Secretly Recorded Call  For a second time in the trial, which began March 8, jurors
heard a July 29, 2008, telephone call, secretly recorded by the
FBI, in which Gupta told Rajaratnam that the Goldman board had
discussed acquiring a commercial bank or an insurance company.  “Have you heard anything along that line?” Rajaratnam
asked Gupta during the call.  “Yeah,” Gupta replied, “This was a big discussion at the
board meeting.”  Special Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Andrew Michaelson, asked Blankfein about Goldman’s policy on board
meetings.  “At the time were Goldman Sachs board members authorized
to confirm or deny rumors?” Michaelson asked Blankfein.  “No,” Blankfein said.  “At the time was  Rajat Gupta  authorized to confirm or deny
rumors about Goldman Sachs?” Michaelson asked.  “No,” Blankfein said.  Goldman Sachs Policies  “In this telephone call, did Rajat Gupta violate Goldman
Sachs policies?” Michaelson asked.  “Yes,” Blankfein said.  When he took the stand at 10:20 a.m. today, Blankfein
entered the courtroom, smiling broadly. He was called out of
turn by the government because he will be outside the U.S. next
week, Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell. Blankfein testified for more
than 3 1/2 hours before leaving the stand at about 2:50 p.m.  During a break in court proceedings, Blankfein stood,
smiled, rested his right arm against the jury box and looked in
the direction of Rajaratnam. The defendant, who was seated in a
chair behind the defense table, stared straight ahead.  ‘Important Contributions’  On cross-examination that lasted about an hour,  John Dowd ,
Rajaratnam’s lawyer, questioned Blankfein about a Goldman Sachs
press release announcing that Gupta wouldn’t stand for re-
election as a board member in March 2010. Dowd asked Blankfein
to read the announcement aloud to the jury.  In the release, Blankfein praised Gupta’s “important
contributions to Goldman Sachs as a board member.”  Dowd asked whether, at the time he issued the statement, he
was aware of the government’s allegations against Gupta.  “I had an awareness of some -- I want to say I had an
inkling, subsequently I had more awareness,” he testified. “I
knew there were questions about Rajat’s behavior, that’s how I
would say it.”  At a sidebar conference in court, Dowd said that Blankfein
“had a conversation with Gupta when this matter broke in the
press” about a year ago “and asked him about it.”  “I wouldn’t have had anything to do with that,” Gupta
replied, according to Dowd.  Blankfein agreed with Dowd that Galleon was an important
client of Goldman Sachs and that he had visited the firm “a
long time ago.”  Dowd showed Blankfein news articles suggesting that rumors
that Goldman considered buying a commercial bank -- possibly
Wachovia Corp. -- were being discussed in public. He asked
Blankfein if the confidentiality of information depends on what
kind of information it is.  ‘Public Topic’  “The board’s reaction, even to a public topic, would be
confidential,” he said, “because it emanates from the board.”  Dowd sought to show that information that the prosecutors
claimed to have come from a Goldman Sachs board meeting hadn’t
emanated from the meeting.  After Blankfein testified that his board had discussed a
possible acquisition of Wachovia or  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , Dowd confronted him with board minutes, pointing out that
there was no mention of such discussions.  Blankfein disagreed, noting that a reference to a
“strategic review” covered the subject.  Before Blankfein’s testimony today, Dowd said he may recall
the Goldman Sachs chief later in the trial as a witness for the
defense, telling the judge, “We’re not happy with the way the
government has proceeded,” Dowd said, adding, “It’s
outrageous.”  TARP Money  Blankfein described for the jury the discussions within
Goldman Sachs management during the credit crisis of September
2008. The news that Buffett was going to invest money in Goldman
Sachs meant a boost to the firm at a critical time, he said.  “We had $5 billion in cash that we didn’t have before, a
significant amount of money,” he said. Investors “were likely
to think we were in better shape as a result of this.”  Blankfein drew laughter from the courtroom audience when
Michaelson asked him if Goldman Sachs getting $10 billion from
the Troubled Assets Relief Program helped the firm. He said TARP
funds weren’t available at the time Buffett made his investment.  “TARP was a bigger amount on better terms,” he said.
“The government didn’t charge nearly as much money as  Warren
Buffett  did,” Blankfein said, referring to the interest
Berkshire charged.  Michaelson asked whether Goldman Sachs have sought
Buffett’s money if TARP had been available earlier.  “Probably not,” Blankfein said. “If we knew the
government was going to turn around and put money into banks, we
probably wouldn’t have gone out and looked for investors,” he
said. “In other words, we weren’t waiting or expecting the
government to do that.”  Morgan Stanley Banker  After Blankfein’s testimony, prosecutors called Owen
O’Keeffe, a Morgan Stanley investment banker. O’Keeffe testified
about information that was available to Kamal Ahmed, a Morgan
Stanley managing director, about several deals the bank worked
on, including the 2006 purchase of ATI Technologies Inc. by
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  Prosecutors claim Rajaratnam traded
on insider information that originated from Morgan Stanley.  Ahmed’s lawyer, Douglas Tween, said his client has been
placed on administrative leave and is cooperating with the
bank’s investigation. Ahmed hasn’t been charged or sued in
connection with the government’s allegations, he said.  “We remain confident he did nothing illegal or
improper,” Tween said.  Pen Pendleton, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to
comment on the matter.  Prosecutors questioned former Intel executive Rajiv Goel
for about 45 minutes this morning, then interrupted Goel’s
testimony to question Blankfein. Goel is scheduled to resume his
testimony tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 