-- 
Gold May Extend Record Gain on ‘Ocean’ of Central Bank Money, Phoenix Says

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-03-23T07:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/gold-may-extend-record-gain-on-ocean-of-central-bank-money-phoenix-says.html
Gold may rally to a record as
investors from  China , Japan and the Middle East buy the metal on
expectations of “hyper inflation” created by central banks,
according to Phoenix Gold Fund Ltd.  “The real driver for gold is the ocean of new monetary
reserves being created by irresponsible central banks around the
world,” David Crichton-Watt, Kuala Lumpur-based manager of the
$140 million fund, said in an interview. “Hyper inflation is a
very likely outcome, so gold can go to any number of dollars.”  Bullion may extend its 10th annual advance as Japan, struck
by a massive earthquake and tsunami on March 11, joins global
peers in bolstering  money supply , Crichton-Watt said. The metal
climbed to a record $1,444.95 an ounce on March 7 as turbulence
in the Middle East and the debt crisis in  Europe  spurred demand
for haven investments.  European leaders will meet this week to create a permanent
solution to the region’s debt crisis. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
 Portugal ’s government may collapse today as the parliament votes
on budget cuts that have divided lawmakers. Japan pumped a
record 40 trillion yen ($494 billion) into the financial system
since the temblor to soften the economic impact.  “Western governments and Japan’s government are
essentially bankrupt and have no intention of ever reducing
their deficits or indebtedness,” Crichton-Watt, 63, said.
“Once confidence goes, there will be a real panic.”  Mohendra Moodley, Sydney-based fund manager of Taurus Funds
Management Pty, shares Crichton-Watt’s view that money supply
has been very high in an attempt to repair the economies, while
uprisings in the Middle East and  Japan ’s earthquake keep
investors cautious.  ‘Nobody’s Liability’  “Investors should continue to exercise caution, hold
healthy positions in gold and keep portfolios relatively
liquid,” Moodley wrote in a monthly report to clients yesterday.
“Gold is nobody’s liability.”  Phoenix Gold, managed under AIMS Asset Management Bhd. and
set up 2001, holds shares in gold-mining companies, physical
gold as well as futures and options. It posted a 2010 return of
58.2 percent, after a jump of 121.7 percent in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News. Commodity hedge funds as
measured by the Newedge Commodity Trading Index on average
returned 11 percent last year after a similar growth in 2009.  Gold for immediate delivery traded little changed at
$1,428.60 an ounce in  Singapore  today. Bullion gained 30 percent
in 2010 as central banks, pension funds and individuals sought
protection against currency debasement and inflation after
governments spent $2 trillion to salvage the global economy from
the worst recession since World War II.  Escalating Demand  “The demand for physical gold has been predominantly from
China and the Middle East and I think this will continue and
indeed escalate,” Crichton-Watt said. “Asia is where the money
is, so this is where demand will center.”  Chinese and Indian jewelry demand reached a record in 2010,
the  World Gold Council  said last month. Physical bar purchases
globally climbed 63 percent to 204.7 metric tons in the fourth
quarter, with  Asia  accounting for most of the buying, the
council said.  Bullion assets held in exchange traded products, or ETPs,
stood at 2,030.702 tons as of March 22. Holdings reached a
record 2,114.60 tons on Dec. 20.  “The market is not overbought much here, so I think it
would have to go much higher before we have a major
correction,” Crichton-Watt said. “Still, very few people own
gold so the price will undoubtedly go much higher, and it will
most likely end in a mania.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  