-- 
Group of Seven Yen Sales May Boost Treasury Auctions, Bank of America Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-23T17:03:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/group-of-seven-yen-sales-may-boost-treasury-auctions-bank-of-america-says.html
The Group of Seven’s intervention
to stem the surge in the yen after  Japan ’s earthquake may boost
foreign purchases of Treasury notes at next week’s auctions and
depress yields, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Foreign purchases at U.S. debt sales may increase as they
did in September 2010, when the Bank of Japan last intervened in
its currency, Bank of America strategists Priya Misra and Shyam Rajan said in a research report today. An increase in foreign
Treasury buying may tamp down yields by about 20 basis points,
or 0.20 percentage point, for every $100 billion of purchases,
the strategists wrote.  “There should be a pickup in foreign participation in the
front-end auctions at least, and this should be a positive,”
Rajan, based in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  Foreign purchases of the Treasury two-year notes rose to 29
percent in the September auction from 17 percent, and allotments
in the five-year note sale increased to 35 percent from 29
percent, according to Bank of America.  The yen slid the most against the dollar in six months on
March 18, when G-7 members sold the currency after it reached a
post-World War II high, endangering Japan’s recovery. The yen
had gained on speculation insurers and investors would sell
foreign assets and repatriate funds to help pay for damage from
Japan’s worst earthquake on record.  G-7 central banks including the Bank of Japan sold about
$25 billion of yen last week, the strategists wrote, citing
reports. That compares with the  Bank of Japan ’s $23 billion
intervention in September.  ‘Clear Pickup’  There was also a “clear pickup” in Treasury purchases in
2003 and 2004, when Japan intervened in  currency markets ,
according to Bank of America. Foreign buying of Treasuries
increased across the yield curve, “though the effect was
higher” in two- and five-year debt, the strategists wrote.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year notes on March
28, the same amount of five-year notes the following day and
$29 billion of seven-year notes on March 30, according to
Wrightson ICAP, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based research unit of
ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The Treasury will announce the amounts tomorrow, when it
plans to sell $11 billion in 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities.  Treasury two-year note yields were unchanged at 0.65
percent today after touching 0.50 percent on March 15, the
lowest level in three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  