-- 
Groupon Operating Chief Rob Solomon Leaves as Coupon Site Prepares for IPO

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 
2011-03-23T04:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/groupon-s-operating-chief-solomon-departs-leaving-hole-in-executive-team.html
Groupon Inc. Chief Operating
Officer Rob Solomon is departing from the world’s largest coupon
site, leaving a hole in the company’s executive ranks as it
prepares for an initial public offering.  Solomon joined Groupon about a year ago after serving as a
partner at venture capital firm Technology Crossover Ventures
and holding management roles at Yahoo! Inc. Solomon said in an
interview that he’s better suited to navigating a company
through a rapid-growth phase than when it has become large.  “I’m great at a lot of things, I’m not the guy who wants to
run a 10,000 person company,” Solomon said. “I’m much better at
the startup and growth stage.”  Groupon, founded in 2008, is advancing into hundreds of new
cities to boost its revenue and customer base. The startup
doubled its number of users in the past three months and has
held talks with banks about an IPO, two people with knowledge of
the matter have said. The sale, which would value the company at
as much as $25 billion, may happen this year, they said.  “He’s made an enormous contribution here, and we’ll miss
having him around,”  Andrew Mason , chief executive officer of
Chicago-based Groupon, said in an e-mail. He declined to
elaborate.  Solomon will advise Groupon in the coming months as it
seeks to replenish executive ranks with “a nuts and bolts
operator to make the trains run on time,” Solomon said. The
company may not search for a president, per se, he said.  Questions Raised  The leadership change at a growing company that’s
considering a share sale may be unsettling for would-be
investors, said Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  “The company has been getting so much positive media and
so much positive momentum that for one of the most senior people
to leave raises a lot of questions they need to answer,”
Mulpuru said. “You don’t leave a startup like this without
raising suspicion.”  Groupon has begun ramping up hiring of managers who can
spearhead expansion abroad, two people involved in the planning
said in February. The company retained a search firm and has
approached candidates including Jason Kilar, chief executive
officer of Hulu LLC, to gauge interest in becoming head of
worldwide operations, one of the people said.  Solomon’s departure was reported first by the
AllThingsDigital blog.  Solomon, Mason’s Foil  Solomon, who has spent more than 15 years at both startups
and public companies, served as a foil to Mason, a 30-year-old
musician with a penchant for pranks. Mason dedicated  office
space  to a fictitious character, hired a performance artist to
meander about headquarters in a tutu and concocted a holiday
called Grouponicus whose celebrants are barred from owning dogs.  “We work together very well,” Solomon said. “It usually
takes great companies three to five to seven years what we did
in a year.”  The company’s valuation has soared since Solomon arrived.
It was valued at about $1.3 billion last April, when it raised
$135 million from investors such as Digital Sky Technologies.
The company contemplated more funding at a $3 billion valuation
in November, shortly before an unsuccessful takeover attempt by
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  An investment of $950 million, completed in January,
pegged Groupon’s worth at $4.75 billion.  Solomon compared Mason to such CEOs as  Steve Jobs  at Apple
Inc.,  Jeff Bezos  at Amazon.com Inc. and Facebook Inc.’s  Mark Zuckerberg .  “He is the guy who will be able to run this company for
many, many years,” Solomon said. “When I came here, he really
needed me badly. On a going forward basis, I can’t help him as
much as I did.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Stone in San Francisco at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  