-- 
Guinea’s Inflation to Slow After Shutting Currency Bureaus, Governor Says

-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 
2011-03-23T15:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/guinea-s-inflation-to-slow-after-shutting-currency-bureaus-governor-says.html
Guinea , the West African nation
that held its first democratic elections last year, will see its
inflation rate slow in the first half of 2011 after the central
bank shut down foreign-exchange bureaus to control its currency,
Governor Lounceny Nabe said.  Inflation accelerated to 20.8 percent in 2010 compared with
7.9 percent a year earlier, Nabe told reporters in Conakry, the
capital, today. He declined to give a specific projection for
the first six months of this year.  Guinea closed the bureaus in order to better control the
amount of foreign currency in the world’s biggest bauxite
exporter, he said.  The central bank “is revising laws on foreign exchange and
transfer bureaus,” Nabe said. The local currency, the  Guinea 
franc, weakened 32 percent against the  U.S. dollar  over the past
12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at
6,650 francs per dollar today.  Alpha Conde was elected as Guinea’s president in November,
returning power to civilian control after a 2008 military coup
that followed the death of long-time leader Lansana Conte.
Foreign institutions including the  World Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , which halted relations with Guinea
following the coup, are returning to the country.  The IMF “is planning to increase foreign currency” at the
central bank in order to help stabilize the franc, said Wayne Camard, the fund’s representative in Guinea. “The IMF is back,
Guinea is back, and we are happy to work together,” he said.  The fund has $120 million available for Guinea to access
and an IMF mission is expected to arrive in the country later
today to advise the government on how to stabilize its economy,
Camard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 