-- 
Micron Second-Quarter Sales, Profit Top Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-03-23T21:22:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/micron-second-quarter-revenue-exceeds-analysts-estimates-1-.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, posted second-quarter sales
and profit that beat analysts’ estimates on increasing demand
for chips used to store data on mobile phones and tablets.  Revenue climbed 15 percent to $2.26 billion in the period
that ended March 3, Boise, Idaho-based Micron said today in a
statement. That compared with $2.1 billion, the average of
predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  After an industry slump, memory-chip prices may rebound as
interruptions from Japanese suppliers affected by the March 11
earthquake restrict supply, said  Doug Freedman , an analyst at
Gleacher & Co. Sales of Nand flash chips, used in digital
cameras and portable devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
iPad, grew from the first quarter, offsetting a price decline.  “This quarter is, if not the bottom, then very close to the
bottom” for demand, said San Francisco-based Freedman, who
recommends buying the shares and doesn’t own any. “What you need
for these guys to make money is a slowing rate of decline.”  Micron rose as much as 5.7 percent to $11.22 in late
trading, after gaining 26 cents to $10.61 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares have climbed 32 percent this year.  Net income fell 80 percent to $72 million, or 7 cents a
share, from $365 million, or 39 cents, a year earlier, the
company said. Analysts on average projected per-share profit of
6 cents.  Nand Sales  Nand flash sales increased 8 percent in the second quarter
from the preceding three months because of increasing shipments.
That helped cushion a 4 percent decline in average selling
prices, the company said.  The company is the only remaining U.S.-based maker of
dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips, which are used in
personal computers and servers. The average price of DRAM fell
23 percent from the first period, leading to a 6 percent decline
in sales, Micron said.  “The downturn bottomed this quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer Steve Appleton said on a conference call after the
results were released. “The demand signals from the majority of
our customers are improving.”  Appleton said some of Micron’s suppliers in  Japan  were
affected by the earthquake and tsunami, which shut down some
power and transportation systems in the country. It will take
Micron about two weeks to assess the impact on its business, he
said.  Micron had reported an annual profit in only four of the
past 10 years. The memory industry suffers from unpredictable
swings in demand, making it hard to adjust production levels
quickly enough. The company goes head-to-head with South Korea’s
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest chipmaker
behind  Intel Corp .  (The company began a conference call to discuss the results
beginning at 4:30 p.m. New York time. Call +1-973-890-8355 and
give the pass code 52960648 to listen.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 