-- 
In Reagan’s U.S., ‘Dunderhead’ Democrats Had Surprising Success

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/in-reagan-s-america-dunderhead-democrats-had-surprising-success-books.html
Those who don’t look back on  Ronald Reagan ’s presidency as a golden age, morning in America or the
moment when someone finally stood up to all those welfare queens
may find a little solace in Bradford Martin’s “ The Other
Eighties: A Secret History of America in the Age of Reagan .”  Whatever humiliations the left suffered during those years,
argues the author, a history professor at Bryant University in
 Rhode Island , it was less moribund and more effective than we
tend to remember.  If it couldn’t stop the administration from funding the
right-wing contras in  Nicaragua , it still prevented that support
from turning into a full-scale war -- an Iraq or a  Vietnam .  If it couldn’t keep conservative students from taking
sledgehammers to the shanties that had gone up on the Dartmouth
College campus in solidarity with South African victims of
apartheid, the divestment movement nevertheless fed into the
mounting international and internal pressure that in the next
decade would bring down white rule.  The death knell of the Equal Rights Amendment in 1982
inspired a retrenchment that led to the nomination of Geraldine
Ferraro for vice president in 1984 and, beyond that, substantial
gains for women in office.  ACT UP  And the highly theatrical antics of the AIDS activist group
ACT UP (my favorite, not cited by Martin, was the unfurling of a
giant condom over Senator Jesse Helms’s home) pressured the  Food
and Drug Administration  to grant people with AIDS greater access
to new and experimental treatments.  Perhaps more important, it wrested the national dialogue
about the disease away from homophobes like Helms and Jerry Falwell. (It seems as incredible now as it did then that the
president didn’t publicly utter the word “AIDS” for the first
six years of the epidemic.)  In general Martin doesn’t overstate his case. He
acknowledges, with disgust, the “abandonment of full-throated
progressive idealism” that defined the “dunderheaded
Democrats” and “undermined the party throughout the decade.”  The left lived on outside Congress. But even there, as
Martin sees it, it was crippled by the hangover the ‘60s had
left. A case in point was the nuclear freeze movement:  “Though the national media was quick to congratulate
freeze activists for their lack of 1960s-style rancor, this very
politeness left a gaping hole in anything that might have
resembled a radical wing of the movement. There was no one left
to pressure national politicians into making concessions to
movement moderates.”  Scholarly Prose  These are sound arguments, and “The Other Eighties” might
be a contender for a large audience if only Martin didn’t feel
that the spirit of “scholarly inquiry” required him to produce
such professorial prose. The writing isn’t jargony, just pallid
-- except when the subject is cultural history. The chapter on
“Post-Punk Music, Culture and Politics” descends into the kind
of language that used to draw laughter when universities were
convening all those Madonna conferences:  “In an era when mainstream popular culture aggressively
buttressed patriarchy, post-punk’s subversion of traditional
feminine style amounted to the kind of everyday rebellion that
frequently erupts in groups outside official channels of power
or prestige.”  This from a guy who used to play in a post-punk band. It’s
a shame, since I often found myself nodding in agreement with
Martin’s points. When I wasn’t nodding out.  “The Other ‘80s” is published by Hill and Wang (242
pages, $26). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 