-- 
Inditex Profit Tops Estimates; Zara Owner Plans Store and Online Expansion

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-23T12:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/inditex-fourth-quarter-net-income-climbs-as-zara-owner-adds-stores-in-asia.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and said it will accelerate expansion in stores and online.  Fourth-quarter net income gained 14 percent to 553 million
euros ($784 million), according to calculations based on full-
year results from the Arteixo, Spain-based owner of the Zara
chain. The average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was 523 million euros. The shares rose as much as 6.1 percent,
the steepest advance since June 9.  Inditex plans to add as many as 500 outlets this year, up
from 437 last year, boosting investment even as  consumer
spending  slows in  Europe  and the U.S. At least half of the Zara
stores it opens will be in  Asia , where rising incomes are
boosting spending. The clothing retailer plans to start online
sales for brands other than Zara in the second half of 2011.  “The openings pipeline has picked up at Inditex,” said
 Anne Critchlow , an analyst at SG Securities in  London  who has a
“hold” recommendation on the retailer’s shares. The planned
store expansion “bodes well for the future.”  Inditex stock was up 2.68 euros, or 5 percent, at 56.68
euros as of 1:06 p.m. in Madrid.  The Spanish retailer, whose  Zara  stores offer women’s
trench coats for less than 80 euros, said full-year net sales
rose 13 percent to 12.5 billion euros. That kept Inditex ahead
of its nearest rival,  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , which reported 11.2
billion euros in sales for the year ended November.  Store Expansion  Inditex’s profit for the year through January climbed to
1.73 billion euros from 1.31 billion euros a year earlier.  The retailer said it will introduce online shopping for its
Pull & Bear, Massimo Dutti, Bershka, Stradivarius, Oysho and
Uterque brands during the fall/winter season.  “This is a key piece of strategic new news in these
results, suggesting e-commerce at Zara is going well,”
Critchlow said. The brand is available online in 16 countries
and Inditex plans to expand coverage to the U.S. and  Japan .  The company plans capital expenditure of about 800 million
euros this year, up from 754 million euros a year earlier.  Inditex opened 160 stores in Asia last year, of which 75
were in  China ’s main and smaller cities. A further 120 Chinese
stores are planned to open across its eight brands in 2011.  Inditex introduced its Zara chain in  India  last year and
said it plans additional openings in cities including Delhi and
Mumbai this year. The retailer said it will also open stores in
 Australia  in April and in  South Africa  in the second half.  Wider Margin  The gross margin last year was 59.3 percent, compared with
57.1 percent a year earlier. The company’s best estimate for
2011 is that it will be able to retain a minimum of 50 percent
of the gross margin gains achieved in 2010, Chief Executive
Officer Pablo Isla said on a conference call with analysts.  The margin was “reassuring,” Critchlow said. Inditex has
a “relatively low” exposure to Chinese sourcing at 17 percent
of the product it buys and is less affected than some retailers
to rising cotton prices and Chinese labor costs, she said.
China’s government is targeting an increase in minimum wages of
13 percent a year through 2015, while the price of cotton has
more than doubled in the past year.  Inditex’s domestic market in  Spain  accounted for 28 percent
of sales last year, down from 32 percent a year before, while
the portion from Asia rose to 15 percent from 12 percent. The
retailer has accelerated openings in Asia to reduce its reliance
on Spain, where about 30 percent of its stores are located.  “The relative weighting of Spain on sales will fall, while
Asian markets will gain weight,” Isla told reporters at a press
conference in  Madrid  today. Sales in Spain will remain stable,
he said, adding that the company isn’t going to raise prices.  Sales in local currencies increased 10 percent between Feb.
1 and March 14, the company also said today.  The retailer plans to pay a dividend of 1.60 euros per
share, 33 percent more than the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  