-- 
Google, Internet Companies Face Too Many Privacy Rules, U.S. Official Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-23T17:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/internet-firms-face-too-many-privacy-rules-u-s-official-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other U.S. Internet
companies may be hampered by a multiplicity of data protection
rules in  Europe  and beyond that are “potential barriers to the
free flow of information,” a U.S. official said.  Daniel Weitzner , an Internet policy official in the U.S.
Commerce Department, said regulators don’t always recognize
companies’ efforts to set basic data protection standards that
are adequate to stem abuses of privacy.  “It’s awfully difficult to adapt privacy practices for a
hundred or more different” jurisdictions, Weitzner told
reporters in Brussels the day after a meeting with Viviane Reding, the European Union’s justice commissioner. “That is a
substantial barrier today.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , and  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook Inc. are among several Internet
companies under scrutiny in the EU for possible privacy-rule
breaches over their use of personal data.  The European Commission last year  promised an overhaul  of
the EU’s nearly 16-year-old data-protection policies to address
online advertising and social-networking sites. The law, which
the regulator will formally propose later this year, may include
stricter sanctions, such as criminal penalties, and the option
for consumer groups to file lawsuits.  Cooperation between the EU and the U.S. may promote global
standards for data privacy, Reding said in a speech today.  Planned changes to data protection rules in both regions
“seem to be quite convergent,” she said. “Our cooperation has
a good chance to be the first step towards the development and
promotion of international legal standards,” Reding said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 