-- 
Israel Asks Facebook to Remove Page Calling for Third Palestinian Intifada

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-23T22:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/israel-asks-facebook-to-remove-page-calling-for-third-intifada.html
Israel  asked Facebook Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to remove a page that it says
is supported by 230,000 “friends” that calls for a Palestinian
intifada beginning on May 15.  The page includes remarks and movie clips that call for the
killing of Israelis and Jews and the “liberating” of  Jerusalem 
and of  Palestine  through acts of violence, Public Diplomacy and
Diaspora Affairs Minister Yuli Edelstein wrote in a letter e-
mailed to media yesterday.  “As Facebook’s CEO and founder you are obviously aware of
the site’s great potential to rally the masses around good
causes, and we are all thankful for that,” Edelstein said.
“However, such potential comes hand in hand with the ability to
cause great harm such as in the case of the wild incitement
displayed on the above-mentioned page.”  Social media and other online information sources have
taken center stage in uprisings in  Tunisia ,  Egypt , Bahrain, and
 Libya , with participants using Twitter, YouTube, and Facebook to
spread news and coordinate protests.  “While some kinds of comments and content may be upsetting
for someone -­ criticism of a certain culture, country,
religion, lifestyle, or political ideology, for example -- that
alone is not a reason to remove the discussion,” Debbie Frost,
a spokeswoman for Facebook, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We strongly believe that Facebook users have the ability
to express their opinions, and we don’t typically take down
content, groups or Pages that speak out against countries,
religions, political entities, or ideas,” she said.  Edelstein’s statement letter came on the same day that a
bomb blast killed one person in Jerusalem and wounded at least
30 others. An Israeli cabinet minister blamed Palestinians for
the attack.  Violence between Israel and the Islamic militant Hamas
group that rules the  Gaza Strip  has also escalated. A rocket
launched from Gaza injured an Israeli man yesterday in the
southern city of Beersheba. At least seven Palestinians were
killed this week, including several civilians, in what Israel
said were attacks aimed at stopping rocket fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg;
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  