-- 
It’s Time for Obama to Speak to Us About Libya: Michael Waldman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-23T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/it-s-time-for-obama-to-speak-to-us-about-libya-michael-waldman.html
Barack Obama  has opened the first
new military action of his presidency in  Libya . He may believe
U.S. missiles speak for themselves. They don’t.  He has a duty to explain to his country and to the world
why he did what he did. In so doing, he must embrace the
unilateral, at times unsettling, aspect of presidential command.
Here, stagecraft is statecraft.  The decision to attack Muammar Qaddafi’s forces may well be
justified, but the process by which it was made and announced
leaves something to be desired. As discontent roiled Libya
during the Arab revolutions, the clearest voice from the
administration argued against the very kind of intervention the
U.S. later undertook.  Then, by a twist of timing, Obama was in Latin America on a
long-scheduled trip when he decided to join military action. His
first statement to the country was carried by audio from
Brasilia. Later talks and press-conference chats were cursory.  Some critics say he should have canceled his trip. But
Brazil is a major rising economy, and that leg of the trip made
sense. Perhaps he could have curtailed the visit to  Chile  and  El
Salvador . In any case, he should have found a venue to deliver a
full-length address to the American people about what he did and
why.  Obama’s Silence  Instead, at no time so far has he spoken to the country, at
length, about why he felt it necessary to take this military
action, at this moment. He hasn’t clearly argued the benefit to
U.S. national security that may come from the popular movement
toward democracy in the Arab world. And he hasn’t set out his
vision of where this action fits into a larger framework: What
are America’s goals? When will it intervene? What limits will it
place on that intervention?  Of course, I write as an ex-presidential speechwriter. As
the old saying goes, when all you have is a hammer, everything
looks like a nail. But these are more than quibbles. Long-term
military and diplomatic success requires a president to level
with the public and articulate goals.  In the 1980s, then Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger set
out famous standards for military action: “Before the U.S.
commits combat forces abroad, there must be some reasonable
assurance we will have the support of the American people and
their elected representatives in Congress,” he said. “This
support cannot be achieved unless we are candid in making clear
the threats we face; the support cannot be sustained without
continuing and close consultation.”  Enduring Mystery  Why Obama, a supremely articulate man, fails to use the
Bully Pulpit as a vital tool of power is an enduring mystery. A
learning curve isn’t uncommon: It took years for President  Bill Clinton  to feel fully comfortable commanding the podium as the
commander-in-chief. At times, Obama displayed a surer feel for
presidential atmospherics when running for the office than he
does while holding it. The Barack Obama who stood in front of
those much mocked columns at the  Democratic Convention  in Denver
wouldn’t hesitate to give a big address to the country about
what military action he ordered, and why.  Perhaps Obama hasn’t spoken because he doesn’t yet know
what he wants to say. No doubt, the policy is evolving rapidly,
responding to events and not theories. Our policy, he might say,
echoing  Abraham Lincoln , is to have “no policy.” But
presidents often decide what their policy is when they have to
articulate it in a major speech.  Kennedy Speech  By crafting a speech draft in 1962,  John F. Kennedy  decided
to implement a “quarantine” of Soviet ships around Cuba during
the missile crisis. In March 1968,  Lyndon Johnson  began to move
toward peace when he picked a more dovish speech draft to edit
than the bellicose alternative.  It isn’t time for some overblown Obama Doctrine. But a
clear talk can help steer policy when the next crisis arises,
next week or next year. Plainly, he will grope toward a policy
that looks more like the aggressive internationalism of  Woodrow Wilson  or  George W. Bush  than the “realism” he has articulated
in the past.  “The President does not have the power,” candidate Obama
 told the Boston Globe  in 2007, “to unilaterally authorize a
military attack in a situation that does not involve stopping an
actual or imminent threat to the nation.” His 2009  Cairo speech 
stressed respect and stability, more than an evangelical
commitment to spreading democracy.  But the world has changed, and he has more room to advance
U.S. ideals than perhaps he expected to. America needed to send
a signal of strong support for rising aspirations in the Arab
world. As Bush himself might say, “America’s vital interests
and our deepest beliefs are now one.”  It isn’t too late. Just as the fuzzy images from  Brazil 
were disconcerting, Bush’s first talks to the country on Sept.
11 undercut confidence. A week or so later, he went before
Congress and delivered a  masterful address  that set out his
goals in fighting al-Qaeda.  Here’s hoping that Obama finds his voice, too. When he
returns to  Washington , he should land at  Andrews Air Force Base ,
take a helicopter to the White House, stride into the Oval
Office and deliver a prime-time address. We will be listening.  (Michael Waldman, former head speechwriter for President
Bill Clinton, is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York University School of Law  and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman .comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  