-- 
Japan’s Export Growth Accelerated in February Before Quake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-24T01:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japan-s-export-growth-accelerated-in-february-before-quake.html
Japan ’s export growth accelerated
in February, before the nation’s strongest earthquake killed
thousands, shut factories and caused power shortages, in a
disaster that may disrupt trade for months.  Overseas shipments rose 9 percent in February from a year
earlier, from January’s 1.4 percent gain, the  Finance Ministry 
said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 9.1 percent gain.  Japanese stocks had their worst weekly performance since
2008 and the yen reached to a post-World War II high against the
dollar last week after the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami
struck March 11. The government said yesterday that damages from
the quake may swell to 25 trillion yen ($309 billion), while the
 Bank of Japan  said last week the disaster may hurt business and
consumer sentiment and prompt companies to cut factory output.  “With exporters being forced to halt their production due
to the earthquake, tsunami and power shortage, exports may not
be strong enough to drive the recovery, causing the economy to
fall into another lull,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist
at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in Tokyo.  The yen traded at 80.94 against the dollar at 9:57 a.m. in
Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.04 percent. It has
lost 9.4 percent of its value since the earthquake.  Japanese companies, such as Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor
Corp., shut plants and extended production halts after the
earthquake and tsunami. The disruptions may impede growth in the
world’s third-largest economy, which was showing signs of
emerging from a fourth-quarter slump before the temblor.  Suspended Production  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
suspended some work at five plants in the central and southern
regions until March 31 because of trouble getting supplies after
power outages, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement on
March 22. Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, said all
domestic car-assembly will be stopped until March 26, while
Honda Motor Co. also extended closures.  “It’ll be unavoidable that exports will drop in the second
quarter because of a decline in production and disruptions to
distribution systems,”  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Japan in Tokyo, said before the report.
“A slump in economic activities resulting from a supply
shortage of power and parts will likely exceed reconstruction
demand this fiscal year.”  Exports to  China , Japan’s largest market, advanced 29.1
percent from a year earlier, compared with a 0.9 percent
increase in January, today’s report showed. Exports to  Europe 
increased 12.7 percent, compared with a 0.7 percent drop in
January. Shipments to the U.S. increased 2 percent, compared
with a 6 percent gain in the previous month.  Japan’s imports climbed 9.9 percent in February from a year
earlier and the  trade surplus  widened 2.5 percent to 654.1
billion yen, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  