-- 
Japan ETFs Lure Record Investment Amid Fight to Prevent Nuclear Meltdown

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-03-23T21:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japan-etfs-lure-record-inflows-on-fight-to-prevent-meltdown-trimtabs-says.html
Exchange-traded funds that invest
in Japanese equities lured record inflows last week after an
earthquake, tsunami and radiation leak at a Tokyo Electric Power
Co. nuclear plant drove the biggest slump since 1987, according
to TrimTabs Investment Research.  Seven funds with more than $6 billion in assets tracked by
the Sausalito, California-based researcher received an estimated
net $1.21 billion in money between March 14 and March 18, the
most since at least 1996. Investors bought after companies in
 Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank to the lowest valuation
based on net assets since March 2009, Bloomberg data show.  The inflows show “what the underlying mentality investors
have at the moment, which is quite bullish,” Minyi Chen, Asia
equity analyst at TrimTabs, said in an interview. “The drop
provided an excellent opportunity for any buyers who were
hesitant to buy before.”  The Nikkei 225 sank 16 percent in two days at the start of
last week following the 9-magnitude earthquake that was the
largest in recorded history in the world’s third-largest
economy.  Japan’s government estimated the damage from the March 11
quake and tsunami at as much as 25 trillion yen ($309 billion),
an amount almost four times the hit imposed by  Hurricane Katrina 
on the U.S. The  Bank of Japan  has injected 40 trillion yen of
cash to help prop up the economy. The Group of Seven sold yen to
prevent the currency’s appreciation, which threatened to drive
Japan into recession.  Quickly, Aggressively  The ETFs attracted an estimated $700 million on March 16 as
the Nikkei rebounded 5.7 percent, according to TrimTabs data.
That was a record one-day inflow.  “To its great credit, the Bank of Japan acted quickly and
aggressively,” New York-based Chen said. “Market participants
have fast grown a much healthier appetite for risk.”  The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ) , one of the seven
securities tracked by TrimTabs, received about $1.1 billion,
Chen said. Japanese stocks have been higher three months later
in 66 percent of the times when that fund received monthly
inflows of at least $100 million, the analyst said.  Other funds included the SPDR Russell/Nomura Prime Japan
ETF and the  WisdomTree Japan SmallCap Dividend Fund. (DFJ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  