-- 
Japan Quake May Cut Global Growth 0.5 Point to 3.8%, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-23T19:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japan-quake-may-cut-global-growth-0-5-point-to-3-8-morgan-stanley-says.html
Japan ’s worst disaster since World
War II likely won’t “derail” worldwide economic growth, as the
crisis cuts global expansion this year by 0.5 percentage point
to 3.8 percent, according to Morgan Stanley.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami that killed more than
8,000 people and crippled a nuclear power plant may “push the
Japanese economy into a short and deep recession,” causing
gross domestic product to contract as much as 3 percent in 2011,
compared with a forecast before the disaster of 2 percent
growth, Morgan Stanley economists wrote today in a research
report. The economy may increase as much as 3 percent or shrink
by 1 percent the following year, they wrote.  The global recovery will likely withstand turmoil in the
world’s third-largest economy because conditions were
“relatively robust” going into the crisis and because
governments and central banks may increase support for growth if
needed, Morgan Stanley economists Joachim Fels, Manoj Pradhan
and Spyros Andreopoulos wrote. Disruptions to Japan’s exports,
transportation and output on the global supply chain is “the
biggest uncertainty,” they wrote. The economists didn’t respond
to a phone call seeking further comment.  Favorable Conditions  “With initial conditions for the global economy relatively
favorable going into the shock, and policy makers likely to
provide more support if needed, the overall impact on world
growth should be modest,” Morgan Stanley said. “Spillover to
the rest of world should be relatively limited.”  The crisis may affect the other economies via goods and
services trade, capital flows, financial system contagion and
commodity prices, Morgan Stanley said. The decline in Japan’s
gross domestic product may lead to about half, or 0.25
percentage point, of the estimated cut to 2011 global economic
growth, while the rest of the reduction reflects “negative
spillovers.”  Global growth may also be interrupted by rising oil prices
stemming from unrest in the Middle East and countries such as
 Libya , monetary tightening in emerging markets to stem rising
inflation and contagion from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis that
spreads to the U.S. and other developed countries, Morgan
Stanley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  