-- 
Japan’s Earthquake Might Hasten Bernanke’s Exit: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-03-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japan-earthquake-might-hasten-bernanke-s-exit-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
There’s one economic aspect of
 Japan ’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster that seems to
be getting lost in the rubble, and that’s the effect on prices.  Yes, prices. Remember them? You’d never know it from the
analysis of what Japan’s triple-whammy means for the domestic
and global economy.  A natural disaster qualifies as a supply shock. For the
graphically inclined, this is represented by an inward shift, to
the left, of the supply curve. It describes what happens when
producers provide fewer goods at any given price than they did
before. The result is lower output and higher prices.  An increase in prices may be a desirable outcome for
Japan’s policy makers, who have been battling mild yet
persistent deflation for more than a decade. It may not be
optimal for others.  The  European Central Bank  was already making noises about
raising its benchmark rate, currently at 1 percent, at its April
meeting before disaster struck. Recent comments by ECB officials
suggest Japan’s crisis hasn’t changed their thinking.  With inflation running at 4.4 percent in the U.K.,
investors expect the  Bank of England  to raise its  base rate  by
25 basis points in July, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average.  Shocked by Supply  The ex-post analysis of Japan’s devastation is similar to
that following Hurricane Fill-In-the-Blank (Katrina, Andrew,
Floyd), which invariably focuses on the hit to spending and
economic growth.  In other words, what is really a supply shock resulting in
higher prices is viewed as a damper on demand, which would have
the opposite effect.  The first-order effects of natural disaster are a loss of
income, production and output. If a factory is destroyed,
employees can’t report to work. Production is halted, and cars
stop rolling off the assembly line.  If regular distribution channels are disrupted,
manufacturers have to find alternate (read: less efficient, more
expensive) means of transporting goods from one place to
another. Prices rise.  Japan fits this model to a tee. Toyota, Honda and Nissan,
the three largest Japanese auto manufacturers, halted operations
at many plants following the earthquake and power disruptions,
and are only now starting to restore production.  The effect isn’t limited to Japan, which is a net exporter.
A shortage of Japanese-made parts, especially electronic
components, forced General Motors to suspend production or cut
shifts at facilities in the U.S. and  Europe . Just-in-time
inventory management means just-not-enough parts on hand to
ensure a normal pace of production even at functioning
facilities.  Buy Now  Prices are behaving as expected, with computer chips
spiking after the earthquake. Japan produces about 20 percent of
the world’s semiconductor chips and 60 percent of the silicon
wafers that go into them.  Auto prices will soon follow suit.  Edmunds.com , a source of
information for car buyers, offered this advice: “There is no
downside to buying now -- and plenty of potential upside.”  High  gas prices  are expected to increase the demand for
fuel-efficient cars, including hybrids. All Japanese-brand
hybrids are built at home, according to Edmunds.com.  The confusion between supply and demand doesn’t end with
output and prices. The initial reaction to a supply shock is to
look to central banks to cushion the fall. The banks are
generally happy to oblige, in part to ensure the smooth
operation of the financial system. The  Bank of Japan  has pumped
a record amount of cash into the system since the March 11
earthquake.  Bad Diagnosis  The problem isn’t weak demand; it’s reduced supply. Central
banks manufacture one thing: money. They can’t produce computer
chips, electronic components or automobiles.  In other words, they can’t make up for the lost supply. All
they can do is print money so that more money chases fewer goods
and services, which is the definition of inflation.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  plans to
let QE2, the second round of quantitative easing, play itself
out to its stated conclusion in June -- even with deflation
fears evaporating.  The U.S. consumer price index rose 0.5 percent last month
and 2.1 percent year over year. While the primary drivers were
big jumps in the prices of energy (up 3.4 percent) and food (up
0.6 percent), the increases were “broad-based,” according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Among the major categories, only apparel posted a decline.
The indexes for shelter, transportation, medical care,
recreation, and education all rose last month.  To the Core  The core CPI, which excludes food and energy, rose 0.2
percent in both January and February, the biggest back-to-back
increases since September-October 2009. The year-over-year
increase rose to 1.1 percent from an all-time low of 0.6 percent
in October while the three-month annualized increase jumped to
1.8 percent.  Not scary numbers, to be sure. But “the worm appears to be
turning on inflation” is how  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co., described it when the February CPI
report was released on March 17.  Monthly 0.2 percent increases in the core CPI would drive
the year-over-year increase to 1.5 percent by May and 2 percent
by September.  Exit strategy, anyone?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  