-- 
Japan Sees Quake Damage Bill of Up to $309 Billion, Almost Four Katrinas

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-23T07:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japan-sees-quake-damage-bill-of-up-to-309-billion-almost-four-katrinas.html
Japan ’s government estimated the
damage from this month’s record earthquake and tsunami at as
much as 25 trillion yen ($309 billion), an amount almost four
times the hit imposed by  Hurricane Katrina  on the U.S.  The destruction will push down gross domestic product by as
much as 2.75 trillion yen for the year starting April 1, today’s
report showed. The figure, about 0.5 percent of the 530 trillion
yen economy, reflects a decline in production from supply
disruptions and damage to corporate facilities without taking
into account the effects of possible power outages.  The figures are the first gauge of the scale of rebuilding
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government will face after the quake
killed more than 9,000 people. Japan may set up a reconstruction
agency to oversee the rebuilding effort and the central bank has
injected record cash to stabilize financial markets.  Damages will probably amount to between 16 trillion yen and
25 trillion yen, today’s report said. It covers destruction to
infrastructure in seven prefectures affected by the disaster,
including damages to nuclear power facilities north of  Tokyo .
Wider implications on the economy, including how radiation will
affect food and water supply, are not included in the estimate.  Bank of Japan board member Ryuzo Miyao said today that it
may take more time to overcome the damage of the quake than it
did after the 1995 disaster in Kobe, western Japan.  Effect ‘Could Linger’  “The ability to depress economic activity from the supply
side is larger than the Great Kobe earthquake and we must bear
in mind that these effects could linger for some time,” Miyao
said in a speech in Oita, southern Japan. “The short-term
effects are not insignificant.”  Today’s report didn’t include specific forecasts for how
the damage would affect GDP, which economists at Morgan Stanley
MUFG Securities Co. forecast may contract as much as an
annualized 12 percent in the second quarter. GDP expanded at a
3.2 percent rate in the second quarter after the 1995 Kobe quake.  ”We need to bear in mind that the risk that stagnation in
production will linger due to the effect of the earthquakes,”
Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said at a press
conference in Tokyo today. “We could see the biggest impact
come from the power-supply issues that are affecting
production.”  Power Shortage  Tokyo’s power supply may fall 20,500 megawatts short of
summer demand, or 34 percent less than the peak consumption last
year, according to figures from Tokyo Electric Power Co. The
utility is capable of supplying 37,500-megawatts and plans to
add about 2,000 megawatts of thermal generation by the end of
this month, company spokesman Naoyuki Matsumoto said by
telephone today.  The government had previously projected growth of 1.5
percent for the year starting April 1 after growing an estimated
3.1 percent this year.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its GDP projection for
fiscal 2011 to 1 percent from 1.7 percent. RBS Securities and
Nomura Securities Co. have also cut their forecasts while noting
that the economy will still expand because the rebuilding will
spur demand and help offset damage on growth in the period.  Rebuilding efforts in fiscal 2011 could push up GDP by 5
trillion yen to 7.75 trillion yen, the government said today.
Japan’s growth will return to normal “very soon” as
reconstruction work starts, Justin Lin, the  World
Bank ’s chief economist, said in  Hong Kong  today. At the same
time, some are worried the boost won’t come soon enough.  Biggest Concern  “My biggest concern is that a positive impact from
reconstruction may take a while to materialize,” said Akiyoshi
Takumori, chief economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co.
in Tokyo. “This earthquake and tsunami destroyed infrastructure
and that will delay a recovery in production, a major driving
force for the economy.”  The government maintained its assessment of the economy for
March as the economic indicators released before the earthquake
showed exports and production rebounding, while also voicing
“concern” about the impact of the temblor on the economy.  “Although the Japanese economy is turning to pick up, its
ability to self-sustain itself is weak,” the Cabinet Office
said in a monthly report.  The U.S. National Hurricane Center in August 2006
calculated the damage of Hurricane Katrina, which slammed into
 New Orleans  the year before, at  $81 billion .  Future assessments will need to address damage to much of
the northeast’s economy, and the disruptions to electricity and
distribution systems that’s spread south to Tokyo and beyond.
Toyota Motor Corp. said yesterday it will halt car assembly in
Japan through March 26.  Sony Corp. (6758)  said it shut five more plants.  Export Decline  Koji Miyahara, president of the Japanese Shipowners’
Association, said today exports may decline for six to 12 months
after the earthquake, adding that the disaster won’t affect the
industry in the longer term as reconstruction efforts take hold.  The death toll following the disaster rose to 9,408 as of
12 p.m. local time, according to the  National Police Agency .
Workers were still struggling to gain control of the crippled
nuclear power plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo.  Kan is now faced with the challenge of finding ways to pay
for the damage to the economy. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
has reiterated a reluctance to underwrite debt from the
government and said today that nation’s fiscal situation is
“very severe.”  Cash at Record  A separate report today showed record cash holdings by
Japanese households may help insulate them from damage from the
quake. Households kept 820.7 trillion yen ($10 trillion) in cash
last quarter, the biggest amount since the  Bank of Japan  began
tracking the data in 1997, according to a central bank report
released today in Tokyo.  In the wake of the devastation of World War II, Japan’s
government set up the Economic Stabilization Board in August
1946. Among its duties was to ration commodities and oversee the
revival of the nation’s industries.  To maintain short-term financial stability, BOJ policy
makers have added emergency cash every business day since the
quake. Lenders’ current-account balances at the central bank
yesterday exceeded the 36.4 trillion yen record set in March
2004, when officials were implementing so-called quantitative
easing measures to counter deflation. Deposits have climbed from
about 17.6 trillion yen on March 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  