-- 
Japan May Consider Daylight Saving to Curb Power Use

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-04-01T09:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japan-may-consider-daylight-saving-to-curb-power-use-following-earthquake.html
(Corrects company name in fourth paragraph of story
published March 23.)  Japan  may consider adopting
daylight saving in the summer to conserve electricity after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami crippled a nuclear power plant,
a measure that experts say might not have the desired effect.  “We should take the opportunity to do a basic review of
electricity bills and taxes as well as introducing daylight
savings and flexible working hours,” Renho, Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s minister for electricity conservation, said at a
press conference in Tokyo yesterday.  Renho, who only uses one name, said Japan’s electricity
needs will rise during the summer, putting pressure on Tokyo
Electric Power Co., owner of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant. Workers have been battling to prevent a meltdown at the
plant since the earthquake and ensuing tsunami knocked out power
needed to drive the reactor cooling system.  “In places like  Europe , changes in daylight saving time
may save energy, but in the U.S. and  Asia  it may differ,” said
Jerzy Grynblat, nuclear business director for Sundbyberg,
Sweden-based energy risk management services provider Scandpower
AB, a member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. “U.S. and Asia use
more air-conditioning than Europe, so energy savings may be
less.”  Tokyo’s power supply may fall 20,500 megawatts short of
summer demand, or 34 percent less than the peak consumption last
year, Tokyo Electric said today. The company is capable of
supplying 37,500-megawatts and plans to add about 2,000
megawatts of thermal generation by the end of this month,
spokesman Naoyuki Matsumoto said.  ‘Increase Considerably’  Supply “won’t be what it is now, which is about 30 million
kilowatts,” Renho said. “Last July’s power needs were 50 or 60
million kilowatts, so it will increase considerably from now.”  One megawatt is equivalent to 1,000 kilowatts.  Daylight saving is meant to conserve energy by reducing the
need for artificial light during waking hours. The theory that
energy can be saved by moving the clock forward was promoted in
the 18th century by people including  Benjamin Franklin . It was
first implemented in  Germany  during World War I, according to a
2007  study  by the  University of California .  The U.S. introduced daylight savings to Japan during its
1945-1952 occupation of the country following World War II. The
Japanese government abandoned the plan after the return of
sovereignty.  The University of  California  study found that extending
daylight savings in countries such as the U.S. could backfire as
additional energy demand in the morning cancels out reduced
demand later in the day.  Marginal Impact  “There are arguments either way about daylight saving
cutting energy costs,” said Ben Smith, an international
environmental analyst at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra. “The reduction would be minor and examples around the
world and anecdotally from  Australia  show us that.”  Smith, though, proposes that Japan implement daylight
saving: “It would certainly help, even if it is only
marginal,” he said.  Tokyo Electric last week began blackouts in five areas of
the capital that it said would last until the end of April. The
record 9.0 temblor cut the daily supply in the greater capital
area by about 25 percent.  Disruptions to the power supply may affect the country’s
economic output and hurt the rest of the region, Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services said March 16. Companies such as Sony
Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp. halted production after the temblor
and ensuing tsunami damaged power-generating facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in  Tokyo  at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  