-- 
Japanese Households’ Record Cash Holdings May Be Defense From Quake Woes

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-03-23T05:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japanese-households-record-cash-holdings-may-be-defense-from-quake-woes.html
Record cash holdings may insulate
Japanese households as the nation struggles to recover from its
worst disaster since World War II.  Households kept 820.7 trillion yen ($10 trillion) in cash
last quarter, the biggest amount since the  Bank of Japan (8301)  began
tracking the data in 1997, according to a central bank  report 
released today in  Tokyo .  Japan ’s gross domestic product could shrink as much as an
annualized 12 percent in the second quarter in the aftermath of
a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that struck the
northeastern region on March 11, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities
Co. said. The cash may help survivors faced with rebuilding
their homes and lives, according to economist Hiroshi Miyazaki.  “It’s a positive thing that Japan is a cash-rich country as
it faces this terrible disaster,” said Miyazaki, chief economist
at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Households are going
to want to have ample cash just in case of any more calamities
in the aftermath of the earthquake.”  The value of households’ financial assets dropped 0.1
percent from a year earlier to 1,489 trillion yen in the three
months ended December, according to the report.  Meantime,  government bonds  held by banks, insurers and
pension funds were also at record highs, the BOJ said.  Depository institutions such as banks held 282.8 trillion
yen in government bonds and bonds issued by the government’s
Fiscal Investment and Loan Program, or FILP, the report showed.  “Banks having a record amount of bonds implies that there
isn’t much demand for business investment,” said Miyazaki. “They
may need to keep buying bonds during the reconstruction because
it may take a while to fix infrastructure such as water and
electricity to operate businesses as usual.”.”  Insurance companies and pension funds held 175.2 trillion
yen in government bonds and  FILP  bonds, also the highest since
the BOJ began tracking quarterly data in 1997. Today’s data was
in the central bank’s quarterly “flow of funds” report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  