-- 
Japan Misses Deliveries as Xbox Shop Struggles: Freight Markets

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-03-24T20:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japan-misses-deliveries-as-xbox-shop-struggles-freight-markets.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s repair operations
for Xbox units ground to a halt in Japan’s Fukushima prefecture
when the earthquake knocked out power. Then the lights came on
to reveal another hurdle: Shipments of the game consoles had
been impaired after the disaster two weeks ago.  Microsoft is among hundreds of companies affected by the
loss of normal pickups and deliveries.  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  couldn’t reach the facility in northeast
Japan for several days, said a person familiar with the matter
who isn’t authorized to comment publicly.  Truck shipments to Fukushima used to take a few hours from
Tokyo, over roads and bridges now impassable in some cases. The
earthquake ruptured the weakest links in a logistical chain
designed to move packages overnight from U.S. hubs for UPS and
FedEx more than 6,500 miles (10,500 kilometers) away.  “The last mile is so critical,” said Charles Clowdis, a
transportation adviser at IHS Global Insight, a forecasting firm
in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “They may be able to get into the
country, but to get into those areas that have been devastated
will continue to be difficult for a long time.”  UPS and FedEx, the world’s largest package-shipping
companies, face combined costs of $4.4 million for each day of
major disruptions, Barclays Capital estimates. UPS fell 2.7
percent from the March 11 quake through today to $72.10 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading, while FedEx gained 8
cents to at $90.79. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4
percent.  Passing Out Packages  FedEx still can’t serve  140 postal codes  in northeast Japan
and completes some shipments by driving vans to the outskirts of
those areas and passing out packages from the vehicles. Atlanta-
based UPS is rerouting trucks to reach customers while delivery
service is suspended in six prefectures.  Sales in Japan, the world’s third-biggest economy, total
about $1.7 billion a year for FedEx, or 4 percent of revenue,
and $800 million, or 1.5 percent, for UPS, estimates Gary Chase,
an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York. UPS and FedEx don’t
detail revenue by region.  Both companies resumed normal operations at Tokyo’s Narita
airport within days, and  Osaka  flights were never interrupted.
Beyond major cities, service to some regions remains spotty or
delayed because of unreliable electricity and roads and bridges
damaged by the quake and subsequent tsunami.  FedEx restored usual cutoff times and money-back guarantees
yesterday for all of Japan except the hardest-hit regions
because most service is “back to normal,” said David Cunningham, president of FedEx Express Asia-Pacific.  ‘Meet Points’  “The significantly impacted areas, you just can’t get into
or out of,” Cunningham said in an interview. “We’re running
vans to meet points, setting up hold locations or receive-over-
counter locations.”  FedEx isn’t using its sorting and processing facility in
Fukushima, site of the damaged  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. nuclear
plant, said Sandra Munoz, a spokeswoman. While the building is
outside the government-set evacuation area, nearby roads are too
damaged to travel, she said.  The company operates the world’s largest cargo airline,
running 40 flights a week each through Tokyo and Osaka. It has
1,600 employees and 510 ground vehicles in Japan, Cunningham
said.  FedEx’s March 17 forecast for earnings of as much as $1.83
a share in the quarter ending in May “could prove optimistic”
if quake-related disruptions in Japanese factory output ripple
across  Asia  and around the globe, Ed Wolfe, an analyst at Wolfe
Trahan & Co. in New York, wrote in a March 18 note. A FedEx
spokesman, Jim McCluskey, declined to comment yesterday.  Rating Remains  Gary Chase, the Barclays analyst in New York who projected
the potential daily drag on FedEx and UPS, said that estimate
assumed a “worst-case” scenario for the carriers’ package
networks, which neither expects. He recommends buying the shares
and said in a March 15 note he wasn’t changing his view.  UPS hasn’t commented on any impact from the quake. The
company has 1,000 employees in  Japan  and 34 weekly flights to
the country, with 10 pickup and delivery centers plus 42 other
centers for operations, logistics and brokerage services,
according to a UPS fact sheet.  UPS said today it is resuming deliveries to three more
prefectures and will resume pickups in those areas beginning
Friday. The company still can’t serve prefectures including
Fukushima and Miyagi, and it’s using alternate routes to deliver
to some districts in the rest of eastern Japan,  Norman Black , a
spokesman, said in an interview.  “You have to figure out ways to work around the sections
that are closed off, and that’s been the main problem they’ve
had in the east,” Black said. “It can lead to some delays.”  Global Networks  The repair center that lacked enough Xboxes to fix was just
one of the companies cut off from the usual express networks
radiating from FedEx’s hub in its hometown of  Memphis  and UPS’s
base for air operations in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , contracts with a
third party to fix the game consoles in Fukushima. Julie Gates,
a Microsoft spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s largest maker of multiple
sclerosis medicines, had to hire local delivery firms to reach
patients in northeast Japan, said Christina Chan, a spokeswoman.
The Weston, Massachusetts-based company is sending emergency
supplies to employees in Tokyo via FedEx and UPS, she said.  “We’re working with local vendors to try to make sure we
get it to the hardest-hit areas,” she said. “There’s a logjam.
It’s just an overload of people trying to get things to Tokyo.”  FedEx may see shipments increase as humanitarian aid and
reconstruction materials flow into the country, Chief Executive
Officer Fred Smith said on a March 17 conference call with
investors. Volume in eastern Japan was 30,000 packages on March
22, “comparable to a peak day,” Cunningham said.  Navigating past quake-battered roads and bridges in the
coming days may require some creativity, said  Julie Swann , co-
director of the Center for Health and Humanitarian Logistics at
the  Georgia Institute of Technology  in Atlanta.  “You certainly try to look at alternate paths, maybe air
or sea or bicycles -- things you wouldn’t use in normal times,”
Swann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  