-- 
Japanese Training Schooner Sails to Relief of Exhausted Nuclear Engineers

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-03-23T06:59:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/japanese-training-schooner-sails-to-relief-of-exhausted-nuclear-engineers.html
Dozens of engineers battling to
contain  Japan ’s worst civil nuclear disaster are getting their
first hot food and bed-rest in days on a 110-meter merchant
marine training schooner docked at a tsunami-ravaged port.  The Kaiwo Maru’s Chief Officer, Susumu Toya, said he and
his crew of more than 40 will stay till food runs out after
arriving March 21 at Onahama Port. The port is about 50
kilometers (30 miles) south of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant, which was damaged when a magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami struck Japan’s northeastern coastline on March 11.  “The situation is getting better,” Kenji Kawada, a 52-
year-old engineer who has worked at  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. for
30 years, said today after staying on board overnight. “I will
do my best to make sure we can provide relief to the people of
Japan as soon as possible.”  Restoring power is key to ending the crisis at the plant’s
damaged reactors, which have leaked radiation, forcing the
government to evacuate thousands of local residents. Engineers
from  Tokyo  Electric have been trying to prevent a meltdown at
the plant after losing electricity that helps circulate cooling
water to the units.  Kawada, who heads a 30-strong team in the control room of
the station’s No. 5 and 6 reactors, said he was at home when the
quake struck and immediately reported for work.  Working Hard  “Everyone is working very hard. We are very sorry to cause
trouble,” Kawada said this morning, as he was on his way to
report to Tokyo Electric’s call center in nearby Iwaki, a city
about 170 kilometers north-northeast of Tokyo.  He was one of 21 engineers who boarded the four-masted tall
ship yesterday to get some rest after sleeping on the floor at
the nuclear station and eating only precooked food such as cup
noodles since the earthquake and tsunami hit.  There were 20 engineers on the ship the day before, First
Officer Toya said. About 20 more are coming later today to get
some rest and warm food, he said.  Eight workers were seen leaving the ship at 6:30 a.m.
today, and several more about and an hour and a half later.  Crew on the Kaiwo, which means Sea King in English,
yesterday served Japanese curry and fresh vegetables to the
engineers, who are trying to restore lighting in control rooms
and connect power cables needed to cool the reactors and spent
fuel ponds.  ‘Great Stress’  “Our job is to provide a place for the engineers to sleep,
take a bath and relax,” Toya, 44, said in an interview on the
dock at the port amid twisted cranes and cars wrapped around
poles by the tsunami. “I don’t ask about their work because
they are working under great stress. We are trying to lift their
spirits.”  The Kaiwo Maru was built in 1989, according to the website
of the  National Institute for Sea Training . The 2,556-ton yacht,
which is based in the port of Tokyo, can accommodate 199 people,
including 128 students.  Earthquakes  rattled the area today and snow started falling
in the port where boats were washed ashore, including a 50-meter
barge loaded with pipes that blocked a road. Broken roads led to
the entrance to the port.  The death toll from Japan’s worst postwar disaster climbed
to 9,408 as of noon today, with 14,716 people missing, according
to the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo. The earthquake and
tsunami devastated the country’s northern coastline and forced
several hundred thousand people to evacuate.  The Kaiwo has computers and internet connections for the
engineers to contact their families, Toya said. They are also
providing entertainment shows on television.  Engineers refused an offer of beers last night because of
the seriousness of their task, he said.  “The engineers are very quiet,” Toya said. “No one
speaks during meals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aaron Sheldrick at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net . 