-- 
Jeter Jerseys Are Top-Selling in Major League Baseball; Mauer's Are Second

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-03-23T18:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/jeter-jerseys-are-top-selling-in-major-league-baseball-mauer-s-are-second.html
New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter replica jerseys led  Major League Baseball  in sales last
season, followed by Minnesota Twins catcher Joe Mauer and
Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Roy Halladay.  Yankees licensed merchandise was the overall top seller in
2010, with the Boston Red Sox second and Philadelphia Phillies
third, according to a statement from MLB and the players union.
Sales rose 6 percent to a record, the release said. The total
figure wasn’t disclosed.  Fourth in jersey sales was Phillies second baseman Chase Utley. Cliff Lee, who played for the Seattle Mariners and  Texas
Rangers  last season and signed with the Phillies in December,
was fifth.  Jeter, who is 74 hits away from reaching 3,000 for his
career, is an 11-time All-Star and five-time World Series
champion. He has spent his entire 17-year career with the
Yankees. The 36-year-old shortstop, who wears No. 2, is joined
in the top 20 by teammates third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  at No. 9
and first baseman Mark Teixeira at No. 11.  Players from 11 different clubs and seven of the eight 2010
playoff teams are represented in the 20 most popular jerseys.
The Phillies had four players on the list -- Halladay, second
baseman Chase Utley, pitcher Cliff Lee and first baseman Ryan Howard -- more than any other team.  Three rookies made the top 20 -- Atlanta Braves outfielder
Jason Heyward at No. 12, pitcher  Stephen Strasburg  of the
Washington Nationals at No. 13 and catcher  Buster Posey  of the
defending World Series-champion San Francisco Giants at No. 19.  In licensed merchandise, the Los Angeles Dodgers were third
in sales, the Phillies fourth and  Chicago Cubs  fifth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 