-- 
Kenya Aims to Narrow Budget Deficit by More Than a Third in Three Years

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-03-23T13:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/kenya-aims-to-narrow-budget-deficit-by-more-than-a-third-in-three-years.html
Kenya  aims to narrow its fiscal
deficit by more than a third over the next three years as growth
accelerates and revenue from value-added tax improves, Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said.  The shortfall will shrink to 152.6 billion shillings ($1.8
billion), or 5 percent of gross domestic product, in the fiscal
year through June 2012, from 6 percent of GDP in 2010-2011,
according to a plan Kenyatta submitted to parliament today in
Nairobi, the capital. The deficit will narrow to 4.7 percent of
GDP in 2012-2013 and 3.9 percent in 2013-2014.  “As the economy recovers, our fiscal objective now is to
reduce the budget deficit in order to bring our overall public
debt to sustainable levels,” Kenyatta said in the budget  policy 
statement.  Kenya’s economic growth will accelerate to 5.7 percent this
year from 5.2 percent in 2010, before rising to 7 percent by
2013, according to the budget forecasts. A weaker shilling,
rising  oil prices  and drought all pose a risk to the estimate,
it said.  Oil prices at $100 a barrel for the rest of the year would
increase Kenya’s import bill by about $700 million, while record
high global food prices are raising costs for consumers, Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga  said in Parliament in Nairobi today.  External Shocks  “These external shocks will certainly give rise to
downward pressure to our economic growth and upward pressure to
inflation,” Odinga said. “But the government will take
appropriate measures to cushion Kenyan households and Kenyan
industries from these shocks,” he said.  Kenya plans to “simplify” its requirements for tax
payments next year, which may include removing VAT exemptions,
Kenyatta said on March 21.  The government faces “huge demand” for additional
spending to fund implementation of a constitution enacted in
August, and to help cope with drought in an economy that is
about 25 percent reliant on agricultural production, according
to the statement.  Government borrowing rose to 125 billion shillings in the
current fiscal year, from an original estimate of 105 billion
shillings, to fund those programs, the ministry said. The East
African nation plans to reduce borrowing on the local market to
105.2 billion shillings, or 3.4 percent of GDP, in 2011-2012, it
said.  A drop in the sale of government debt may push commercial
banks to increase  consumer lending , Amish Gupta, an investment
banker with Nairobi-based Standard Investment Bank, said by
phone today. “This would have a positive impact on
macroeconomic fundamentals and GDP growth.”  Growth Target  Kenya’s government is investing in infrastructure including
building roads, power generation plants, airports and railways
to boost economic growth to 10 percent and sustain it as part of
an economic blueprint known as Vision 2030.  The government increased foreign exchange reserves to $4.1
billion in February, compared with $4 billion at the end of
December after the  International Monetary Fund  released its
first $100 million tranche of a $508.7 million credit facility,
the statement said.  The shilling has depreciated 5 percent this year against
the dollar to its weakest level in 17 years on increased demand
for the U.S. currency by oil importers as global crude prices
surge. Inflation rose for the fourth straight month in February
to 6.5 percent, above the official 5 percent target, prompting
the central bank yesterday to increase the benchmark interest by
a quarter of percentage point to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 