-- 
Nantucket Joins Martha’s Vineyard With Top Massachusetts Growth

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/nantucket-joins-martha-s-vineyard-with-top-massachusetts-growth.html
A vacation-home building boom
helped the Massachusetts resort islands of  Martha’s Vineyard  and
Nantucket top the state’s 14 counties in population growth rates
for the past decade.  Dukes County, which includes Martha’s Vineyard, grew 10.3
percent to 16,535 people, while Nantucket, which is also a town,
gained 6.8 percent to 10,172, U.S. Census Bureau figures
released yesterday show. Second homes have fueled the growth,
according to officials on both islands.  The Vineyard’s building boom has drawn new residents as
retirees settle year-round there, according to Mark London,
director of the  Martha’s Vineyard Commission , which oversees
development. On nearby Nantucket, demand for vacation homes and
resort rooms spurred construction, drawing immigrant tradesmen.
Some decided to stay.  “Why do the workers come? Are you kidding? It’s the
money,” Policarpo DaCruz, 44, said in an interview. The builder
spoke as his laborers framed a house above the town’s harbor.
The workers came from  El Salvador ,  Brazil  and his native Cape
Verde Islands. Each can earn $25 to $35 an hour on the island
compared with $15 on the  mainland , he said.  Nantucket’s summer folk including  Eric Schmidt ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s chief executive officer, and  Jack Welch , the former
 General Electric Co. (GE)  CEO, boost its population to 60,000 in
season, Town Clerk Catherine Stover said. Census takers didn’t
count the seasonal residents, she said.  Property Value  The boom in development that brought in workers including
plumbers and electricians also propelled the total value of the
island’s commercial and residential property to $20.3 billion,
Stover said. That put Nantucket fourth after suburban Newton,
Cambridge and Boston among the state’s  351 cities and towns ,
according to the Massachusetts Revenue Department website.  “The building fever was fueled by Wall Street money and
this attracted the economic gypsies,” said Stephen Butler,
Nantucket’s building inspector. His  department  issued 1,416
permits for single-family homes in the past 10 years and even
more in the previous decade, he said.  The number of permits issued in 2008 through 2010 declined
annually as the longest recession since the 1930s gripped the
 U.S. economy . The island’s median home price fell last year to
$1.16 million compared with $1.24 million in 2009, according to
the  Warren Group  in Boston, a publisher of real-estate data.  Global Reach  Carpenters, landscapers and housekeepers came to Nantucket
from Latin America as well as Bulgaria and  Thailand  to help
build and care for vacation retreats, Stover said. Gerald Schwartz, the chief executive of  Onex Corp. (OCX) ,  Canada ’s largest
private-equity firm, bought a nine-acre lot for $18.3 million in
2006. He had builders erect a compound of eight houses and
auxiliary structures overlooking one of the island’s sweeping
southern beaches, Butler said.  The estate includes connecting tunnels, a tennis court,
man-made pond and an entertainment area so well-appointed that
Butler said it gave him “media-room envy.” Schwartz declined
to comment, according to Emma Thompson, a spokeswoman.  By 2010, the value of Nantucket’s residential property more
than quadrupled to $18.6 billion from $4.3 billion in 2000,
according to Ellen Trifero, the assistant  assessor . Soaring
prices reflect demand for places to stay on the island during
warmer months. That has created a seasonal phenomenon among
year-round residents known as the “Nantucket shuffle.”  Seasonal Moves  Islanders move out of their homes to bunk with family and
friends while renting their residences for premium summer rates,
 Selectman  Rick Atherton said about the seasonal migration.  “We’re down to not a whole lot of property left,” said
Atherton, 68, who runs a real-estate investment business. And
it’s not just because of the construction boom.  Nantucket is about 14 miles long and three miles wide, and
as much as 45 percent of its 33,000 acres is under some form of
conservation restriction, according to Eric Savetsky, executive
director of the Nantucket Islands  Land Bank , a nonprofit created
by the state Legislature. The group, which works closely with
the town to buy and manage open space, is funded by a 2 percent
real-estate transfer fee on the  island .  The growth in year-round residents, coupled with the
seasonal influx that peaks in July and August, has increased
pressure on the island’s fragile environment, said Cormac
Collier, executive director of the  Nantucket Land Council ,
another nonprofit group.  ‘Trophy Homes’  “The very large trophy homes and even just the regular
homes have really eaten the native-plant communities and
wildlife habitat,” Collier said. The harbors’ dwindling scallop
habitat has been damaged by septic-system runoff, he said.  Nantucket’s newest residents are the most diverse. Babies
born to parents who were non-U.S. natives doubled over the
decade, said Stover, the town clerk. In 2010, 40 of the island’s
144 births fell in that category compared with 19 of the 144
births in 2000, according to town records.  The number of students in preschool classes through grade
12 who speak a language other than English at home tripled over
the decade to 92 last year from 30 in 2001, said Michael Horton,
data coordinator for Nantucket’s  public schools . This school
year, Nantucket allotted $359,000 for English-as-a-second-
language instruction, compared with $56,000 in 2001, he said.  Of eight self-selected ethnic and racial groups counted in
the 2010 Census, Nantucket’s Hispanic population grew fastest,
more than tripling to 723 residents, according to census
figures. Asians more than doubled to 146, the second-fastest.  ‘Place in Flux’  “It just proves that Nantucket has always been a place in
flux, and it’s interesting to see it evolve,” said Harvey
Young, 54, third-generation owner of  Young’s Bicycle Shop .  To deal with the diversity, Police Lieutenant Jerry Adams
said several police officers speak Spanish and Portuguese and
work with volunteer translators. In other cases -- including one
involving a Nepalese man -- police have looked off-island for
interpreters, said Adams, who didn’t encounter such issues when
he started as a special summer officer in 1979.  “Nantucket has become very cosmopolitan,” he said.  The strain of providing services to an increasingly
polyglot community has Stover and other officials trying to
boost the island’s headcount, as population data can affect
state and federal aid. Based on 2000 census data, the town
received about $12.4 million a year from the state and federal
government in the past decade, Stover said.  Census Challenge  In 2007, she challenged a census estimate for the town and
succeeded in establishing a 5 percent population gain to 11,060.
Stover contended an undercount was possible because illegal
immigrants avoid census takers. She said the number of year-
round residents may range from 15,000 to 20,000.  Census  officials said they have tried to address a possible
undercount. “We’ve done a myriad of things to ensure an
accurate count,” including hiring census takers with local
knowledge and expertise in seasonal communities, said Michael
Cook, a spokesman in  Washington .  Peak summer weekends offer a snapshot of Nantucket’s
bustle. Bulky sport-utility vehicles, Jeeps and imported cars
jam the streets and jockey for one of the 1,000 parking spots in
Nantucket’s main village, said Melissa Philbrick, executive
director of  ReMain , a nonprofit focused on the commercial
center. Her group wants to design a system of remote lots and
downtown pay stations for quick turnover of spaces that could
net $1.6 million annually in parking fees.  Lucy Dillon, an eight-year resident, said she may move out
if more people keep moving in. “We’re not moving to Nova Scotia
yet,” quipped Dillon, 56. “But that’s the next step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in  Boston  at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ; 