-- 
Naples Rises From Florida Housing Swamp as Wealthy Buyers Return to Market

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-23T17:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/naples-rises-from-florida-housing-swamp-as-wealthy-buyers-return-to-market.html
Joshua Bahoff bought a three-
bedroom luxury condominium in Naples,  Florida , in December for
$235,000, about one-third of the price that the seller paid near
the height of the U.S. housing boom.  “It was a great deal,” said Bahoff, 59, a Philadelphia
dentist who plans to spend one week a month every winter in the
2,700-square-foot (250-square-meter) property in  Fiddler’s
Creek , a residential and golf development south of the city’s
downtown historic district on the Gulf of Mexico. “We can’t see
this market going down any lower.”  While much of Florida’s real estate market remains
depressed by foreclosures, buyers seeking a second home in the
state’s affluent vacation enclaves are “finally getting off the
fence,”  Karen Van Arsdale , an agent at Premier Sotheby’s
International Realty in Naples, said in a telephone interview.  Sales in the Naples area last year rose 10 percent, the
first annual increase in at least five years, while the median
price for homes listed at $300,000 or more gained 4 percent to
$544,000, according to data compiled by the Naples Area Board of
Realtors. About half of the properties in the market are second
homes, and discounts from 2006 peak prices average about 25
percent, said Brenda Fioretti, president of the group.  “Wealth determines housing, and the good places pick up
first,”  Karl Case , 64, a professor emeritus in economics at
 Wellesley College  in  Massachusetts  who has been visiting Naples
since a family vacation took him there when he was 13, said in a
telephone interview. “For people with deep pockets, it’s
generally a flight to quality.”  Atlantic Coast  Resort towns on Florida’s Atlantic coast are starting to
follow the lead of Naples, said Patricia Fitzgerald, president
of the Florida Realtors. Sales in  Boca Raton , Jupiter and  West
Palm Beach  rose 32 percent for existing houses and 40 percent
for condos in February from a year earlier, according to the
group.  Rising stock prices and the decision by President  Barack
Obama  and Congress not to increase tax rates in 2011 contributed
to the surge in deals, according to Van Arsdale. Record cold
temperatures in parts of the Midwest and Northeast this winter
“nudged people” to make real estate purchases they’d been
putting off, she said.  Home values in South Florida markets may show a “surprise
upward” trend while U.S. prices remain flat this year,
according to  Lawrence Yun , chief economist in  Washington  for the
National Association of Realtors.  “Given that they are historical vacation destinations for
the wealthy, and the stock market having risen so much, it’s
possible that they get a nice snap back even though I’m calling
for no change nationwide,” Yun said.  International Buyers  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, a benchmark for U.S.
equities, has risen 91 percent since reaching a 12-year low in
March 2009.  International buyers seeking to protect their wealth with
U.S. hard assets may also buoy South Florida, according to a
June 2010 report by the Chicago-based Realtors association.
Florida properties accounted for 22 percent of all purchases
made by buyers from outside the U.S. in the 12 months ended in
April, the most of any state, according to the report.  The surge in Naples luxury prices contrasts with much of
Florida’s housing market, where values are falling amid a glut
of foreclosed properties. Loan servicers have been slow to
resume home seizures as state attorneys general investigate
mortgage-industry practices such as robo-signing, or using
employees to sign affidavits and other documents, according to
RealtyTrac Inc.  Foreclosure Ranking  Florida’s ranking of foreclosure filings per household fell
to eighth among states last month from second in September,
before the robo-signing controversy broke, the Irvine,
California-based data seller said March 10. Florida ranked
second in the number of filings sent to property owners with
18,760.  “The foreclosure market is completely dysfunctional,”
said  Michael Olenick , founder of LegalPrise Inc., a data seller
based in  Palm Beach  that focuses on distressed properties.
“People have given up finding a really cheap foreclosure.”  WCI Communities Inc., a Florida homebuilder that emerged
from bankruptcy in September 2009, has “aggressively” reduced
peak prices by as much as 40 percent at nine of its developments
around the state, including three in Naples, Chief Executive
Officer David Fry said in an interview.  The Bonita Springs-based builder, which cut its staff from
4,000 to 600, expects to sell 300 units this year and almost
double that number in 2012, he said.  Confidence Returns  “The stock market has favorably affected confidence in
recent months,” Fry said as he sat on the back patio of the
Ritz-Carlton Hotel and Golf Resort in Naples, which WCI
developed in 2002 as part of its Tiburon community. The hotel
hosts the Naples Winter Wine Festival, a charity auction and
social event that raised $12 million in January, 48 percent more
than last year.  U.S. new-home sales unexpectedly fell in February to the
slowest pace on record, and prices dropped to the lowest level
since December 2003, Commerce Department data showed today in
Washington. Sales declined 17 percent to a 250,000 annual pace
and the median decreased 8.9 percent from a year earlier.  Land Prices  Still, builders in the Naples area continue buying land as
prices rise and the local real estate recovery takes hold,
according to Steve Hagenbuckle, managing principal of real
estate investment firm TerraCap Management Corp. in Cape Coral,
Florida.  Undeveloped land with zoning approvals in Estero, north of
Naples, sold to a public builder Hagenbuckle declined to name
for $40,000 per quarter-acre lot. Eight months ago,  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL)  bought similar land for $10,000, he said.  Premier Sotheby’s International Realty sold 41 Naples
residences priced at $2 million or more this year through March
17, a gain of 14 percent over the same period in 2010, according
to Lutgert Cos., a Naples property developer that owns the
brokerage. There were 55 sales of homes priced between $1
million and $2 million, an increase of 17 percent, President
Howard Gutman said in an e-mail.  “The buyers are value-conscious, but they’re making
decisions,” said Van Arsdale, who brokered four transactions
for a combined $27 million since Christmas. The properties sold
for about 30 percent less than peak prices, she said.  $80,000 Savings  Richard Azrael, 65, wanted to buy last year at WCI’s
Marquesa subdivision next to the Ritz-Carlton until the company
bankruptcy delayed his purchase. Last month, he closed on a
three-bedroom, 3,000-square-foot condo and golf membership for
$720,000, saving about $80,000 over the 2010 price, he said.  “We’ve been thinking of this for several years, and we
felt that if we were going to do it, we should do it now,” said
Azrael, a  real estate developer  from Columbia,  Maryland . “We’ve
been spending a lot of time in Florida on both coasts, and we
happen to like the pace and environment in Naples.”  Naples, with a bay like its namesake Italian city, was
developed in the late 1880s by John S. Williams, a U.S. senator
from  Kentucky , and Walter Haldeman, publisher of the state’s
Louisville Courier-Journal. They built homes, a pier and a 16-
room hotel, according to the Naples Historical Society  website .  The town, about 170 miles (270 kilometers) south of Tampa,
remained “a small, lovely oasis along the  Gulf of Mexico ”
until the 1950s, the website says.  Interstate Access  After U.S. Interstate 75 was extended from Tampa to Naples
and international service began at Southwest Florida Airport,
Ritz-Carlton opened the first of its two hotels, a resort on
Vanderbilt Beach near downtown, in 1985.  “That put Naples on the map,” Gutman said.  Midwest residents had always been the core vacation group,
driving south on I-75, and now they were joined by air travelers
and international visitors, Gutman said.  The office portion of the Mercato commercial development, a
Lutgert joint venture with Barron Collier Cos. that opened in
late 2008, is 83 percent leased with tenants including
securities brokers Merrill Lynch & Co. and Wells Fargo Advisors,
Gutman said.  Hotels Fill Up  The oldest hotel in town, the  Naples Beach Hotel and Golf
Club , is also feeling the upswing, said Mike Watkins, whose
family has owned the property since 1946. Located on Gulf Shore
Boulevard, which passes by the boutiques, sidewalk cafes and
mansions of Old Naples, the hotel completed a $40 million
renovation this year that includes refurbished rooms and golf
greens and two new pools.  Occupancy in March for the 317-room property may reach 90
percent, the highest for the month in a decade, after the
recession pushed the rate to the “low 50s,” he said.  “We’re positive about the economy,” Watkins said.  Case, co-creator of a widely watched home-price index with
 Yale University ’s  Robert Shiller , said a steady U.S. recovery
bodes well for Naples and the national housing market. Private
surveys they conduct every year show “consumer home sentiment
is strengthening” after reaching a low in 2008.  “We’re not roaring out of this -- GDP is 3.5 percent to 4
percent and the stock market is around 12,000 -- but I believe
we’ve hit a bottom,” Case, whose banker father first brought
the family from  New York City  to Naples in 1959. He remembers
his initial impressions of “a sleepy town that just took off.”  “If you look around the country at places that hold their
value, there are not a lot of houses on Martha’s Vineyard or
Aspen or  Jackson Hole ,” Case said. “Naples is one of those
areas, kind of a special place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  