-- 
Airstrikes by Allies ‘Pressurizing’ Qaddafi’s Forces on Ground

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   J a m e s   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-03-23T19:17:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/nato-members-fail-to-agree-on-libya-role-as-france-seeks-arab-involvement.html
U.S. and allied warplanes are
striking Muammar Qaddafi’s ground forces that have continued
attacks on Libyan cities, as NATO members failed for a third day
to resolve disputes over a role for the alliance.  Libyan government forces have increased their attacks on
cities, killing 16 people today in embattled Misrata and six in
the nearby coastal town of Zentan, opposition spokesman
Abdulhafid Ghoga said at a news conference in Benghazi.  The coalition that intervened in the conflict is
“pressurizing Qaddafi’s forces” by targeting government tanks,
artillery, supply lines and communications points, said U.S.
Rear Admiral Gerard Hueber. Regime forces must pull back from
embattled cities and allow humanitarian aid to reach civilians,
he said, briefing reporters at the Pentagon by telephone from a
command ship in the Mediterranean.  “All attacks against civilians must stop,” he said.  The  Libya  conflict began in February in the eastern city of
Benghazi. It is the bloodiest of the uprisings that have spread
across the Middle East and ousted the leaders of Egypt and
 Tunisia .  As the regional turmoil continued, crude oil for May
delivery rose 78 cents to $105.75 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 26,
2008. Prices have advanced 29 percent in the past year.  NATO Dispute  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Qaddafi can
end the allied attacks by giving up power. The Libyan leader
“has a decision to make,” she said, speaking at the State
Department in Washington. Qaddafi has repeatedly said he will
 not submit to demands he give up power after four decades.  In Brussels, NATO failed to agree on an expanded role in
Libya, as squabbles prevented the U.S. from handing off command
of the campaign against Qaddafi. The  28-member  bloc has yet to
find the formula to balance military needs and political
sensitivities in the five-day-old operation.  “These are difficult discussions on very difficult
issues,” alliance spokeswoman Oana Lungescu told reporters in
Brussels today. “NATO is ready to act if and when required.”  Foreign ministers of the countries involved in the military
operation in Libya will meet March 29 in London, French Foreign
Minister Alain Juppe said.  President  Barack Obama  spoke with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  yesterday to try to
resolve the issues, statements yesterday from their offices
said. Obama said he is confident the issues will resolved so the
transfer can happen “within days.” A likely outcome would give
NATO some operational duties with political oversight from an
ad-hoc grouping of coalition member nations, according to a
Western diplomat at the  United Nations .  ‘Pretty Bad Picture’  “It paints a pretty bad picture of the political
dynamics,” Bastian Giegerich, a consulting fellow at the
London-based  International Institute for Strategic Studies , said
in an interview. “Normally the U.S. is the first among equals
in NATO, but with the Americans stepping back it makes it more
difficult to create consensus.”  The initial wave of allied airstrikes concentrated on
Libya’s air defenses and grounded Qaddafi’s air force. The
coalition flew 175 sorties in a 24-hour period through this
morning, including 63 by non-U.S. aircraft, Hueber said.  Qaddafi’s forces have continued attacks against Benghazi,
Misrata, and Ajdabiya, he said. “Qaddafi’s forces are targeting
civilian population centers specifically,” he said.  Those forces must stop their attacks and pull back in
accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1973, he said,
adding that the U.S. has sent word to Qaddafi’s forces about how
to position themselves if they want to avoid being targeted.  “Our primary focus is to interdict those forces before
they enter the city, cut off their lines of communication, and
cut off their command and control,” Hueber said.  Qaddafi’s Targets  Qaddafi battalions have been shelling targets near
Benghazi, al-Jazeera reported, citing its own reporter.
Seventeen people were killed in Misrata yesterday, Saadoun al-
Misrati, a rebel spokesman there, told  Al Arabiya  television.  Cameron said there are now 11 nations with 150 aircraft
operating in the allied mission across Libya. He said two more
Arab nations, Kuwait and Jordan, would join the coalition to
supply logistical help.  “A no-fly zone is in place over Libya,” Cameron told
lawmakers in Parliament in  London  today. He said the city of
Benghazi was largely under rebel control though “clearly there
is great concern about what the regime is doing in Misrata.”  “A lot more remains to be done,” Cameron said.  Protecting Civilians  Hueber said the coalition is now focusing on efforts to
protect civilians who are in “grave danger.” Those population
centers include Misrata, in western Libya; Ajdabiya, the gateway
to Benghazi, the country’s second-largest city; and Zawiyah,
near Tripoli.  Qaddafi’s forces continued their siege of the Misrata,
preventing anyone from coming in or out and blocking food and
medical supplies, Mohamed Al-Misrati, a city resident, said by
satellite phone. “The city is completely isolated now with no
water, electricity or communications,” he said. “The medical
situation is extremely difficult. We don’t have enough equipment
or medicines.”  Aiman Abushahma, a doctor at Misrata’s Central Hospital,
said snipers were keeping staff away from the hospital.  “There are snipers on the high building by the hospital
and they are shooting anybody that comes near,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Elsewhere, Yemen’s U.S.-backed president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, who has ruled for three decades, urged unity among the
armed forces after several officers defected to join protesters,
and won parliament support for the state of emergency he
declared last week after dozens of demonstrators were shot dead
by pro-regime gunmen.  Bahrain,  Israel   Bahrain has imposed a curfew after the Sunni Muslim
monarchy brought in Saudi Arabian security forces to crush
Shiite protests. Israeli artillery and air strikes in the  Gaza
Strip  have left at least seven Palestinians dead in the past two
days, and four people were killed in the latest outbreak of
unrest in  Syria , according to Al Arabiya.  About 20 people were injured in an explosion near the
entrance to  Jerusalem  today, Israel’s Channel 2 reported. Police
have confirmed that there was an explosion and had no immediate
details, spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
James Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  