-- 
Natural Gas Futures Rise Near Seven-Week High on Colder Weather

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-03-23T19:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/natural-gas-futures-rise-near-seven-week-high-on-colder-weather.html
Natural gas futures rose to the
highest price in almost seven weeks as forecasts of colder-than-
normal weather signaled stronger demand for the heating fuel.  Gas gained 1.9 percent as the U.S. Climate Prediction
Center in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland , said the eastern half of the
U.S. has a strong probability of being cooler than normal
through April 5. Hundreds of flights were canceled from  Chicago 
to New York today as a storm dropped snow from  Montana  to the
Atlantic.  “We are trying to put winter behind us but we can’t
totally do it,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst with PFGBest in
Chicago.  Natural gas for April delivery rose 8.1 cents to $4.335 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement price since Feb. 3. The futures
have risen 5 percent from a year ago.  The close above $4.30 means “it’s possible that we could
target $4.45,” Flynn said.  The low temperature in New York on March 25 will be 26
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 3 Celsius), 12 degrees below normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  The 11- to 15-day forecast was “highly volatile” and
overall temperatures will be near normal during the forecast
period, according to  Matt Rogers , a forecaster at  Commodity
Weather Group LLC  in Bethesda, Maryland.  More Cold Weather  “This moderation appears only to be a pause, because
another round of perhaps more widespread cooler to colder
weather returns by days 13-15,” Rogers said in a note.  The U.S. Energy Department may say tomorrow that gas
stockpiles slipped 8 billion cubic feet in the week ended March
18, according to the median of 18 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The five-year average drop for the week is 17
billion.  Gas posted its biggest percentage gain since July 15 on
March 17 after the Energy Department reported an inventory
decline that was larger than analysts had forecast.  Stockpiles dropped 56 billion cubic feet in the week ended
March 11 to 1.618 trillion, the department reported. Storage is
1.4 percent above five-year average.  U.S. gas also “had a psychological boost” as  Japan 
increases its demand for liquefied natural gas to replaced
nuclear reactors damaged by the earthquake, Flynn said.  Indonesia LNG  Indonesia, the world’s third-largest LNG exporter after
Qatar and Malaysia, may divert cargoes from BP Plc’s Tangguh
plant in West Papua province to Japan, Energy and Natural
Resources Minister Darwin Saleh told reporters in Jakarta today.  Yemen LNG said it’s operating normally amid unrest sweeping
the country. Lawmakers in the country today extended a state of
emergency for 30 days as efforts by protesters to oust President
Ali Abdullah Saleh gained momentum.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
313,983 as of 2:42 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 302,000. Volume was 281,562 yesterday. Open interest was
897,569 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
876,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 