-- 
New Zealand's Economy Expanded 0.2% in Fourth Quarter, Avoiding Recession

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-03-23T22:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/new-zealand-s-economy-expanded-0-2-in-fourth-quarter-avoiding-recession.html
New Zealand ’s economy expanded more
than economists forecast in the fourth quarter as stronger
exports and construction helped the nation avoid a recession
before a Feb. 22 earthquake that may have stalled growth.  Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from the previous quarter when it contracted 0.2
percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report released in
Wellington today. The median forecast of 14 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was 0.1 percent growth. From a year earlier,
the economy grew 0.8 percent.  A sluggish economy and last month’s magnitude 6.3 temblor,
which killed more than 160 people and wrecked buildings in the
city of Christchurch, prompted central bank Governor Alan Bollard to cut  interest rates  on March 10 to a record low 2.5
percent. New Zealand’s dollar, the worst performing G-10
currency so far this year, gained after the report.  “The pace of growth was very underwhelming with the
economy essentially tracking sideways,” said  Jane Turner , an
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. This month’s rate cut “should help
bring some relief to stretched households and businesses. We
expect a recovery in confidence and demand over the second half
of 2011.”  New Zealand’s dollar bought 74.26 U.S. cents as of 11:40
a.m. in Wellington from 74.00 cents before the data. It has
slumped 4.8 percent this year.  Annual average growth, a measure forecast by the central
bank, was 1.5 percent, today’s report showed. Bollard on March
10 estimated a 1.4 percent pace. He expects 1.3 percent growth
in 2011 and 5.4 percent a year later.  Growth Outlook  “There are reasons to be optimistic about growth picking
up later this year,” Finance Minister Bill English said in an
e-mailed statement, citing high prices for exports, low interest
rates, reconstruction of Christchurch and visitor spending when
the nation hosts the Rugby  World Cup  in September.  In the fourth quarter, the production-based measure of GDP
was bolstered by forestry, manufacturing and commercial
building, today’s report showed. Exports and investment also
increased.  Manufacturing expanded 2.5 percent, led by metal products,
machinery, food and beverages. Commercial building rose,
offsetting a slump in  home construction . Forestry expanded at
the fastest pace in 11 years, reflecting international demand
for lumber, the statistics agency said.  Exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy, increased
2.1 percent, led by milk, meat and lumber shipments, the report
showed. Investment increased 4.8 percent.  Household Consumption  Imports rose 6.6 percent, the most since the first quarter
of 2004, led by purchases of aircraft and tourist spending
abroad. The surge helped stoke the biggest buildup in
inventories since 1987.  Household consumption rose 0.2 percent, led by demand for
services including recreation and education. Spending on
furniture, appliances and other durable goods fell 1.2 percent.
Demand for non-durable products such as fuel also dropped.  Growth was hindered by a slowdown in farm output as a
drought curbed milk production, the statistics agency said.
Wholesale trade fell for the first time in five quarters while
the retail, accommodation and restaurant industry had its
largest decline in almost two years.  Hallenstein Glasson Holdings Ltd. (HLG) , an Auckland-based
clothing retailer, today said net income fell 17 percent in the
six months ended Feb. 1 from a year earlier, reflecting weaker
sales in some categories during the Christmas and summer
vacation period.  ‘Challenging Environment’  “The general economic environment can best be described as
challenging,” the company said in a statement sent to the stock
exchange. “The rising cost of food and petrol has an immediate
impact on our customers.”  Ten of 14 economists surveyed on March 10 by Bloomberg News
expect Bollard will keep the rates unchanged until next year.
Four predict a move higher in the fourth quarter.  The economy shrank in the third quarter for the first time
since the first quarter of 2009, which was the end of five
straight quarterly contractions as the global credit crisis
contributed to the nation’s worst recession in three decades.  Growth returned through the middle of 2009, supported by a
housing recovery and demand for the nation’s commodity exports
from  China  and  Asia . Still, the pace of expansion slowed as
consumers and companies preferred to reduce debt rather than
spend or invest.  Last month’s earthquake followed a magnitude 7 temblor that
rocked the South Island city of Christchurch and surrounding
districts on Sept. 4, wrecking homes but claiming no lives.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand has estimated the cost of
the rebuilding from the two events will be at least NZ$15
billion ($11 billion) commencing in 2012. It forecasts a
contraction in GDP in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  