-- 
Nigeria’s Union Bank Signs $750 Million Agreement With Group

-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 
2011-03-23T14:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/nigeria-s-union-bank-says-african-capital-alliance-to-invest-726-million.html
Union Bank of  Nigeria  Plc, a lender
bailed out by the nation’s central bank in 2009, signed a
memorandum of agreement with a group led by African Capital
Alliance that will invest $750 million in the bank.  The group, which will invest as Union Global Partners Ltd.,
includes ABC Holdings Ltd., a Botswanan lender, TRG Management
LLP, Keffi Group VIII LLC, which comprises New York-based Keffi
Group and other U.S. institutional investors, the company said
in an e-mailed statement from Lagos today.  “By this agreement, African Capital Alliance has emerged
as the preferred core investor of Union Bank,” Francis Barde,
principal manager of corporate affairs at the lender, said in a
phone interview today.  A debt crisis in Nigeria’s banking industry in 2009 forced
the central bank to rescue some of country’s lenders by
injecting 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) of capital into them.
Eight of the lenders’ chief executive officers were fired and
the central bank called for interested parties to bid for stakes
in the banks. The transaction between Union Bank of Nigeria and
African Capital is the first such agreement announced by any of
the rescued banks.  Union Bank shares climbed to the highest in more than a
week, adding 2.2 percent to 3.19 naira by the 2:30 p.m. close in
Lagos.  Future Mergers  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said on March 4 that
two rescued banks have signed accords to receive more capital,
either through mergers or acquisitions, and four others are
close to signing takeover agreements.  Nigeria’s banking industry will have as many as eight
mergers in the “near future,” most of them within weeks,
Deputy Governor Kingsley Moghalu said Feb. 22.  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, a state-owned company,
is seeking approval from the central bank to start the second
phase of its program to buy bad debts from banks, according to
Chief Executive Officer Mustapha Chike-Obi.  Amcon, as the company is known, on Dec. 31 signed debt
purchase agreements with 21 of Nigeria’s 24 banks and issued
1.04 trillion naira ($6.8 billion) of so-called consideration
bonds that are not tradable to buy non-performing loans from
them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Olukoya in Lagos via Abuja at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 