-- 
Toyota To Resume Prius Production in Japan; Honda Extends Plant Closures

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T20:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/nissan-s-ghosn-says-40-japan-suppliers-are-still-in-difficulty-after-quake.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  plans to resume
production of the Prius and two other hybrid models in Japan as
the nation’s automakers work to restart operations after an
earthquake and tsunami idled plants for two weeks.  Toyota, the world’s largest maker of gasoline-electric
autos, will restart assembly of the Prius and the Lexus HS250h
and Lexus CT200h hybrids, which are in high demand, on March 28,
said  Paul Nolasco , a Toyota spokesman in Tokyo. He couldn’t
confirm whether Toyota’s supply chain has been restored or if
the company secured alternative sources of scarce parts.  Toyota, Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. are working to
resume domestic output following the magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami on March 11 that killed more than 9,800 people and
damaged factories. Toyota may lose production of 140,000
vehicles through March 26, with electronic parts, rubber and
plastics in short supply, the company has said.  “They are clearly prioritizing Prius, given overseas
demand,” said Jeff Liker, an engineering professor at the
University of  Michigan  who researches Toyota.  “One of the constraints for Toyota’s hybrids is the supply
of batteries,” said Liker, who is in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “One
of three plants appears to be affected, so they may only have
two-thirds of the battery supply capacity.”  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 95 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $81.19 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Honda’s
ADRs, each representing one ordinary share, dropped 25 cents to
$38 in New York.  Honda Closings  Honda extended closings at two auto-assembly plants in
Japan until April 3, said Tomohiro Okada, a company spokesman.
The factories are in Sayama, Saitama prefecture, and Suzuka, Mie
prefecture. The Tokyo-based company’s North American factories
continue to run normal production shifts, said Ron Lietzke, a
Honda spokesman in Marysville,  Ohio .  Honda gets more than 80 percent of its U.S. sales from
vehicles made at North American plants, the most among Japan’s
carmakers.  The company plans to resume production at a motorcycle
plant in Kumamoto, southern Japan, on March 28, Okada said.  In addition to a shortage of parts, Japan also is facing
electricity shortages after a nuclear-power plant was crippled,
disrupting factory production and road and rail networks.  Honda Research Center  Honda said its research and development center in Tochigi,
where the quake’s impact was most severe for the automaker, will
take several months to fully recover. As a result, it plans to
transfer functions such as product development, development of
manufacturing technologies and procurement to other facilities.  Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said yesterday
about 40 auto-parts makers remain hampered after the quake.
Nissan declined to name the suppliers.  “This is serious, and it’s still difficult to evaluate,”
Ghosn, 57, said yesterday in a phone interview. “You have the
earthquake, you have the tsunami, rolling blackouts, and fuel
shortages hitting at the same time, and they aren’t only hitting
the car manufacturers, but also the suppliers and the dealers.”  Nissan will keep running normal assembly shifts at U.S.
plants until at least April 1 as it assesses the parts supply
situation, the company  said in a statement . Nissan’s plants in
 Mexico  and  Brazil  aren’t likely to be affected by supply issues,
the company said.  Leaf Production  Production of the Leaf electric car and lithium-ion
batteries resumed at Nissan’s factory in Oppama,  Japan .  “The ability to sustain production will depend to a large
degree on the frequency of rolling blackouts due to electricity
shortages,” the company said.  Carmakers are jointly offering support to parts suppliers
through the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Ghosn
said.  U.S. Prius sales jumped 47 percent in the first two months
of the year, and Toyota was anticipating increased demand fueled
by rising gasoline prices.  Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, closed all 18 auto-
assembly plants in the Asian nation until at least March 26. The
plants in Tsutsumi and Kyushu that produce hybrids and are
scheduled to reopen March 28.  “Toyota has probably secured parts that will enable it to
produce those models for a sustained period of time,” said
Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting company Carnorama in
 Tokyo . “Starting and stopping production is the last thing
carmakers want to do because of the costs involved.”  Toyota Profit  Halting production reduces Toyota’s profit by 6.5 billion
yen ($80 million) a day, according to Koji Endo, an analyst at
Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.  Toyota said yesterday its North American production also
may be disrupted. While the company hasn’t made specific plans
to reduce shifts at plants in the U.S.,  Canada  or Mexico, it has
told workers cuts may be needed.  “It’s too early to predict location or duration” of any
potential production halt in  North America , Toyota said in a
statement.  The automaker has operated North American vehicle-assembly
and component factories normally since the March 11 quake, with
the exception of canceling overtime shifts to conserve parts.  Automakers in Japan built about 9.63 million vehicles in
2010, according to the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Osaka at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  