-- 
Fish Radiation Fears in Japan May Help Asian, Norwegian Exports

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r ,   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 
2011-03-24T05:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/norwegian-asian-fish-companies-may-benefit-from-japan-s-radiation-scare.html
Fish production companies from 
Indonesia to  Norway  may benefit from an increase in demand from 
 Japan , where radiation released by a crippled nuclear plant has 
been detected in the ocean and the food and water supply.  Hong Kong’s Pacific Andes International Holdings Ltd.
and Norway’s  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) ,  Cermaq ASA (CEQ)  and  Salmar ASA (SALM) 
may see higher demand for their fish to make up for a drop
in Japan’s seafood production. Five kinds of radioactive
material released by damaged fuel rods from the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi facility were detected in the nearby sea, including
iodine-131, cesium-134 and cobalt, according to plant
operator Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said yesterday the
government instructed regulators to implement maximum
monitoring on Japan’s seafood. The prefectures nearest the
nuclear plant damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
-- Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima -- produce 707,500 tons of
seafood, accounting for 13 percent of Japan’s 5.6 million
tons of annual production,  according  to Statistics Japan.  “The fishing industry in Japan is actually badly
destroyed or harmed by the earthquake and nuclear plant
crisis,” said Katie Tsui, head of  investor relations  at
 Pacific Andes International Holdings Ltd. (1174)  “It’s possible, in
the longer term, demand for fish from Japan will increase.”  Alaska Pollock  Japan consumes about 9 million metric tons of seafood a
year, second behind  China , according to the website of the Sea
Around Us Project, a collaboration between the University of
British Columbia and the Pew Environment Group. It is also the
largest importer, according to the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization.  Fish are at lower risk of radioactive contamination than
vegetables in Japan as radiation is diluted in seawater, the
Agriculture Ministry said today.  Tokyo Electric Power detected cobalt, iodine and cesium in
the sea near water outlets from reactors at its stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant this week.  Pacific Andes Resources, a Singapore-based trading
company 65 percent owned by Pacific Andes International,
operates a fish-processing plant in Qingdao, China, and is
China’s largest importer of frozen fish, Tsui said.  Sales to Japan account for 8.5 percent of group revenue,
with its No. 1 export being Alaska pollock roe, a Japanese
delicacy, Tsui said. Pacific Andes also supplies  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  with pollock for its restaurants.  Philippine Tuna  Alliance Select Foods International Inc. (FOOD) , a Philippine
exporter of processed tuna, expects demand from Japan to rise,
Chief Operating Officer Teresita Ladanga said.  “Right after the quake, a Japanese buyer who had orders
but didn’t want us to ship just yet, suddenly needed the
product as soon as possible,” Ladanga said. “Definitely, it
will benefit the Asian canneries because Japan will be needing
more.”  Alliance exports all the 200 tons of seafood it processes
daily and about five percent is sold to about 10 Japanese
clients, she said.  Japan is the world’s largest importer of food and the
second-largest consumer of seafood, according to the  UN Food
and Agriculture Organization .  Indonesian Shrimp  Japan is the second-biggest market for  Vietnam ’s seafood,
buying about $900 million of its exports last year, according
to the Vietnam Association of Seafood Exporters and Processors.  Vietnamese companies that import unprocessed seafood from
Japan for processing and re-exporting back have seen delays in
raw material shipments, said Nguyen Hoai Nam, the industry
group’s deputy chief administrator.  Indonesia , the world’s third-largest fish producer, also
stands to benefit. Thomas Darmawan, chairman of the Indonesian
Fishery Product Processing & Marketing Association, said on
March 22 that demand from Japan may increase 5 percent.  Indonesia’s largest seafood export to Japan by value was
shrimp, with shipments worth $375 million. Second was tuna,
which accounted for $160 million of the country’s total seafood
exports to Japan of $692 million in 2010, Darmawan said.  Norway is the world’s second-largest exporter of seafood
after China, according to the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization. The industry there may see “a positive
benefit” because of the potential drop in Japanese seafood
production, Dag Sletmo, an analyst at ABG Sundal Collier
Holding ASA in Oslo, said in an e-mail.  Norway’s Exports  Japan accounts for 4 percent of Norway’s salmon exports,
he said. Marine Harvest, Cermaq and Salmar could benefit “as
salmon is a high-value fish which can defend high
transportation costs,” he wrote.  Japan exported 195 billion yen ($2.4 billion) of seafood
last year, accounting for 0.3 percent of total exports,
according to data on the website of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  Total food exports from Japan amounted to 481 billion yen
last year, accounting for 0.7 percent of total exports,
according to data on the  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries  website.  In 2009, more than 70 percent of Japan’s food exports
went to  Hong Kong , the U.S., China,  Taiwan  and  South Korea ,
according to the Japan External Trade Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  