-- 
Nuclear Power Threatens Hydrocarbon Romance: Gwyneth Cravens

-- B y   G w y n e t h   C r a v e n s
-- 
2011-03-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/nuclear-power-threatens-hydrocarbon-romance-commentary-by-gwyneth-cravens.html
Amid all the hysteria about nuclear
meltdowns and radiation poisoning, here’s something to consider:
U.S. commercial reactors have never caused a single death.  Worldwide, nuclear power has the lowest accident rate based
on the amount of energy generated by any source. Compare that
record with the havoc caused by dam failures and the disease and
deaths wreaked by fossil-fuel pollution and explosions.  Because uranium provides so much energy relative to its
mass, the volume of reactor fuel is small. The roughly 70,000
tons of nuclear fuel from many decades of delivering trillions
of kilowatt-hours of power could fit in a single Best Buy store.
If the fuel were recycled, as is done in  France , the residue
could fit in the TV department.  In terms of the environment, nuclear power emits about the
same carbon-equivalent per kwh as that of wind power, and less
than solar. These renewable sources, however, are weak and
intermittent providers. As many climatologists and
environmentalists agree, nuclear power, which now provides 20
percent of U.S. electricity, is the only large-scale way to
replace deadly, global-heating fossil-fuel combustion while
providing steady, reliable electricity.  Among a plethora of horrors, the March 11 earthquake in
Japan caused an explosion at a huge  oil refinery . The
conflagration continued for 10 days, releasing thousands of tons
of toxic particles. Early on, images of the blaze were shown on
television and misleadingly coupled with bulletins about the
tsunami-impaired Fukushima nuclear-power facility, where no
fires raged. In the aftershocks, gas tanks continued to explode
in the rubble of shattered towns, and huge numbers of smashed
vehicles with gasoline tanks and lead batteries are still
washing around in tidal water.  Unfolding Story  The story is still unfolding, but in the end, pollution of
air, water, and soil from fossil fuels pose a greater risk than
the relatively low-level radiation from Fukushima.  If  Japan  and other countries decide to ban or curtail
nuclear power, reliance on fossil energy will grow even faster
than is now the case.  The media have relayed a steady stream of scary and
inaccurate reports to an understandably worried audience.
Contrary to dire headlines,  radiation exposure  to the public has
been very limited and diluted -- insignificant relative to the
 natural radiation  that bombards us or to CT scans and  dental X-
rays . The spraying of water on the plant and other efforts by
heroic workers are helping to inhibit the spread of radioactive
particles. Electricity and coolant systems have been restored.  Force of Nature  True, much still remains unknown about the extent of
damage, but all fuel appears to be contained. Compared with the
staggering tragedy unleashed by the large-scale destruction of
life and property by natural forces, even the worst problems at
Fukushima will not leave behind the lethal legacy some
commentators predict.  No, the far greater risk is from a slowly unfolding, less
pictorial calamity: the tremendous price exacted by our romance
with burning hydrocarbons. They power our civilization.  When coal, gas, and oil burn -- providing 73 percent of
U.S. electricity -- they release transparent gases that combine
with  water vapor  to form fine particulates. These lodge in our
lungs,  killing  13,200 Americans annually and sickening thousands
of others. In addition, unconfined fossil-fuel residues include
soot, mercury, radon, ozone and, in the case of coal, 100
million tons a year of fly ash laced with heavy metals.  Health
costs : $120 billion a year.  Radioactive Emissions  Continuous low-dose radioactive emissions from coal
combustion, which concentrates isotopes in the fly ash and flue
gases, expose residents within a 50-mile radius of a plant to
low-level radioactivity that is 100 to 400 times greater than a
nuclear plant would.  What about  natural gas ? In 2010 alone, its power-related
explosions killed 14 Americans. Extraction pollutes the water
supply, sometimes with radioactive material -- low-dose, but
sometimes far greater than the level allowed by the
Environmental Protection Agency.  Nuclear energy, which worldwide maintains a better safety
and public-health  record  than fossil-fuel plants and
hydroelectric dams do, is essential if we are to reduce deaths
and curb carbon and greenhouse emissions that are accelerating
global warming and ocean acidification. (Acidification
compromises the basis of the food chain -- the phytoplankton
that produces half of the world’s oxygen.)  The technical community will review the Japanese nuclear
crisis and recommend improvements. Although the reactors
properly shut down with the first jolt, the cascade of
difficulties brought by the tsunami overwhelmed the site.  Lessons Learned  In any case, that 1966 plant is outmoded. Modern ones have
redundant passive-safety features that would have ensured
Fukushima’s stability. These innovations are partly thanks to
lessons learned about oversight and human engineering from the
meltdown at Three Mile Island. U.S. plants are continuously
upgraded, and the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  will be
instituting new improvements and encouraging other countries to
follow suit.  We are all suffering from a health and environmental
catastrophe being unleashed by hydrocarbon combustion. By 2030,
power demand is expected to  almost double . If we are to keep the
lights on while reducing harm to humans and the planet, nuclear
power must grow and fossil-fuel power must shrink.  (Gwyneth Cravens is the author of “Power to Save the
World: The Truth About Nuclear Energy.” The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Gwyneth Cravens at  GC@CravensPowertoSavetheWorld.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  