-- 
Atomic Cleanup Cost Goes to Japan's Taxpayers, May Spur Liability Shift

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-03-23T12:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/nuclear-cleanup-cost-goes-to-japan-s-taxpayers-may-spur-liability-shift.html
Japan ’s taxpayer, not the nuclear
industry or insurers, will cover most of the cleanup cost from
the worst accident since Chernobyl, a financial rescue that may
spur moves by nations to make companies assume more liability.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., in its 13th day fighting to avert
a meltdown at its Fukushima plant 220 kilometers (135 miles)
north of Tokyo, at most is required to cover third-party damages
of 120 billion yen ($2.1 billion) under Japanese law. Should the
government declare the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that
flooded its reactors an “exceptional” act of God, the utility
may be off the hook in paying compensation that may be demanded
by injured workers, farmers and shareholders.  While nations including the U.S.,  Germany ,  India  and  China 
ordered plant safety checks after the March 11 accident, some
governments may seek to transfer more financial responsibility
to plant operators, which worldwide plan to build or relicense
more than 100 reactors, according to researchers who follow the
nuclear industry.  “Governments now will review burden-sharing in insurance
coverage, just like after an oil spill or bank crisis,” David
Robinson, senior research fellow at Oxford Institute for Energy
Studies in Oxford, England, said in an interview.  The Japanese government may pay as much as 1 trillion yen
to compensate businesses and individuals for damages from the
nuclear accident, or eight times the maximum cost for  Tokyo
Electric , the Tokyo Shimbun reported on March 12, without saying
where it got the information.  Quake, Tsunami Damages  The overall damages from the record earthquake and tsunami
are as much as 25 trillion yen, an amount almost four times the
hit imposed by  Hurricane Katrina  on the U.S., Japan’s government
estimated today.  India, the world’s second-largest market for new reactors,
with five under construction, passed a law last year to hold
atomic-power equipment suppliers partly liable for damages from
accidents, even in the case of operator error.  “That’s very controversial, and the current accident is
going to strengthen India’s resolve not to capitulate to
vendors,” said Chris Gadomski, a nuclear analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in  New York .  Japan, already the developed world’s most-indebted nation,
will have to sign the blank check, in keeping with international
conventions that call for a taxpayer bailout for most of the
expense of a nuclear catastrophe, regardless of fault.  Accident Intensity  Japanese authorities rated the Fukushima accident a 5 on
the 7-step  scale for nuclear incidents  of the  International
Atomic Energy Agency , under which each extra point represents a
10-fold increase in the seriousness.  At Pennsylvania’s  Three Mile Island  in 1979, one reactor
partially melted in the worst U.S. accident, earning a 5 rating.
Its $975 million repair and cleanup took 14 years to complete,
according to  a March 14 report  by Mikka Pineda, a research
analyst for Asia-Pacific at Roubini Global Economics.  The Japanese plant, with potential damage to several of its
six reactors, is “useless beyond repair,” and the generation
capacity must be rebuilt, she said.  The disaster has sparked a debate about the financial risks
of extending the lives of old reactors that may lack more robust
designs, said  Mark Hibbs , an atomic policy analyst in Berlin at
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Plants in Japan,
 Korea ,  Taiwan  and the U.S. may be affected, he said.  “These were risks that most investors considered to be
very small,” Hibbs said in an interview. “Investors will be
taking a much closer look at the design of what reactors are
built to withstand. Some projects will not find approval.”  U.S. Applications  Since 2007, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission has
received applications to build 26 reactors. Owners of 19 U.S.
reactors are seeking permits to extend the plants’ operating
lives by as much as two decades.  The Chernobyl accident in the former  Soviet Union  was rated
a 7. Its cleanup continues 25 years later as governments balk at
spending taxpayers’ money and Ukraine says it can’t foot the
bill alone.  The cost of resettling inhabitants, sealing off Chernobyl’s
contaminated area and paying medical claims may rise to $235
billion, according to an  estimate by Belarus . The neighboring
country suffered the most after the 1986 explosion that spewed
radiation across Ukraine, Belarus,  Russia  and northern  Europe .  Debate ‘Inevitable’  A new debate over liability may be “inevitable” in the
 U.S. Congress  though it’s unlikely that changes will be made,
Patrick Hughes, an energy analyst at Height Analytics in
 Washington , said in an e-mail.  BP Plc’s oil spill in the  Gulf of Mexico  prompted similar
questions last year. So far, policy makers have been unable to
agree on how much oil companies should pay in case of a spill.
U.S. law caps liability at $75 million. BP separately agreed to
set up a $20 billion fund to compensate spill victims.  “A pre-emptive strike against safe nuclear plant operators
and contractors may prove even more difficult to advance,”
Hughes said.  Some analysts said they don’t expect any liability
overhauls after Fukushima that would affect the  61 reactors
under construction worldwide  and dozens more up for license
renewals.  Chernobyl prompted an overhaul of nuclear liability laws to
help streamline compensation and litigation, and spread the
financial burden. The measures channel third-party liability for
nuclear accidents to plant operators regardless of fault and
limit their exposure by setting caps on payouts and restricting
claims to a specific timeframe.  Liability Raised  A  2004 amendment  to the Paris Convention, which covers most
western European nations, raised the operator’s liability to 700
million euros from 15 million International Monetary Fund
special drawing rights ($23.9 million). It hasn’t been ratified
by enough states, however, to take effect.  Japan raised an operator’s liability to 120 billion yen
from 60 billion yen in 2010. U.S. nuclear companies must buy
insurance to cover the first $375 million in cleanup costs.  In most countries, responsibility for general accident
damages beyond those caps falls to industry insurance pools and
eventually to the state. U.S. utilities contribute to a pooled
fund of about $12.6 billion, according to the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission , and taxpayers may be asked to pick up any remaining
costs.  “Twelve billion dollars is not going to look like much
coverage if you start talking about a catastrophic accident,”
said Charles Ebinger, director of Energy Security Initiative at
the  Brookings Institution , a Washington-based group that
researches and analyzes U.S. public policy.  Private Insurance Pool  Japanese atomic-power operators are required to buy both
government and private insurance, according to the Science &
Technology Ministry, which oversees the nuclear co1mpensation
law. The private insurance pool has an exclusion for earthquake
and tsunami-related accidents so it won’t pay out this time.  Regardless of the final expense of coverage, the “open-
ended” liability for governments is elusive, said the Oxford
Institute’s Robinson.  “Most governments have effectively hidden the reality of
costs from the public,” Robinson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net 
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net .
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 