-- 
Nuclear Illinois Helped Shape Obama View on Energy in Dealings With Exelon

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-23T14:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/nuclear-illinois-helped-shape-obama-view-on-energy-in-dealings-with-exelon.html
If Illinois were a country, it
would have the world’s 12th-largest number of  nuclear power
reactors , behind  China  and ahead of  Sweden . No other U.S. state
generates more energy through fission.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , which operates all  11  of the state’s
reactors, is no stranger to President  Barack Obama . The Chicago-
based company has served as a source of campaign contributions
and also created environmental and political challenges to
navigate.  Even as his administration reviews all U.S. reactors
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that triggered
radiation leaks from a crippled Japanese plant, Obama last week
called nuclear power an “important part” of his energy agenda.
That mirrors the balancing act he displayed in his adopted home
state, which generates more than a tenth of U.S. nuclear power.  “It’s a large part of our power generation,” said Senator
 Mark Kirk , a Republican who won Obama’s old seat in November.
“And we have more waste than any other state.”  Obama’s relationship with Exelon, the nation’s largest U.S.
nuclear power producer, led his top 2008 Democratic primary
opponent, then-Senator  Hillary Clinton  of  New York , to charge
that he had “cut some deals” with the industry.  Political Concerns  His experience also reflects his handling of political
concerns in 2005-2006 from radioactive tritium leaks at Illinois
reactors. And it includes battles over disposal of nuclear
waste, an issue Kirk is raising following the Japanese disaster.  “We need to get nuclear waste away from  Lake Michigan ,”
Kirk, 51, said. “The  United States  needs a permanent nuclear
waste storage solution, and that’s overwhelmingly Yucca.” The
Obama administration announced in February 2009 that it wouldn’t
move forward on a proposed storage center at Yucca Mountain in
 Nevada .  Democrat  Dick Durbin , the state’s senior senator, and Kirk
plan a Chicago briefing March 25 to review the safety of
 Illinois  reactors and address waste storage with Exelon
representatives.  Obama’s 2012 budget calls for an additional $36 billion in
U.S. loan guarantees for new nuclear  power plants .  “The administration’s energy priorities are based solely
on how best to build a 21st century, clean energy economy,”
White House spokesman Clark Stevens said yesterday in a
statement. “That policy is not about picking one energy source
over another.”  The existing 104 reactors in the U.S. provide about 20
percent of the nation’s electricity. Those in Illinois provide
about half the state’s power.  Campaign Accusation  Obama’s Exelon ties came under fire as he campaigned for
the Democratic nomination for president in 2008.  “Senator Obama has some questions to answer about his
dealings with one of his largest contributors, Exelon, a big
nuclear power company,”  said  Clinton, then his party primary
opponent and now his secretary of state. “Apparently he cut
some deals behind closed doors to protect them from full
disclosure.”  The Washington Post  at the time  reported that Clinton
stretched the truth, although it also said Obama had
“exaggerated his legislative accomplishments” as a nuclear-
industry watchdog.  Obama also offered assurances to Nevadans on waste storage
during the 2008 campaign.  ‘Independent Judgment’  “I will bring to this issue not just independent judgment
and careful deliberation, but a personal appreciation that comes
from my own experience of living in the back yard of hazardous
nuclear materials,” Obama wrote in a May 2007  letter  to the
editor of the Las Vegas Review-Journal.  Exelon and its employees were the  seventh-largest  source of
campaign money for Obama, 49, during his four-year Senate
career, contributing at least $71,850, according to the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  When he ran for president, the company’s employees  gave  at
least $200,000, and board member John Rogers Jr., chairman of
Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC, was a  top  Obama fundraiser.  Exelon “actively engages in the political process and
supports candidates from both parties who we believe will
support sensible energy policies,” company spokeswoman Judith Rader said yesterday in a statement.  Emanuel, Axelrod Ties  Two top former Obama aides, onetime senior adviser  David Axelrod  and ex-White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel , had
business dealings with Exelon earlier in their careers.  Emanuel, who left the administration to successfully run
for mayor of  Chicago , worked on the $8.2 billion merger that
created Exelon in 2000. Axelrod, currently helping run Obama’s
re-election bid, had ownership in a consulting business that had
Exelon as a  client  before he joined the White House in 2009.  Obama’s legislative involvement with nuclear energy started
after Exelon  announced  in December 2005 that it had detected
“higher than normal concentrations” of tritium in an
underground pipe inside the boundary of a plant it operated in
Braidwood, about 60 miles (97 kilometers) southwest of Chicago.  Tritium, a radioactive form of hydrogen and a byproduct of
nuclear power generation that in large doses can increase cancer
risk, was found days later in a home’s drinking water well near
the plant, although levels didn’t exceed safety standards.  Tritium Leaks  Two months later, Exelon announced tritium leaks had been
found at two more nuclear power plant sites in Illinois. One of
those, a plant located in Grundy County, about 60 miles
southwest of Chicago, has the Mark 1 design, developed by
 General Electric Co. (GE)  in the 1960s and used at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant in  Japan .  On March 1, 2006, Obama introduced  legislation  that would
have required utilities to notify federal nuclear regulators as
well as state and county officials whenever there was “an
unplanned release of fission products in excess of allowable
limits.”  Exelon and other industry interests said they were already
doing more reporting voluntarily and the measure wasn’t needed.
A modified version of it never became law.  Exelon executives recently have stepped back from
supporting an expansion of nuclear plants. In December, Charles Pardee, Exelon Nuclear’s president and chief nuclear officer,
said the company “can’t make the numbers work” for building
plants.  On March 8, three days before the earthquake, Chief
Executive Officer John W. Rowe said lawmakers shouldn’t expand
U.S. guarantees for loans for new reactors. Rowe said on March
16 that he is reassessing a $3.65-billion plan to boost output
by upgrading Exelon’s existing reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  