-- 
OCC’s Walsh Says Banks May Face ‘Drug Interaction’ in New Rules

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-23T16:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/occ-s-walsh-says-banks-may-face-drug-interaction-in-new-rules.html
Community banks facing new rules
imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act may face an impact similar to a
“drug interaction,” where multiple measures aimed at improving
health combine to cause a negative outcome, Acting Comptroller
of the Currency  John Walsh  said.  “It’s not that any one requirement is a bad idea, but it’s
hard to judge the cumulative effect when so many changes are
made at once,” Walsh said today in remarks prepared for an
 Independent Community Bankers of America  Conference in  San
Diego . “I worry there could be ‘drug interactions’: one pill
that’s good for the heart, one for the head, but taken together
they’re dangerous.”  Walsh, outlining Dodd-Frank measures that may increase
costs and limit profits for banks, pointed to a small-lender
exemption from a proposed cap on debit-card “swipe” fees 
paid by retailers as an example of a rule with potential
for unintended consequences.  “Community banks recognize that the exemption granted has
little practical benefit because the price the Fed sets for
large banks will end up being the price smaller banks can
charge,” said Walsh, who has joined Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair  in raising questions about the measure’s impact.  ‘Becoming Unworkable’  Walsh, who became acting comptroller when John Dugan
stepped down after Dodd-Frank was enacted in July, said the
law’s prohibition on use of credit ratings in  bank regulations 
“is overbroad and becoming unworkable.”  “Normally Congress would go back and fix obvious problems,
but the current political climate offers little hope of that,”
he said. “So we will pursue the art of the possible in
rulemaking.”  The new  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , whose rules
will be enforced by existing regulators, may pose additional
challenges once it begins operations in July, Walsh said.  “The Bureau is a new agency; it may have a different
approach to consumer rules,” he said. “It remains to be seen
how conflicts between safety and soundness and consumer
protection will be addressed in rulemaking.  I believe it will
be important for all of us -- banking regulators and the
consumer bureau -- to establish and maintain a constructive
dialogue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  