-- 
Ocean Currents, Natural Dilution Dissipate Japan’s Nuclear Risk to Seafood

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-03-23T00:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ocean-currents-natural-dilution-dissipate-japan-s-nuclear-risk-to-seafood.html
Ocean currents and natural dilution
of sea water contaminated by  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s crippled
nuclear plant are likely to spare marine life and the underwater
ecosystem from devastation, scientists said.  Radioactive materials, including iodine-131, cesium-134 and
cesium-137, were detected near the Southern discharge canal from
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant on March 21. Japanese
regulators expect  results  tomorrow from their analysis of sea
water from eight locations.  The ocean can absorb significant increases in cesium and
iodine, the two most common radioactive isotopes coming from the
plant, before it becomes unsafe for humans or marine animals,
said Ken Buesseler, senior scientist at  Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institute  in  Massachusetts . Health authorities still are wise to
monitor seafood, seaweed and other ocean products, he said.  “For cesium and iodine, they are soluble,” Buesseler said
in a telephone interview. “This time of year off the coast of
 Japan , they would mix with water down 100 feet to 300 feet, and
be diluted by a factor of about 100. The currents there would
move it to the south, just north of Tokyo, and then out to
sea.”  Tokyo Electric Power said it suspected the decay of
radioactive fuel rods, composed of uranium and plutonium, five
days after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami swamped the
facility. Readings in seawater for iodine-131, which increases
the risk of thyroid cancer, were 127 times higher than normal,
while levels of cesium-134 were 25 times normal and those for
cesium-137 were 17 times higher. Cobalt has also been detected.  Risk to Agriculture  Seafood isn’t a major risk compared to food from the land
or radioactivity in the air, said Bill Camplin, group manager of
radiological and chemical risk at the  Centre for Environment,
Fisheries and Aquaculture Science  in Lowestoft,  England .
Elevated radiation levels have been found in milk and green
leafy vegetables, including spinach and spring onions, grown
near the plant 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of Tokyo.  “But my advice would be not to eat seafood caught from
within the evacuation and sheltering zone,” or about 30
kilometers offshore, Camplin said in an e-mail. “Effects on
wildlife in the sea are unlikely to be severe.”  The Food and Drug Administration yesterday banned produce,
milk and milk products from four areas in Japan near the
Fukushima plant from entering the U.S.  Seafood Consumption  Contaminated seafood is a particular concern in Japan,
which is made up primarily of four islands and whose population
eats more fish than any other nation except  China . The country
consumes about 9 million metric tons of seafood a year,
according to the website of the  Sea Around Us Project , a
collaboration between the University of British Columbia and the
Pew Environment Group. China ranked first with consumption of
13.6 million metric tons and the U.S. third at 4.7 million tons.  Iodine accumulates in seaweed and may already be present
off Japan’s coast, Buesseler said. Because iodine starts to
dissipate after a few days, the risk isn’t as long lasting as
with cesium, which remains for decades, he said.  Elevated cesium levels may be a health risk, said  Tom
McKone , professor of environmental health sciences at the
 University of California , Berkeley. The human body treats it
like potassium, an essential element, and it can penetrate soft
tissue and muscle to give off whole-body radiation, he said.  Cesium has a half-life of 30 years, meaning it will remain
for generations, compared with the much shorter 8-day half-life
seen with radioactive iodine, said McKone, a senior staff
scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.  Chernobyl and  Black Sea   Experience with the Black Sea after the world’s worst
nuclear disaster in  Chernobyl , Ukraine, shows the risk in water
may not be as great as that seen on land, said Buesseler, who
has studied issue. Cesium levels in the Black Sea, located more
than 400 miles from Chernobyl, were 10 times to 20 times higher
than normal after the 1986 accident, he and colleagues found.  Cesium was already present in the Black Sea and the  Pacific
Ocean  because of nuclear weapons testing done in the 1950s and
1960s, he said.  While the elevated levels sound dangerous, there is no
direct damage done to sea life or humans from it, he said.  “You can safely bathe in the Black Sea, eat fish from the
Black Sea and if you wanted to drink salt water, you could drink
water from the Black Sea,” he said. “It is not at levels that
are harmful for seafood consumption.”  Fukushima Plant  The 40-year-old Fukushima plant, built during Japan’s first
wave of nuclear construction, withstood the country’s worst
earthquake on record, only to have its power and back-up
generators knocked out by the 7-meter tsunami that followed.
Lacking electricity to pump water needed to cool the atomic
core, engineers vented radioactive steam into the atmosphere to
release pressure. A series of explosions ensued, blowing out
concrete walls around some reactors.  Wind blew the radioactive plume offshore, into the Pacific
Ocean, where the sheer volume of water is drastically diluting
the radiation, said David Brenner, director of the Center for
Radiological Research at  Columbia University  in  New York , in a
telephone interview.  “Dumb luck was the biggest factor in keeping the public
health risk down,” Brenner said. Radiation levels in the ocean
are probably too diluted to contaminate fish, though regulators
still need to measure it, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  