-- 
Ohio Voters Disapprove of Bargaining Limit, Kasich’s Job in Poll

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-23T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ohio-voters-disapprove-of-bargaining-limit-kasich-s-job-in-poll.html
A majority of Ohio voters oppose a
bill to restrict collective bargaining by government employees
and disapprove of Governor  John Kasich ’s job performance, a
 Quinnipiac University  poll showed.  Forty-six percent of voters fault the job Kasich’s doing,
to 30 percent who approve, while 53 percent said his budget
proposal with spending reductions and no tax increases was
unfair, according to the results released today.  “Kasich has gotten off to a rocky start with Ohio voters,
perhaps not surprising given the size of the cuts in public
services and state spending that he has proposed,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of  Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute  in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a statement.  The 58-year-old Republican who took office in January
proposed a two-year, $55.5 billion budget that calls for selling
five prisons and reducing funds for 44 of 59 agencies. He also
backs a bill that would restrict the use of collective
bargaining by state workers. In  Wisconsin , a law curbing most
collective-bargaining rights for state workers sparked weeks of
protest.  Voters disagree with limits on state worker contracts when
asked about “collective-bargaining rights,” 54 percent to 35
percent. When the question was rephrased to just “collective
bargaining,” the margin was 48 percent to 41 percent, according
to the poll released today.  “The word ‘right’ appears to have an effect on the voters’
response,” Brown said in the statement. “But no matter how the
question is asked, voters oppose limits on collective
bargaining.”  Bargaining Limits  The Ohio Legislature is considering a bill backed by Kasich
that would allow public employees to bargain only for wages,
hours and working conditions. It also would eliminate binding
arbitration, prohibit strikes by public workers and set minimums
for employee pension and health-care contributions.  The Senate approved the bill March 2 by a vote of 17-16,
and the House plans to vote on the measure before April 5, House
Speaker William Batchelder told reporters yesterday. Republicans
control both the Ohio House and Senate.  When offered a choice of balancing the budget with spending
cuts alone, or by raising taxes so there would be fewer
reductions, 65 percent opt for cuts exclusively, the poll said.  Ohio voters oppose Kasich’s plan to sell five state prisons
to private companies, 46 percent to 39 percent, according to the
poll.  The Quinnipiac Poll of 1,384 registered voters was
conducted March 15-21 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
2.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Washington at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  