-- 
Oil, Grains Will Be Top Commodity Gainers in 2011, Barclays Capital Says

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-03-23T10:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/oil-grains-will-be-top-commodity-gainers-in-2011-barcap-says.html
Crude oil and grains will be the
top commodity performers this year as investors bet on supply
disruptions, a  Barclays Capital  survey showed.  Twenty-eight percent of more than 100 investors polled this
month said oil will gain the most this year, followed by corn
and wheat, Barclays Capital said. Gold, which rose 30 percent
last year, may be “losing its shine” and was ranked the worst
performer for 2011 after natural gas, the bank said.  “There is a strong case now for taking money out of
gold,”  Kevin Norrish , a managing director at Barclays, said in
London yesterday. “The real risks are more bad weather and
higher food prices. The real risks are further geopolitical
issues and higher  oil prices . That’s why crude oil and grains
are on top of the list.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
jumped 20 percent last year, led by cotton, silver and arabica
coffee. The gauge is up 14 percent this year, with cotton, oil
and silver climbing the most. Food prices rose to a record last
month, according to the  United Nations .  Eighty-three percent of respondents plan to increase or
maintain their commodity investments over the next three years,
similar to last year, Barclays said. More than half said they
increased commodity holdings last year, while 31 percent held
them constant, it said.  $70 Billion  Eighty-two percent of respondents expect direct investments
in commodities to be $60 billion to $70 billion or even more in
2011, compared with $60 billion last year.  The oil market is “extraordinarily sensitive” to supply
disruptions amid growing demand and falling spare capacity in
producing countries, Norrish said. Crude prices have jumped 14
percent this year as turmoil that drove longtime rulers from
power in Tunisia and  Egypt  spread to Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and
Syria.  “If you look at spare capacity, by 2013-14 we are going to
be getting uncomfortably low, probably below the levels of
2008,” Norrish said.  The oil market may get even tighter if Nigerian output is
affected after presidential elections next month, Norrish said.  “Food inflation is a big issue,” Norrish said. Corn
stockpiles are low, while wheat inventories look “more
comfortable,” he said.  Wheat, Corn  Investors are betting on grains because of a combination of
low stockpiles, chances that producers may experience a repeat
of adverse weather that ruined crops last year, and rising
demand from  China , Norrish said. Wheat jumped 47 percent last
year in  Chicago  after drought cut output in  Russia  and floods
eroded crops in  Canada  and  Australia .  “People are starting to think this unusual weather is part
of a pattern, rather than pure chance,” Norrish said.  Corn will likely be the top performer among grains because
it will see the strongest demand from emerging markets such as
China, which is “transitioning to be a more important corn
importer,” according to Norrish. Higher oil prices are helping
to boost demand for corn to make ethanol, he said.  “China is importing more corn than they have done in 15
years,” Norrish said. “While it’s not a big player yet in the
traded corn market globally, it usually doesn’t take China long,
once it’s started, to become rather important.”  Natural gas, the S&P GSCI index’s worst performer in 2010,
ranked first when investors were asked to choose this year’s
worst-performing commodity, Barclays said. Gas also placed third
among selections for the best performer of 2011.  The division points toward potential further disparity
between regional natural-gas markets, with a strong performance
in  Europe  and little change in the U.S., according to Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 