-- 
Oil Near Highest Since September 2008 on Libyan Conflict, Mideast Turmoil

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-23T22:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/oil-near-highest-since-september-2008-on-libyan-conflict-mideast-turmoil.html
Oil traded near the highest since
September 2008 in  New York  as the conflict in  Libya  and
spreading Middle East turmoil bolstered concerns that supplies
will be further disrupted.  Futures rose to a 30 month high yesterday as Allied forces
attacked Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops and protesters
clashed with government forces in  Syria . Prices have advanced 16
percent this year as turmoil that toppled the leaders of Tunisia
and  Egypt  extended to Yemen, Bahrain and Oman. A U.S. government
report showed that crude supplies rose as gasoline stockpiles
fell to the lowest level this year.  “Prices are moving up because of the fear premium,” said
Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in New
York. “Oil inventories continue to build, but nobody cares
because they are afraid about what’s taking place in the Middle
East. The fundamentals don’t matter right now.”  Crude for May delivery traded at $105.54 a barrel, down 21
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 9:19 a.m. Sydney time. Yesterday, the contract climbed 78
cents, or 0.7 percent, to $105.75, the highest since Sept. 26,
2008. Prices have advanced 31 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for May settlement slipped 15 cents to end the
session at $115.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange yesterday.  Libya Attacks  U.S. and allied warplanes are striking Qaddafi’s ground
forces that have continued attacks on Libyan cities. Government
troops increased their attacks, killing 16 people yesterday in
embattled Misrata and six in the nearby coastal town of Zentan,
opposition spokesman Abdulhafid Ghoga said at a news conference
in Benghazi.  Syrian troops are forcing people to stay at home in the
southern city of Daraa after seven people were killed in renewed
anti-government protests that have swept across the country,
 Amnesty International  said yesterday. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh won backing from parliament to enforce emergency
rule, while agreeing to hand over power by the end of the year.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised its estimates for  Brent crude 
for 2011 to an average of $105.80 a barrel and for West Texas
Intermediate on the Nymex by 10 percent to $93.80, the Zurich-
based bank said in a note yesterday, citing higher demand growth
and Middle East output disruptions as reasons for the increase.  U.S. crude inventories rose for a third week, climbing by
2.13 million barrels to 352.8 million in the seven days ended
March 18, an Energy Department report showed yesterday.  Gasoline Inventories  Supplies were forecast to increase by 1.5 million barrels,
according to the median of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Gasoline stockpiles fell 5.32 million barrels to 219.7
million, the lowest level since December, the report showed.
Supplies were forecast to decline by 2 million barrels,
according to the Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Total fuel demand increased 1 percent to 19.3 million
barrels a day. Gasoline consumption climbed 2.8 percent to 9.07
million barrels a day.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the British
economy will grow more slowly than previously forecast in 2011.
The  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicts annual growth in
2011 of 1.7 percent, down from the 2.1 percent forecast in
November, Osborne said.  Purchases of new U.S. homes declined in February to the
slowest pace on record, figures from the Commerce Department
showed yesterday in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  