-- 
Tokyo Steel, Fuji Heavy Face Shutdowns as Blackouts Sap Japan's GDP Growth

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-03-25T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/tokyo-s-power-supply-may-fall-34-short-of-peak-summer-demand-after-quake.html
Tokyo  Steel Manufacturing Co. and
producers including Fuji Heavy Industries face a cut in summer
power supply of about 15 percent after Japan’s strongest
earthquake knocked out generators, curbing growth in the world’s
third-largest economy.  The 9-magnitude temblor and tsunami on March 11 crippled
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant,
triggering the world’s worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in
1986, and limiting electricity supply to the country’s most
industrialized area. The utility known as Tepco began rolling
blackouts for Tokyo and its surroundings after the disaster.  Tokyo Steel, the country’s largest electric-furnace mill,
is shifting production to plants in western Japan after its
Utsunomiya factory 140 kilometers (87 miles) north of Tokyo was
shut because of quake damage and power disruption. “The factory
won’t be fully operational even after production resumes because
of blackouts,” Managing Director Naoto Ohori said March 22.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its gross domestic
product growth estimate for the year starting April 1, while
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. forecast power outages may
cause second-quarter GDP to shrink at an annualized pace of as
much as 12 percent.  Tepco can supply 38,500 megawatts of electricity as of
March 24 and plans to boost its capacity to 46,500 megawatts by
the end of July through buying supply from other utilities and
opening idled thermal plants, it said in a statement on its
website. It expects a daily shortage of 8,500 megawatts this
summer as it estimates seasonal demand will peak at about 55,000
megawatts, it said.  Economy Damaged  “The economy is increasingly likely to contract in the
second quarter,” said Ryohei Kasahara, an economist at Daiwa
Institute of Research in Tokyo. Daiwa Institute expects power
shortages to cut  Japan ’s GDP about 0.2 percent in fiscal 2011.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its growth estimate for
the year to 1 percent from 1.7 percent.  Japan’s government estimated the damage from the earthquake
and tsunami at as much as 25 trillion yen ($309 billion), almost
four times that caused by  Hurricane Katrina  in the U.S. At least
10,000 people were killed and more than 140,000 buildings
damaged, according to Japan’s  National Police Agency .  The destruction will push down GDP by as much as 2.75
trillion yen for the year starting April 1, according to a March
23 government report. The figure doesn’t take into account the
effects of possible power outages.  Capacity Shutdown  The earthquake shut about 11 percent of Japan’s generating
capacity, according to estimates from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Among the idled plants is Tepco’s 4,700-megawatt Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear complex, where engineers are battling to contain
radiation leaks after the station was swamped by a tsunami and
lost the ability to cool reactors and spent fuel rods.  Tepco serves 28.62 million customers in Tokyo and eight
surrounding prefectures in Japan’s Kanto region, according to
its website. The region, which includes the cities of Chiba,
Yokohama, Kawasaki and Omiya, accounts for 35 percent of Japan’s
population and 39 percent of its gross domestic product,
according to Cabinet Office figures from 2007, the most recent
data available on prefectures and regions.  Industrial users accounted for 27 percent of Tepco’s
electricity sales in 2009 and residential users 73 percent, data
on the company’s website show.  Fuji Heavy  Fuji Heavy Industries relies on Tepco power for all its
facilities that produce vehicles. Its plant in the U.S. is
operating at maximum capacity “so shifting production is not an
option for us,” spokesman Kenta Matsumoto said. “No decisions
have been made on what we will do if there are power outages in
the summer.”  Toyota Motor Corp, the world’s biggest carmaker, said March
22 that all domestic car assembly will be stopped until March 26.
It is cutting electricity consumption by switching off lights at
its head office in Bunkyo-ku, spokesman  Paul Nolasco  said. The
company has yet to say what its plans are in the event of summer
outages.  Honda Motor Co. Ltd. is prioritizing restarting production
at its damaged research and development facility in Tochigi and
“is not yet at a point to figure out what to do about summer
blackouts,” spokeswoman Ando Akemi said.  Masamitsu Sakurai, head of the Japan Association of
Corporate Executives, or Keizai Doyukai, proposed that power
shortages be tackled by setting a ceiling of total power
consumption to make it easier for companies to make plans for
factory operations.  Power Transfer  The structure of Japan’s power grid limits the rechanneling
of power from one region to another because of different
operating frequencies. Utilities in eastern Japan, which include
Tepco and Tohoku Electric Power Co., produce at a frequency of
50 hertz, while the western part generates at 60 hertz, the
Federation of Electric Power Companies said.  This difference limits power transference from west to east,
according to a March 14 statement posted on the federation’s
website. “We need to convert frequency to send power from
western Japan to eastern Japan. However, the capacity of
convertors is limited,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  