-- 
Homex Seeks Bigger Brazil Presence as Housing Units Rise Almost Sixfold

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-03-23T03:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/homex-brazil-presence-to-grow-after-500-jump-in-housing-units.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB, Mexico’s
largest homebuilder, will continue growing in  Brazil  after
increasing housing units there nearly sixfold from 2009, Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Moctezuma said.  Homex, which seeks to benefit from Brazil’s growing middle
class, has 5,900 houses being built or sold in the South
American country, up from 1,000 houses when it started
operations in the South American country in 2009, Moctezuma said
yesterday in an interview at the New York Stock Exchange. The
company now has offices in the Brazilian cities of Campo Grande,
Marilia and  Sao Jose dos Campos , he said.  “The idea is to build up a sufficient footprint over time
to serve the market properly,” Moctezuma said. “Like what
happened in Mexico not long ago, the more important players in
the Brazilian housing market will be those who have a broader
geographic footprint attending the affordable-entry level.”  During the eight-year government of former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , 21 million people in Latin America’s
largest economy left poverty. President  Dilma Rousseff , who took
office this year, said eradicating poverty will be her
administration’s main goal.  Moctezuma said Brazil’s policy for low income housing makes
the country attractive for investment. A national subsidy
program will help build 2 million homes for low-income workers
by 2014. The program surpassed its original goal of financing 1
million homes by December 2010.  Brazil also has good economic growth, falling real  interest
rates  and inflation rates that are under control, Moctezuma
said. Homex will focus on mid-sized Brazilian cities and rely on
loans provided by Caixa Economica Federal, the state mortgage
agency, he said.  ‘Unattended for 20 Years’  “Brazil is twice the size of  Mexico  in terms of
population. It probably has three or four times the need for
housing, because this market has been unattended for the past 20
years,” Moctezuma said.  Homex shares gained 0.1 percent to 51.02 pesos in Mexico
City trading today. Shares are down 27 percent since the
beginning of the year, compared with a 6.8 percent fall for
benchmark IPC Index.  Invex Casa de Bolsa, a Mexican brokerage, reduced its year-
end target price for Homex to 64 pesos from 72 pesos yesterday.  “We believe that greater  capital requirements  in the
company’s Brazil operations and necessary Mexico investments to
reach promised growth rates will pressure the generation of free
operating cash flow,” the brokerage said in an e-mailed research
note.  Homex does not plan to issue debt this year, Moctezuma said
yesterday. The homebuilder will finance growth in Brazil with
their own resources or bank loans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  