-- 
Money Manager De Chimay Sentenced to Three to Nine Years by New York Judge

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 7 1 7 2 9 2 7 ]   C h a r l e s   C a r t e r   [ ]
-- 
2011-03-23T17:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/money-manager-de-chimay-sentenced-to-3-to-9-years-for-fraud-1-.html
Guy de Chimay, who pleaded guilty
to running what prosecutors called a $7 million  Ponzi scheme  and
claiming a link to a Belgian royal fortune, was sentenced to
three to nine years in prison.  Besides the prison term, Justice Gregory Carro of  New York 
State Supreme Court today ordered de Chimay, 47, to pay restitution
of more than $6 million. De Chimay pleaded guilty last month to
state charges of  securities fraud , grand larceny, scheming to
defraud and forgery.  De Chimay declined to make a statement in court. His lawyer
 Martin B. Adelman  of New York said he was too overcome with
emotion to speak.  The sentence imposed by Carro was part of a plea bargain
with the Manhattan district attorney’s office.  “He has no money,” Adelman said of his client outside the
courtroom after the sentencing. De Chimay spent some on himself
and made bad investments, the lawyer said.  The money manager used a link to the Chimay royal family of
 Belgium  to entice victims to lend him money for what he termed a
bridge loan, according to Manhattan prosecutors. He
“guaranteed” the investments, falsely claiming control over
more than $100 million associated with the family, they said.  De Chimay used a “distant connection” to the family “to
gain the trust of his victims -- his friends -- before ripping
them off,” District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a
 statement  on Feb. 2, when de Chimay pleaded guilty.  Family Tie  De Chimay is related to the family through his grandfather,
Adelman said.  The money manager was sued last year by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission in federal court in  Manhattan . He and
his fund agreed in that case to disgorge illegal gains and pay a
civil penalty without admitting or denying wrongdoing, according
to a Jan. 31 court filing.  The criminal case is People v. De Chimay, 05256-10, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Chimay Capital
Management Inc., 10-04582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). 