-- 
Hong Kong Bars Some Japan Produce After Finding Elevated Radiation Levels

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-24T06:24:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/hong-kong-bars-some-japan-produce-after-finding-elevated-radiation-levels.html
Hong Kong  barred imports of
agricultural products from parts of Japan after finding levels
of radioactive iodine in turnip and spinach samples as much as
10 times the level the city allows in food.  Hong Kong will bar dairy products, vegetables, fruits, meat
and seafood from the five Japanese prefectures most affected by
the March 11 earthquake, Clement Leung, the city’s director of
food and environmental hygiene, said in an e-mail statement
yesterday.  “We have reason to believe that contaminated food has had
the chance to flow out from Japan,” Leung said.  Hong Kong is following the U.S., which barred milk and
fresh produce from the four Japanese prefectures on March 22.
The European Union said yesterday that it has no immediate plans
to ban food imports from  Japan .  Iodine-131, which increases the risk of thyroid cancer, was
found at concentrations as high as 800 Becquerels per kilogram
in two samples of white turnips, and at 1,000 Becquerels per
kilogram in a spinach sample, the Hong Kong government said in
its e-mail. The limit for food in Hong Kong is 100 Becquerels
per kilogram, it said.  Tokyo authorities will distribute 240,000 bottles of water
to 80,000 families after tests of tap water revealed that
radioactive iodine levels were double the recommended limit for
babies.  Leafy Vegetables  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  ordered a halt to shipments of
leafy vegetables from Fukushima prefecture, his office said
yesterday. He also stopped shipments of milk and parsley from
neighboring Ibaraki.  Japan’s Health Ministry has advised against eating leafy
vegetables, broccoli and cauliflower produced near the stricken
plant, 220 kilometers (135 miles) north of  Tokyo .  Hong Kong companies including Wynn Macau Ltd., a unit of
the casino operator founded by billionaire Steven Wynn, and Lan
Kwai Fong Holdings Ltd. have said they stopped buying
ingredients from Japan for their Japanese restaurants.  “It is the prudent thing to do and we hope it’s only
temporary,” Allan Zeman, chairman of Lan Kwai Fong and vice
chairman of Wynn Macau, said in a phone interview. “Until the
situation in Japan clarifies, it’s better to import from other
areas.”  Lan Kwai Fong, which owns 18 outlets in Hong Kong, has
stopped using Japanese produce in its Kyoto Joe and Tokio Joe
outlets. Wynn runs the Okada restaurant in its Macau casino.  Japanese Milk Powder  A.S. Watson Group (HK) Ltd. ,  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
retail arm with 230 food stores in Hong Kong including PARKnSHOP
and Great supermarkets, hasn’t implemented any specific policies
regarding Japanese food imports, Kelvin Chu, a spokesman, said
by telephone today. The group continues to limit purchases of
Japanese milk powder to three containers per customer, he said.  Last week,  Mandarin Oriental International Ltd. (MAND) ’s flagship
hotel in Hong Kong and properties run by Four Seasons Hotels
Inc. and  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69)  said they had suspended purchases
of food from Japan.  Singapore suspended imports of milk and milk products,
seafood and meat from those areas of Japan affected by the
nuclear accident. Indonesia will temporarily stop importing fish
and other aquaculture products from Japan, Investor Daily
 Indonesia  reported, citing Maritime and Fisheries Minister Fadel Muhammad.  Japan was shaken by its strongest earthquake on record on
March 11, followed by a tsunami that devastated the northern
coastline and forced hundreds of thousands of people to
evacuate. The flood wave crippled the Fukushima nuclear facility
north of Tokyo, knocking out cooling systems and causing
radiation leaks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  