-- 
Online Gambling Rules May Be Overhauled as European Union Probes Barriers

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-03-23T16:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/online-gambling-rules-may-be-overhauled-as-eu-probes-barriers.html
Online gambling companies including
 Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG (BWIN)  and  Unibet Group Plc (UNIB)  will
demand pan-European Union rules as regulators consider a
possible overhaul of the EU’s patchwork of national gaming laws.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, plans to
start an information-gathering exercise tomorrow on possible
measures, according to a statement on its  website .  “There is a big problem of market access today within the
EU,” said Sigrid Ligne, secretary general of the  European
Gaming & Betting Association , whose members include Bwin, the
online gaming company merging with  PartyGaming Plc (PRTY) , and Unibet.
There is a “need for an EU regulatory framework,” Ligne told
reporters in Brussels today.  The EU’s top court in recent years has examined a
series of cases brought by betting companies including Bwin,
 Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  and Betfair Ltd. over whether it is legal for
state monopolies to block them from operating freely across the
27-nation region. Online gambling firms have also called on the
EU to take action against what they say are unjustified national
restrictions on cross-border online gambling.  Since 2006, the Brussels-based commission has probed
whether national rules in states such as  Germany , France and
Italy comply with EU laws. Most of these investigations are
ongoing.  The EU agency said tomorrow’s consultation will “determine
if the differing national regulatory models for gambling can
continue to coexist, and whether specific action may be needed
in the EU for that purpose.”  The commission plan is a sign that it has decided to
“enter into a real political dialogue” rather than seek
“legal confrontation,” said European Lotteries, a group
representing state lotteries.  EU court rulings on cases in  Italy  and Portugal have
said national gambling monopolies are legal if they meet policy
goals like reducing fraud and gambling addiction. Still, in a
ruling last year the court said Germany’s state monopoly on
sports betting and lotteries is unlawful.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  