-- 
Morgan Stanley’s Deep Secret Now Is Revealed: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-03-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/morgan-stanley-s-deep-secret-now-is-revealed-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Here’s a little secret the Federal
Reserve Board doesn’t want you to know. On Sept. 24, 2008, while
financial markets were collapsing, Morgan Stanley borrowed $3.5
billion through the Fed’s oldest lending program, the 98-year-
old discount window.  The Fed has long  claimed  that releasing this type of data
could trigger bank runs, public hysteria, death spirals at
financial institutions large and small, and other horrible
outcomes. Yet I’ve got a hunch Morgan Stanley somehow will
survive this revelation. Mass panic will not ensue. The world
will not end.  This is the kind of information the late Bloomberg News
reporter Mark Pittman was seeking when he filed a Freedom of
Information Act request with the Fed in May 2008, nine months
after the financial crisis began. Among other things, he asked
for documents showing which banks had borrowed money under the
Fed’s emergency-lending programs and the details of those loans.  The Fed blew off his request. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, responded by suing the central bank. The company
won both at the district court level and on appeal. This week,
the  Supreme Court  decided to let those rulings stand. And so
almost three years after Pittman sent his original FOIA letter,
the Fed finally will have to comply with the law.  Fox News is pressing a similar request concerning Fed loans
from August 2007 to November 2008. Much of the information the
two companies sought has been disclosed already. The Dodd-Frank
Act, which President  Barack Obama  signed last July, forced the
Fed to release details of many of its bailout programs. Still,
the Fed has yet to divulge which banks borrowed through its
discount-window program. It won’t be long now, though.  Stigma Avoidance  The  discount window  functions as a lifesaver through which
qualifying borrowers can secure emergency liquidity during times
of severe stress. Historically the Fed had kept the names of
borrowers confidential on the grounds that disclosure could
stigmatize them in the public’s eyes, even though it was the
public’s money the Fed was lending.  As it turns out, the information about  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
$3.5 billion discount-window loan has been sitting on the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission’s website since last month.
The panel didn’t mention it in its  final report . And nobody had
written a story about it before. So there: Now it can be told.  You can see the raw data by clicking  here . The link takes
you to a Morgan Stanley spreadsheet showing the company’s day-
to-day liquidity changes during a two-week period in September
2008 when the New York-based bank was fighting for survival.
(You may need to magnify the pages 400 percent to see all the
numbers.)  ‘Confidential’  The loan came three days after Morgan Stanley  said  it had
received Fed approval to become a  bank holding company , giving
it access to the discount window for the first time.  A Morgan Stanley spokesman, Mark Lake, confirmed that my
reading of the spreadsheet is correct. The bank had stamped the
document “confidential treatment requested” when it handed it
over to the crisis commission. The panel released it anyway,
apparently seeing no harm.  The Fed’s arguments for keeping this sort of data secret
were transparently bogus. One Fed economist, Brian Madigan, said
in an affidavit that disclosing discount-window borrowers’ names
“can quickly place an institution in a weakened condition vis-
a-vis its competitors by causing a loss of public confidence in
the institution, a sudden outflow of deposits (a ‘run’), a loss
of confidence by market analysts, a drop in the institution’s
stock price, and a withdrawal of market sources of liquidity.”  ‘Inherent Risk’  U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  in  Manhattan  rejected
that line of reasoning as bunk.  “The risk of looking weak to competitors and shareholders
is an inherent risk of market participation,” she wrote in her
August 2009 decision ordering the Fed to release the documents.
“Information tending to increase that risk does not make the
information privileged or confidential.” The Second Circuit
Court of Appeals in  New York  upheld her ruling.  Still, the banking industry kept fighting. Identifying
banks that tapped the discount window during the credit crisis
would be harmful even years after the fact, the  Clearing House
Association , representing the largest U.S. commercial banks,
wrote in an October 2010 petition asking the Supreme Court to
intervene. Disclosure would let the public “observe their
borrowing patterns during the recent financial crisis and draw
inferences -- whether justified or not -- about their current
financial conditions,” it said.  New Requirements  They’ll just have to get used to that, though. Under Dodd-
Frank, the Fed will be required to publish details of its
discount-window loans, including borrowers’ identities, after
two years. That’s why the Obama administration stepped in last
year and urged the high court not to take up the case, saying
the new disclosure rules made an appeal by the Fed unnecessary.  This whole sorry exercise by the Fed has shown the central
bank at its worst. The Fed lost on the merits. Yet it succeeded
in serving notice that anyone who challenges its judgments must
be prepared to spend absurd amounts of time and money on
litigation as the price for busting its wall of secrecy and
holding its leaders accountable.  Most citizens, and news organizations, would be deterred by
such tactics. Mark Pittman, who died on Nov. 25, 2009, must be
smiling.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  