-- 
Osborne Lowers U.K. Growth Forecast, Increases Borrowing, Cuts Company Tax

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-23T14:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/osborne-reduces-u-k-s-2011-gdp-growth-forecast-affirms-austerity-plans.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the British economy will grow more slowly than
forecast in 2011 and the U.K. will need to borrow more than
previously thought in the next five years.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicts 2011 growth
of 1.7 percent, down from the 2.1 percent forecast in November,
Osborne said in his budget speech in the  House of Commons  in
London today. The government will borrow 122 billion pounds
($198 billion) next year compared with an earlier forecast of
117 billion pounds. The chancellor said he will stick to his
plan to eliminate the bulk of the deficit by 2015.  Osborne announced tax reductions in what he said was a
“fiscally neutral” budget, with a 2 percentage-point cut in
company tax this year to 26 percent, an increase in the tax-free
allowance for personal earnings and an immediate lowering of
duty on gasoline. The levy on banks will rise in January.  “Britain has a plan and we’re sticking to it,” Osborne
told lawmakers. “Today’s budget is about reforming the nation’s
economy, so that we have enduring growth and jobs in the
future,” he said.  Deficit Forecasts  The  budget deficit  in the fiscal year through March will be
145.9 billion pounds, 2.6 billion pounds lower than forecast in
November, Osborne said. Even so, the  budget office  raised its
forecast for borrowing in subsequent years. It now expects the
deficit to total 368 billion pounds between 2011 and 2016 -- 46
billion pounds more than previously predicted.  As a result, the budget shortfall will drop from 9.9
percent of gross domestic product in the current fiscal year to
1.5 percent by April 2016 rather than the 1 percent forecast in
November. The plans envisages 80 billion pounds of spending cuts
by 2015.  The pound fell against the dollar after Osborne’s growth
estimate. Sterling slid as much as 0.9 percent to $1.6219 and
traded at $1.6259 as of 2:56 p.m. in London.  The budget is intended to rebalance the economy and help
“hard-pressed families,” Osborne said, as accelerating
inflation, rising unemployment and the threat of higher  interest
rates  put pressure on voters.  The main opposition  Labour Party  has opened up a lead of as
much as  11 percentage points  over Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives as the coalition government implements the biggest
public-spending squeeze since World War II.  ‘Key Question’  “As far as the public are concerned this is about as good
as they have hoped for,”  Andrew Hawkins , the chairman of
polling company ComRes Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement.
“The key question is whether the dire macroeconomic situation,
with growth lower than previously thought and inflation higher,
will come back to haunt George Osborne’s claim to be a prudent
chancellor if growth does not return quickly.”  The OBR predicts the economy will expand 2.5 percent in
2012, 2.9 percent in 2013 and 2014, and 2.8 percent in 2015,
Osborne said. It previously said the U.K. would grow 2.6 percent
next year.  “The chancellor spoke for an hour but one fact said it
all,” Labour leader  Ed Miliband  told lawmakers. “Growth down
last year, this year and next year. It’s the same old Tories.
It’s hurting but it isn’t working.”  Osborne outlined measures to encourage entrepreneurs and cut
red tape by simplifying the tax system while offering incentives
for investment.  ‘Fuel Into the Tank’  “We are only going to raise the living standards of
families if we have an economy that can compete in the modern
age,” Osborne said. “We have put fuel into the tank of the
British economy.”  Osborne said the government will cut the tax on gasoline by
1 penny per liter starting tonight and delay a planned
inflation-linked increase. He raised the supplementary charge on
North Sea oil production to 32 percent from 20 percent to pay
for the cut.  The chancellor also pledged a crackdown on  tax avoidance ,
which will raise an extra 1 billion pounds in the next year,
saying that “tax avoidance and evasion means we have to ask
more from working families and that is not fair.”  Company tax will be cut starting in April by more than the
previously planned 1 percentage point, Osborne said. The tax
will then fall by 1 point in each of the following three years,
taking the rate to 23 percent.  Bank Levy  Osborne said the bank-levy rate next year will be adjusted
to “offset” the effect of the cut in  corporation tax . The levy
will increase to 0.078 percent from January 2012, raising an
additional 100 million pounds, according to the Treasury.  Seeking to turn around sentiment in the housing market,
Osborne also announced 250 million pounds of interest-free loans
for 10,000 people buying their first house or apartment.  The allowance for income tax will rise by 1,000 pounds,
Osborne said, resulting in an extra 160 pounds a year in real
terms for 23 million taxpayers.  Before Osborne spoke, the  Bank of England  released minutes
of its March 10 decision to leave its benchmark interest rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent. The Monetary Policy Committee voted
6-3 to keep rates on hold this month and saw “merit in waiting”
to assess the impact of rising oil prices.  The economic “forecasts and the government’s fiscal plans
continue to rest on a very healthy acceleration in GDP growth
over the next few years,”  Jonathan Loynes , the chief European
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an e-
mailed statement. “That, in turn, would seem to rely heavily on
the MPC to keep monetary policy very supportive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  