-- 
Oscar-Winning Liz Taylor Was Ultimate Movie Star: Appreciation

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-03-23T14:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/oscar-winning-elizabeth-taylor-was-the-ultimate-movie-star-appreciation.html
Elizabeth Taylor  was the ultimate
movie star.  From her beginnings as an angelic child actress through her
eight marriages, including two to Richard Burton, Taylor was the
embodiment of both Hollywood glamour and Hollywood camp.  She was a maiden who transformed herself over the years
into a rowdy diva. She could hold her own with, or at least
equal the lung power of, her celebrated co-stars, including
Burton, Montgomery Clift, Rock Hudson, Spencer Tracy,  Marlon
Brando  and  Paul Newman .  Taylor died today at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los
Angeles , according to a statement from her publicist. She was
hospitalized six weeks ago for congestive heart failure.  At the top of my Liz list is “Cleopatra,” the big and
lumbering 1963 film. For those of us who were inching into
pubescence at the time, Taylor’s Cleopatra -- or Lizpatra, as
critic Dwight Macdonald called her -- was THE hot ticket.  “Hers was a camp performance as faultlessly off-key as
that of Steve Reeves in ‘Hercules’ or ‘Hercules Unchained,’”
Macdonald wrote.  In “National Velvet” (1944), Taylor’s determined 12-year-
old was every bit as poetic and graceful as the steed she
champions.  “A Place in the Sun,” George Stevens’s 1951 adaptation of
Theodore Dreiser’s “An American Tragedy,” featured Taylor in
one of her first substantial adult roles. She found her soul
mate in co-star Montgomery Clift.  In “Giant” (1956), again with Stevens, the wide-open
Texas spaces were a good backdrop for Liz’s wide-open
performance, featuring plenty of tantrums.  Maggie the Cat  As Maggie the Cat in Tennessee Williams’s “Cat on a Hot
Tin Roof” (1958), Taylor sweats in boudoir wear while Newman’s
Brick pays her no mind. I realize Brick has sexual identity
issues, but really!  In “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf” (1966), Taylor won
her second best-actress Oscar for her role as the ravaged,
blowzy Martha, who trades verbal blows with husband George
( Richard Burton ) in this iconic Mike Nichols film version of the
Edward Albee play. (Her first Oscar came six years earlier for
the much inferior “Butterfield 8.”)  Taylor could be as demure as the next star, but her savage
shouting matches with Burton in this film ushered in a new
career as one of Hollywood’s leading harridans.  “X, Y and Zee” (1972), also known under its original
title “Zee and Co.,” is an undeservedly neglected screamfest
scripted by Edna O’Brien. Taylor’s husband, played by  Michael Caine , is having an affair with shrinking violet Susannah York,
so his vengeful wife does the sensible thing and takes his
mistress for her own.  Who’s Afraid of Liz Taylor? In this movie, practically
everybody.  ‘Sweet Bird of Youth’  Taylor’s last memorable performance was in the TV adaptation
of “Sweet Bird of Youth” (1989), where she revisited the
hothouse universe of Tennessee Williams. In a role made famous
by Geraldine Page, Taylor played an aging movie star captivated
by a stud masseur (Mark Harmon).  Apart from occasional guest appearances on TV shows like
“Murphy Brown” and the camp classic “These Old Broads,”
where she played opposite Joan Collins, Shirley MacLaine and
Debbie Reynolds, Taylor turned her attention to AIDS awareness,
her lines of perfume and jewelry and defending her friend
 Michael Jackson .  The committee that made her a Kennedy Center honoree in 2002
probably didn’t have in mind Taylor’s work as Pearl Slaghoople in “The
Flintstones” (1994).  In her luminescent prime, Taylor was the incarnation of the
movie star. She remained so throughout the raucous ups and downs
of a life which, for sheer drama, rivaled any movie she ever
made.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 