-- 
Toyota Expects Earthquake-Related ‘Adjustments’ in North American Output

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T00:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/toyota-anticipates-north-american-production-adjustments-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  expects assembly
“interruptions” in North America and delayed sales of a new
Prius model in its home market as the company grapples with the
aftereffects of Japan’s strongest earthquake on record.  “We do expect some impact” on output, Javier Moreno, a
Toyota spokesman in  New York , said in an interview yesterday.
While the company hasn’t made specific plans to reduce shifts at
any plants in the U.S.,  Canada  or Mexico, it has alerted workers
that production cuts may be needed, he said.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, has operated North
American vehicle-assembly and component factories normally since
the magnitude-9.0 quake and tsunami struck Japan on March 11,
with the exception of canceling overtime shifts to conserve
parts. The Toyota City, Japan-based company this week extended a
shutdown of all car-assembly plants in  Japan  until March 26.  Toyota and Japanese rivals’ efforts to resume output have
been complicated by the need for hundreds of different
components from suppliers whose plants may have been damaged by
the earthquake and subsequent tsunami. Japan also faces
electricity shortages after a nuclear power plant was crippled,
as well as disruption to transportation infrastructure.  “It’s too early to predict location or duration” of any
potential production halt in North America, Toyota  said in a
statement .  Shares in the automaker fell 0.9 percent to 3,275 yen in
Tokyo as of 9:03 a.m. local time. The stock has fallen 10
percent since March 10, the day before the earthquake struck off
Sendai, north of  Tokyo .  Prius Wagon  Toyota, which said this month a wagon version of the Prius
hybrid would be sold in Japan in April, said yesterday it will
postpone the release. The company hasn’t determined whether U.S.
sales of the Prius v wagon, scheduled to start by mid-2011, will
also be delayed, it said in a separate statement.  “All automakers are just now figuring out who supplies
every little part,” said Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst at
Edmunds.com, an auto industry pricing and data service in  Santa
Monica ,  California . “The shortage of any one could shut down an
assembly line. Toyota isn’t the only one vulnerable; virtually
all major automakers have some risks.”  ‘This Is Serious’  About 40 component suppliers in Japan remain in difficulty,
Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said in an
interview yesterday. Electronic components, plastics and rubber
are in short supply and will affect both domestic automakers and
overseas rivals, he said.  Carmakers are jointly offering parts suppliers support via
Japan’s automobile manufacturers association, Ghosn said.  “This is serious and it’s still difficult to evaluate,”
he said.  While Toyota makes more than 60 percent of the vehicles it
sells in the U.S. at plants in  North America , it relies on Japan
for some parts and materials. The “greatest majority” of parts
for models built in North America come from about 500 suppliers
in the region, Toyota said in its e-mailed statement.  “We are a lot closer to understanding the impact on North
American production” from the earthquake, said Mike Goss, a
spokesman for Toyota’s manufacturing unit in Erlanger, Kentucky.
The automaker continues to receive parts from Japan “that were
already in the pipeline” before the quake, he said.  Honda, Nissan  So far, vehicle inventories at U.S. Toyota and Lexus
dealerships remain at “normal levels,” said  Steve Curtis , a
spokesman for the company’s U.S. unit.  Honda Motor Co., which has shut auto-assembly plants in
Japan until March 27, hasn’t made any adjustments to production
schedules in North America and has no immediate plans to do so,
said Ron Lietzke, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based company.  Nissan, which temporarily halted auto production in Japan
after the quake, continues to run plants in the U.S. and  Mexico 
on normal schedules, said  Brian Brockman , a company spokesman.
The Yokohama, Japan-based company is conducting a “feasibility
study” on shipping some engines built in  Tennessee  to Japan to
resupply operations there, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  