-- 
HP Calls Oracle Itanium Move ‘Shameless Gambit’ to Hurt Competition

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-03-24T00:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/hp-calls-oracle-s-itanium-move-a-shameless-gambit-to-hamper-competition.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s plan to drop support
for a server chip made by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  is a “shameless gambit”
that jeopardizes customers and will cost hundreds of millions of
dollars in lost productivity,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  said.  Oracle said yesterday that it will stop developing software
for Itanium-based servers because the processor is “nearing the
end of its life.” Intel denied that assertion, saying it will
continue to produce Itanium and has plans for future versions.  The move rankled Hewlett-Packard, the biggest producer of
server computers that use Itanium, in part because Oracle now
competes in the server market. Through the acquisition of Sun
Microsystems last year, Oracle gained a lineup of servers that
run an Itanium rival called Sparc. By pulling the plug on
Itanium software support, Oracle is undermining competition in
the market, Hewlett-Packard said today in a statement.  “We are shocked that Oracle would put enterprises and
governments at risk while costing them hundreds of millions of
dollars in lost productivity in a shameless gambit to limit fair
competition,”  Dave Donatelli , executive vice president of  Palo
Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard, said in the statement.  Oracle is the largest maker of  database software  and other
corporate applications, and its programs are used on Itanium
servers, which typically handle heavy-duty computing tasks. The
chip was initially developed jointly by Intel and Hewlett-
Packard. Oracle said it will continue to support its existing
Itanium customers.  ‘Disinformation’  Oracle is taking shots at Itanium because Hewlett-Packard
systems based on the processor are winning orders, while Sparc-
based servers are losing market share, Hewlett-Packard said.  “This latest Oracle action of disinformation is clearly an
attempt to force customers into purchasing Sun servers in a
desperate move to slow their declining market share,” Hewlett-
Packard said.  Oracle said the opposite is true. It maintains -- despite
Intel’s denial -- that Hewlett-Packard knows that Intel plans to
shift away from Itanium.  “HP is knowingly withholding this information from our
joint Itanium customers,” the software maker said in a
statement. “Oracle has an obligation to give our customers
adequate advanced notice when Oracle discontinues development on
any software product or hardware platform so our customers have
the information they need to plan and manage their businesses.”  Hurd’s Ouster  The dispute escalates a corporate feud between the two
companies. Tensions flared last year when Hewlett-Packard ousted
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd , following an investigation
that found his expense reports concealed a personal relationship
with a marketing contractor. Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  said Hurd
was treated unfairly and later hired him to be co-president of
his company.  Oracle and Hewlett-Packard are increasingly encroaching on
each other’s turf. While Oracle has pushed into servers,
Hewlett-Packard is bolstering its software business. Both are
going after the burgeoning market for data centers -- large
rooms of servers that deliver software and information globally.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, said Itanium
development remains on track.  “Work on Intel Itanium processors and platforms continues
unabated with multiple generations of chips currently in
development and on schedule,”  Paul Otellini , CEO of the  Santa
Clara , California-based company, said today on Intel’s website.
“We remain firmly committed to delivering a competitive,
multigenerational road map.”  Itanium has never reached Intel’s initial sales targets
because of development delays and slow adoption by computer
makers. The majority of servers rely on a line of chips called
Xeon that was adapted from personal-computer processors. Both
Hewlett-Packard and Oracle make servers that run on Xeon, as
well as other chips.  Intel rose 15 cents to $20.29 today in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. Shares of  Redwood City , California-based Oracle climbed
29 cents to $31.41, while Hewlett-Packard advanced 33 cents to
$42.07 on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  