-- 
Italy Seeks to Block Lactalis From Gaining Control of Parmalat

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-23T16:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/parmalat-gains-as-italian-government-moves-to-slow-control-by-lactalis.html
Italy ’s government declared dairy
company  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  “strategic,” and said it would seek to
promote an Italian shareholder group in a bid to block  France ’s
Groupe Lactalis from gaining management control.  “We’ve been meeting with the principal producers in the
industry to try to forge an Italian alliance that would combine
producers and banks to build an Italian multinational that can
compete internationally,” Industry Minister Paolo Romani said
in testimony to parliament in  Rome  today.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet today passed a
decree allowing Parmalat to delay an April shareholders meeting
where Lactalis, its biggest investor, would likely have gained
management control. The Cabinet is also reviewing further
measures to prevent foreign takeovers of Italian companies, the
government said in an e-mailed statement.  The decree comes a day after Lactalis agreed to boost its
stake in the maker of Santal juices and long-life milk to 29
percent, just short of the 30 percent threshold that requires a
full takeover bid under Italian law. Still, the current stake
should be enough for Lactalis to impose its choice of management
at the shareholders meeting and replace Chief Executive Officer
Enrico Bondi.  Romani said Parmalat accounts for about 9 percent of
Italian  food production  and that the company is “strategic” to
national interests. Italy’s antitrust authority is also
investigating whether Lactalis’s control of Parmalat would
violate competition rules, news agency Radiocor reported, citing
Antonio Catricala, head of the regulator.  Parmalat Gains  Parmalat rose as much as 1.8 percent after the decree was
announced, erasing earlier declines. The shares were up 0.6
percent to 2.31 euros at 4:32 p.m. in Milan. The company has a
market value of about 4 billion euros ($5.7 billion).  Spokespeople for both Parmalat and Lactalis said they
couldn’t immediately comment on the government’s decision.  “From a legal and regulatory perspective, we believe that
any protectionist strategy put forward by the Italian government
would be problematic, not least as Parmalat does not compete
within a regulated sector,” said Andy Smith, an analyst at MF
Global in  London .  Lactalis bought the shares from a group of foreign investors
that had been pressuring Bondi to use the company’s 1.44 billion
euros in net financial assets to either make acquisitions or pay
out bigger dividends. Bondi accumulated the funds through
lawsuits against the company’s former banks and accountants, who
he accused of helping sustain the fraud that led to the
company’s 2003 bankruptcy.  Out of Bankruptcy  Bondi was named by the Italian government that year to lead
Parmalat out of bankruptcy, and he returned the maker of Kyr
yogurt to stock-market trading in 2005.  Today’s decree could give more time for an Italian
shareholder group to emerge and challenge Lactalis’s control.
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-largest bank and the holder
of about 2 percent of Parmalat, has sought support to keep the
company in Italian hands. It’s proposed its own management list
that includes Bondi.  Ferrero SpA, maker of the Nutella chocolate spread, has
said that it favors Italian ownership of Parmalat. Granarolo
SpA, Italy’s second-biggest dairy company, has also shown
interest in the company.  Ferrero will consider any proposal put to it that makes
sense, a company official said today by phone, declining to
comment on whether the confectioner is in talks with Intesa or
Granarolo, or whether it has met with Lactalis.  Bulgari Purchase  The government action comes less than a month after French
luxury-goods maker LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA bought
Italian jeweler Bulgari SpA and amid efforts to prevent
Electricite de France SA from gaining control of Italian power
company  Edison SpA. (EDN)  The French utility is embroiled in a dispute
with its Italian partners over management of the company.  France has adopted similar measures to protect its
companies, provoking charges by the European Commission that
it’s trying to limit competition. The French government in 2005
passed an anti-takeover decree driven by speculation that
PepsiCo. Inc was planning a bid for yogurt maker Danone.  Today’s move by the Italian government also comes after the
country in 2006 pressed the European Union to take action
against France for thwarting a takeover of Suez SA by Enel SpA.
France arranged the merger of Suez and Gaz de France SA to block
a purchase by Enel.  Strategic Industries  In January, the French Finance Ministry set up 11
committees to monitor core industries, including cars,
aerospace, and chemicals. Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti may be considering a similar approach, declaring four
industries strategic -- food, energy, defense, and
telecommunications -- and requiring state approval for any
foreign takeover,  Corriere della Sera  reported, without saying
where it got the information.  Lactalis, a French cooperative that has a dairy joint
venture with Nestle SA, raised its stake in Parmalat days after
it emerged that  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  was in exclusive talks to buy
50 percent of Yoplait from PAI Partners. Lactalis’s 1.4 billion-
euro bid for all of Yoplait was rejected last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 