-- 
Peso Drops on Concern Rising Oil Will Boost Fuel Import Bill

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-23T08:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/peso-drops-on-concern-rising-oil-will-push-up-fuel-import-bill.html
The Philippine peso weakened,
snapping a three-day rally, on concern the conflict in  Libya 
will raise the country’s fuel-import bill and reduce remittances
from overseas workers.  The government may cut its economic growth goal or widen
the target range to include the possible effect of the conflict
in the Middle East and Japan’s earthquake, Economic Planning
Secretary Cayetano Paderanga told reporters today in Manila. Oil
prices climbed for a third day as U.S. Admiral Samuel Locklear
said further strikes will be launched against the ground forces
of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  in the “coming hours and
days.”  “If there’s a prolonged conflict in Libya, the uncertainty
is still there,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , a strategist at Banco
de Oro Unibank Inc. in Manila. “We have to remember the threat
to remittances.”  The peso dropped 0.4 percent to 43.49 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close in  Manila , according to prices from inter-dealer
broker Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency has strengthened 0.7
percent this year. Crude advanced 0.9 percent to $104.98 a
barrel in New York.  President  Benigno Aquino  wants to expand the economy by as
much as 8 percent annually from 2011.  The Philippines imports almost all of its oil. The Gulf
region accounts for about 30 percent of money sent home by
overseas workers, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
this month.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas may raise its benchmark
interest rate tomorrow for the first time since August 2008 as
rising oil prices threaten to fuel inflation. Ten of 15
economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect policy makers to
raise the rate by 25 basis points to 4.25 percent. Four expect
no change and one predicts an increase to 4.50 percent.  Bonds declined. The yield on the 7 percent bond due January
2016 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.90
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 