-- 
Platts May Add Middle East Crudes to Dubai, Oman Benchmarks

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-23T18:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/platts-may-add-middle-east-crudes-to-dubai-oman-benchmarks.html
Platts , a publisher of oil price
assessments, may announce a decision this year on widening the
basket of crude grades making up its Dubai benchmark, company
officials said today.  The Dubai benchmark, a main pricing reference for Middle
East crude shipped to  Asia , is calculated from the values of
three oil grades from Dubai, Oman and the Upper Zakum field in
Abu Dhabi.  “A wider basket is critical when there is instability in
the region,” Jorge Montepeque, global director of market
reporting for Platts, said in Abu Dhabi. Platts plans to add
Qatar’s Marine crude to the Dubai marker, he said.  Middle East states are being shaken by anti-government
protests that have spread from Tunisia and  Egypt  over the last
three months. In Oman, the largest Arab oil seller not in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, protesters have
occupied a traffic circle in the port city of Sohar and held
demonstrations at government buildings in the capital, Muscat.  Platts, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., also
publishes a separate assessment for Omani crude.  Abu Dhabi ’s
Murban grade could act as an alternative for delivery in case of
an interruption in Omani crude exports, Montepeque said.  Murban’s quality is slightly higher than Oman’s, meaning a
differential may be used if the Abu Dhabi crude is substituted,
said Paul Young, Platts’ Dubai-based oil pricing editor.  Upper Zakum  Interruptions of exports from Oman could increase the price
of the crude. An alternate stream that may be delivered in place
of the country’s fuel would help keep the assessed price from
rising beyond other regional grades, Montepeque said.  State-run Abu Dhabi National Oil Corp.,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and Japan Oil Development are partners in the Upper Zakum
offshore field. Murban is produced by Adnoc and a group of
partners including Exxon. The Dubai Mercantile Exchange trades
futures contracts in Oman crude.  Platts also considered adding Qatar’s Al-Shaheen crude to
the Dubai benchmark in place of the Marine grade, Montepeque and
Young said. Qatar Marine is produced by state-run  Qatar
Petroleum , which together with partner Maersk Oil Qatar, a unit
of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, pumps Al-Shaheen crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Dipaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  