-- 
Polish Retail Sales Growth Quickens In February, Boosting Rate Bets, Zloty

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-23T09:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/polish-retail-sales-growth-quickens-adds-to-rate-argument-1-.html
Polish retail sales growth
accelerated in February, boosted by extra working days,
supporting arguments for the central bank to raise  interest
rates  to tame consumer demand and strengthening the zloty.  Retail sales jumped an annual 12.2 percent after a 5.8
percent increase in January, the  Central Statistical Office 
reported in Warsaw today. The median estimate of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 7.2 percent. Sales
rose 1.8 percent on the month.  “This confirms solid consumer demand and bodes well for
first-quarter growth,” said Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist
at  Societe Generale  in Warsaw. “If this pace continues for the
next two or three months, it supports the case for higher rates,
though we should keep in mind that for now this is a one-month
jump, driven mainly by new-car sales.”  The central bank may need to lift borrowing costs in the
coming months to cool inflation expectations as companies boost
hiring to meet rising orders, which may spur consumer demand.
The inflation rate held steady at 3.6 percent in February, above
the upper end of the  Narodowy Bank Polski’s  tolerance range of
1.5 to 3.5 percent for the second month in a row.  The Polish zloty erased losses against the euro, rising to
4.0306 at 10:34 a.m. in Warsaw, up 0.2 percent on the day, from
as low as 4.0429 before the retail sales data release.  Retail-sales growth was driven in February by car sales,
which increased 16.6 percent on month and 7.2 percent on year.  Poland’s jobless rate rose to a year-high of 13.2 percent
in February, the statistics office said in a separate release,
matching the median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  