-- 
Ponting Says He Wants to Play On Following Report He Would Quit After Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-23T07:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ponting-says-he-wants-to-play-on-following-report-he-would-quit-after-cup.html
Australia  captain  Ricky Ponting 
said he wants to play on following a report that he planned to
quit international cricket after the  World Cup  and finish his
career by leading an English county team.  Ponting, 36, said a report in the U.K.’s Daily Mail that he
was fed up with speculation over his captaincy tenure and would
quit elite Tests and one-day internationals immediately after
Australia’s World Cup campaign was wrong.  “I don’t see a finish line,” Ponting told reporters in
Ahmedabad,  India , in comments broadcast on Australia’s Fox
Sports. “I want to keep playing both forms of the game for as
long as I think I can contribute and play well.”  Ponting said the Mail report may have stemmed from
inquiries made by his management team about playing county
cricket in  England  to prepare for a Test series against  Sri
Lanka  in August. Ponting said that option had fallen through
because of the timing of the English domestic competitions.  The report came a day after the Sydney Morning Herald cited
a Cricket Australia official it didn’t identify as saying that
Ponting, his country’s leading run scorer in the sport’s elite
Test and one-day formats, faced a challenge at board level to
retain the captaincy.  Ponting, who made his debut for Australia in 1995 and took
over from Steve Waugh as captain seven years later, said he was
keen to continue his international career even if asked to step
aside as skipper.  Open Mind  “If Cricket Australia or the selectors believe there’s
someone better out there to captain any team that I play in,
then so be it,” Ponting said. “If it happens that I’m still
good enough to be playing in the team with another captain, then
so be it as well. I’m open to any of that sort of stuff.”  Ponting, the winner in more Tests and one-day matches both
as a player and captain than any other Australian cricketer,
also has overseen the Test team’s slide from first to fifth in
the  International Cricket Council ’s rankings and three Ashes
series defeats to England.  January’s 3-1 Ashes defeat was Australia’s first home loss
to England for 24 years and its worst Test series reverse since
1988-89. Waugh was among three former national captains Cricket
Australia appointed this month to help review the team’s
performance and recommend changes to spark a recovery.  Australia remains No. 1 in the ICC’s one-day  rankings  and
faces No. 2 India tomorrow in the World Cup quarterfinals. The
Australians have won the past three editions of the tournament.  “I’ll know when the time is right for me to step aside as
captain or to step aside as a player,” Ponting added. “Right
now, I don’t think that’s the right time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  