-- 
Poor Nations Struggle to Get Affordable Trade Finance, ICC Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-23T15:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/poor-nations-struggle-to-get-affordable-trade-finance-icc-says.html
Traders in poor nations in Africa,
Latin America and parts of  Asia  have “considerable difficulty”
obtaining affordable trade finance even as commerce has picked
up in the past year, the International Chamber of Commerce said.  Global trade flows rebounded in many locations in 2010,
with the recovery driven by increases in  North America ,  Europe 
and Asia as well as between Asia and the rest of the world, the
ICC said in its Trade and Finance Global Survey 2011. The  World
Trade Organization  forecast in September that global commerce
would climb 13.5 percent in 2010.  Still, high pricing meant that traders in  developing
countries  found it difficult to access affordable finance,
especially import finance, according to the study released today
in Zurich. One positive development highlighted in the report,
based on the responses of representatives from 210 banks in 94
countries, is that the average price for letters of credit in
large emerging economies fell to 70-150 basis points last year
from 150-250 basis points in 2009.  “What is needed now is a more targeted use of resources,
focusing on the poorer countries and small and medium-sized
enterprises around the world,” WTO Director-General  Pascal Lamy 
said in the report. “They should not be paying the high price
for the repair and re-regulation of the global finance
industry.”  The Geneva-based WTO’s Expert Group on Trade Finance
commissioned the survey to track developments in the industry.
Respondents said trading conditions in several advanced
economies are returning to normal, in terms of liquidity and the
availability of trade finance, and the acceptance of risk and
pricing has become more favorable.  Africa enjoyed the fastest trade growth between 2009 and
2010, at more than 21 percent, followed by the Asia-Pacific at
10 percent and Central and Latin America at 9.7 percent,
according to the report. The large volume of transactions in
Asia drove the upswing in trade, rather than  Africa , where
volumes were small.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 