-- 
Portuguese Parliament Rejects Government's Austerity Plan to Trim Deficit

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-03-23T21:41:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/portugal-faces-lawmaker-vote-threatening-to-push-toward-election-bailout.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said he presented his resignation to President Anibal Cavaco Silva after parliament rejected the government’s deficit-
cutting plan, raising the chance of an international bailout.  Socrates made the announcement tonight in an address to the
nation after meeting with Cavaco Silva at the president’s
residence in Lisbon. “This crisis occurs in the worst possible
moment for Portugal,” Socrates said.  Cavaco Silva will meet political parties represented in
parliament on March 25 and the government will retain its full
powers until the president accepts Socrates’s resignation,
according to a statement on the president’s website.  The euro weakened to $1.4083 following the announcement. It
came after lawmakers backed resolutions against the government’s
stability and growth program, and before European Union leaders
meet tomorrow in Brussels to sign off on measures aimed at
stopping the contagion that led  Greece  and Ireland to accept EU-
led rescues. The meeting begins as the cost of insuring
Portuguese debt against default hovers near a record high.  Socrates had said last week that his minority government
was available to discuss deficit-cutting measures with
opposition parties to avert a “political crisis.” Portugal is
raising taxes and implementing the deepest spending cuts in more
than three decades to convince investors it can narrow its
budget gap, curb debt and avoid seeking a rescue from the EU.  The spread between Portuguese and German 10-year bond
yields widened 16 basis points to 439 basis points today after
reaching a euro-era record of 484 on Nov. 11. Ireland in
November became the second euro country after Greece to seek a
bailout and the first to request aid from the  European Financial
Stability Facility .  Portugal ’s 5-year bond yield climbed to a
euro-era record of 8.202 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Commitments  “If parliament decides on a motion against the stability
and growth program, that means the government is not in a
condition to make commitments internationally,” Socrates said
on March 15. “That would mean a political crisis. In my
understanding, the consequence of a political crisis is the
worsening of the financing risks of our economy and would lead
Portugal to request external intervention.”  Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos on March 11
presented additional deficit-cutting measures equal to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product over three years, including a
reduction in pensions of more than 1,500 euros ($2,132) a month
and further cuts in tax benefits.  The  Social Democrats , the biggest opposition group in
parliament, contested the new austerity measures. The party has
still said it supports Portugal’s plan to reduce its budget gap
and meet deficit targets.  Minority Government  Socrates became prime minister in 2005 and his Socialist
Party won re-election in 2009 without a majority in parliament.
The Social Democrats agreed in October to let the government’s
2011 budget proposal pass in parliament by abstaining.  Between 1995 and 1999, Antonio Guterres led the only
minority government in Portugal to survive a full term since the
end of a four-decade dictatorship in 1974. Portugal has been
trying to avoid requesting aid for the first time since 1983,
when it received external help from the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund .  Polls  The Social Democrats led the ruling Socialists in a survey
of voters’ intentions for parliamentary elections published by
Diario Economico on Feb. 25. The survey indicated 48 percent
backing for the Social Democrats, led by  Pedro Passos Coelho ,
and 29 percent support for the Socialists, the newspaper said.  Portugal intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of
bonds this year to finance its budget and cover the cost of
maturing debt. Portugal faces bond redemptions in April and June
worth about 9 billion euros in total. It also faces bill
maturities in July, August, September, October and November.  “With bond yields stubbornly high and heavy debt
redemptions due over the next few months, it appears all but
inevitable that Portugal will be forced to follow Greece and
Ireland in accepting financial support,” economists Emilie Gay,
 Roger Bootle  and  Jonathan Loynes  of Capital Economics Ltd. wrote
in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 