-- 
Protalix Plans Human Clinical Tests of Medication for Rare Fabry's Disease

-- B y   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-24T15:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/protalix-plans-human-tests-of-fabry-rheumatoid-arthritis-drugs.html
Protalix BioTherapeutics Ltd., an
Israeli  biotechnology company , plans to start clinical trials of
a drug treating Fabry disease this year and a medication against
rheumatoid arthritis in early 2012.  Protalix aims to bring the two products to market by 2016,
Chief Executive Officer David Aviezer said. The Carmiel-based
company is also targeting full U.S. regulatory approval in 2011
for the only medicine it already sells, taliglucerase alfa,
after temporary clearance to supply the Gaucher-disease
treatment to make up for a shortage of a competing product.  The market for drugs to treat Fabry disease, an illness
that leads to fat buildups affecting kidney or heart functions,
may reach about $850 million by 2019, said Steven Tepper, an
analyst at Harel Finance Ltd. Sales of drugs such as the
rheumatoid-arthritis treatment, which seeks to block a protein
called tumor necrosis factor, may total $6.2 billion by then, he
said.  “We continue to advance other drugs we have in our
pipeline at full force,” Aviezer said in an interview at
Protalix’s office in the Tel Aviv suburb of  Ramat Gan . “We
believe the Fabry disease and anti-TNF rheumatoid arthritis
drugs will be in clinical development in humans already in the
year to come, ready for sale within the next five years.”  The Fabry drug, PRX-102, would compete with  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) ’s
Fabrazyme and Shire Plc’s Replagal. PRX-106, the rheumatoid
arthritis drug, would be a biological copy of  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s
Enbrel, Protalix has said.  Fat Buildup  Taliglucerase alfa, Protalix’s drug for Gaucher disease,
provides an enzyme that prevents fat buildups in the liver,
spleen, bone marrow and nervous system. Like Fabry disease,
Gaucher is a rare inherited illness in which patients lack the
enzymes to prevent the accumulation of fat. Protalix in 2009
sold a global marketing license for taliglucerase alfa to New
York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, giving
the U.S. company 60 percent of the drug’s revenue.  Protalix has had provisional Food and Drug Administration
permission to supply the drug to the U.S. after a virus
contamination in 2009 at a Genzyme factory in  Boston  cut the
production of its Gaucher treatment, Cerezyme. The Israeli
company failed last month to win full marketing approval when
the FDA asked for more data from two studies and information on
testing specifications.  FDA approval probably will come this year, Aviezer said in
the interview March 22. The drug also would compete with  Shire
Plc (SHP) ’s Vpriv.  Lower Rating  The FDA decision prompted Harel analyst Tepper to reduce
his recommendation on Protalix to “market perform” from
“buy,” and cut his share-price estimate to $8 from $12.  “The drugs in the pipeline add some value to the company,
but it is still mainly driven by the product for treating
Gaucher disease,” Tepper said in a phone interview. “Although
the chances Protalix will receive the FDA final approval for
marketing its Gaucher disease drug are high, it is more
realistic to assume approval will come only next year.”  Protalix rose 1.9 percent to 21.47 shekels at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Tel Aviv, giving the company a market value of 1.74
billion shekels ($490 million).  The company’s U.S. shares have dropped about 13 percent in
the past year, compared with a 3.1 percent increase in the
Bloomberg World Biotech Index. The stock has lost 35 percent
since failing to win the FDA approval.  Protalix sold 4 million shares at $5.50 each to finance
research including clinical trials, the company said March 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronit Goodman in  Tel Aviv  at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  