-- 
Puerto Rico’s Budget Gap Will Be Closed in 2 Years, Fortuno Says

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-03-23T20:34:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/puerto-rico-s-budget-gap-will-be-closed-in-2-years-fortuno-says.html
Governor Luis Fortuno of Puerto
Rico, which had its first  credit-rating  upgrade from Standard &
Poor’s this month, said the U.S. territory’s $1 billion budget
gap will be closed in two fiscal years.  The Republican told the  Municipal Forum of New York  that
the deficit of $3.3 billion when he took office in January 2009
equaled 44 percent of annual revenue, a greater proportion than
in any state. He said actions by his administration to reduce
government expenses by 18 percent and boost income by enforcing
tax collections lowered the deficit to 11 percent of revenue.  “We have come a long, long way,” Fortuno told municipal-
bond professionals in  New York  today. “We have put forth key
reforms to turn our situation around, restore confidence in both
investors and consumers, and change the course of  Puerto Rico ’s
future.”  S&P boosted the commonwealth’s general-obligation rating
March 7 one level to BBB, the second-lowest of 10 investment
grades, because of improved tax collections. Puerto Rico is
graded BBB+ by  Fitch Ratings , one level above S&P, and A3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, two levels higher.  Puerto Rico’s  economic activity index , a measure of
employment, cement sales, power use and gasoline consumption,
fell 2.6 percent in January from a year earlier. It was an
improvement from the 6.6 percent decline in January 2010 and
tied for the smallest contraction since April 2008, according to
the  Government Development Bank , Puerto Rico’s borrowing agent.  In January, more than four years after the economy began
contracting, the Legislature passed a plan that reduces
corporate taxes by an average of 30 percent and individual
assessments by half over six years, as long as fiscal and
economic targets are met.  Puerto Rico, whose bonds are tax-exempt in any state,  sold
$356 million  of general-obligation debt in February and $250
million this month, a day after its credit rating was lifted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  