-- 
Putin’s Russia Risks Fate of Mideast Regimes, Rights Group Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-23T15:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/putin-s-russia-risks-fate-of-mideast-regimes-rights-group-says.html
Russia risks turning into an
autocracy that resembles authoritarian regimes in the Middle
East if Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  prolongs his rule in 2012
elections, U.S. democracy watchdog  Freedom House  said.  “Another six years -- or more -- of Putinism beyond next
year’s election would risk relegating Russia to the same
category as that of many Middle Eastern states, where
presidential tenure has been measured in decades rather than
years,” Christopher Walker, director of studies at the
Washington-based Freedom House, said in a  report  e-mailed today.  Putin, 58, who handed the presidency to his protégé,  Dmitry Medvedev , 45, in 2008, to avoid violating a ban on more than two
consecutive terms, has kept control as prime minister. He hasn’t
ruled out running for president in March next year, which could
give him a quarter-century in power under new six-year
presidential mandates.  Russia  is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Transparency International’s 2010  Corruption Perceptions
Index  issued in October, sliding to 154th among 178 countries,
alongside Tajikistan and  Kenya .  “As venal Middle Eastern authoritarians give way to
popular pressure for democratic change, Russia’s systemic
corruption is becoming especially conspicuous,” Walker wrote in
the report.  Saudi Example  Rising oil prices may prompt Putin to follow the example of
 Saudi Arabia , which is allocating funds to try and avert demands
for political change, Freedom House said. That will only provoke
more severe unrest in the future, according to the report.  Russia, along with other former Soviet nations, suffers
from the same problems of poor governance and accumulation of
economic power by political elites, Freedom House said.  Igor Yurgens, an adviser to Medvedev, said in January that
Putin could trigger protests in Russia like those that toppled
the leader of Tunisia if he seeks to return to the Kremlin. This
was followed by the ouster of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
in February and violent unrest that have spread to  Libya , Yemen,
Bahrain and  Syria .  Freedom House highlighted the December conviction of
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the jailed former billionaire head of
Yukos Oil Co., who was sentenced to another six years beyond his
8-year prison term for fraud.  Khodorkovsky has linked his imprisonment to his opposition
to Putin, which the prime minister has denied. European
governments and the U.S. criticized the verdict as a step back
for judicial independence and Russia’s drive to attract
investors.  Russia is the world’s 10th riskiest location for business
to invest in, according to a survey of 196 nations by U.K risk-
assessment company Maplecroft released in January. Maplecroft
assesses factors including conflict, terrorism, the rule of law
and the regulatory and business environment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  