-- 
Putin Dons Black Leather to Meet Serbian Bikers Lenin, Angel

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-03-24T18:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/putin-dons-black-leather-to-meet-belgrade-bikers-lenin-angel.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  donned  black leather  and greeted the Night Wolves
motorcycle club while on a visit to Belgrade, Serbia.  “Somehow, Putin belongs to us, to our bikers club, Night
Wolves,” said Lenin Jovanovski. “We respect him for what he
does for Slavic people and every situation in the world.”  Putin made a one-day trip to Belgrade yesterday, during
which he took note of the approaching anniversary of the 1999
bombing of Serbia by the U.S. and allies during the Kosovo
campaign. Russian opposition to that 78-day offensive, aimed
against Serbian leader  Slobodan Milosevic , prompted a rift with
the West and  Russia  suspending cooperation with NATO.  Putin has said Western allies are on a “crusade” in
 Libya , and have been indiscriminately waging “strikes all over
the country” after pocketing billions of dollars in contracts
from Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Following official talks with Serbian President Boris Tadic
yesterday, Putin watched the second half of a soccer match
between youth teams of the Russian Zenit St. Petersburg club and
the Serbian Red Star club, sponsored by OAO Gazprom and OAO
Gazprom Neft, the oil arm of Russia’s natural-gas exporter.  Night Wolves  At the stadium, Putin met with members of a branch of
Russia’s Night Wolves bikers movement, including bikers
Jovanovski and Angel Kievski.  Putin, in a black leather jacket, sat in the front row of
the VIP seating area with the bikers on his right. Spectators
chanted his name. Putin stood and greeted the crowd.  Putin has met before with bikers, leading a procession on a
 three-wheel motorcycle  last July near Sevastopol, the base of
Russia’s  Black Sea Fleet  in Ukraine. He may seek to reclaim the
presidency in 2012.  Putin’s approval rating fell in March to 69 percent, a
five-year low, the Levada Center said on its  website  today. Even
so, the survey showed that Putin remains the nation’s most
trusted politician, ahead of President  Dmitry Medvedev .  The pollster surveyed 1,600 Russians on March 18-21. The
results carry a margin of error of 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  