-- 
Radiation Health Risk Rises in Tokyo’s Tap Water, Vegetables

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   R i c h a r d s
-- 
2011-03-23T07:24:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/radiation-health-risk-rises-in-tokyo-s-tap-water-vegetables.html
Tokyo  residents have been warned to
avoid giving tap water to infants after excessive levels of
iodine were found, a city official said in a televised
conference.  The advisory came just hours after the government
acknowledged for the first time that eating Japanese food may
carry health risks in the long run because of increasing levels
of radiation in vegetables.  Eating food supplies from near the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear reactor would not “immediately harm human
health,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told a news
conference today in Tokyo. “However we are seeing these figures
going up so we are looking at the possibility of levels reaching
levels that may harm human health,” he said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  ordered a halt to shipments of
leafy vegetables from Fukushima prefecture, his office said
today. He also stopped shipments of milk and parsley from
neighboring Ibaraki.  Japan ’s health ministry earlier warned against eating leafy
vegetables, broccoli and cauliflower produced near the damaged
nuclear power plant. People eating vegetables from Fukushima for
the past 10 days will have ingested half the natural level of a
year’s worth of radiation, the ministry said in a statement.  The government is investigating if food contaminated with
radiation is on the market, Edano said.  Milk and fresh produce from four regions of Japan closest
to radiation leaks from a damaged nuclear power plant will be
barred from the U.S. as regulators step up safeguards against
potential food contamination.  Imports of milk and fresh produce from four prefectures
closest to radiation leaks, Fukushima, Ibaraki, Tochigi and
Gunma prefectures will be barred from the U.S., the  Food and
Drug Administration  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frederik Balfour 
 Fbalfour@bloomberg.net  