-- 
Treasuries Decline as Fed Purchases Less Debt Than Average, Stocks Rally

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-23T21:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/treasuries-snap-four-day-decline-before-report-on-february-new-home-sales.html
Treasuries fell after the  Federal
Reserve  bought less debt than average under its $600 billion
program to use asset purchases to support the U.S. economic
recovery and stocks rose.  Losses were briefly pared after the Portuguese parliament
rejected the government’s deficit-cutting plan, raising the odds
of a European Union bailout and renewing the refuge appeal of
 U.S. government debt .  “Even though a lot of global risk has resurfaced there was a
pretty strong indication from the Fed’ buyback results that
investors are aggressively looking to lessen their long
positions, which spooked the market,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of
20 primary dealers that trade directly with Fed. “The backdrop
of the past few days has been one of easing concern from abroad
and cautious optimism.”  The yield on the 10-year note rose 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.35 percent at 5:35 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 dropped 6/32, or
$1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 9/32.  The central bank bought 24.6 percent of the $30.766
billion of securities due from May 2018 to February 2021 that
was submitted by primary dealers, for a total of $7.56 billion.
The Fed purchased 30.8 percent during a comparable operation on
March 14. The average in the four previous operations for that
range of maturities is 31.4 percent.  The purchases tempered an earlier advance in  U.S. debt  as
Japan’s nuclear turmoil raised fears and NATO disagreement on an
expanded role in  Libya , and an unexpected drop in U.S. new home
sales encouraged demand for the safety of government debt.  Portuguese Turmoil  Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva will meet
political parties represented in parliament on March 25 after
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  presented his resignation today
after the rejection of the spending plan.  “Any rejection of austerity measures or any debt reduction
will be negatively received, which should put a floor under any
Treasury sell-off,” said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar
derivatives trading in New York at primary dealer Jefferies &
Co. “The vote was a surprise given the environment right now.”  Yields on  Portugal ’s and Ireland’s debt rose to record
highs on concern euro-area leaders are struggling to find a
comprehensive solution to the region’s debt crisis.  In earthquake-ravaged Japan, authorities said people in
 Tokyo  should avoid giving tap water to infants as workers tried
to reconnect power to a nuclear reactor.  ‘Headline Risk’  The 28-member North Atlantic Treaty Organization struggled
to find a way to balance military needs and political
sensitivities in the five-day-old operation in Libya.  France  is
resisting overall NATO command to encourage more involvement by
Arab countries.  “You have to respect the headline risk still out there
with all of the uncertainty coming from  Asia , the Middle East
and  Europe ,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.  The Commerce Department said purchases of new homes fell
16.9 percent in February after slumping 9.6 percent in the
previous month. The median forecast of 77 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 2.1 percent.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, according to the median forecast of 81
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce
Department’s report on March 25. Last month the government
reported a 2.8 percent pace of expansion.  Intervention Demand  The Group of Seven’s intervention to stem the surge in the
yen after  Japan ’s earthquake may boost foreign purchases of
Treasury notes at next week’s auctions and depress yields,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Foreign purchases at U.S. debt sales may increase as they
did in September 2010, when the  Bank of Japan  last intervened in
its currency, Bank of America strategists Priya Misra and Shyam Rajan wrote in a research report today.  “There should be a pickup in foreign participation in the
front-end auctions at least,” Rajan, based in New York, said in
a telephone interview.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year notes on March
28, the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year notes on March 30, according to Wrightson
ICAP, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based research unit of ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The Treasury will announce the amounts tomorrow, when it
plans to sell $11 billion in 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities.  Fisher Comments  Following last week’s Fed policy meeting, the central bank
reaffirmed its plan to buy Treasuries through June to keep
borrowing costs low while saying “conditions in the labor
market appear to be improving gradually” and higher energy
prices will have a temporary effect.  Dallas Fed President Richard W. Fisher said today in a
speech in Berlin that he sees “extraordinary speculative
activity” in the U.S. after the central bank pumped record
amounts of stimulus into the economy.  Fisher, who votes on monetary policy this year, reiterated
his view that no further stimulus will be needed after the Fed
finishes its planned debt purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  