-- 
Republican Tax Chiefs Cool to Cisco, EMC Offshore Proposal

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-03-24T14:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/treasury-volleys-back-at-cisco-duke-energy-offshore-tax-break.html
The top Republican tax writers in
the  U.S. Congress  aren’t endorsing a call by  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other multinational corporations for a temporary
tax break on repatriating profits held offshore.  Representative  Dave Camp , the chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee, and Senator  Orrin Hatch , the top Republican
on the Finance Committee, said through aides yesterday that they
want to consider the repatriation issue as part of a
comprehensive look at rewriting the U.S. tax code.  That puts Camp, Hatch, and another Ways and Means member,
Representative Patrick Tiberi, in the middle of a political
fight with more than $1 trillion at stake. On one side are the
companies and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican who backs a so-called tax holiday for repatriated
profits even while Congress considers a broader overhaul. On the
other side is the U.S. Treasury Department, which yesterday
criticized the idea, calling it a mistake that would benefit
only a narrow slice of businesses.  “I want to do a lot of things,” Tiberi, an Ohio
Republican who heads the Ways and Means tax-writing
subcommittee, said in an interview yesterday. “I’d like to do
them all now. So part of me says let’s do whatever we could do
to help our economy. But it takes the pressure off, I think,
getting it done in a big way.”  This week’s positioning brought fresh attention to an issue
that is the focus of a corporate lobbying campaign by companies
including Cisco,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The
coalition’s  website  went live today, and 13 companies were
listed as supporting the effort. They include  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ,
 Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH)  and EMC Corp.  Deferral  Under U.S. law, companies are taxed on all of the income
they earn around the world, after subtracting the taxes they pay
to other governments. Companies can defer U.S. tax on overseas
profits by keeping the money outside the country. U.S. companies
have more than $1 trillion overseas.  Representative Kevin Brady of  Texas , a senior Republican on
Ways and Means, plans to introduce a bipartisan bill for a
repatriation holiday in the next few weeks, his spokeswoman,
Tracee Evans, said.  Cantor, the House’s second-ranking Republican, put new
emphasis on the issue in a speech on March 21. As reaching
consensus on a tax overhaul may be a lengthy process, he said, a
repatriation tax break could spur investment in the meantime.  The Obama administration responded to Cantor and the
lobbying campaign with a  blog post  yesterday. Michael Mundaca,
assistant Treasury secretary for  tax policy , said the
repatriation holiday would distract from efforts to overhaul the
U.S.  tax code .  ‘Temporary Measure’  “Letting our eye off the ball of comprehensive tax reform
in favor of a temporary measure of this kind would be a
mistake,” he wrote.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, is considering the issue in
the context of a tax-code rewrite, said his spokeswoman,
Michelle Dimarob. Hatch, a Utah Republican, also is focused on a
longer-term, comprehensive overhaul of the tax code, according
to his spokeswoman, Julia Lawless.  Allowing profits to return to the U.S. removes alternatives
that lawmakers may want to consider in a tax code rewrite, said
David Kautter, managing director of the  Kogod Tax Center  at
American University in Washington.  “Let’s say you have $1 trillion abroad,” he said.
“Congress could say we’re going to tax 25 percent a year for
four years, whether you bring it back or not. It would generate
substantial revenue to keep  tax reform  revenue-neutral. Do you
take that issue off the table?”  Tax Holiday  Congress enacted a similar holiday in 2004 with a 5.25
percent rate on repatriated funds, compared with the 35 percent
top corporate rate.  “There is no evidence that it increased U.S. investment or
jobs, and it cost taxpayers billions,” Mundaca wrote.  In 2009, the Senate rejected a proposal for another tax
break for repatriated profits, which would have cost the
government about $30 billion over a decade in forgone revenue.  The tax-holiday proposal loses revenue over 10 years for
several reasons. It encourages companies to accelerate
repatriations they would otherwise make in future years, and it
provides an incentive to shift more profits overseas in
anticipation of another such holiday.  Doug Thornell, an adviser to the corporate lobbying effort,
called a repatriation break “an essential first step” in what
is likely to be a long process of changing the tax code.  “There are few policy options left that will inject this
amount of money into our economy and cost taxpayers next to
nothing,” he said in a statement from the Working to Invest Now
(WIN) America campaign.  Caroline Harris, the chief tax counsel at the  U.S. Chamber
of Commerce , said lawmakers could address repatriation before
tackling an overhaul.  “We are supportive of repatriation,” she said. “But I
think it’s sort of a Band-Aid for a hemorrhage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 Ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  