-- 
Rescue Mission Used V-22 Tilt-Rotor Osprey from Bell Helicopter and Boeing

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/rescue-mission-used-v-22-tilt-rotor-osprey-from-bell-helicopter-and-boeing.html
The first rescue mission of the
allied attack on Libya saved the two-man crew of a U.S. F-15E
Strike Fighter Eagle jet that crashed in eastern Libya.  President Barack Obama praised the rescue team, which used
U.S. Marine Corps V-22 Osprey aircraft made by Bell Helicopter
Textron and  Boeing Co. (BA) , to recover one crew member. The other
was found by Libyan rebels and turned over to U.S. forces.  “It is a testament to our military that we had fully
prepared for any contingency, including something like this, and
they were able to recover these individuals rapidly,” Obama
said during a press conference in El Salvador yesterday with El
Salvadoran President Carlos Mauricio Funes.  The  Air Force  F-15E crew ejected safely after the plane
suffered “an equipment malfunction” at about 10:30 p.m.
Central European Time on March 21, U.S. Admiral  Samuel Locklear 
told reporters at the Pentagon by telephone from his command
ship in the Mediterranean Sea.  The aircraft had been on a mission to attack Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s “missile capabilities,” Locklear said.  The V-22 Ospreys were flown off the USS Kearsarge by pilots
of the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit, Marine Corps spokesman
Captain Richard Ulsh said in an e-mail. CH-53E Super Sea
Stallion helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Sikorsky unit also took part, he said.  The accident marked the first crash of an F-15E aircraft
since July 18, 2009, when one of the Boeing Co.-made planes
crashed in  Afghanistan . Both the pilot and navigator died.  All F-15A through F-15D variants were grounded for several
months after a Missouri Air National Guard F-15C fighter
disintegrated in the air in November 2007. That accident was
caused by a cracked longeron, a structure that helps hold the
fuselage together.  Improvements Planned  The U.S. Air Force has more than 220 F-15E Strike Eagles, a
version designed for both air-to-air and air-to-ground attacks.
The plane’s avionics and electronics systems allow it to fly at
low altitude in all types of weather, according to an Air Force
fact sheet.  The Air Force bought its last five F-15E jets in 2001 for
an average price of $79.24 million each.  Boeing still produces the F-15E for export and jointly
produces the F-15K Slam Eagle variant with  South Korea .  The crew safely ejected from the F-15E over Libya using the
Advanced Concept Ejection Seat II made by  Goodrich Corp. (GR) , based
in Charlotte, North Carolina. The seats cost more than $1
million each.  The Air Force plans on spending $1.6 billion over the next
five years to buy new radars for its fleet of F-15 jets,
including $816 million for radar upgrades on 86 F-15E variants.
The radars are made by  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of Waltham,  Massachusetts .  President Told  While Boeing was the prime contractor on the F-15E, Pratt &
Whitney made the engines and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  provided the
plane’s electronic countermeasure sets.  The Air Force has spent about $27 billion to buy more than
1,100 F-15 aircraft of all variants since the early 1970s. Some
of the older planes are being replaced by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
F-22 Raptors and F-35 Joint Strike Fighters.  Obama was told last night in Chile “that a U.S. plane was
down,”  Ben Rhodes , the White House deputy national security
adviser for strategic communications, told reporters traveling
with Obama on Air Force One.  White House Chief of Staff William Daley, accompanying
Obama at a state dinner, remained in contact with national
security adviser Tom Donilon and informed Obama about
developments, Rhodes said.  After Obama returned to his hotel, Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke with Obama and told
him of the Pentagon’s assessment that both pilots were safe,
Rhodes said.  The plane crashed in a field near Benghazi, Britain’s Daily
Telegraph newspaper reported on its  website , without saying
where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  