-- 
Rio Tinto Is Looking to Buy Quality Mining Assets, Albanese Says

-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 
2011-03-23T02:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/rio-tinto-is-looking-to-buy-quality-mining-assets-albanese-says.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s
second-largest mining company, is looking to buy “quality
assets” while maintaining a selective approach to takeovers,
Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said.  “We will limit mergers and acquisitions to small and
intermediate size, which we would define as single billion
category,” Albanese said today at a conference in  Hong Kong .
“First tier assets are still few and far between. We are going
to be somewhat cautious and circumspect.”  Albanese returned to takeovers this year, raising his offer
for coal producer Riversdale Mining Ltd. to A$3.9 billion ($3.9
billion), after his purchase of Alcan Inc. in 2007 left the
London-based company with $40 billion in debt. A lack of new
projects is forcing miners to expand through acquisitions.  “We want to look at high quality projects,” Albanese said.
“Most of the stuff that I’m seeing pitched in the investment
universe now are resources that were discovered 10, 20 years,
even 30 years ago. They were dogs then and they are coming to
light because the economy is a little better.”  Rio’s shares were unchanged in Sydney trading at 1:28 p.m.
Sydney time. They’ve dropped 5.8 percent this year.  Global mining deals have had the best start to a year since
2008, with 324 pending or completed deals worth $36.9 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There were 1,694 deals
worth $149.8 billion last year, the highest level since 2007.  Diamond Accord?  Rio is also nearing agreement to buy a 49 percent stake in
Alrosa’s Severalmaz diamond mine for $350 million, according to
a person with knowledge of the talks. Rio is and the third-
largest diamond producer after Alrosa and  De Beers .  Global prices of rough, or unpolished, diamonds rose 26
percent in 2010 after supplies fell and dealers rebuilt
stockpiles, fueling industry consolidation. Rio is seeking new
reserves of diamonds as its dwindling output fails to match
emerging-market demand.  If successful, the Riverdale deal would be Rio’s first
acquisition since it paid $38.1 billion for  Canada ’s Alcan. The
debt from that takeover forced the company to undertake a $15.2
billion rights offer.  Last month, Rio, the world’s second-largest iron ore
exporter, said second-half profit tripled as the global economic
recovery boosted prices for iron ore and copper. Its  cash flow 
from operations almost doubled to $18.3 billion last year from
$9.6 billion the year before.  Rebuilding Japan  Separately, Albanese said rebuilding from the Japanese
earthquake and tsunami was likely to boost demand for raw
materials.  Reconstruction is “by its nature materials and metals
intensive,” Albanese said. “You may see a new demand component
from this earthquake reconstruction kicking in at about” 2013,
he said.  Japanese manufacturers including Sony Corp. and Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd. suspended some production after the 9-
magnitude temblor struck on March 11, unleashing a tsunami that
engulfed towns on the northern coast.  The earthquake will hurt the global  iron ore  market as the
shutdown of  steel mills  may cut output, Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.
President Ma Guoqiang said. Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron
ore exporter, said on March 17 its shipments haven’t been
affected by the events.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 jduce1@bloomberg.net 
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ; 