-- 
Rising Food Prices Threaten Democracy, Cause Conflict, IMF Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-23T15:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/rising-food-prices-threaten-democracy-cause-conflict-imf-says.html
Rising world food prices threaten
democracies in poor countries, causing riots and civil conflict
and widening the gap between rich and poor, a study by the
 International Monetary Fund  found.  The findings are “broadly consistent” with politicians’
claims that surging food prices “put at stake the socio-
economic and political stability of the world’s poorest
countries,” IMF economist Rabah Arezki and  Markus Brueckner  of
the University of Adelaide’s School of Economics wrote in a 23-
page  paper  published on the organization’s website.  World food prices rose to a record in February, based on an
index tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization. Rising food costs contributed to riots across
North Africa and the Middle East in the past months that toppled
leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  The economists compared international food prices with
measures of democracy in more than 120 countries between 1970
and 2007, finding that “increases in international food prices
lead to a significant deterioration of democratic institutions
in the low income countries.”  Changes in governments’ democratic or autocratic nature, as
measured on the  Polity project ’s 21-point scale, were related to
domestic food prices, Arezki and Brueckner said. The study found
rising food costs had a “negative and highly significant
effect” on the Polity score of low-income countries, they
wrote.  Higher food prices also “significantly” increased anti-
government demonstrations, riots and civil conflict in poor
countries, while widening  income inequality , the study showed.
The researchers said the findings didn’t apply to richer
countries, where there was no significant effect from more
expensive food on domestic conflict.  ‘Direst Consequences’  “Food expenditures constitute a large share of the
consumption basket for the extremely poor,” who experience the
“direst consequences” when food prices rise, according to the
study.  The  World Bank  reported last month that 44 million people
have been pushed into extreme poverty since June because of
rising food prices.  “A large share of the variation in the international food
prices is due to changes in demand and supply of the high and
middle income countries,” Arezki and Brueckner wrote. “The
world’s poorest countries, that arguably are the least
responsible for changes in the international food prices, are
strongest hit.”  The study also looked at whether domestic conflict caused
by rising food prices increased after the breakup of the  Soviet
Union  and the end of the  Cold War , the researchers said.  “There is some evidence that for the post-1990 period the
effect of food price changes on intra-state conflict has become
significantly larger,” Arezki and Brueckner wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 