-- 
Roma’s De Rossi Seeks $29 Million Mover to Manchester United: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-23T10:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/roma-s-de-rossi-seeks-29-million-mover-to-manchester-united-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Manchester Bound?  Representatives of AS Roma midfielder Daniele De Rossi are
seeking an 18 million pound ($29 million) move to  Manchester
United , the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  De Rossi, who’s made 63 appearances for  Italy , is keen to
leave the club where he’s played since he was a boy because of
problems in his private life. Roma’s vice-captain, who has also
sparked the interest of Real Madrid, has separated from his wife,
while his father-in-law was shot and killed in a gangland
revenge attack, the Telegraph said.  Aquilani Staying  Liverpool  midfielder  Alberto Aquilani  may sign a permanent
contract with Juventus at the end of the season following a loan
spell at the Italian club, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Aquilani returned to Serie A in August after just one
season in the Premier League.  Quitting Turkey  Guus Hiddink  may leave his job as Turkey manager should the
team fail to qualify for next year’s European Championships, the
 Sun  reported.  “I’m trying to make a better Turkey team,” the paper
quoted the former Holland and Chelsea manager as saying. “If I
can’t do that, I’ll ask the chairman to sack me.”  Hiddink, who led Chelsea to F.A. Cup glory in 2009, turned
down an approach by the  London  club in November to become
director of football.  Kuyt’s Contract  Liverpool striker Dirk Kuyt may extend his contract with
the Premier League club until 2014, the  Sun  reported.  Kuyt, 30, has two years left on his contract. He’ll agree
on a new deal when he returns from playing for the Netherlands,
the paper said.  “With  Luis Suarez  and Andy Carroll arriving, we’re
stronger,” the paper quoted Kuyt as saying. “I reckon the club
will reinforce in the summer. This helps my belief we’ll play
for trophies again.”  Chilean Teen  Manchester United  is close to signing 16-year-old Chilean
striker Angelo Henriquez for 3 million pounds, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  Henriquez, who currently plays for Universidad de Chile, is
regarded as one of the best emerging talents in Latin America,
the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 