-- 
Romania’s Leu Rally is ‘Market Driven,’ Central Banker Cristian Popa Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-03-23T15:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/romania-s-leu-rally-is-market-driven-central-banker-cristian-popa-says.html
The Romanian leu’s rally to its
strongest level in almost a year is “market driven and appears
to be broadly in line with economic fundamentals,” Deputy
Governor Cristian Popa said.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  reiterates that it “remains
preoccupied” with possible excess volatility of the leu
 exchange rate , “should it occur,” Popa said today in response
to questions from Bloomberg on what justifies the current leu
appreciation.  The leu through yesterday has been 2011’s best performer
against both the dollar and the euro of more than 170 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It gained as much as 0.5 percent after
Popa’s comments and traded at 4.103 against the euro as of 5:37
p.m. in Bucharest today. That brings the rise to 4 percent
against the euro and 9.8 percent versus the dollar in 2011.  “The relatively more significant recent strengthening
against the dollar” should help “anchor inflation expectations
stemming from increases in the world price of oil and fuels,”
Popa said.  Popa’s comments show “that the currency move is good for
inflation expectations,” which “opened up the prospect for
more,” said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at
Nomura Plc in  London . “Overall, I think the risk here is that
markets push them too far too fast given we are now seeing quite
a bit of fast money interest.”  ‘Mounting’ Risks  The leu may appreciate to 4.05 per euro as the central bank
“is much more comfortable about currency strength given
mounting inflation risks,” emerging-markets strategists at
Societe Generale SA in London wrote in a report today.  Annual inflation quickened to 7.6 percent in February from
7 percent in the previous month, the statistics office in
Bucharest reported on March 10.  Recent price growth “should be viewed against the
background of a certain tightening of broad monetary conditions
where, besides the level of the policy rate and of minimum
 reserve requirements , exchange-rate evolutions and changes in
interbank money market rates also play a role,” Popa said.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a record-low 6.25 percent for a sixth meeting on Feb. 3. The
next rate-setting meeting is scheduled for March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  