-- 
Leu Extends World’s Best GainThis Year on Romanian Central Bank's Comments

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-03-23T17:56:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/romanian-leu-extends-gain-after-popa-says-advance-is-in-line-.html
The leu extended the biggest rally
among the world’s currencies in 2011 to the strongest in a year
after a Romanian policy maker signaled the central bank may
allow further gains in an attempt to control inflation.  The currency appreciated as much as 0.7 percent to 4.0994
per euro, its strongest intraday level since April 8, and traded
at 4.1044 as of 7:30 p.m. in Bucharest, its fifth day of gains.  The leu’s rally is “market-driven and broadly in line with
economic fundamentals” and may “anchor inflation expectations
stemming from increases in the world price of oil and fuels,”
central bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa told Bloomberg today.
Inflation quickened to 7.6 percent in February from 7 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office in Bucharest said March 10.  “Inflation has been a theme across emerging markets for
some time” and Popa has given “probably the first sign that
the Romanian central bank is joining others in dropping their
aversion to appreciation as energy prices rise,” Robert Beange,
strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London , wrote in an e-mail.  Policy makers from  China  to  Brazil  have been struggling to
tame quickening inflation as the global economic recovery and
conflict in the Middle East drives up energy prices. Crude oil
jumped for a third day today to above $105 a barrel, trading
near its highest since 2008.  ‘Radical Change’  Romania ’s annual price growth topped the 7.4 percent median
estimate of analysts polled by Bloomberg. The central bank is
concerned about inflation because of surging global food and oil
prices, Governor Mugur Isarescu said March 9. The bank last year
operated in the  currency market  to prevent excess liquidity from
causing “ample leu moves,” Isarscu said on Jan. 21 interview.  “The central bank is indeed much more comfortable about
currency strength given mounting inflation risks” after a
“radical change in terms of exchange-rate policy,”  Benoit Anne 
and Guillaume Salomon, emerging-market strategists at Societe
Generale SA in London, wrote in a research note earlier today.  The leu may advance to 4.05 per euro, its strongest since
January 2009, compared with SocGen’s earlier forecast of 4.1 per
euro, according to the report. “There are now clear risks that
the leu may appreciate further than we initially thought,” Anne
and Salomon wrote.  A 4.3 percent rally against the euro and a 10 percent gain
versus the dollar make the leu the best performer so far this
year among more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Romania’s currency may extend its gains “for a while, as
oil is likely to continue higher,” RBC’s Beange wrote in
response to questions from Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  