-- 
Rove-Founded Crossroads GPS Sues HHS Over Health-Care Waivers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-03-23T16:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/rove-founded-group-sues-u-s-for-information-on-health-care-law-waivers.html
Crossroads Global Policy
Strategies , one of the political groups that spent millions of
dollars to elect Republicans last November, sued to force the
Obama administration to reveal its reasons for granting waivers
from key provisions of the health-care law.  The group founded by  Karl Rove , the former adviser to
President  George W. Bush ,  filed suit  in federal court in
 Washington  against the  Department of Health and Human Services .
President Barack Obama signed the health-care bill into law one
year ago today.  The suit accuses HHS of failing to respond to a Freedom of
Information Act request seeking documents on how some waiver
requests were granted and others were denied.  Steven Law, president of Crossroads GPS, said the waiver
program “has all the same flaws as the underlying law:
unfettered government power, federal bureaucrats picking winners
and losers, and the appearance, if not the reality, of
favoritism to political cronies.”  Crossroads GPS said more than 1,000 waivers have been
given, allowing recipients an extra year before having to comply
with spending and coverage requirements of the law.  Waivers were given to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and 29 other
companies and organizations, letting them provide health-care
plans that don’t meet requirements for minimum coverage,
according to a government list. The United Federation of
Teachers in  New York City  also received a waiver.  Crossroads GPS also set up a  new website  to provide Obama
administration documents and other information obtained through
FOIA requests.  32 Million Uninsured  Nicholas Papas, a White House spokesman, declined to
comment and referred questions to HHS, where a phone call wasn’t
immediately returned.  The health-care law, passed over Republican opposition,
extends coverage to 32 million uninsured by requiring all
Americans to get health insurance or pay a penalty, prevents
insurers from rejecting customers with pre-existing medical
conditions and would reduce the federal deficit according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  House Republicans voted in January to repeal the overhaul
measure, saying it will raise taxes and destroy jobs.  Law came to Crossroads from the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce ,
which lobbied against the health-care legislation and spent $30
million on ads in the 2010 elections, primarily to elect
Republicans.  Crossroads and its sister organization, American
Crossroads, spent $38 million in 2010, more than any other
group,  Federal Election Commission  filings show. Neither the
Chamber of Commerce nor Crossroads GPS disclose their donors;
American Crossroads does.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 