-- 
Russian President Tells Deep Purple of His Years as Rock DJ

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-23T17:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/russian-president-tells-deep-purple-of-his-years-as-rock-dj.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev , an avid
fan of Deep Purple, met the U.K. hard-rock group for tea at his
residence outside Moscow yesterday on the eve of their concert
in the Russian capital, Russian news wires said.  Following his meeting with visiting U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates , Medvedev played a Deep Purple song at full volume
on a reel-to-reel tape recorder as he greeted the musicians,
Itar-Tass reported. Drummer Ian Paice gave his drum sticks to
the president.  Medvedev, 45, got his love for Deep Purple, who pioneered
heavy rock with songs such as “Smoke on the Water” and
“Highway Star,” when he was a 13-year-old schoolboy living in
a cramped two-room apartment on the outskirts of Leningrad in
the late 1970s. Deep Purple were flown to Moscow in February of
2008, weeks before he was elected president, to be the guests of
honor at a concert in the Kremlin and met Medvedev.  “When I started listening to Deep Purple, I of course
could not imagine that I would be sitting with you at this
table,” Itar-Tass quoted Medvedev as saying. “You instil real
musical culture and help young people understand what rock music
is.”  Medvedev told the band that in  Russia  they have a “cohort
of most devoted fans from the time of the Iron Curtain.”  Medvedev recalled how he organized hard-rock discos at his
school after getting approval for a list of musicians to be
played from Komsomol, the Communist Party youth league.  Medvedev first revealed his musical obsession in an April
2007 interview with Itogi magazine, boasting that he now owns
the entire vinyl collection of Deep Purple. At school, he also
listened avidly to Black Sabbath and Led Zeppelin, he said.  Bono Meeting  Only after he had graduated as a law student in 1987 and
started to earn some money could he afford to buy his first
music system with speakers. He later devoted himself to
collecting all Deep Purple records.  Medvedev, who has said he prefers classic rock, met with U2
lead singer Bono last August before the group’s first-ever
concert in Russia at Moscow’s Luzhniki stadium.  In 2009, Medvedev said that his teenage son, Ilya, is a fan
of the alternative rock group Linkin Park and that he listened
to the band’s music from time to time. Ilya played guitar with
Deep Purple musicians, RIA Novosti reported today, citing an
unidentified Kremlin official.  Ian Gillan, the group’s lead singer, told Medvedev that
when he was little he thought that policemen and presidents were
very old people but now things have changed, Itar-Tass said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 