-- 
Russian Developer Etalon Seeks $500 Million in an Initial Public Offering

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-23T10:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/russian-developer-etalon-seeks-500-million-in-an-initial-public-offering.html
Etalon Group Ltd., a developer that
builds high-rise apartment blocks in Moscow and St. Petersburg,
plans to raise about $500 million in an initial public offering
in  London  to enlarge its land bank and fund projects.  The company hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Renaissance
Capital Ltd. and VTB Capital Plc to manage the sale of global
depositary receipts on the London Stock Exchange, according to a
statement today. The receipts are equivalent to one common share
in the company. Etalon didn’t provide a date for the sale.  Etalon wants to acquire land or partner owners unable to
develop sites because of the constraints in lending or because
of losses incurred in the financial crisis, which slowed the
supply of more expensive residential developments.  “We are looking to buy high-quality locations with good
infrastructure,” Dmitri Boulkhoukov, Etalon’s head of
investment and a board member, said in a telephone interview.  Etalon’s projects are mainly affordable high-rise
residential complexes sold to middle-income earners on estates
it builds with schools, kindergartens and medical facilities.
Two of the largest of its 28 projects are NSA Emerald Hills in
Moscow and the NSA Jubilee Estate in  St. Petersburg .  Etalon Group reported earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of 6.9 billion rubles ($244
million) last year, or 34 percent of revenue.  “Our market position, track record, healthy financial
position and credibility underpin our ability to generate pre-
sales,” Chairman Viacheslav Zarenkov said in the statement.
“It puts us in a strong position to benefit from the growth
potential of the Russian residential market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 