-- 
Sainsbury Sales Slow More Than Anticipated on Fuel

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-03-23T11:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/sainsbury-sales-slow-more-than-anticipated-amid-fuel-cost-rise.html
(Corrects newspaper’s name in last paragraph.)  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket owner, fell the most in almost two years in
London trading after reporting sales that slowed more than
analysts anticipated as higher fuel costs weighed on consumers.  Revenue at stores open at least a year, including value-
added tax and excluding gasoline sales, rose 1 percent in the 10
weeks through March 19, the London-based retailer said today in
a statement. That was less than the 3.6 percent increase in the
third quarter and missed the 2.1 percent median estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sainsbury Chief Executive Officer Justin King today said
the company has promotions on more than 30 percent of its items,
and that discounts have been “at an all-time high now for the
best part of a year.” British grocers have been increasing
discounts to record levels on everyday items such as detergents
and cheese to lure shoppers contending with inflation, which
rose to the fastest pace in more than two years in February.  “The results are a bit disappointing,” said Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution Noble, with a ‘hold’ rating on
the stock. It shows that growth is coming from fuel inflation
not volume, she added. Including fuel, sales at Sainsbury rose
4.2 percent.  Sainsbury is also extending its own lines with a womenswear
collection by television celebrity Gok Wan and adding
 convenience stores  and non-food space to drive profit as the
market faces “subdued” growth, according to researcher  Kantar
Worldpanel .  Share Slump  Sainsbury fell as much as 21.3 pence, or 6 percent, to 333
pence and were at 334 pence at 8:33 a.m. in London trading.
That’s the biggest intraday decline since June, 2009. The stock
has declined 11 percent this year, while  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s
biggest retailer, has dropped 13 percent.  The grocer’s market share rose to 16.5 percent in the three
months through Feb. 20, according to Kantar, with sales growth
running ahead of the market and its largest competitors Tesco
and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda chain.  Fuel price inflation of 16 percent is having a
“significant impact,” on weekly budgets, the retailer said in
the statement. U.K. retail sales gained 1.1 percent in February
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 10 months, according to
the  British Retail Consortium , driven by a decline in non-food
sales such as furniture and electronics.  Nectar Cards  Customers are managing inflation by tapping into
Sainsbury’s nectar card loyalty plan and items such as the
grocer’s offer for five meals for a family of four for 20 pounds
($32), Chief Executive Officer Justin King told  Francine Lacqua 
on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” today.  “Customers are really reining in their spending but we’re
pleased with our performance because it’s a good beat to our
competition,” King said. “The market since Christmas has been
very subdued in the level of growth. The customer has no good
reason, not withstanding what they might hear in the budget
today, to believe things will get very much better,” he added.  King said he was “very happy” with analysts’ expectations
of profit before tax of about 660 million pounds ($1.08 billion)
for the year.  Separately, the  Daily Mail  reported today that Sainsbury
shareholder the Qatar Investment Authority has approached the
grocer with a plan to support Sainsbury if it made a bid for
Marks & Spencer Group Plc. King declined to comment on the
report on a conference call today. Marks & Spencer spokeswoman
Clare Wilkes declined to comment on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  