-- 
Sales of New U.S. Homes Probably Rose in February After Slump in January

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-23T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-probably-rose-in-february-after-slump-in-january.html
A projected February increase in
sales of U.S. new homes probably failed to make up for the
ground lost the prior month, adding to evidence the industry is
floundering, economists said before a report today.  Purchases, tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed 2.1
percent to a 290,000 annual pace after slumping 13 percent in
January, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 77 economists. Even with the gain, sales are close to
the record-low 274,000 pace reached in August.  Builders are struggling to compete with existing homes as
foreclosures add to the overhang of unsold properties and drive
down prices. The figures underscore the  Federal Reserve ’s view
that the housing market “continues to be depressed” even as
the rest of the economy improves.  “This is the bouncing-a-long-the-bottom scenario,”  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
 New York . “We’re seeing the flood of existing homes coming onto
the market, really sapping demand for new homes. The new-home
and the whole construction picture looks very vulnerable.”  The Commerce Department report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 240,000 to
325,000, following a 284,000 rate in January.  Previously owned home purchases dropped more than forecast
in February, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed this week. The median home price fell to a 9-year-low,
while the supply of unsold properties rose.  Leading Gauge  New-home sales are considered a more timely barometer than
purchases of previously owned homes, which account for about 90
percent of the housing market. Existing-home purchases are
calculated when a contract closes.  Builders are putting off new construction as inventory
swells. Housing starts fell in February to a 479,000 annual
rate, the lowest level since April 2009, and construction
permits slumped to a record low, Commerce Department figures
showed last week.  Homebuilder shares have underperformed the broader stock
market in the last year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilder Index of 12 builders has declined 9.3 percent in the
12 months ended yesterday, compared with an 11 percent increase
for the broader  S&P 500 .  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the largest homebuilder in  New
Jersey , reported on March 1 a first-quarter loss after a drop in
sales and the absence of a tax benefit that boosted results a
year earlier. The loss was $64.1 million, or 82 cents a share,
for the quarter ended Jan. 31, the Red Bank-based company said
in a statement.  Jobs Needed  “We need confidence to go up,” Chief Executive Officer
 Ara Hovnanian  said March 2 during a call with analysts. “We
need employment numbers to get better, and I think that’ll
attract traffic as well as customers.”  While signs such as stronger manufacturing and exports
indicate the world’s largest economy is gaining momentum, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers reaffirmed
plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June to
“promote a stronger recovery” after their second meeting of
the year on March 15.  Bernanke told Congress during a March 2 testimony that
until more people want homes, “there’s no demand for
construction to build houses and so the  construction industry  is
quite reduced.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  