-- 
Saudi Billionaire's Company Will Invest $2.5 Billion in Ethiopia Rice Farm

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T06:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/saudi-billionaire-s-company-will-invest-2-5-billion-in-ethiopia-rice-farm.html
Saudi Star Agricultural Development
Plc, a food company owned by billionaire Sheikh Mohammed al- Amoudi, said it plans to invest $2.5 billion by 2020 developing
a rice-farming project in  Ethiopia .  The company, based in  Addis Ababa , leased 10,000 hectares
(24,711 acres) in Ethiopia’s western Gambella region for 60
years at a cost of 158 birr ($9.42) per hectare annually, Chief
Executive Officer Haile Assegide said in an interview on March
18. It plans to rent an additional 290,000 hectares from the
government, he said.  The project forms part of the Horn of Africa nation’s plan
to lease 3 million hectares, an area about the size of  Belgium ,
to private investors over the next 2 ½ years. Critics including
 GRAIN , the Barcelona-based advocacy group, have argued that
domestic farmers are being dispossessed and the country
shouldn’t rent land cheaply to foreign investors to grow cash
crops when about 13 percent of its approximately 80 million
people still rely on food aid.  “There is lots of land in Ethiopia, especially in the
lowland areas,” Haile said. “So, if you develop this lowland
area and make Ethiopia self-sufficient in food, I see no
problem.”  Karuturi Global Ltd. (KARG) , an Indian food processor, plans to
produce commodities including  palm oil , sugar and rice on
312,000 hectares of rented land in Ethiopia.  ‘Villagization’  The Agriculture Ministry announced in November it plans to
relocate 45,000 households, or about three-quarters of the
population of Gambella, by mid-2013. Almost half of the region’s
population is made up of the semi-nomadic Lou Nuer people,
according to the 2007 Population and Housing Census.  The government says the so-called villagization program is
aimed at improving public-service delivery and is not linked to
investments in land.  “Where we have leased, there is no settler,” Haile said.
“In the future, there might be some resettlement.”  When previous projects of Saudi Star’s parent company,
Midroc Ethiopia Plc, have displaced people, it has compensated
people, resettled them and provided public services including
schools, health clinics and loans, according to Haile.  Over the past 15 months, Saudi Star spent $140 million
buying equipment, clearing part of the land in Gambella and
developing a 25-hectare trial plot, he said. Another 130,000
hectares has been allocated and there are plans to lease a
further 160,000, Haile said. Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most
populous nation with about 83 million people, bars private land
ownership.  Saudi Exports  Other crops including sunflowers and corn will be grown in
areas not suitable for rice, Haile said.  Two-thirds of the food produced will be exported by Saudi
Star, with Saudi Arabia likely to be a “very dominant” market,
while the rest will be sold domestically, according to Haile.
This month, the Ethiopian Foreign Ministry said the agreement
with Saudi Star required the company to sell 40 percent
domestically, while 60 percent could be shipped offshore.  “There is no government policy to my knowledge,” Haile
said.  Saudi Star’s farm will eventually produce as much as 1.5
million metric tons of rice a year and directly employ 250,000
people, in part because of a strategy to reduce mechanization.  “We don’t want to make it capital intensive,” he said. “We
want to make it a mix of labor and capital”.  Rough rice for May delivery fell less than 0.1 percent to
$13.85 per 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade at 8:58 a.m.
Nairobi time.  Saudi Arabian businesses invested more than any other
country in Ethiopia over the past five years, the  Ethiopian News
Agency  reported in December. Ethiopia plans to attract foreign
and domestic investment of 703 billion birr over the next five
years, according to the agency.  Al-Amoudi, 66, is the world’s 63rd richest person and the
second-wealthiest in  Saudi Arabia  with assets worth $12.3
billion, according to  Forbes  magazine’s annual global ranking of
billionaires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 