-- 
Shekel Weakens on Concern Bank of Israel May Widen Regulations

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-03-23T14:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/shekel-weakens-on-concern-bank-of-israel-may-widen-regulations.html
The shekel weakened the most in
almost a week on concern the Bank of  Israel  may add to rules to
thwart speculators after the currency rose to the highest since
January and following an explosion at a Jerusalem bus stop.  The bank in January established  reserve requirements  for
foreign-exchange derivative transactions and demanded residents
and non-residents report foreign-exchange swaps and forwards of
more than $10 million a day. Governor  Stanley Fischer  is
weighing further changes, Calcalist reported today, without
saying where it got the information. Central bank spokesman
Yossi Saadon said in an e-mail to Bloomberg that to the best of
his knowledge there is nothing new on the topic.  “The  Bank of Israel  will need to take further action to
stem the strength in the shekel as inflationary pressure
increases, pushing the bank to raise  interest rates  next week,”
Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based DS
Securities & Investment, said by telephone.  The shekel fell as much as 0.4 percent, the most since
March 17, and was 0.2 percent lower at 3.5385 per dollar as of
4:37 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The currency yesterday reached an
intraday high of 3.5200, the strongest since Jan. 4, after a
central bank survey showed consumer prices may rise 3.1 percent
in the next 12 months, above the government’s 1 percent to 3
percent target range.  No Panic  The currency also weakened after an explosion at a
Jerusalem bus stop injured at least 25 people. The cost of
insuring the country’s debt jumped 16 basis points to 164, the
biggest increase since Jan. 28, according to CMA prices for
credit-default swaps.  “The shekel reacted to the attack but there’s no panic in
the market,” said Adiv Kabiri, senior currency dealer at Gift
Asset Management Ltd.  The regulatory changes could come soon, Zabezhinsky said,
noting that the earlier announcements came just before the
January interest rate decision. The bank will make its next call
on rates March 28. Fifteen of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey
expect Fischer to raise the rate by a quarter percentage point
to 2.75 percent and one expects an increase to 3 percent. Four
predict the rate will remain at 2.5 percent.  The yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit due
January 2020 slipped  1 basis point to 5.24 percent at the 4:30
p.m. close.  Demand for safer assets increased as  Japan ’s nuclear crisis
worsened, the U.S. and its allies bombed Libya and speculation
intensified that  Portugal  will need a bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sharon Wrobel} in Jerusalem at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  