-- 
Singapore Consumer Prices Climb 5%, Sustaining Pressure to Tighten Policy

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-03-23T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/singapore-consumer-prices-climb-5-sustaining-pressure-to-tighten-policy.html
Singapore ’s inflation held above
4.5 percent for a third month as the cost of transportation,
food and housing climbed, sustaining pressure on the central
bank to join regional policy makers in damping inflation.  The consumer price index increased 5 percent last month
from a year earlier, a Department of Statistics statement showed
today. That compares with an inflation rate of 5.5 percent in
January. The median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 5.4 percent gain. Prices fell 0.1
percent from January, without adjusting for seasonal factors.  Asian central banks from  India  to  South Korea  and Thailand
have tightened monetary policy this month as rising oil and
commodity prices threaten to fuel inflation. Singapore last
month raised its inflation forecast for 2011, and economists
from Standard Chartered Plc to Citigroup Inc. predict the
central bank will revalue the currency or let it appreciate
faster at the policy review in April.  “Inflationary risks are certainly rising,”  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before
the report. “Food and fuel prices will surely become more
prominent factors in the inflation equation going forward. And
that should prompt further monetary action from the Monetary
Authority of Singapore.”  The central bank, which uses the exchange rate as its main
tool to manage inflation, revalued the currency in April 2010
and said in October it would steepen and widen the currency’s
trading band while continuing to seek a “modest and gradual
appreciation.”  Currency Climbs  Consumer prices will probably rise 4 percent this year,
according to the median estimate in a survey of 20 economists by
the central bank released this month. Consumer prices may climb
3 percent to 4 percent this year, up from a previous forecast of
2 percent to 3 percent, the government said Feb. 17.  The  Singapore dollar  has gained more than 10 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past year to be the best
performing currency in  Asia  excluding  Japan .  The Singapore dollar may strengthen to S$1.23 versus the
U.S. currency by the end of 2011, economists surveyed by the
central bank predicted. It traded at S$1.2644 a dollar at 12:20
p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  