-- 
Skype Appoints McAfee’s Jonathan Chadwick as Finance Chief in Runup to IPO

-- B y   A s h l e e   V a n c e   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-23T21:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/skype-says-jonathan-chadwick-of-mcafee-joins-as-finance-chief.html
Skype Technologies SA, the biggest
provider of international calling, said it hired former McAfee
Inc. finance chief Jonathan Chadwick as its chief financial
officer.  Chadwick’s appointment was discussed on Skype’s  website .
Adrian Dillon had been Skype’s CFO. His appointment was
announced in March 2010. Chadwick joined McAfee last year from
 Cisco Systems , where he worked for 13 years, overseeing some
finance teams and leading the introduction of new business
models, Skype said.  Skype Chief Executive Officer Tony Bates is working to
boost sales and rev up customer growth as the company prepares
for an initial public offering. The company is struggling to
convert users of its free PC-to-PC phone service into paying
customers, according to a March 4 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The percentage of Skype’s average monthly users who paid
for the service declined to 6.1 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 31, from 7 percent in the same period a year earlier
and 7.7 percent in the last three months of 2008, according to
the  S-1 filing .  Skype also hired Mark Gillett as chief development and
operations officer, said Jennifer Caukin, a spokeswoman for the
Luxembourg-based company, in an e-mailed statement on the
executive change. Gillett will take responsibility for the
engineering organization, she said.  Computer-security software maker McAfee was acquired by
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashlee Vance in  San Francisco  at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  