-- 
Sleeping Controller Possibility Probed After U.S. Landings

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-03-23T21:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/sleeping-controller-possibility-probed-after-u-s-landings-1-.html
U.S. investigators are examining
whether two airline flights landed at Ronald Reagan Washington
National Airport today without tower guidance because the lone
controller on duty was asleep.  The  AMR Corp. (AMR)  American Airlines and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  United planes landed safely at about 12:10 a.m.
and 12:25 a.m., respectively, Peter Knudson, a spokesman for the
National Transportation Safety Board, said in an interview.  Pilots of the American plane aborted a first landing
attempt when no one in the tower responded to calls and then
landed without assistance, Knudson said. The United pilots
landed the first time, and crews from both planes treated the
airport the same as one that doesn’t ordinarily have controllers
in early morning hours, he said.  There was one controller working in the Reagan tower at the
time, Knudson said. The board doesn’t yet know why the worker
didn’t respond to calls and is looking into the possibility the
controller was asleep, he said. The planes were in contact with
controllers at a regional center in  Virginia , he said.  Shortly after the United flight landed, the tower was
responsive, Knudson said.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  declined to say whether
the controller was asleep or whether any action was taken
against the worker. “The FAA is looking into staffing issues
and whether existing procedures were followed appropriately,”
agency spokeswoman Laura Brown said.  United is also investigating, Megan McCarthy, a spokeswoman
for the airline, said. She referred questions to the NTSB. The
flight was an Airbus SAS A320 carrying 63 passengers and five
crew members from  Chicago ’s O’Hare airport, she said.  An American spokesman didn’t immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.  The incidents were reported earlier by the  Associated
Press .  To contact the reporter for this story:
John Hughes in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  