-- 
South African Bond Yields Fall to 3-Week Low as Inflation Fuels Rate Bets

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-23T14:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/south-african-bond-yields-fall-to-3-week-low-as-inflation-fuels-rate-bets.html
South African  government bonds  rose
for a fourth day, reducing yields to a three-week low, on
speculation a benign inflation outlook will allow the central
bank to keep its benchmark rate unchanged at a 30-year low.  The 13.5 percent security maturing in September 2015
climbed 30 cents to 121.13 rand as of 4:07 p.m. in Johannesburg,
driving the yield down eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 7.80 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since
March 3.  Consumer inflation rose an annual 3.7 percent in February,
in line with the median estimate of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, the Pretoria-based statistics office reported on its
website today. The Reserve Bank, which aims to keep inflation in
a range of 3 to 6 percent, will probably leave its key repo rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent tomorrow, according to all 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The likelihood of rate hikes before year end remains
constrained,” Standard Bank analyst Shireen Darmalingham said
in an e-mailed research note. “We believe that the  Reserve Bank 
will keep the repo rate unchanged on the back of a relatively
benign outlook.”  The inflation report came after Reserve Bank data yesterday
showed that  consumer spending , which accounts for two-thirds of
demand in the country, eased in the fourth quarter, undermining
the recovery in Africa’s biggest economy.  Rand Weakens  “Yesterday’s data strengthens the argument for inflation
and  interest rates  to remain lower for longer than many people
anticipate,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in an e-mailed note.  The rand declined for the first day in four, tracking other
emerging-market currencies on concern surging  oil prices  will
slow the global economic recovery, damping demand for  South
Africa ’s commodity exports. Crude oil has gained 4.7 percent
this week. The dollar rose against all but two of the more than
20 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  “We expect the rand to keep taking its cue from global
risk appetite this week,” Standard Bank analyst Michael Keenan
said in an e-mailed note.  The rand traded 0.5 percent weaker at 6.9309 per dollar,
and declined 0.2 percent to 9.7853 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 