-- 
Southern Sudan May Pay North 30% of Oil Revenue For Shipping Crude Exports

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-23T14:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/south-sudan-may-agree-to-cede-30-of-oil-revenue-wakoson-says.html
Southern Sudan  may agree to pay as
much as 30 percent of its oil revenue to the government in the
north after it becomes an independent nation in July, said the
region’s foreign trade minister, Elias Nyamlel Wakoson.  Land-locked Southern  Sudan  will pay for the right to use an
export pipeline that crosses the north in cash or in oil,
Wakoson said today in an interview in Dubai. The authorities in
Khartoum, Sudan’s capital, and Southern Sudan’s government are
negotiating post-independence arrangements for the oil industry.  “Maybe 30-70 or 20-80,” he said when asked about the oil
revenue-sharing agreement being considered by the south. “We
will continue supplying the north. We will not pull the rug
under the north; that would create instability.”  At independence on July 9,  Southern Sudan  will assume
control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Sudan’s oil refineries and its only oil-export terminal, at
 Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea , are in the north. The two regions now
share revenue from oil pumped in the south on a 50-50 basis,
under a 2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade civil war.  Transportation Costs  “If the south wants to continue to export their oil
through the north, then they will have to pay for transport
fees,” Rabie Abdel Ati, a senior member of Sudanese President
Umar al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party , said today by phone
from Khartoum. “Discussions are still ongoing. The cost will be
decided according to international prices.”  Southern Sudan, which depends on oil for 98 percent of its
budget, is studying other options for exporting oil other than
the north, Pagan Amum, the secretary-general of the southern
region’s ruling party, told reporters on March 12 in Khartoum.  The two sides are also still negotiating on issues such as
citizenship rights, border demarcation and the responsibility
for Sudan’s $38 billion of foreign debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 