-- 
South Korea’s Plan to Restore Mortgage Lending Limits May Hurt Home Sales

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-23T02:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/south-korea-s-plan-to-restore-caps-on-mortgage-loans-may-hurt-home-sales.html
South Korea ’s plans to reinstate
mortgage lending limits that were temporarily scrapped in August
to spur property transactions may lead to a further decline in
the real estate market.  South Korean banks will resume restrictions on the amount
of loans homebuyers can get as a proportion of their annual
income starting in April, the government said yesterday. It will
also halve property transaction taxes until the end of this year
to help spur sales.  The government is attempting to rein in household debt by
restoring mortgage limits and offsetting the effects on property
sales with the lower taxes. Apartment prices dropped 2.2 percent
last year, the first decline in six years, according to data
from Kookmin Bank.  “The revival of mortgage loan restrictions will dampen
sentiment for potential home buyers,” said Cho Min Yi, head of
research at SpeedBank, a housing consulting company in  Seoul .
“Other measures like lower taxes are just not enough to spur
demand for purchases.”  Under the reinstated caps, banks can extend as much as 50
percent of a borrower’s annual income for purchases of homes in
Seoul and 60 percent for areas outside the capital. Bank lending
to households rose to a record 431.7 trillion won ($385 billion)
in February as people took out more loans to buy houses, the
Bank of Korea said on March 9.  The government will also extend the waiver on debt-to-
income limits for first-time homebuyers with lower incomes.  Banking Shares Fall  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , owner of South Korea’s largest
lender, led financial stocks lower in Seoul trading on concern
loan growth may slow. KB Financial slid 2.2 percent as of 11:46
a.m. and  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  fell 2.4 percent, both
dropping by the most in a week. The 60-member Korea Financial
Industry Index lost 1.4 percent, the most among 19 industry
groups on the benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI) , which fell 0.2 percent.  Construction companies gained after the government said
yesterday it will push for parliamentary approval to lift caps
on prices builders can charge for new homes. Daelim Industrial
Co. rose 1.9 percent, while  Hyundai Development Co. (012630)  climbed 5.4
percent.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  added 1.9 percent.  “The government announcement will at least help boost the
market for new homes,” said Lee Chang Keun, an analyst at Hana
Daetoo Securities Co. “Hopefully, higher new  home prices  will
also lead to gains in prices of existing homes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  