-- 
Spain to ‘Redouble’ Investment in Clean Energy Projects, Sebastian Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-03-23T17:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/spain-to-redouble-investment-in-clean-energy-projects-sebastian-says.html
Spain  plans to almost double its
wind power capacity by 2020 even as the government faces legal
action from investors over cuts in clean energy subsidies,
Industry, Tourism and Trade Minister Miguel Sebastian said.  “We are redoubling our bet,” Sebastian told investors
during a question-and-answer session at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in New York. “We are going to support the expansion of
renewable energy.”  Spain is struggling to fund its clean energy targets as the
cost of expanding the  power grid  eats into revenue from
electricity bills and the government slashes spending to meet
deficit-reduction targets, Sebastian said.  Photovoltaic plant operators are threatening to file
lawsuits after Spain cut their subsidies for the next three
years in a bid to balance the books.  Under the existing payment system, the government pools
revenue from electricity users. After the cost of power has been
covered, officials then pay out subsidies to clean-energy
producers and regulated rates to distributors. Last year, the
power system’s payment obligations exceeded its income by more
than 4.6 billion euros ($6.5 billion).  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Endesa SA (ELE)  and  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  are obliged
to lend money to the power system to cover the so-called tariff
deficit, straining their balance sheets and jeopardizing their
credit ratings.  Spain had about 19.4 gigawatts of wind generators connected
to its power grid at the end of last year. The government’s
renewable energy plan calls for increasing capacity to 35
gigawatts by 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  