-- 
Star Polar Bear Knut May Be Stuffed, Put in Berlin Natural History Museum

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-23T10:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/star-polar-bear-knut-may-be-stuffed-put-in-berlin-natural-history-museum.html
Knut, the Berlin polar bear who
rose to fame after his mother abandoned him to be hand-reared by
zookeepers, may be stuffed and exhibited in the city’s Natural
History Museum after his premature death, the museum said.  Knut collapsed and died in his enclosure on March 19 at the
age of four.  Zoologischer Garten Berlin (ZOO)  AG said yesterday in a
statement on its website that an initial examination of his
corpse showed brain abnormalities that may be the reason for his
sudden demise. Many fans would welcome the chance to visit a
stuffed Knut at the museum, bearkeeper Heiner Kloes told Radio
Berlin Brandenburg today.  “It is true that our taxidermists are working on his
corpse and have removed his fur,” Gesine Steiner, a spokeswoman
for the  Natural History Museum , said in a telephone interview
today. “We haven’t yet made a decision on whether we will stuff
him and exhibit him. We have to talk to the zoo. We do of course
have lots of stuffed zoo animals on show here.”  In 2007, the year Knut was born, the zoo attracted 3.2
million visitors, an increase of 21 percent from 2006. He was
featured on the cover of Vanity Fair magazine with  Leonardo DiCaprio  in a portrait by  Annie Leibovitz , and television
channels documented the cub’s every move as he learned to swim,
slurped milk out of a bottle and snuggled up to his handler,
Thomas Doerflein.  Doerflein died in 2008 at the age of 44. Reports in Berlin
newspapers last year said Knut was bullied and bitten by the
three females who shared his enclosure.  Several outraged Knut fans expressed horror at plans to
stuff the bear in entries in the zoo’s online  condolence book ,
which featured 5,500 posts as of today.  “To stuff Knut is to abuse the feelings of millions of
Knut fans all over the world,” posted Horst Krause. “Knut
deserves a worthy burial.”  Pathologists are still examining Knut’s corpse, the Berlin
zoo said yesterday, promising to publish the final results.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 