-- 
Star Scientific’s Tobacco Lozenges Get Favorable FDA Ruling

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-23T20:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/star-scientific-gets-favorable-fda-ruling-on-tobacco-lozenges.html
Star Scientific Inc. (CIGX)  said U.S.
regulators ruled that two of the company’s lozenge brands aren’t
subject to regulation under the 2009 tobacco law.  The  Food and Drug Administration ’s decision clears the way
for Star Scientific, based in Glen Allen,  Virginia , to start
selling its Ariva-BDL and Stonewall-BDL tobacco lozenges, the
company said today in a statement. The company’s shares jumped
to their highest value in about 21 months.  The dissolvable products contain reduced levels of
carcinogens known as tobacco-specific nitrosamines. Star
Scientific said it was notified by Lawrence Deyton, director of
the FDA’s  Center for Tobacco Products , that “cigarettes,
cigarette tobacco, smokeless tobacco and roll-your-own tobacco”
are the only products subject to regulation under the 2009 law.  “We intend to move forward with marketing and distribution
of Ariva-BDL and Stonewall BDL, and these initiatives will be
undertaken consistent with our belief that adult tobacco users
should be able to have information about the toxin levels in all
tobacco products,” Paul Perito, the company’s president and
chief operating officer, said in the statement.  The 2009 law restricts tobacco marketing and requires an
FDA advisory panel to evaluate dissolvable tobacco’s impact on
public health. The panel, which said last week after a yearlong
analysis that menthol cigarettes harm public health, will begin
its examination of dissolvable tobacco later this year.  “FDA recognizes there are uncertainties regarding the
regulatory status of a variety of nicotine-containing products
derived from tobacco; more specifically, whether these products
are regulated as drugs or tobacco products,” Jeffrey Ventura,
an agency spokesman, said today in an e-mail. “FDA is currently
considering its legal and regulatory options regarding these
products.”  Star Scientific gained 34 cents, or 9.4 percent, to $3.96
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, its
highest value since June 16, 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  