-- 
Steve Jobs Re-Elected to Disney Board Over Health Concerns

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-03-23T20:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/steve-jobs-re-elected-to-disney-board-as-directors-reject-health-concerns.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  investors re-
elected  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs to the
board of the entertainment company, rejecting the views of proxy
advisers who say health issues may impair his ability to serve.  Jobs, 56, was re-elected with 12 other nominees at the
shareholder meeting today in  Salt Lake City , with 74 percent of
the votes cast backing the group, according to a preliminary
count. The Apple executive, absent from the meeting, owns 7.3
percent of Disney and is the largest shareholder.  The advisory group Glass Lewis & Co. recommended investors
withhold support for Jobs, citing his absence from meetings.
Institutional Shareholder Services, Inc., stopping short of
urging rejection, said Jobs’s attendance and “recent leave of
absence from his primary employer, raises questions about his
ability to fulfill his responsibilities as a director.”  “The Walt Disney Company considers itself fortunate to
have  Steve Jobs  as a member of its board of directors,” the
Burbank, California-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Jobs has been on medical leave from Cupertino, California-
based Apple since Jan. 17, his third in the past seven years. He
underwent surgery for pancreatic cancer in 2004 and had a  liver
transplant  in 2009.  Executive Pay Proposals  Disney investors at the meeting also approved a company-
backed proposal to seek an annual shareholder vote on executive
pay.  Investors rejected a union proposal that would have barred
the company, owner of the ABC television and the ESPN cable TV
network, from employing multiple tests to determine stock grants
and bonuses for executives. The AFL-CIO, with 3.8 million
shares, said it voted against Jobs’s re-election.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Iger, responding to a
speaker’s request, agreed to provide a free theme-park pass to
shareholders in attendance, an investor perk the CEO said the
company stopped offering in the mid-1990s.  Iger also said Aulani, Disney’s Hawaiian resort, will open
in August.  Disney gained 80 cents to $42.24 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have advanced 13
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  