-- 
Strokes Botch Comeback, Bested by R.E.M., Elbow: Mark Beech

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-03-23T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/strokes-botch-comeback-bid-with-angles-bested-by-r-e-m-elbow-review.html
The Strokes took five years to
record just 35 minutes of music.  The band’s fourth album, “Angles,” isn’t worth the wait.
The opener “Machu Picchu” ditches the group’s trademark guitar
rock for reggae. It’s neither amusing like Vampire Weekend nor
powerful like the Clash and Led Zeppelin’s attempts at the
genre. It’s just bad.  Things get a little better and occasionally very good, with
“Life Is Simple in the Moonlight” and “Two Kinds of
Happiness.” Still, that’s only two tracks and too often the
Strokes parody themselves with mediocre songs such as the single
“Under Cover of Darkness.”  This album bumps along as much as its predecessor from 2006
and isn’t a patch on the debut “Is This It.” We witness a slow
career decline from Manhattan cool, rave reviews, model
girlfriends and drug rehab to this uneven piece of product.  Rating: **.  While some of the Strokes have expressed dissatisfaction
with the finished album, R.E.M. has been talking up its 15th
studio release, “Collapse Into Now.”  Patti Smith shows up on the last track “Blue.” “Mine
Smell Like Honey” has Peter Buck’s guitars multitracked over a
classic R.E.M. chorus.  It’s just better than its rushed predecessor
“Accelerate,” though no “Automatic for the People” or
“Murmur.”  Rating: ***.  Lucinda Williams’s “Blessed” is a likeable CD of mature
reflection that moves further away from the songwriter’s country
roots. “Kiss Like Your Kiss” is a romantic smooch while
“Seeing Black” is aided by a vicious guitar solo from Elvis Costello.  Rating: ***.  Elbow’s “Build a Rocket Boys!” is the U.K. band’s best
yet, surpassing the Mercury-winning “The Seldom Seen Kid.”
Tracks like “Lippy Kids” build from singer Guy Garvey’s quiet
observation into stadium-filling anthems.  Rating: ****.  Noah & the Whale’s “Last Night on Earth” is a lot more
joyful than the group’s previous work, which focused on
heartache and breakup. The doom-laden folk is replaced by shiny
pop on the single “L.I.F.E.G.O.E.S.O.N.”  Rating: ***.  Beady Eye’s “Different Gear, Still Speeding” presents the
remnants of Oasis with singer Liam Gallagher after he split with
his brother Noel, the main songwriter in the former act.  “Four Letter Word” sounds a lot like Oasis, with Liam
declaring “nothing ever lasts forever.” He spends too much
time in John Lennon imitation mode, with one song called
“Beatles and Stones.” “The Roller” sounds uncannily like
Lennon’s “Instant Karma,” with a dumbed-down lyric.  Rating: *.  Gil Scott-Heron and Jamie xx’s “We’re New Here” is worth
hearing. Street poet Scott-Heron returned last year, after
fighting drug addiction, with “I’m New Here,” his first studio
collection in 13 years. The songs have been remixed by Jamie
Smith of U.K. band the xx and given a compelling 2011 sheen.
“I’ll Take Care of U” delivers promises in a wrecked-throat
voice paired with disjointed rave guitar.  Rating: *****.  The  Strokes  CD was released yesterday on RCA in the U.S.
The  Noah & the Whale  release on Mercury is out on April 5.
 Elbow ’s album is on Fiction/Polydor and available in U.S. stores
on April 12. R.E.M. is on Warner Bros.; Williams on Mercury/
Lost Highway; Beady Eye on Beady Eye/ Dangerbird and Scott-Heron
on XL Records.  Albums are available from about $9.99 in the U.S, or 7.99
pounds in the U.K. Some of the titles are also available in
special editions with extra tracks or special packaging.
Download fees vary across services.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  New York  at  mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or Mark_Beech on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 