-- 
Stuck Pipe Kept Shear Rams From Sealing BP Well, Report Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-23T22:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/stuck-pipe-prevented-shear-rams-from-sealing-bp-well-u-s-says.html
A section of pipe on BP Plc’s Gulf
of Mexico well became trapped and prevented blades from cutting
the pipe to stop the flow of oil, triggering the biggest U.S.
offshore spill, according to a study released by the Interior
Department and U.S. Coast Guard.  The blind shear rams, part of a 50-foot (15-meter) stack of
valves called a blowout preventer, failed to “fully close and
seal” the well, according to the  report  today. The pipe buckled
in a blast, which prevented the rams from pinching the pipe shut
and allowed oil and gas to surge to the surface.  The explosion on April 20 killed 11 workers, sank
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig and spewed
4.9 million barrels of crude into the Gulf. One focus of an
investigation by a joint Coast Guard-Interior Department panel
was why the blowout preventer, or BOP, didn’t cinch the pipe. BP
said it is reviewing the findings.  Additional tests are needed “to provide a more
comprehensive view of why the BOP failed,” said  Daren Beaudo , a
BP spokesman, in an e-mail. BP asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans , who is overseeing oil-spill lawsuits,
for tests on the device.  The report, written by Det Norske Veritas, the Oslo-based
maritime risk-management association that represents 130
nations, says hydraulic fluid leaks and modifications made to
the blowout preventer appear not to have contributed to the
failure of the shear rams.  ‘Proper Working Condition’  The report confirms that the blowout preventer was in
“proper working condition and functioned as designed,” Brian
Kennedy, a spokesman for Transocean, said in a statement.  “High-pressure flow from the well created conditions that
exceeded the scope of BOP’s design parameters,” Kennedy said.  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , the Houston-based company that
made the blowout prevent for the Macondo well, said the unit met
industry and customer specifications.  “We continue to work with the industry to ensure safe
operations,” Rhonda Barnat, a spokeswoman for the company, said
in an interview.  The Coast Guard-Interior panel hired Det Norske Veritas to
oversee testing of the blowout preventer in October. The device,
which sat atop BP’s Macondo well, was raised 5,000 feet from the
sea floor on Sept. 4, and studied at a NASA site in New Orleans.
Testing was completed on March 4, according to the study.  The report recommends the drilling industry examine ways to
keep pipes from buckling inside the blowout preventer in the
case of a loss of well control and shears be redesigned to cut
through pipes in all situations.  A broader investigation on the causes of the blowout will
be released this year, according to the Interior Department.  “We support efforts by regulators and the industry to make
BOPs more reliable and effective,” Beaudo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  