-- 
Euro Falls on Socrates Resignation After Portugal Budget-Cut Plan Defeated

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-23T21:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/swiss-franc-rises-on-portugal-vote-pound-falls-as-boe-disappoints-bulls.html
The euro slumped against most of
its major counterparts as Portugal’s parliament rejected a
deficit-cutting plan and the country’s debt yields reached
record highs.  The 17-nation currency fell for a second day against the
dollar after the vote that led Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  to resign, fueling speculation that the nation will
take a European bailout. The yen strengthened against most of
its major counterparts as Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said  Europe , the U.S. and the Group of Seven are
“ready” to act to curb the currency’s rise.  “We’re interpreting it as a euro-negative”, said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., after the vote in Portugal. “Many expected
it, although the market in general was surprised.”  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.4088 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.4196, after gaining as much as 0.1 percent. It sank 0.8
percent to 114 yen from 114.95. The yen rose 0.1 percent to
80.92 per dollar from 80.97.  Yields on Portuguese two-year debt rose 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 6.06 percent, after touching a record
6.683 percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
six major peers, rose 0.7 percent to 75.936 as western allies
continued attacks Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s ground forces.
It touched a 15-month low of 75.249 yesterday.  ‘Wrong Direction’  Demand for Japanese debt rose as radiation levels at
 Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant hampered efforts
to repair reactors.  The yen rose against most major currencies even after Jean- Claude Juncker said the Japanese currency is “slowly moving in
the wrong direction,” while speaking in Luxembourg today. The
G-7 nations intervened March 18 to bring the currency down from
a postwar high.  Juncker also said March 21 his “personal guess” is that
the EFSF would be decided in June and would increase guarantees.
The decision won’t be made by the end of this week’s meeting of
policy makers, Reuters reported citing a draft document.  EU leaders are divided about how to get the euro-region
stopgap fund up to its full capacity of 440 billion euros ($624
billion) to ease credit woes. European leaders pushed back the
decision on funding a regional bailout mechanism to June.  Euro Moves  “ Portugal  has been on the radar screen, but the statement
that was most damaging is that the EFSF was put off to the end
of June,” said Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “Everything we heard
and seen for the last three months was telling us that
everything would be wrapped up this weekend and now it’s not.”  Work thrashing out a solution to the region’s credit woes
is due to culminate at a March 24-25 summit of European leaders.  The Portuguese parliament backed a resolution against the
government’s stability and growth program, Jaime Gama, the
parliament’s president, said in Lisbon today. After the vote,
Socrates said he presented his resignation after parliament.  The pound fell against all its major counterparts after the
 Bank of England  minutes showed policy makers voted 6-3 to keep
rates steady on March 10 and saw “merit in waiting” to assess
the effect of higher  oil prices  on the economy.  Pound Falls  The pound declined 0.8 percent to $1.6235. Sterling reached
$1.6401 yesterday, the highest since January 2010, after
inflation data surpassed forecasts and spurred bets on interest-
rate increases.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the British
economy will more grow more slowly this year than previously
forecast.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicts annual growth
in 2011 of 1.7 percent, down from the 2.1 percent forecast in
November, Osborne said. The chancellor said he will stick to his
deficit-reduction plan as he announced the revised forecasts in
his budget speech in the House of Commons in  London  today.  The Australian dollar rose against all of its most-traded
peers before the nation’s central bank releases its twice-yearly
Financial Stability Review today.  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.3 percent $1.0131, from $1.0103
yesterday. The Aussie is the best performer against nine
developed-market currencies in the past week, rising 3 percent,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  