-- 
Syrians Stay Home as Forces Clamp Down on Southern City of Daraa

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-23T22:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/syrians-stay-home-as-forces-clamp-down-on-southern-city-of-daraa.html
Syrians in the southern city of
Daraa were being forced by the government to stay at home
yesterday,  Amnesty International  said, following reports that as
many as 15 people had been killed in renewed anti-government
protests.  Nine were killed in clashes just before dawn and six died
when security forces opened fire during the funeral of two
people killed the night before,  Agence France-Presse  reported,
citing human rights activists in the country. President Bashar al-Assad sacked the governor of Daraa, Faisal Kalthum, state
television said yesterday.  “What is notable are about these protests is that they are
breaking out in areas traditionally loyal to the regime,”
 Andrew J. Tabler , a fellow at the  Washington Institute for Near
East Policy , said in a telephone interview. “The winds of
change are blowing through Syria much stronger than we had
thought.”  Unrest began in Syria on March 15 when as many 200 people
took to the streets of Damascus against Assad’s government,
marking the latest extension of the political turmoil that has
engulfed the Middle East and North Africa. Uprisings toppled the
presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt  and are threatening  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya , where United Nations-backed international
forces are conducting airstrikes to protect civilians who are
rebelling against the regime.  Emergency Rule in Yemen  In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh won backing from
loyalists in parliament to enforce emergency rule yesterday,
while agreeing to a proposal by a coalition of six opposition
parties to hand over power by the end of the year.  The plan asked Saleh to set out a time frame for the
handover of power and to prosecute those responsible for the
deaths and injuries of dozens of protesters by pro-regime gunmen
in the capital, Sana’a, on March 18. The crackdown, the most
violent since the unrest in Yemen started two months ago,
intensified calls for Saleh’s immediate departure.  Jamila Ali Raja, a former adviser to the Foreign Ministry,
said Saleh may be “trying to buy time by announcing emergency
rule so that he can negotiate a safe exit.” It may also be a
sign of divisions among the ruling elite, she said.  “Are we heading to an Egyptian solution or a Libyan
solution? I am still optimistic that we are heading to an
Egyptian solution,” she said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  The U.S. is “alarmed” and “deeply concerned” by
violence from government forces during anti-government
demonstrations in Daraa, State Department spokesman Mark Toner
said.  The U.S. condemns the actions and calls on the Syrian
government to exercise restraint, Toner said during a press
briefing in Washington yesterday.  Syrians were being asked through loudspeakers to remain at
home or else be shot, Neil Sammonds, a researcher on  Syria  for
 Amnesty International , said yesterday. Snipers are enforcing the
orders, and all the city’s entrances are being watched.  Syrian forces, including plain-clothes intelligence agents,
raided neighborhoods in Daraa to make arrests yesterday,
Sammonds said, and Amnesty estimates that between 100 and
several hundred people have been detained, taken to unknown
locations and prevented from having access to their families or
lawyers. “We are concerned, as torture is common practice,” he
said.  Pictures of Weapons  Syrian state television showed footage of what it said were
weapons, including assault rifles, and banknotes inside al-Omari
mosque. “The armed gangs in Daraa have stored weapons and
ammunition in al-Omari Mosque, and used children they had
kidnapped from their families as human shields,” the official
 Syrian Arab News Agency  said.  Sammonds said Amnesty had “no evidence” that protesters
were armed in incidents since demonstrations erupted in Syria.  Daraa residents are seeking the dismissal of some officials
and permission to sell land on border territories without prior
government approval, Sammonds said. They also want detainees
recently jailed on political charges to be freed, including a
number of children detained for writing graffiti that read “The
people want the fall of the regime.”  Assad has sent a representative to Daraa to listen to the
demands, SANA reported, citing Vice President Faruq Al-Shara.
The government will quash attempts to incite chaos or target
state installations and private properties and will block any
foreign interference, Al-Shara was quoted as saying by SANA.  Assad became Syria’s president in 2000 after the death of
his father, Hafez al-Assad, who had ruled for 29 years. Hafez
al-Assad crushed an Islamist-led rebellion in the city of Hama
in 1982, killing as many as 10,000 people, according to
estimates from  Human Rights Watch .  “If protests spread by Friday, they could crack the
regime,” said the  Washington  Institute’s Tabler, author of the
book “In the Lion’s Den: Inside America’s Cold War with Assad’s
Syria.” “I am not predicting this could happen, but it’s a
very dangerous and unexpected situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  