-- 
Syrian Forces Clash With Protesters Near Daraa Mosque, Killing Four People

-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 
2011-03-23T06:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/syrian-forces-clash-with-protesters-near-daraa-mosque-killing-four-people.html
Four people were killed after
Syrian security forces closed in on protesters near a mosque in
the southern city of Daraa,  BBC  Arabic and Al Arabiya television
reported.  It’s at least the fourth time this month that clashes in
Syria have turned deadly. Four men died after security forces
opened fire on demonstrators on March 18, a fifth man was shot
dead the next day and a sixth person, aged 12 or 13, died March
21 after inhaling tear gas during unrest on March 20, according
to  Amnesty International .  The rallies in Syria mark the latest extension of the
political turmoil that has engulfed the region this year.
Uprisings have toppled the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt  and
threatened the rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya , where United
Nations-backed international forces have started air strikes to
protect civilian protesters.  Daraa residents have been demanding the trial of those
responsible for the killings on March 18, the release of
detainees recently jailed on political charges, the dismissal of
some officials and permission to sell land on border territories
without prior government approval.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has sent a representative
to Daraa to listen to the demands, the state-run Syrian Arab
News Agency reported, citing Vice President Faruq Al-Shara.  Hama Rebellion  Assad became  Syria ’s president in 2000 after the death of
his father Hafez al-Assad who had ruled the country for 29
years. Hafez al-Assad crushed an Islamist-led rebellion in the
city of Hama in 1982, killing as many as 10,000 people,
according to estimates cited by  Human Rights Watch .  The BBC reported that 15 children who had been detained for
writing pro-democracy graffiti have been released, meeting some
of the protesters’ demands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  