-- 
U.K. Chancellor Osborne Raises Bank Levy Rate for Next Year

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-23T18:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-k-s-osborne-to-adjust-the-bank-levy-rate-for-next-year.html
Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  raised the bank levy rate for next year
to offset a planned cut in corporation tax.  The levy will rise to 0.078 percent from January and will
raise an additional 100 million pounds ($162 million), according
to the Treasury. Corporation tax will be reduced by 2 percentage
points next month and by 1 percentage point in each of the
following three years, Osborne said in his budget speech to the
House of Commons in Westminster today.  “The banks who are not currently paying corporation tax
may be seeing only bad news from today’s announcement on tax
rates,” said Tom Aston, financial-services partner at
accounting firm KPMG International. “They will suffer an
increase in the bank levy with no corresponding reduction in
their corporate tax bills. The banks with the biggest losses
will suffer the most.”  Last month, Osborne increased a tax on U.K. bank balance
sheets to raise 2.5 billion pounds in the current financial
year, which ends in April. The levy rose because bank stability
has improved and lenders have more certainty on regulation, the
Treasury said at the time.  Today’s “change is not as straightforward as it first
appears,”  Angela Knight , chief executive officer of the British
Bankers’ Association, said in a statement today. “Banks like
other businesses want a predictable tax regime so they can plan
their business accordingly.”  The revenue will pay for a program to provide 250 million
pounds in interest-free loans for people buying their first home
and a further 100 million pounds for new science facilities in
the U.K., Osborne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  