-- 
U.K. Oil Companies Decline After Osborne Raises Production Tax

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-23T17:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-k-oil-companies-decline-after-osborne-raises-production-tax.html
U.K. oil and natural gas producers
fell in  London  after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
raised the North Sea supplemental extraction tax.  EnQuest Plc (ENQ)  slumped 13 percent to 137.6 pence and  Valiant
Petroleum Plc (VPP)  declined 8 percent to 556 pence.  Xcite Energy Ltd. (XEL) 
dropped 5.4 percent to 342.5 pence.  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  retreated 4
percent to 1,911 pence.  Osborne boosted the supplementary charge on North Sea oil
profits to 32 percent from 20 percent in his budget speech
today. At the same time, he cut the tax on gasoline pump prices
by 1 pence per liter from tonight and announced a 2 percentage-
point cut in corporate tax to  26 percent  this year with further
planned reductions.  The oil profit charge increase “will be slightly offset by
the planned reduction in the underlying level of  corporation
tax ,” Phil Corbett, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said in an e-mailed report. The oil production tax increase
“is a bolt from the blue and we would imagine there would be a
backlash from pro-industry commentators.”  Brent oil rose about 44 percent in the last year, partly
propped up by unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, the
world’s largest crude oil supplying region. Brent for May
settlement was up 10 cents to $115.80 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “The industry is shocked to now be hit by a tax increase
that raises the  tax rate  to at least 62 percent, with some of
the most mature and therefore vulnerable fields now paying up to
81 percent,” Malcolm Webb, chief executive of energy industry
body Oil & Gas UK, said in a  statement .  The U.K.  North Sea  holds as much as 20 billion barrels of
oil equivalent resources, which have to be explored and
developed, according to the group’s estimates.  “Today’s announcement of yet another windfall tax is a
huge blow to the oil industry,” Andrew Lister, a partner at
KPMG Energy & Natural Resources, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The proposed tax increases can only reduce the attractiveness
of investment in the North Sea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  