-- 
U.K. Triples Green Investment Bank Funding, Sets CO2 Price

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-23T16:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-k-s-osborne-triples-green-investment-bank-s-funding-sets-carbon-price.html
The U.K. tripled funding for a new
Green Investment Bank and allowed it to raise money, Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said, meeting a demand made by
lawmakers who said the measure was needed to spur carbon cuts.  The bank will be able to begin operations in 2012, a year
earlier than planned, Osborne said today in his second budget
since his  Conservative Party  came to power last year in a
coalition with the Liberal Democrats. From 2015, it will be
allowed to borrow money, he said. Osborne in October earmarked 1
billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to capitalize the institution.  “Today I commit 2 billion pounds more, funded by asset
sales underwritten by the Treasury,” Osborne told lawmakers in
parliament. This “will leverage an additional 15 billion pounds
of private sector investment in green projects” by the next
election, which is scheduled in 2015 at the latest, he said.  The government, led by Prime Minister  David Cameron , is
trying to deliver on a pledge to be the “greenest” ever while
cutting spending to curb a record budget deficit. The chancellor
also set a “floor price” for carbon-dioxide emissions and
scrapped a tax on power consumers that’s meant to fund  carbon
capture  and storage projects.  The bank is designed to spur investment in carbon
emissions-cutting technologies such as wind power. Its capital
is still less than the 4 billion to 6 billion pounds that the
accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP said the institution should
get. At least 200 billion pounds of investment is needed to
shift consumers from fossil fuels to cleaner forms of energy
over the next two decades, according to the multi-party
Environmental Audit Committee panel of lawmakers.  ‘Ramp Up’ Investment  That committee on March 11 said the Green Investment Bank
could stimulate 1 trillion pounds of investments for clean
energy projects as long as it was a “fully fledged bank”
providing bonds, loans and insurance products and able to take
equity stakes in renewable energy projects.  Companies including London-based fund manager Climate
Change Capital and the accounting firm PwC praised Osborne’s
decisions on the Green Bank, while opposition  Labour Party 
leader  Ed Miliband  and the environmental group Greenpeace said
it should be allowed to borrow immediately.  “It is a tremendously good thing that the bank will have
the power to borrow mid-decade,” said Ben Caldecott, head of
European policy at Climate Change Capital. “That is when the
U.K.’s capital requirements for a low-carbon transition start to
reach a critical point when we need to ramp up investment.”  In documents posted on line, the Treasury said the bank
won’t be allowed to borrow money until the U.K.’s debt is
falling as a percentage of economic output.  ‘Lame Duck’  “The bank unveiled by George Osborne is a lame duck,”
said Doug Parr, policy director at Greenpeace. “The refusal to
allow it to borrow money anytime soon represents a huge missed
opportunity with the price being paid in lost green growth and
clean-tech jobs.”  Osborne’s decision to allow the bank to borrow resolves a
debate between the Treasury and Energy and Climate Change
Secretary  Chris Huhne ’s department over what powers to give the
institution, with one option leaving it only able to distribute
state money.  “It would take longer to set up a bank that can borrow
immediately and you’d achieve less in the short run,” John
Gibbs, a corporate finance partner at PwC, said today in an
interview in London. “If the bank can get up and running in the
next two years and use creatively and effectively the 3 billion
pounds to then leverage 15 billion in private money, they will
achieve an enormous amount.”  Carbon Floor Price  The government estimates the global market for low-carbon
goods and services is 3.2 trillion pounds, a figure that’s set
to rise to 4 trillion pounds in 2015. The U.K. environmental
industry is worth 112 billion pounds and employs 1 million
people, according to the Environmental Industries Commission, a
trade group whose more than 230 members include Babcock
International Group,  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  and Severn Trent Plc.  In a separate environmental measure, Osborne said that the
minimum price to power producers for emitting carbon dioxide
will be set at about 16 pounds a metric ton from April 2013,
rising to 30 pounds in 2020. “Relief” will be granted to
plants that use carbon capture and storage and combined heat and
power technology, he said without giving further details.  Osborne said the government still intends to fund four
demonstration projects for carbon capture and storage while
scrapping a tax on power consumers designed to fund them. The
technology, which siphons smokestack emissions for underground
storage, will now be now be funded through general taxation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net 
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 