-- 
U.K. Stocks Fluctuate; Sainsbury Shares Fall as Xstrata Climbs

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-23T15:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-k-stocks-advance-on-boe-minutes-xstrata-leads-mining-rally.html
U.K. stocks fluctuated as
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the economy will
grow more slowly than previously forecast, while Bank of England
minutes reduced speculation of an interest rate increase.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  led a decline in retailers after reporting
a slowdown in sales.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  led mining
companies higher as base metals rallied in London. Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp. gained 2.1 percent after the ferroalloy
producer more than doubled full-year profit.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  was little changed at 5,763.58 as of
3:17 p.m. in London after swinging between gains and losses at
least 15 times. The gauge fell 0.4 percent yesterday after U.K.
inflation rose more than forecast. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) 
slipped less than 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
rose 0.3 percent.  Osborne, delivering his budget to lawmakers in Parliament
today, said the  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicts annual
growth in 2011 of 1.7 percent, down from the 2.1 percent
forecast in November.  Minutes of the BOE’s March 10 meeting published today
showed policy makers saw “merit in waiting” to examine the
effect of higher  oil prices  on inflation, boosting speculation
the bank will leave  interest rates  on hold for longer. Policy
makers voted 6-3 to keep interest rates at a record low this
month, according to the minutes.  Sainsbury Slides  Sainsbury dropped 6.2 percent to 332.3 pence, the biggest
decline since June 2009. Britain’s third-largest supermarket
owner reported revenue at stores open at least a year, including
value-added tax and excluding gasoline sales, increased 1
percent in the 10 weeks through March 19. That was less than the
3.6 percent increase in the third quarter and missed the 2.1
percent median analyst estimate.  “Sainsbury is currently out of favour with investors and
today’s update is likely to do little to improve the
situation,” said  Richard Hunter , head of U.K. equities at
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London. “The share price
hit reflects disappointment with sales growth and this has in
turn marked the rest of the sector down.”  Larger rival  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  declined 1.6 percent to 373 pence
while  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the U.K.’s biggest independent online
grocer, dropped 3 percent to 207 pence.  ITV Plc (ITV)  slid 5.5 percent to 80.05 pence after Jefferies
Group Inc. downgraded the U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster
to “underperform” from “hold,” citing “dire” consumer
confidence numbers plus potential margin squeeze from commodity
price inflation in the retail sector.  ‘Downside Risk’  “We see downside risk to top line,” London-based analyst
Nicholas Bell wrote in a note to clients. “Scope for additional
cost cutting is now limited and returns on investment in content
and online are uncertain.”  Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest copper producer,
climbed 2 percent to 1,401.05 pence as copper advanced for a
second day in London on expectations that demand will improve.
Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s largest copper miner, gained 1.5 percent
to 1,390 pence, while  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , owner of copper mines in
Chile, increased 1.3 percent to 1,370 pence.  Three-month-delivery copper on the London Metal Exchange
rose as much as 2.6 percent to $9,740 a metric ton.  Barclays
Capital  said copper stockpiles will fall to a record low in the
third quarter as demand outpaces supply and  China , the world’s
biggest consumer of the metal, resumes buying.  ENRC, a Kazakh ferroalloy producer, rallied 2.1 percent to
917 pence after profit more than doubled to $2.19 billion in
2010 as prices rose, spurring the company to expand abroad. That
beat the $1.92 billion average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales expanded 72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  