-- 
Osborne Said to Increase British Tax Allowances as ‘Feel-Bad Factor’ Bite

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-23T11:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-k-s-osborne-said-to-increase-tax-allowances-as-feel-bad-factor-bites.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will increase the level at which British workers begin
paying tax and offer support for first-time homebuyers in his
budget today, a person with knowledge of the plans said.  Osborne will raise the annual  personal income-tax allowance 
by 600 pounds ($982) from April 2012, taking the starting point
for tax to 8,075 pounds, said the person, who declined to be
named because the details aren’t yet public. The chancellor, who
addresses lawmakers at 12:30 p.m. in London, will also freeze
the level at which workers start paying tax at the higher 40
percent rate and pledge 250 million pounds in interest-free
loans for people buying their first home, the person said.  The measures are an effort by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to reverse a slump in  consumer confidence 
caused by accelerating inflation, increasing unemployment and
the threat of higher  interest rates . Osborne’s second budget
will aim to win back voters as he implements the biggest public-
spending squeeze since World War II to narrow the deficit.  “There’s real anger developing -- it’s the feel-bad
factor,” Nigel Stanley, head of campaigns at the  Trades Union
Congress , the umbrella group representing 6 million workers,
which is organizing a march against the government in central
London this week, said in an interview. “It’s anger,
frustration and depression at such mistaken economic
approaches.”  Osborne told his Cabinet colleagues today the budget will
“rebalance the economy and include steps to help families,” as
well as tackling the cost of living, Cameron’s spokesman, Steve
Field, told reporters in  London .  Child Benefit  The decision by Osborne, 39, to freeze the 40 percent
threshold reverses a policy announced in his first budget last
June to lower the limit by about 1,500 pounds, taking more
workers into the second-highest tax bracket. It also aims to
ease the burden on households in that band, whom he stripped in
October of previously universal child-benefit payments, totaling
2,400 pounds a year for a family with three children.  Today’s budget may show Osborne facing a deteriorating
economic outlook, as government forecasters predict weaker
growth, higher joblessness and more borrowing, analysts say.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  -- which monitors
borrowing and makes economic forecasts for the government -- may
say unemployment will rise to about 8.2 percent this year,
higher than the 7.9 percent it predicted in November. The
deficit will also increase over the next two years amid weaker
growth, the analysts say.  Price Pressures  U.K. inflation accelerated more than economists forecast in
February to the fastest pace in more than two years, the  Office
for National Statistics  said yesterday, adding pressure on the
 Bank of England  to increase its benchmark interest rate.
Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier after a 4
percent increase in January.  The bank’s policy makers voted 6-3 to keep interest rates
on hold this month as they saw “merit in waiting” to assess the
impact of the jump in  oil prices , even as they forecast
inflation may accelerate to faster than 5 percent, 2 1/2 times
the central bank’s target, according to minutes released today.  The pound dropped 0.4 percent to $1.6293 as of 11:02 a.m.
in London. Gilts rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year security
down 3 basis points to 3.57 percent.  The  budget deficit  unexpectedly widened in February as
government revenue fell, the ONS also said yesterday,
underlining the pressure on Osborne to stick to his fiscal
tightening plan.  More Pessimistic  Consumer confidence stayed close to the lowest since March
2009 last month as Britons became more pessimistic about the
sustainability of the economic recovery, a report by GfK NOP
Ltd. showed.  Implementation of the fiscal program, with plans to slash
more than 300,000 public-sector jobs over the next four years,
begins fully next month, after the economy contracted in the
fourth quarter and unemployment rose to 8 percent.  Osborne’s lifting of the tax-free threshold is the
equivalent of a real-terms tax cut of about 40 pounds for 25
million workers, the person said. The current 6,475 pound
threshold is already scheduled to increase by 1,000 pounds next
month.  At the top end of the income scale, about 500,000 people
earning more than 115,000 pounds will be worse off because of
the erosion of their tax allowances, the person said.  Interest-Free Loans  Seeking to turn around sentiment in the housing market,
Osborne will also announce support for 10,000 first-time buyers
with an interest-free loan for five years of 20 percent of the
value of a house or apartment. The aid will be extended to
households with incomes below 60,000 pounds, the person said.  In the sixth year, the Treasury would charge 1.75 percent
interest and from the seventh year, 1 percentage point above
retail-price inflation for the remaining life of the mortgage.  Home sellers raised asking prices for a third month in
March amid a shortage of properties for sale, Rightmove Plc, the
operator of Britain’s biggest property website said March 21.
Average asking prices in England and  Wales  rose 0.8 percent to
231,790 pounds from February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  