-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for March 18 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-23T14:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-march-18-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.3 million barrels per
day during the week ending March 18, 167 thousand barrels per
day above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
84.1 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.0 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging 4.3 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged nearly 9.0 million barrels per
day last week, up by 306 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged nearly 8.5 million barrels per day, 393 thousand
barrels per day below the same four-week period last year. Total
motor gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and
gasoline blending components) last week averaged 695 thousand
barrels per day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 192 thousand
barrels per day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.1 million barrels
from the previous week. At 352.8 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
5.3 million barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories decreased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories remained unchanged and are above the upper limit of
the average range for this time of year. Propane/propylene
inventories decreased by 0.4 million barrels last week and are
in the lower limit of the average range. Total commercial
petroleum inventories decreased by 0.9 million barrels last
week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period has
averaged about 19.3 million barrels per day, down by 0.5 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about 9.1
million barrels per day, up by 1.2 percent from the same period
last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged nearly
3.9 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 3.6
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 4.1 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  