-- 
U.S. Needs to Leave Bad Guys in Mideast Alone: Gregory Gause

-- B y   G r e g o r y   G a u s e
-- 
2011-03-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-s-needs-to-leave-mideast-bad-guys-alone-commentary-by-gregory-gause.html
With the current military
operation in  Libya , the U.S. has taken on a third campaign
for forcible regime change in the Middle East.  No matter how we might try to convince ourselves
otherwise -- that we are only “protecting civilians” or
“implementing the will of the international community” --
Libya now joins Afghanistan and Iraq as cases where the
U.S. military is using force to bring down a Muslim regime.  The issue isn’t whether  Muammar Qaddafi  deserves to
fall. He does. The main concern ought to be whether the
effort to bring him down justifies the long-term expense in
American blood and money?  If the no-fly zone can divide Qaddafi’s support and
bring new recruits to the rebel cause, perhaps his regime
will fall in short order. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration can then congratulate itself on a cost-
effective and relatively painless win.  Success isn’t a sure thing. Qaddafi’s followers didn’t
abandon him when it looked like the rebels would sweep into
Tripoli earlier this month. The no-fly zone might not scare
them enough to flee.  It’s possible that the rebels will hold out in the
east of the country, while Qaddafi retains control of
Tripoli and the west. In that case the U.S. government will
find itself protecting an autonomous area of the country
and maintaining a long-term military commitment to patrol
its skies. That sounds a lot like our position in Iraq
between 1991 and 2003.  Deepening Involvement  Or the rebels might be emboldened enough to mount a
new offensive against Qaddafi though not strong enough on
their own to dislodge him. Does the U.S. stay out of that
fight, or does it use the cover of the no-fly zone to take
an active role in the offensive, using air power to help
destroy Qaddafi’s forces?  My guess is that the temptation to do the latter will
be overwhelming. If that happens, we will own the new
Libya. Perhaps not to the same extent that we have owned
Afghanistan and  Iraq  over the last decade, but our
commitment will likely be greater than we can imagine now.  What happens when rebel forces, united by their hatred
of Qaddafi, realize that little else binds them and fall
into their own power struggles? It will be hard not to pick
sides, supporting one faction with aid and weapons.  Rolling Dice  I doubt that we will see 100,000 U.S. troops on the
ground in Libya. But the idea that we can quickly remove
Qaddafi from power without taking on new responsibilities
in North Africa is like rolling double-sixes. It happens,
but the odds are strongly against it.  Are vital American interests involved in the Libyan
fight? Libya’s oil production is important but not central
to the global economy.  A Qaddafi victory over his opponents might stop the
momentum of popular uprisings across the Arab world, though
it isn’t clear why the U.S. should encourage continued Arab
upheaval. The fall of Arab authoritarian regimes isn’t
helping the U.S.  Since the end of the  Cold War , spurred on by both neo-
conservatives and liberal interventionists, the U.S. has
been trying to direct the domestic politics of Middle
Eastern states.  Arab Politics  It began in the 1990s, with post-Gulf War efforts to
topple  Saddam Hussein  in Iraq. After the terrorist attacks
on Sept. 11, 2001, those efforts took on new urgency, with
invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq, calls for regime change
in  Iran  and pressure on  Egypt ,  Saudi Arabia  and the
 Palestinian Authority  to implement democratic reform.  However, in Mideast elections Hamas won a majority in
the Palestinian parliament and the Muslim Brotherhood took
20 percent of the seats in the Egyptian parliament.  Current regional upheavals require a rethinking of
America’s Middle East strategy, though not in the way that
either conservatives or liberals advocate.  It is time to consider the radical idea that the U.S.
should be less involved in the politics of the region,
particularly in nations’ domestic politics. Given our
inability to micro-manage the politics of Iraq and
 Afghanistan  over the past decade, even with an enormous
commitment of American troops and money, we should realize
that we have little ability to control the direction of
politics in countries where we just “fly over” or “give
advice.”  No Guarantees  We shouldn’t stand in the way of regional democracy,
if it comes, but we should realize that encouraging it is
no guarantee that Middle East democracies will cooperate
with us in their foreign policies or follow a model of
domestic politics that accords with our ideas of moral
values and individual rights.  It wasn’t that long ago that the U.S. played a less
domineering role in the Middle East, working with friendly
governments and against unfriendly ones to try to secure
our international interests, but without huge regional
military presences and an intense focus on the management
of the region’s domestic politics.  It’s time to go back to that more detached regional
posture. The U.S. should stand ready to prevent hostile
states from taking over weaker neighbors and work to solve
regional problems like the Arab-Israeli conflict
diplomatically. But it shouldn’t concern itself with things
it can’t control, and effect only marginally and at great
price, like the way Middle Eastern regimes govern their
people. Undoubtedly that would mean that some bad guys get
away with bad things. We need to be able to live with that.  (Gregory Gause is a Middle East scholar and professor
of political science at the University of  Vermont . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Greg Gause at  Gregory.Gause@uvm.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  