-- 
U.S. Congress Foes Won’t Block Obama on Libya, Levin Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-03-23T20:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-s-congress-foes-won-t-block-obama-on-libya-levin-says-1-.html
The  U.S. Senate  won’t constrain
President  Barack Obama ’s direction of the attack on Muammar Qaddafi’s forces in  Libya , the chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee said.  Opponents of Obama’s decision to support the United
Nations-authorized mission won’t come “anywhere near success”
getting the votes needed to curtail it, Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, told reporters on a conference call today.  When Congress returns next week, opponents of the U.S.-led
operation may try to cut off funding or force a vote on
congressional authorization under the War Powers Resolution of
1973, which requires the president to seek approval from
Congress for military actions.  In a letter sent to Obama today, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said that “many lawmakers are
troubled that U.S. military resources were committed to war
without clearly defining for the American people, the Congress,
and our troops what the mission in Libya is and what America’s
role is in achieving that mission.”  “Some fundamental questions about our engagement” are
unanswered, Boehner wrote, including which international partner
will take over control of the operation, how soon the U.S. will
hand off leadership and whether the administration will seek
supplemental funding for the Libya mission.  Also questioning the administration’s support for the Libya
operation is Representative Dennis Kucinich, an Ohio Democrat,
who has said he wants to eliminate funding for it.  Senate Critics  Senate critics include  Richard Lugar , an Indiana
Republican, who has publicly questioned Obama’s handling of the
situation, and James Webb, a Virginia Democrat, who said he
wanted to see a “clear statement of foreign policy” to
accompany the military action.  Obama’s advisers have defended the president’s decision-
making on Libya, saying that taking military action was
necessary to prevent the deaths of civilians and that the timing
allowed the U.S. to draw in international partners.  Multilateral support for the mission was “fundamental,”
 Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security adviser for
strategic communications, told reporters aboard Air Force One
today as Obama returned to Washington from a trip to Latin
America.  By marshaling allies for the aerial campaign, the U.S. cost
is “significantly” reduced, Rhodes said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the
administration has had “a great number of consultations with
Congress” on the reasons for the military action.  Defending the Administration  Levin, together with Democratic Senators  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois  and Jack Reed of Rhode Island, defended Obama. The
president took a “very wise course” on the international
coalition’s intervention, said Durbin, the Senate’s assistant
majority leader.  Obama will get “bipartisan” support for enforcing the UN
mandate to protect Libyan civilians against assault by Qaddafi’s
forces, Levin said. The president has proceeded in a
“cautious” and “thoughtful” way with his plan to put the
U.S. military in the leading role until a no-fly zone is
established, and then hand off the lead to partners, including
Arab nations, he said.  Levin also said the risk to the U.S. armed forces is “as
minimal as possible” because, unlike in Iraq or Afghanistan,
there are no U.S. ground troops in Libya.  Levin did not say how much the operations are likely to
cost. The U.S. spent at least $168 million hitting Libya’s air
defense systems in the first two days of the international
coalition assault, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  