-- 
U.S. Stocks Gain, Erasing Early Drop, as Commodity Shares Rally

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-23T21:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-s-stock-futures-advance-before-home-sales-report-jabil-circuit-climbs.html
U.S. stocks rose, paring
yesterday’s drop, as higher metal prices lifted commodity
producers and  Wells Fargo & Co . said government data showing a
record low pace in new-home sales will likely be revised higher.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  rose 5 percent, while
 Alcoa Inc. (AA)  added 3 percent, as copper paced gains in commodities
amid a surge in stockpile orders for the metal.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
added 1.9 percent as investors re-elected Apple Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  to the board of the entertainment
company.  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL)  jumped 11 percent for the top gain
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after the electronics
manufacturer’s earnings forecast topped analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent to 1,297.54 at 4 p.m. in New
York after slumping as much as 0.8 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  climbed 67.39 points, or 0.6 percent, to
12,086.02. Crude oil advanced 0.7 percent to $105.75 a barrel.  “Investors are looking for some good news,” said  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.5 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “Earlier today, we had the disappointing
home sales data adding up to all the international uncertainties
out there. Later, you have the Wells Fargo statement attributed
to turning the market around. What people need to understand is
that we can have a pickup in different parts of the economy and
housing will fully rebound later. There’s growth in this country
and elsewhere. There is economic momentum.”  Immediate Solution  The  S&P 500  fell yesterday, halting a three-day rally, as
oil rose amid fighting in Libya and concern grew that Europe
won’t find an immediate solution to its debt crisis. Bonds of
Europe’s most-indebted countries sank.  The Portuguese parliament today rejected the government’s
deficit-cutting plan in a vote that raises the chances of a
bailout and which Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  has said
threatens to push the country toward early elections. Lawmakers
backed resolutions against the government’s stability and growth
program, Jaime Gama, the parliament’s president, said in Lisbon.  Stocks extended losses in the first hour of trading after
purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in February to
the slowest pace on record and prices dropped to the lowest
level since December 2003. Sales decreased 16.9 percent to a
250,000 annual pace, figures from the Commerce Department
showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a gain
to a 290,000 rate, according to the median estimate. The median
price fell 8.9 percent from the same month in 2010.  ‘Reality’  A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes added 0.5 percent,
erasing an earlier decline of 0.9 percent. Wells Fargo analyst
Carl Reichardt said the February home sales data may be revised
up and didn’t reflect the market “reality” as bad weather hurt
the market. PulteGroup Inc. climbed 3.6 percent to $7.40 after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added the homebuilder’s shares to its
“Conviction Buy” list.  “We need to get good reports that remind everyone that the
global economy is still doing OK,” said  James Paulsen , chief
investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $340 billion. “News out of
 Europe  raises concern that their crisis won’t go away anytime
soon. In addition, you’ve got the Middle East burning and
keeping energy prices elevated.”  A gauge of raw-materials producers gained 1.4 percent, the
biggest gain among 10 S&P 500 industries. Freeport added 5
percent to $54.88. Alcoa rallied 3 percent to $16.95.  Copper Prices Jump  Copper climbed for a second day in New York as orders to
draw metal from inventories jumped the most in 11 months,
feeding speculation that demand will outpace supply in 2011.  Canceled warrants, as the orders are known, surged 45
percent, the most since April 21, to 15,525 metric tons, daily
London Metal Exchange figures showed today. LME inventories of
copper shrank for the first time in six sessions. Prices also
gained as figures showed that euro-area industrial orders
increased for a fourth month in January.  Walt Disney  gained 1.9 percent to $42.24. Investors re-
elected Apple’s Jobs to the board of the entertainment company,
rejecting the views of proxy advisers who say health issues may
impair his ability to serve. Jobs was re-elected with 12 other
nominees at the shareholder meeting today in Salt Lake City,
with 74 percent of the votes cast backing the group, according
to a preliminary count. The Apple executive, absent from the
meeting, owns 7.3 percent of Disney and is the largest
shareholder.  Jabil Circuit Rallies  Jabil Circuit advanced 11 percent to $20.99. The St.
Petersburg, Florida-based electronics manufacturer forecast
third-quarter earnings excluding some items of at least 55 cents
a share, beating the average analyst estimate of 53 cents in a
Bloomberg survey.  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  rose 5.4 percent to $23.44. The
payments network whose stock has outperformed three larger
rivals posted record profit and boosted its dividend. Earnings
and sales beat the averages of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  AOL Inc. (AOL)  rose 4.7 percent to $19.86. The Internet company
that agreed to buy the  Huffington Post  was raised to a “buy”
from “neutral” by UBS AG, which said advertising growth may
accelerate in the second half of the year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fell 1.7 percent to $13.65 after
saying the  Federal Reserve  objected to its planned dividend
increase. The lender “will continue to work with the Fed and
intends to seek permission for a modest increase in its common
dividend for the second half of 2011, through the submission of
a revised comprehensive capital plan,” Bank of America said in
a regulatory filing.  Capital Plans  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America is the only
U.S. lender among the largest four that didn’t announce a higher
payout after the Fed finished a review of the companies’
financial health and capital plans last week. Lenders including
Bank of America, which had a 64-cent quarterly payout until
2008, slashed dividends during the financial crisis to conserve
capital as loan losses piled up.  Adobe Corp. slumped 3.7 percent to $31.68. The largest
maker of graphic-design programs forecast second-quarter profit
of 47 to 54 cents a share, missing the 56-cent average of
analysts’ projections compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options fell for a fifth
day, losing 35 percent for the biggest five-day slide since May,
and declined below its level before the Japan earthquake as
stocks rallied around the world. The VIX, as the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, fell 5.2 percent to
19.17. The index measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the S&P 500.  “All the signs are that the economy is not only stable,
but it’s picking up momentum,” said  Dan Veru , chief investment
officer at Palisade Capital Management LLC in Fort Lee, New
Jersey, which oversees $3.8 billion. “All these problems are
going to gradually diminish and that means we’re going to have
gradually higher stock prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  