-- 
U.S. Defense Department to Stop Work on GE/Rolls-Royce Fighter Jet Engine

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/u-s-defense-department-to-stop-work-on-ge-fighter-jet-engine.html
The U.S. Defense Department is
expected to issue an order today for  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  to halt work on a second engine for the
 F-35 Joint Strike Fighter .  The Pentagon’s acquisition chief,  Ashton Carter , will issue
a stop-work order on the F136 jet engine, made by a GE/Rolls-
Royce team, according to industry and defense officials who were
not authorized to discuss the announcement in advance.  President  Barack Obama  and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
have opposed the engine as unneeded and a waste of money at a
time of tight budgets.  Pratt & Whitney , a division of  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , is the main supplier of engines for the
Joint Strike Fighter, which is manufactured by Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  With a projected cost of
$382 billion, the F-35 -- the U.S. military’s next-generation
fighter -- is the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program.  The stop-work order may mean the end of the alternative
engine.  About 2,500 jobs, the majority in Ohio, Massachusetts and
 Indiana , are tied to the its development. If GE and Rolls-Royce
reach their projected peak production, that figure would
increase to as many as 4,300 jobs, according to  Rick Kennedy , a
spokesman for GE Aviation.  Because Congress has not yet passed all of the
appropriations bills for fiscal year 2011, the Pentagon and
other government agencies are being funded at fiscal year 2010
levels through stopgap measures, known as continuing
resolutions. The development of the second engine has been
uninterrupted under a series of continuing resolutions, the most
recent of which expires April 8.  ‘Exceeding’ Expectations  “The  F136 engine  development program continues, and the
engine is meeting or exceeding performance expectations,”
Kennedy said in an e-mail. “We are gratified that several House
and Senate leaders, who will convene in early April to complete
the FY2011 budget process, are determined supporters of
competing JSF engines for a myriad of financial and security
reasons.”  Gates has said that completing development of the
alternative engine would cost taxpayers $3 billion. GE disputes
that figure, saying the development cost would be about $1
billion, with an additional $800 million to start production.  The House voted last month to strip $450 million for the
second engine from the fiscal 2011 Pentagon spending bill, which
Congress has not yet passed.  No Funding Included  For two years in a row, the Senate Armed Services Committee
and the Senate Appropriations Committee haven’t included money
for the additional engine in their versions of the defense
authorization and appropriations bills.  The chairmen of those panels, Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan  and Daniel Inouye of Hawaii, both back the
second engine. They have said that they didn’t include funding
because the Senate has enough votes to remove it from the
defense bills.  Inouye also did not include money for the GE/Rolls-Royce
engine in the 2011 defense appropriations measure he proposed as
part of the larger government spending package awaiting
congressional approval.  Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, the California
Republican who is chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, said last week said he would restore funding in the
2012  defense budget  for the alternative engine.  Action by McKeon’s committee to authorize the program would
be the first step in the process. The GE/Rolls-Royce engine
program would also need funding in the 2012 defense
appropriations bill to continue.  Representative C.W. Bill Young, a Florida Republican who
leads the House defense appropriations panel, said he continues
to support funding for the second engine. He did not say whether
he would include it in the Pentagon’s spending bill for the 2012
fiscal year.  “Competition is good,” Young said in an interview last
week. “For 2012, it remains to be seen. We’ll see what
develops.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  