-- 
UAW Plans to Meet With Fiat’s Italian Unions to Build Labor Ties

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-03-23T21:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/uaw-plans-to-meet-with-fiat-s-italian-unions-to-strengthen-ties.html
The  United Auto Workers  plans to
meet in June with the Italian unions that represent workers of
 Fiat SpA (F) , which runs Chrysler Group LLC, as part of an effort to
strengthen their ties.  “They’re eager to sit down and talk with us,” UAW Vice
President General Holiefield, who heads the union’s Chrysler
department, said yesterday in an interview.  Fiat, based in Turin, Italy, plans to invest 20 billion
euros ($28.3 billion) revamping its domestic plants in return
for having union workers put in more hours, take shorter breaks
and risk having pay withheld for persistent absenteeism. Current
negotiations over the plan at Fiat’s Grugliasco plant are
“worrisome,” Labor Minister  Maurizio Sacconi  said yesterday.  UAW President  Bob King  is seeking to forge stronger
relationships with unions representing workers at the overseas
operations of Chrysler,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and organize foreign automakers’ factories in the U.S.  “We’re building a broad international coalition,” King
said yesterday during the UAW’s bargaining convention in
Detroit.  The  UAW  met with trade union leaders from Ford’s global
operations six months ago and is seeking a framework for an
agreement to protect workers’ rights around the world, King
said. The UAW’s GM department is working on a similar effort and
had its first meeting a month ago, he said.  ‘Unified’ Movement  It’s “about having a unified labor movement globally so
they don’t pit workers in  Germany  against workers in England
against workers in Brazil against workers in the United
States,” King said.  The UAW in August created a Global Organizing Institute to
recruit and train activists in countries including Brazil,  China 
and India, Richard Bensinger, who directs the UAW’s organizing
efforts, told workers at the convention today.  Eight students that are some of the first members of the
institute’s eight-week international internship program spoke to
UAW members and the media today about their plans to return to
their home countries and coordinate organizing efforts there.  Holiefield, who said he’s met with Italian labor officials
in the past, declined to say which of Fiat’s unions the UAW
plans to speak with in June.  ‘Labor’s Pain’  “Labor’s pain is always felt amongst the laborer,”
Holiefield said at the UAW convention in  Detroit . “If there’s
anything we can do to sit down and get that message across to
whomever it is, we thoroughly believe that we can work our way
through anything.”  The UAW hopes to build stronger relationships with Fiat’s
unions so they can work together and help “the companies that
we all represent be that much more prosperous,” he said.  The efforts could help  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive
officer of both Fiat and Chrysler, Holiefield said.  “We’re not there to beat him up or anything but to provide
a forum so he can hear labor and that we can find common
ground,” he said.  Jodi Tinson, a Chrysler spokeswoman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  