-- 
UBS Says Swiss Capital Rules Should Be Aligned Globally

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-03-23T18:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/ubs-says-swiss-capital-rules-should-be-aligned-internationally.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
said capital requirements for the country’s largest banks should
be set at a lower level than proposed by the government until
it’s clear what regulators elsewhere demand of their lenders.  The total capital requirements for UBS and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  should first be set at 13 percent, compared with the 19
percent proposed by the government, UBS said today in a written
response to the proposed law, which seeks to regulate too-big-
to-fail banks. The bank’s statement was obtained by Bloomberg
News and its contents were confirmed by Serge Steiner, a
spokesman for Zurich-based UBS.  “It’s still unclear whether there will be an international
surcharge for systemically-important banks, how high it would be
and most notably to what extent it would actually be
implemented,” UBS said in the response.  The Swiss government, which had to prop up UBS in the 2008
financial crisis, proposed changes to the banking laws to make
requirements for UBS and Credit Suisse stricter and avoid future
bailouts. The deadline to comment on the government’s draft law
ends today, after which it will be sent to the parliament.  The government’s proposals are based on recommendations
made by a committee on too-big-to-fail issues that included
representatives from the two banks.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, said in
an e-mailed statement that it supports “the raft of measures”
proposed by the committee, noting that “regrettably, the Swiss
government’s draft proposal deviates from the commission’s
recommended solution in several respects.”  The  Swiss Bankers Association  said earlier today that the
proposals go too far, particularly in terms of organizational
measures demanded from the two companies. The group also said
that lawmakers should be able to adjust  capital requirements  at
a later stage to maintain the country’s competitiveness.  The Swiss government and the too-big-to-fail committee
proposed requiring UBS and Credit Suisse to hold common equity
equal to at least 10 percent of assets, weighted according to
risk, by 2019. In addition, as much as 9 percent of risk-
weighted assets should be held in the form of contingent
convertible bonds, which turn into equity when a bank’s capital
drops below a certain level, under the proposals.  Basel III  That compares with a 7 percent common equity ratio and 10.5
percent total capital requirement set by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  for lenders worldwide, known as Basel III.  UBS said as long as other countries don’t ask for a capital
surcharge for systemically-important banks,  Switzerland 
shouldn’t prescribe the additional 6 percent requirement. The
bank also proposed introducing a clause in the law to ensure the
rules are examined three years after coming into force.  “The decisions should be well-considered to avoid
unintended negative consequences for the attractiveness of the
Swiss financial center and the large banks,” UBS said, adding
that economic effects of the new rules should be analyzed.  If Swiss capital requirements make the bank uncompetitive,
UBS may have to consider moving businesses and the holding
company abroad, capitalizing units according to less-strict
local rules and even doing initial public offerings of
subsidiaries, Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  told Swiss
magazine Bilanz in an interview this month.  CoCo Bonds  Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan last month cut the bank’s
return on equity target to more than 15 percent from more than
18 percent in response to stricter regulation. The bank has
already sold $2 billion in contingent convertible bonds and
agreed to exchange about $6.2 billion of existing hybrid debt
held by shareholders in  Qatar  and  Saudi Arabia  for CoCo notes
after October 2013.  UBS, whose CEO called CoCos “dangerous,” said the banks
should be allowed a wider choice of instruments to fulfill
capital requirements and a “sole focus on contingent
convertibles would be a mistake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  