-- 
UniCredit Fourth-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates as Tax Gain Cushions Costs

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   P o p p y   T r o w b r i d g e
-- 
2011-03-23T15:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/unicredit-posts-2010-net-income-of-1-9-billion-beating-analyst-estimates.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest
bank, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates after a tax gain helped cushion higher provisions for
bad loans in  Germany  and costs to overhaul units.  Net income fell to 321 million euros ($455 million) from
371 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based company said
in a statement today. That beat the 209 million-euro average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The lender
proposed an unchanged dividend of 3 cents a share.  “All in all results were better than expected,” Carlo Tommaselli, an analyst at Societe Generale SA who has a buy
recommendation on the stock, wrote in a note today. “UniCredit
showed better results at operating level, while the bottom line
was affected by many one-offs.”  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni , 55, who replaced
Alessandro Profumo in the top job in September, put in place a
new executive structure after a management shakeup and is
reviewing the bank’s strategy in some markets to increase
profitability. He plans to outline a new business plan by the
end of the summer.  “In the first couple of months” of the year “we are
moving in the right direction, in line with our expectations,”
Ghizzoni said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “I’m
looking at 2011 with a positive mood.”  UniCredit rose 1.1 percent to 1.78 euros at 3:30 p.m. in
Milan trading, giving the company a market value of 34.2 billion
euros. The shares have gained 12 percent this year, while the
Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index has risen 3 percent
in the period.  Integration Costs  Provisions for risk and charges more than doubled to 472
million euros in the quarter because of an impairment related to
a German project finance loan. Integration costs for
reorganizing and merging the bank’s Italian units rose to 254
million euros. The bank benefited from a one-time tax gain of
495 million euros.  “We have to work hard, especially in  Italy ,” Ghizzoni
said in the interview. “It’s a country where we need an
effective turnaround. Overall I am quite confident that let’s
say in two years we will have profitability in terms of return
on tangible equity already in line, if not above the cost of
capital by 2014.”  The turnaround in Italy will be helped by cost efficiencies
and improvement in provisions, the CEO said.  Ghizzoni gave “very clear guidance and disclosure” on the
bank’s business, Tommaselli said. “We expect an upward revision
of the consensus” for 2011 results, he said.  Loan Provisions  UniCredit’s net trading income dropped to 53 million euros
in the quarter from more than 150 million euros a year earlier,
while net interest income rose 1.4 percent to 4.2 billion euros.  Loan-loss provisions dropped to 1.8 billion euros from
about 2.1 billion euros a year earlier. The bank said its core
Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial health, fell to 8.58
percent as of Dec. 31 from 8.61 percent at the end of September.  UniCredit may consider selling its AO ATF Bank unit in
 Kazakhstan , Ghizzoni said in the interview.  “I’m not under pressure to sell, but we can consider the
possibility,” he said. “In the meantime, the restructuring is
terminated finally and we are expecting better results in
Kazakhstan compared to the last couple of years.”  German Improvement  The company posted 199 million euros of goodwill writedowns
in the quarter related to the unit in Kazakhstan, taking the
total writedowns for 2010 at the division to 362 million euros.
The lender said in February that it has no plans to sell the
unprofitable business.  HVB Group, UniCredit’s German banking unit, said profit
almost doubled to 1.7 billion euros in 2010 as provisions for
risky loans fell to 632 million euros from 1.6 billion euros a
year earlier. The Munich-based lender’s core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of a bank’s ability to cover losses, fell to
15.9 percent at the end of last year from 16.7 percent a year
earlier.  “We don’t foresee at this stage a material risk of a
capital injection,” Pier Passerone, an analyst at Intermonte
SIM SpA who has an “outperform” recommendation on the stock,
wrote in a Feb. 21 report. Still, “we see a risk UniCredit
might not be able to fully exploit all the growth opportunities
it has due to some constraints,” he said.  Pioneer Sale  UniCredit may consider keeping its Pioneer Global Asset
Management unit if it doesn’t receive satisfactory offers,
Ghizzoni said during an analyst meeting today.  “A final decision will be taken in two to three weeks,”
the CEO said, adding that the company is ready to revamp the
unit should it not receive offers that match expectations.  UniCredit, which is considering a sale of the division as
part of a plan to boost its finances, is allowing three
potential bidders including Natixis SA and Amundi to review
Pioneer’s books.  Ghizzoni also said that he may consider a listing of the
unit if a partnership isn’t completed, adding that the option
“isn’t on the table for now.” The CEO ruled out a sale of
Pioneer’s businesses in the U.S., as they are considered
strategic for the bank.  The Italian lender also said today in a separate statement
it approved the partial spinoff of Pioneer Investment Management
Sgr SpA’s private-banking business into UniCredit.  UniCredit plans to raise approximately 32 billion euros of
funding in 2011, of which the majority will come from covered
bonds and network bonds, according to a presentation on its
website. The bank has 29 billion euros of debt maturing this
year, according to the presentation. The lender has already
completed 43 percent of this year’s funding plan, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Poppy Trowbridge in London at 
 ptrowbridge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  