-- 
Hurd Seeks to Keep Fisher Letter Sealed During His Appeal

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-03-23T14:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/hurd-asks-delaware-court-to-keep-letter-on-contractor-relationship-sealed.html
Former Hewlett-Packard Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  asked a  Delaware  judge to delay an
order unsealing a letter that describes his relationship with
contractor Jodie Fisher while he appeals the ruling.  Hurd filed the request under seal, according to a letter
made public today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Hurd
said he plans to appeal the March 17 decision by Judge Donald Parsons Jr., who ordered that a redacted, public version of the
letter be filed within 10 days.  The letter sent by lawyer Gloria Allred on Fisher’s behalf
is part of a case filed by HP shareholder Ernesto Espinoza
seeking access to company books and records.  The letter
contains accusations of sexual harassment and details of Hurd’s
alleged advances toward Fisher and her rejection of them,
according to Parsons’s ruling.  Hurd, 54, who is now co-president of software maker  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , resigned from  Palo Alto , California-based HP in August
after a company investigation into his alleged relationship
determined he violated its standards of business conduct. HP
said it didn’t find that Hurd had violated the company’s sexual-
harassment policy.  Hurd argued he should have a say in Espinoza’s demand for
information because the letter was personal and his alone. It
was sent by Allred in an attempt to arrange a private mediation,
lawyers for Hurd said. The letter contains allegations that Hurd
misused corporate funds to “wine and dine Fisher” and leaked
potential non-public information about the company to her,
Parsons said in his ruling.  Internal Report  Amy Wintersheimer, an attorney for Hurd, said in an e-mail
on March 18 that the letter contains many inaccuracies.  Plaintiff’s lawyer Norman Monhait didn’t immediately return
message left at his Wilmington office seeking comment on the
latest filings.  Espinoza is seeking access to the letter and an internal
report prepared for the HP board by lawyers at Covington &
Burling LLP as part of his investigation into possible
wrongdoing by directors. The board wrongly granted Hurd a
severance package valued at as much as $40 million rather than
terminate him for cause without money, lawyers for Espinoza said
in court papers filed in the case.  The case is Espinoza v.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , CA6000,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia federal court
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net  and;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 