-- 
Turkey’s Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 6.25%

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-03-23T12:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/turkey-s-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-6-25-.html
Turkey ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second month as it waits
to see whether restrictions on bank lending will offset the
inflationary effect of rising  oil prices .  The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at a record low of 6.25 percent, according to an e-mailed
statement today. That matched the forecast of all nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will release minutes
of the meeting within eight working days.  Governor  Durmus Yilmaz , who retires April 18, lowered the
rate in December and January, at the same time as increasing the
reserves banks must set aside against liabilities in a bid to
tame a boom in  consumer credit . The bank held policy unchanged
in February and said rising energy and commodity prices now pose
“an additional risk to inflation,” which slowed to a four-
decade low of 4.2 percent in February.  The bank “sounds inclined to stay put for one more month
to observe the impact of the reserve hikes,”  Inan Demir , chief
economist for Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in a telephone
interview. “The global backdrop has changed since they began
this policy and inflation can only go up from here.”  The central bank in January predicted year-end inflation of
5.9 percent. Higher oil prices, driven by unrest in the Middle
East, are likely to drive that forecast higher when the bank
reviews its predictions next month, Yilmaz said Feb. 25.  Naming Successor  Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said Jan. 27 that no
successor will be named until Yilmaz’s term ends on April 18 to
avoid creating a “lame duck” governor. Whoever takes over will
inherit a policy mix that aims to weaken the lira through low
rates and limit domestic demand through higher  reserve
requirements  for banks.  A boom in consumer demand has swollen the current-account
deficit, which almost doubled in January from a year earlier,
and is leading to growth that is “not balanced,” Yilmaz said
this month. Turkey’s economy probably grew more than 8 percent
last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund , helping
boost Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s prospects of winning
a third term in elections due on June 12.  The policy adopted by Yilmaz in the past three months aims
to restrain demand by slowing credit growth. Consumer loans have
jumped about 40 percent in the past year, and Babacan says a
pace of 25 percent would be healthier.  The central bank has doubled to 12 percent the proportion
of short-term liabilities that banks must set aside, and stopped
paying interest on the money.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 