-- 
Uruguay's Central Bank Raises Benchmark Rate to 7.5% as Inflation Surges

-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 
2011-03-23T19:56:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/uruguay-s-central-bank-raises-benchmark-rate-to-7-5-as-inflation-surges.html
Uruguay’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate more than forecast as inflation in the
South American country accelerates beyond the government’s
target range.  Policy makers, led by bank President Mario Bergara, boosted
the benchmark rate 100 basis points, or one percentage point, to
7.5 percent, citing “concerns about the risk implied by the
evolution of inflation, in a context of elevated growth,”
according to an e-mailed statement. Four economists in a survey
by Bloomberg were divided over whether the bank would raise the
rate 25 or 50 basis points.  “The central bank’s monetary policy committee has watched
with concern the trend of inflation in recent months, which has
exceeded the target range,” the statement said. “International
prices continue rising in a global context of greater volatility
and domestic factors are keeping internal prices on an upward
trajectory.”  Annual inflation in the agriculture-based economy quickened
to 7.67 percent in February from 7.27 percent the previous
month, above the upper limit of the central bank’s 2011 target
range of 4 percent to 6 percent. Prices rose 6.93 percent in
2010, according to the Montevideo-based  national statistics
institute .  Analysts forecast annual inflation of 7.3 percent in 2011
and 6.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate in a
central bank survey of 12 economists, banks, pension
administrators and industrial chambers released last week.  Regional Increases  Uruguay joins countries including  Brazil  and  Chile  in
raising rates this month to slow inflation and dampen demand.
Chile boosted its benchmark rate more than forecast to 4 percent
from 3.5 percent on March 17. Brazil raised the Selic 50 basis
points to 11.75 percent on March 2.  Today’s decision “is an important signal of tightening,”
said Pablo Rosselli, an economist at Montevideo-based research
company Deloitte Uruguay. “But while 100 points is a
significant rise, additional rate increases will be needed to
ease inflation.”  Economy Minister Fernando Lorenzo said the government is
determined to stem price increases in the country of 3.6 million
people.  “We will seek to implement policies to guarantee that
inflation doesn’t become a problem,” Lorenzo told journalists
in Montevideo on March 3. In February, the Economy Ministry
delayed an increase in gasoline prices, and did the same with
milk this month.  Uruguay’s currency fell 0.3 percent to 19.3 pesos per
dollar at 3:34 p.m.  New York  time. The currency has gained 3.4
percent this year, compared with a decline of 1.5 percent in the
Argentine peso and an increase of 0.1 percent in the Brazilian
real.  ‘Above Potential’  Last year, Uruguay’s $40 billion economy expanded 8.5
percent, the central bank reported yesterday. Unemployment rose
to 6.1 percent in January after tumbling to a record 5.4 percent
in December, the national statistics institute reported March
11.  “Uruguay is growing very strongly, above its potential,”
said Juan Lorenzo Maldonado, an analyst at Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York who had forecast the benchmark rate
would be raised to 7 percent. “It’s important that the central
bank sends a strong message that it can control inflationary
pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  