-- 
Uruguay Central Bank Set to Raise Benchmark Rate as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 
2011-03-23T12:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/uruguay-central-bank-set-to-raise-benchmark-rate-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Uruguay’s central bank will likely
raise its benchmark interest rate today as policy makers in the
South American country struggle to slow inflation that is
accelerating beyond their target range.  The five-member policy committee, led by bank President
Mario Bergara, will increase the rate by at least 25 basis
points after holding it at 6.5 percent at their last meeting on
Dec. 23, according to all four economists in a survey by
Bloomberg. Economists in the poll are divided over whether the
increase will be 25 or 50 basis points. The board is due to
announce its decision after 4 p.m.  New York  time.  Annual inflation in the agriculture-based economy quickened
to 7.67 percent in February from 7.27 percent the previous
month, above the upper limit of the central bank’s 2011 target
range of 4 percent to 6 percent. Prices rose 6.93 percent in
2010, according to the Montevideo-based  national statistics
institute .  “We should see a clear signal of the hardening of monetary
policy,” said Pablo Rosselli, an economist at Deloitte Uruguay
in Montevideo. “We can’t expect less than a 50 basis point
increase, though they could raise it more depending on how
committed they are to the inflation target.”  Analysts forecast annual inflation of 7.3 percent in 2011
and 6.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate in a
central bank survey of 12 economists, banks, pension
administrators and industrial chambers released last week.  Determined Effort  Economy Minister Fernando Lorenzo said the government is
determined to stem price increases in the country of 3.6 million
people.  “We will seek to implement policies to guarantee that
inflation doesn’t become a problem,” Lorenzo told journalists
in Montevideo on March 3. In February, the economy ministry
delayed an increase in gasoline prices, and did the same with
milk this month.  In a statement accompanying their December decision, policy
makers took note of some of the pressures that may support
interest rate increases this year.  “Private consumption is outpacing production in a context
of historically low unemployment,” the statement said.  A decision today to hold the rate would signal that the
bank had abandoned the goal of bring down inflation to within
its target range, said Ramon Pampin, an economist at
PricewaterhouseCoopers in Montevideo.  Peso Pressure  A rate increase will boost pressure for the peso to rise,
Deloitte’s Rosselli said, making exports less competitive.  Uruguay’s currency has gained 3.4 percent this year to
close at 19.25 pesos per dollar yesterday, compared with a
decline of 1.5 percent in the Argentine peso and an increase of
0.1 percent in the Brazilian real.  The central bank committee’s next quarterly meeting will be
in June.  Last year, Uruguay’s $40 billion economy expanded 8.5
percent, the central bank reported yesterday. Unemployment rose
to 6.1 percent in January after tumbling to a record 5.4 percent
in December, the national statistics institute reported March
11.  "Uruguay is growing very strong, above its potential," said
Juan Lorenzo Maldonado, an analyst at Roubini Global Economics
LLC in New York who forecasts the benchmark rate will be raised
to 7 percent. "It’s important that the central bank sends a
strong message that it can control inflationary pressures."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  