-- 
Van Eck Resumes Creation Orders for Market Vectors Egypt

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-23T20:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/van-eck-resumes-creation-orders-for-market-vectors-egypt-index.html
Van Eck Associates Corp. said it’s
allowing traders to execute creation orders to produce new
shares of the  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF (EGPT) , two months after
anti-government protests shut the nation’s stock market.  Van Eck, the exchange-traded fund’s adviser, halted
creation orders on Jan. 31. The security rose 2.7 percent to
$16.65 from that point through yesterday before plunging 8.1
percent to $15.30 as of 4 p.m. New York time today.  Egypt ’s
bourse, northern  Africa ’s second-largest after  Morocco , reopened
today, and the EGX 30 Index dropped to an almost two-year low.  “Van Eck followed the firm’s normal policy of suspending
creation orders when the underlying market is closed for an
extended period as a result of extraordinary circumstances,”
according to a statement today by Van Eck distributed by
 Business Wire .  Egypt’s bourse resumed trading two days before a deadline
that could have led to its removal from the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. The bourse will allow the EGX 100 Index to drop
as much as 10 percent, said Hisham Turk, an exchange spokesman.
The measure plunged 9 percent at the close.  The circuit breakers used by the exchange may limit Van
Eck’s ability to track Egyptian shares, the company said.  Van Eck’s ETF tracks the Market Vectors Egypt Index, whose
largest components include Cairo-based  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE (ORTE)  and Giza-based Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE. The
ETF fell 18 percent this year before today and was trading
yesterday at a 13 percent premium over the latest value of its
holdings.  Trading Halts  Egypt’s stock market suspended trading of 46 companies
after they failed to meet disclosure requirements, the head of
the bourse said.  ETFs usually track an index while trading on an exchange
like stocks. Certain institutional investors are allowed to
trade directly with a fund, creating or redeeming bundles of
shares in exchange for baskets of a fund’s underlying
securities. The mechanism helps an ETF’s share price stay close
to its per-share net-asset value as investors arbitrage
discrepancies between the fund shares and underlying holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  