-- 
Verizon Issues $6.25 Billion of Debt as Bond Sales Accelerate

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-03-23T22:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/verizon-plans-first-bonds-since-2009-under-ideal-conditions.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  sold
$6.25 billion of notes in its first debt sale since 2009,
helping to increase dollar-denominated corporate bond sales
fourfold from last week.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, was joined
by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , Volkswagen AG and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  in
issuing debt today. Borrowers have raised or are expected to
sell at least $48.3 billion of dollar-denominated company debt
this week, compared with $11.2 billion last week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. New York-based Verizon plans to use
proceeds from the sale to repay commercial paper and for general
corporate purposes, according to a regulatory filing.  Verizon agreed in January to acquire Terremark Worldwide
Inc. for $1.4 billion, a cash deal which Chief Financial Officer
Francis Shammo said would be funded in part with  commercial
paper  and “capital markets transactions.” Returns on debt from
telecommunications companies are beating overall investment-
grade corporate bonds this year, as relative yields for the
borrowers tumble.  “The market conditions are ideal right now, especially
with the Verizon name,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income
portfolio manager in Salem,  Massachusetts , at Cabot Money
Management, which oversees $500 million. “It’s all based off
the cheap cost of capital.”  Extra Yield  Verizon’s $1 billion of 3-year floating-rate notes pay 61
basis points more than the 3-month London interbank offered
rate, Bloomberg data show. A $1.5 billion portion of 1.95
percent, 3-year fixed debt pays 85 basis points more than
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, while a $1.25 billion slice of
3 percent, 5-year fixed-rate debt yields a 105 basis-point
spread. A $1.5 billion portion of 10-year 4.6 percent debt
yields 135 basis points more than benchmarks and $1 billion of 6
percent, 30-year debt pays a 165 basis-point spread, the data
show.  The extra yield investors demand to own debt from
telecommunications companies instead of Treasuries fell to 154
basis points yesterday from 168 basis points, or 1.68 percentage
points, at the end of 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. That compares with a spread of 153 basis
points on overall corporate debt. The difference in spread
between the two indexes was 16 basis points as recently as
November.  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for Verizon, declined to comment
on the sale.  Verizon’s issuance is the second-largest dollar-denominated
debt sale this year, after yesterday’s $7 billion offering from
French drugmaker Sanofi-Aventis SA. General Electric Co.’s
finance arm and Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-
controlled oil producer, each sold $6 billion of debt in
January, and are tied for the third-largest sale.  ‘Pretty Strong’  Debt from telecommunications companies, including AT&T
Inc., the largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, and Deutsche
Telekom AG, has gained 1.6 percent this year, compared with the
1.45 percent return on all investment-grade bonds.  “Telecom has been pretty strong,” Larkin said. “People
have been looking for that safety.”  AT&T agreed this week to buy  T-Mobile USA  from Deutsche
Telekom for about $39 billion in cash and stock to create
America’s largest mobile-phone company. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
agreed to help finance the deal with a $20 billion bridge loan.  Verizon said that it may sell up to $14 billion in common
stock, preferred shares and debt in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Commercial Paper  Verizon’s $3.7 billion of commercial paper outstanding,
short-term borrowings that typically mature in 270 days or less,
carries an average interest rate of 0.4 percent, according to
today’s filing. Any remaining proceeds from the bond sale may be
used for general corporate purposes.  Verizon plans to complete its offer for Terremark this
quarter, as the company expands its business of helping
companies store their data in the so-called cloud, the server
computers maintained by other companies that provide access to
electronic records and software.  Acquiring Terremark, which adds corporate and government
customers for Verizon, is part of a broader strategy to make
information from corporate data to music available to customers
across devices and locations, Verizon said in a Jan. 27
statement.  Verizon sold $2.75 billion of 10- and 30-year debt in March
2009, Bloomberg data show.  The company’s $1.75 billion of 6.35 percent, 10-year notes
priced at 98.52 cents on the dollar to pay a 387.5 basis-point
spread, Bloomberg data show.  Today’s notes are rated A- by  Standard & Poor’s  and may be
rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  