-- 
Volkswagen to Add Models in Brazil in Fight With Fiat for Market Supremacy

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-03-24T08:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/volkswagen-to-add-models-in-brazil-in-fight-with-fiat-for-market-supremacy.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will boost production
and add models in Brazil to challenge  Fiat SpA (F)  for the leading
position in the country’s rapidly growing auto market.  “Competition in Brazil is intense and we expect it will
become even more intense in the future,” Thomas Schmall, head
of VW’s Brazilian operations, said in an interview. “We want to
further expand our position.”  VW, trailing Fiat in a three-way race with  General Motors
Co. (GM)  for the country’s top spot, is expanding three of five
plants in Latin America’s largest economy to increase sales 40
percent to 1 million vehicles in the next four years, he said.  Europe ’s largest automaker is investing 2.3 billion euros
($3.3 billion) in  Brazil  through 2014 as a growing middle class,
strong currency and  job creation  ahead of the 2014 World Cup and
2016 Olympics fuel demand. Auto sales in the country, VW’s
third-biggest market after China and  Germany , will advance 40
percent by the end of 2016 to 3.64 million vehicles annually,
according to industry researcher IHS Automotive.  Fiat leads this year with a 22.3 percent share of the car
and light truck market through mid-March, according to data from
Brazilian dealers association Fenabrave. Wolfsburg, Germany-
based VW is second with 21.8 percent and GM is third with 18.2
percent. VW and Fiat have been trading the top spot back-and-
forth, while facing increasing pressure from rivals pouring in
to capitalize on the market’s potential.  Increased Investments  “Brazil has never experienced a moment such as the present
one, having 45 brands selling their cars here,” said Paulo
Sergio Rosa, an automotive consultant from Consultoria Columbia
in Sao Paulo. “The math now suggests a subtraction for
everyone. VW is making a huge effort to try and get the lead
back.”  Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , is spending 10 billion reais
($6 billion) through 2014 to cement itself as the country’s
biggest automaker and boost deliveries to more than 1 million
vehicles. Brazil is especially important for Fiat because it
does not have a strong presence in the other growth markets of
China,  Russia  and  India .  “Our profits don’t come from Italy, but from Brazil,”
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said Feb. 15. Fiat
deliveries in the country increased 1.6 percent last year to
761,400 vehicles, generating revenue of 9.25 billion euros, or
25 percent of total sales, according to its annual report.  The VW group, whose revenue in Latin America increased 40
percent last year to 13.5 billion euros, sold 711,500 vehicles,
including the Audi luxury brand and commercial-vehicles
division, in Brazil in 2010.  Revamped Models  VW will introduce revamped versions of the Passat sedan,
Touareg sport-utility vehicle and Jetta compact sedan this year
in the country, continuing a roll-out that featured 26 new
models or facelifts at the namesake VW brand in 2009 and 2010,
Schmall said. The carmaker will lose 2.5 percentage points of
market share in Brazil through 2016, according to IHS forecasts.  “I do prefer VW’s cars because my father and my husband
have had VW for a long time, but it is a little expensive,” said
Andrea Puccini Santos, the 34-year-old owner of a VW Gol, as she
looked at offerings at a  Sao Paulo  dealership. “I am looking at
other models with similar prices and cost benefit.”  Strong Pricing  The best-selling car last year in Brazil was the Gol, with
deliveries of 293,783 of the hatchback, followed by Fiat´s Uno,
with 229,323 sold. The Gol, based on the underpinnings of VW’s
Polo, starts at 29,290 reais, while the Uno’s base price is
26,490 reais, according to the carmakers’ Brazilian websites.  “What makes it so relevant for VW, but also for GM and
Fiat, to retain share in that market is that the pricing is so
strong,” said Guido Vildozo, an IHS Automotive analyst in  New
York . “A large influx of domestic production in coming years is
going to put a lot of pressure on the established
manufacturers.”  Brazil’s economy will expand 4.03 percent this year,
according to a central bank survey of about 100 economists
published this week. Brazilian Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini said March 22 the economy has a “great” medium and
long-term growth outlook.  “We’re expecting a positive economic development in coming
years,” Schmall said in the March 11 interview. “It’s our goal
to share in the growth in auto markets in Brazil and other Latin
American countries.”  VW Investments  Volkswagen plans to invest 53.5 billion euros in its global
automotive business through 2015, with another 10.6 billion
euros to be spent through its two Chinese joint ventures. VW
aims to spur sales to more than 10 million vehicles globally to
surpass Toyota Motor Corp. as the world’s largest automaker.  Expansion in  South America  and  Southeast Asia  is important
to VW as a counterweight to the carmaker’s increasing reliance
on  China , Bernd Osterloh, head of VW’s works council, said in a
an interview March 10 in Wolfsburg.  China accounted for 26 percent of VW’s deliveries last
year. The carmaker’s operating profit in the country, the
world’s biggest auto market, more than doubled in 2010 to 1.9
billion euros.  “Development in China is very good and potential for
further growth is no doubt in place,” said Osterloh, who is
also deputy head of VW’s supervisory board. “But we as the
works council don’t want to become too dependent on China.”  Adjusting Production  Volkswagen may need to adjust production at its Brazilian
factories and add models to reap benefits from the country’s
economic advance, he said.  “Our capacities are already nowadays running close to
limits,” Osterloh said, noting that the commercial-vehicle unit
would benefit from an added offering. “We could grow even more
with new products.”  Long-time Gol driver Rossana Matheus Montanarini would be
open to new offerings.  “This the car I learned to drive with,” the 27-year-old
physiotherapist said of the Gol. “But I tested Fox and I saw
it‘s very comfortable to drive. I am thinking of cheating on Gol
but continuing with Volkswagen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  