-- 
Westfield Doubles Bets on London With Europe’s Largest Urban Shopping Mall

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-03-23T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/westfield-doubles-bets-on-london-with-europe-s-largest-urban-shopping-mall.html
Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s
biggest shopping-center owner, is making a $1.2 billion bet that
its new mall in east London will thrive long after the 2012
Olympic Games are over. That’s because it’s targeting some of
the country’s wealthiest consumers.  “We see two completely separate markets,”  Peter Lowy , one
of Sydney-based Westfield’s joint managing directors, said in an
interview. “There’s strength in London and much less strength
in the rest of the country.”  Westfield Stratford City  will be Europe’s largest urban
mall when it opens close to the main Olympic site in September.
Many of its customers will come from the  City of London  and
Canary Wharf financial districts and neighborhoods such as
Shoreditch and Islington, where disposable incomes are higher
than the national average and the risk of government job losses
is lower.  “It’s easily within commuting distance” for financial-
district workers and residents of Essex and east London, said
Matthew Churstain, a Peel Hunt analyst based in the capital.
“If you’ve got an hour for lunch and you can get there in five
to 10 minutes, you can spend 30 minutes looking around the mall
and hop back on the tube.”  The 1.9 million square feet (177,000 square meters) of
space in the shopping center will be divided into 300 outlets,
according to Westfield. About 79 percent of the space has been
leased to retailers including  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, and  John Lewis  Partnership
Plc, owner of the eponymous department-store chain.  ‘Exciting’  “It’s a really exciting opportunity for us to be in
Stratford,” Andy Street, John Lewis’s managing director, said
in an interview. The company, which operates stores offering
clothes, electrical items and furniture, will be the anchor
tenant. Street said that although it is located in an
economically disadvantaged area, the mall will be “attracting
crowds from across east London” after the games.  The development also includes 1.1 million square feet of
 office space , two hotels, a 12-screen cinema, apartments and
parking for 5,000 cars. Four million people live within 45
minutes of Stratford City by car or public transport, according
to the company.  Westfield has 2 billion pounds of assets in  London ,
compared with 600 million pounds elsewhere in the country, Lowy
said. The Australian company’s only other mall in the capital,
Westfield White City, is near BBC Television Centre in the
Shepherd’s Bush neighborhood. It opened in October 2008, a month
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed, roiling world
financial markets.  Weak  Consumer Confidence   The 1.6 million-square-foot west London mall reported 2010
sales of 870 million pounds, an annual increase of 19 percent on
a same-store basis and more than Westfield’s other seven
shopping centers in Britain.  U.K. households had the biggest three-year decline in real
incomes since the early 1980s, the  Institute for Fiscal Studies 
said March 21. The Confederation of British Industry’s retail-
sales index fell to an eight-month low in February.  The nationwide surveys don’t reflect the strength of London
and the southeast of  England  relative to the rest of the
economy. For example, all but two of the top 25 highest-vacancy
town centers with more than 400 stores are in the Midlands or
the North, according to a report last month by the Local Data
Company, a firm that produces research on retail property
locations. Property prices and employment have held up better in
the southeast too.  Spending Cuts  The gap may widen this year as Prime Minister  David Cameron 
begins to implement the deepest spending cuts since World War
II. That’s because the proportion of government jobs in London,
the Southeast and east England are the lowest in the country.  Westfield generates about 10 percent of its revenue from
the U.K., with the rest coming from  Australia ,  New Zealand  and
the U.S. The company reported a 39 percent drop in second-half
earnings, partly because of the Australian dollar’s appreciation
against other currencies and costs from last year’s spinoff of a
unit owning stakes in its Australian and New Zealand malls.  The company has 55 malls in the U.S. and owns 50 percent of
 Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) , the listed company that operates 56
Australian and New Zealand malls.  Westfield Group has dropped 5.6 percent in the last six
months, the same as CFS Retail Property Trust GPT Group, another
Australian property trust that invests in shopping centers.  Bubble?  While the Olympics will introduce Westfield  Stratford City 
to thousands of visitors passing on the way to the games, the
mall may see a decline afterward, according to Scott Courtney,
the Sydney-based head of REIT research at Morningstar
Australasia Pty.  “In Sydney immediately post-Olympics, we saw enormous
amounts of money coming in from visitors, but afterwards it
fell,” said Courtney. “London will see a bubble, Stratford
will see a bubble.”  In November, Westfield sold 50 percent of Stratford City to
Dutch and Canadian pension funds for about 872 million pounds
($1.4 billion). APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV, the manager of
 Europe ’s biggest retirement plan, and the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board each bought 25 percent.  The partial sale of the property raised cash for other
projects, Courtney said. It’s too early to predict what the mall
will contribute to Westfield’s sales or earnings, he said.  Buzz  “In the short term it might be difficult, but longer term,
the return potential is excellent,” Robert-Jan Foortse, APG’s
head of non-listed European property investments, said in an
interview. He didn’t disclose the returns being targeted.  The Canadian Pension Plan is “confident in the success of
the project and the revitalization of the area,” the company
said by e-mail in response to an interview request.  “These projects create such a buzz and excitement that
people will be drawn to it,” said Malcolm Pinkerton, an analyst
at market researcher  Verdict Research . “It’s so self-contained
and will be a premium destination. It will still have that pull
and the immediate catchment will increase with the flats.”  The builders will return to Stratford after the 9.3
billion-pound  Olympic Games  to turn the main arena into a soccer
stadium and adapt four other venues for the public. At the same
time, work will start on the construction of as many as 11,000
homes that will create five neighborhoods close to the Olympic
Park.  City Mall  Workers in the City of London financial district are closer
to One New Change, a mall that includes 220,000 square feet of
retail space, than Stratford. It may be difficult for Westfield
to attract wealth to pay a visit, according to Matthew Hopkinson
of  the Local Data Company .  “The jury is out,” Hopkinson said. “There will have to
be pretty busy Olympic venues after the games to create a flow
of people. The area needs to attract an influx of wealthy people
to either live there or be willing to visit for the day.”  The mall will be in one of London’s poorest areas. In 2007,
the London borough of Newham was ranked the sixth-most-deprived
district in England, according to state data. More than 350 were
assessed. More than 40 percent of the 250,000 population is
under 25 at a time when youth unemployment is at a record in the
U.K.  Given the amount of work that needs doing to the area,
retailers may be able to drive down rents in the mall and secure
shorter leases with get-out clauses, Hopkinson said. Prime rents
in London shopping malls are generally 400 pounds to 450 pounds
a foot on an annual basis, which is likely to be higher than the
Stratford mall, according to Harm Meijer, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Westfield declined to say how much it’s charging.  Rental Incentives?  “They may have to do some deals in terms of incentives,”
said Winston Sammut, managing director of Maxim Asset
Management. “The rents are going to be reasonably strong, but
whether they’ll equal the premium rents remains to be seen.”  Morningstar’s Courtney expects rents to be at lower end of
the prime retail rent scale because it’s in a less favorable
location than Westfield White City.  The mall will also be one of the best-connected
destinations in London, according to the Olympic Park Legacy
Company. Nine rail lines will serve the area, including
connections to mainland Europe as well as the planned  Crossrail 
stop at Stratford Regional Station, beginning in 2017.  Westfield doesn’t intend to sell any more of the Stratford
mall, Lowy said. The company does aim to sell off other assets,
predominantly in the U.S., and some in the U.K., and use the
proceeds for development projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  