-- 
Pakistan Beats West Indies, May Play Archrival India in Cricket World Cup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-23T18:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/west-indies-slumps-to-112-all-out-against-pakistan-in-cricket-world-cup.html
Pakistan  marked its national day by
cruising to a 10-wicket win over West Indies yesterday in the
first Cricket World Cup quarterfinal. It will play archrival
India or  Australia  in the last four.  West Indies slumped to 112 all out in Dhaka,  Bangladesh ,
with Shivnarine Chanderpaul making 44 not out.  Shahid Afridi 
took 4-30. Pakistan ended on 113-0 in only 20.5 of its allotted
50 overs.  “This is the best gift we could give back to the nation on
Pakistan Day,” captain Afridi said at the post-match ceremony.
“We tried to stick to our plans and the boys have done a great
job doing that.”  Ramnaresh Sarwan, with 24 runs, Chanderpaul and Kemar
Roach, on 16, were the only batsmen to reach double figures for
West Indies, which won the toss. The team slipped to 16-3,
Mohammad Hafeez taking two wickets in four balls, before
reaching 69-4. Pakistan then took four wickets in eight balls to
leave the Windies on 71-8.  Chanderpaul and Roach restored some stability, adding 40
for the ninth wicket before Roach was caught by Younis Khan off
Abdul Razzaq. Ravi Rampaul was out for no score.  “Personally I just tried to maintain line and length,”
Afridi said. “These were great conditions for spin if you
landed it on the length. Today, we backed Hafeez and he pulled
it off with the ball.”  In Control  The Pakistan openers always looked in control as they
reached the victory target. Akmal made 47 and Hafeez 61.  Man of the match Hafeez took 2-16 in 10 overs, with fellow
spinner Saeed Ajmal also taking two wickets. Hafeez said he’d
“really worked hard” in recent days and his efforts had paid
off.  “The coach told me a couple of days back that I would bowl
with the new ball, and I tried it at the nets,” he said. “I
just kept them on line and length today, and it worked. My
batting form came back at the right time and I hope to carry it
on.”  West Indies captain Darren Sammy lamented his team’s low
score.  “Definitely not enough runs on the board,” he said. “We
didn’t counter the bowling well, and fell well short. We lost
wickets in clusters to spin throughout the tournament, and today
was no exception.”  India  and Australia meet in the second quarterfinal in
Ahmedabad, India, today, and the winner will play Pakistan at
Mohali, India, on March 30.  New Zealand  or  South Africa  will
meet  Sri Lanka  or  England  in the other semifinal in  Colombo  on
March 29.  Pakistan defeated Australia in its previous game, in Group
A, ending the three-time defending champion’s 34-game unbeaten
run at the tournament.  Ponting Pledge  Australia captain  Ricky Ponting  denied a report that he
plans to quit international cricket after the World Cup and
finish his career by leading an English county team.  Ponting, 36, said a report in the U.K.’s Daily Mail that he
was fed up with speculation over his captaincy tenure, and would
quit elite Tests and one-day internationals immediately after
Australia’s  World Cup  campaign, was wrong.  “I don’t see a finish line,” Ponting told reporters in
Ahmedabad in comments broadcast on Australia’s Fox Sports. “I
want to keep playing both forms of the game for as long as I
think I can contribute and play well.”  The final of the World Cup, co-hosted by India, Bangladesh
and Sri Lanka, is in Mumbai on April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  