-- 
Wheat Demand in Japan Not Hurt by Earthquake, Agriculture Ministry Says

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-23T07:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/wheat-demand-in-japan-not-hurt-by-earthquake-agriculture-ministry-says.html
Japan ,  Asia ’s second-largest wheat
importer, is set to increase milling-wheat purchases by 21
percent this fiscal year as demand wasn’t hurt by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami, the agriculture ministry said today.  The volume of milling-wheat purchases will increase to 5.16
million metric tons in the year ending March 31, from last
year’s 4.26 million tons, said Shirara Shiokawa, grain trade
director at the  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries .  The ministry confirmed that seven ports in the nation’s
eastern and northern prefectures are open to unload imported
wheat from vessels to supply flour-milling facilities in the
region, Shiokawa said. The death toll following the magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami was 9,408 as of noon today, according to
the  National Police Agency . Tokyo Electric Power Co. has been
battling to prevent a meltdown at a crippled nuclear plant in
Fukushima prefecture after losing electricity that helps
circulate cooling water to the units.  “The quake has not caused major damage to wheat-importing
and flour-milling operations in Japan,” Shiokawa said in a
phone interview today. “We don’t see any negative impact of the
disaster on demand for the grain.”  Imports increased this fiscal year as domestic production
declined on weather problems, leading to higher demand for
foreign wheat, Shiokawa said. Japanese flour millers also
accelerated purchases from December to February amid concern
over rising prices and tightening supplies of the grain from the
U.S. and  Canada , said Charlie Utsunomiya, director at the Tokyo
office of U.S. Wheat Associates.  Food Concerns  Radiation from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant has
raised concerns over the safety of agricultural products grown
in the region and may boost demand for imported wheat,
Utsunomiya said today by phone. Japanese farmers supply more
than 10 percent of wheat consumed in Japan.  Contamination concerns may weaken overseas demand for
Japanese food products, which is negative for Japanese flour
millers, Utsunomiya said. Japan exports about 200,000 tons a
year of wheat flour and its products, mainly to Asian markets,
he said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  ordered a halt to shipments of
leafy vegetables from Fukushima prefecture, his office said
today. Kan also stopped shipments of milk and parsley from
neighboring Ibaraki prefecture.  Showa Sangyo  Showa Sangyo Co., one of Japan’s major flour millers, has
resumed production at its Kashima plant in Ibaraki prefecture,
after suspending operation for a week because of damage caused
by the quake, spokesman Hideyuki Ohuchi said today.  “We still cannot operate the plant at full capacity
because of repair works and problems in the water supply,”
Ohuchi said by phone.  The Kashima plant has a milling capacity of 26,500 tons of
wheat a month, representing more than 40 percent of Showa
Sangyo’s total capacity, he said.  “The flour milling industry is coming back to normal”
after experiencing some disruptions in production and shipments
following the quake, said Utsunomiya at U.S. Wheat Associates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  