-- 
Detroit Population Slumps to Lowest in Century as Housing Vacancies Double

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-03-23T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/white-detroit-homesteaders-lead-first-influx-into-inner-city-in-a-century.html
For three years, Jayesh Patel, an
attorney, and his wife, Neethi, a pediatrician, were what he
called “reverse commuters.” They worked in the suburbs and
lived in the city of  Detroit . Last July, the Patels moved out.  They joined 237,493 who left Detroit over the last decade,
a 25 percent decline that left the city with 713,777, down from
a peak of 1.85 million in 1950. The Patels abandoned their
neighborhood of Victorian homes in the Corktown district,
founded by Irish immigrants at the turn of the 20th Century, and
moved to the affluent suburb of Birmingham in search of better
schools for their two children.  “I was just shocked,” Kurt Metzger, director of Data Driven
Detroit, which collects demographic information, said about the
2010 Census figures for the city. “Even in my wildest dreams, my
most depressed nightmares, I wasn’t expecting this big of a
decline.”  Detroit’s population fell from 951,270 in the previous
decennial tally -- a loss of 65 residents per day since 2000 --
making it the lowest official count since 465,766 in 1910,
according to U.S. Census data released yesterday. It joins  St.
Louis ,  Cleveland , Cincinnati and other Midwestern cities unable
to reverse a six-decade population loss.  Detroit’s decline also likely further eroded the broader
metro area. The Detroit-Warren-Livonia area was the 11th-largest
metropolitan region in the nation, with a population of
4,403,437, according to 2009 census estimates. That was already
a drop from ninth in 2000, when it had 4,452,557 people.  Black, White Declines  Detroit’s black population fell 24 percent and white
residents declined 44.4 percent, pushing black residents to 82.2
percent of the city, from 81.2 percent, the data showed. White
residents now make up 7.8 percent of Detroit, or slightly more
than Hispanics who account for 6.8 percent of the city, up from
3.2 percent in 2000.  “It’s not just white flight anymore, it’s black movement
to the suburbs,” said  William Frey , a demographer at the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution . “Part of it is younger
people leaving. The city isn’t where they want to be anymore.
There are opportunities in the suburbs.”  The number of vacant homes doubled in the city over the
decade, census data show. In 2000, there were 38,668 vacant
homes, or 10.3 percent of the total. The number climbed to
79,725 in 2010, or 22.8 percent of the total.  ‘Shock Re-Energizes’  “I’m hoping that the shock re-energizes and makes people
more committed to turning around the situation in this city,”
said Metzger, who expected no fewer than 775,000 people to be
counted. “This reinforces the perception of the death of
Detroit and ignores the efforts of so many excited urban
pioneers.”  The home region for Ford Motor Co., Chrysler Group LLC, and
General Motors Co., Detroit never provided the public
transportation of other American metro areas. That left many of
the city’s finest neighborhoods looking more like suburbs, with
large detached homes and vast lawns, rather than rows of
brownstones typical of urban centers.  Michigan’s population fell 0.6 percent in the last decade
to 9,883,640, census data show. Michigan is the only state in
the U.S. to lose population in the past decade.  ‘Urban Sensibilities’  “Detroiters and people who live in the greater
metropolitan area do not have the same urban sensibilities as
people on the East Coast or Chicago or  San Francisco ,” said Omar
Blaik, president of U3 Ventures LLC in Philadelphia and an
adviser to the Live Midtown program designed to draw in
residents.  Live Midtown  was financed by Detroit-based employers, the
Henry Ford Health System; Detroit Medical Center, another
hospital company; and  Wayne State University . The so-called
midtown area draws about 30,000 employees daily and another
30,000 students.  Those employers this year began offering workers as much as
$25,000 in loans to buy a home or as much as $3,500 in rent
assistance to live in the city’s midtown region, just north of
downtown. Under the program, the loans could become grants.  Within the first six weeks, Live Midtown received 350
inquiries and the three employers pre-approved 42 applicants for
financing. They are trying to draw 15,000 new residents by 2015.  In Foreclosure  Brad Dixon was the first person to close on a home under
the Live Midtown program. On March 11, he bought a six-year-old,
two-bedroom loft that was in foreclosure in Detroit’s artsy
midtown area for less than some people pay for a car.  “It was so cheap that I decided, let’s just do it and pull
the trigger,” said Dixon, 34, who paid $23,000 in cash for the
unit that sold for about $150,000 when built in 2005. About half
the purchase price was covered by his employer, Health Alliance
Plan, a unit of Henry Ford Health System, where he is a website
administrator.  Dixon’s loft is located behind the Fisher building, an art
deco skyscraper built in 1928, in a neighborhood with
restaurants, theaters and museums. He said he plans to walk to
work, which is a block away, and bike to Wayne State, where he
is studying for a master’s degree in business administration.  The midtown area is already supporting a fledgling business
district along Detroit’s Willets Street, a short distance from
GM’s headquarters on the Detroit River and less than a mile from
the Detroit Medical Center campus and southeast of Wayne State’s
campus.  Subsidize Purchases  University of Detroit-Mercy started a program to subsidize
employee house purchases in 2008 and has so far drawn 20 new
homeowners from 850 employees, said Steve Nelson, associate vice
president of human resources at the Jesuit school on the city’s
northwest side.  David Nantais, director of the university ministry, and his
wife, Carrie, bought a 1909 house for about $85,000 through the
program, which kicked in $5,000 and helped them qualify for
other funds. They wanted a larger home for their son, who is now
11 months old.  “I lived in  Chicago  and I lived in  Boston  and I saw what
positive urban living can be,” Nantais, 40, said from his dining
room, across from the kitchen renovated with program funds.
“City living in other parts of the country is the place to be.
Detroit is the odd man out in that.”  Away from midtown, the challenge can be greater because
there are fewer established business districts, said Kim
Clayson, a resident of the Indian Village neighborhood on
Detroit’s east side. She and other neighbors are working to re-
vitalize the tiny business district a few blocks from her home.  ‘Embrace’ City  “Our job isn’t to come in and completely change the city,”
said Clayson, who said she is part of the “Class of 2003,” a
group of newcomers who have banded together. She said those
settling in Detroit want ‘to embrace what it is and try to
improve it where it needs help.”  The 30-year-old lawyer and her husband are expecting their
first child in May and are rushing to finish renovations on a
nine-bedroom home, built in 1911. They said they plan to educate
their child in the city.  That sort of optimism faded for the Patel family, said
Jayesh Patel, the attorney. Though they’d had one car stolen and
another broken into, crime didn’t drive them away, he said. Even
worries that their 3-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter could
be victims of crime didn’t dampen their desire to live the urban
lifestyle, he said.  “We weren’t scared of that,” Patel said. “Maybe my son
gets beat up and his bike gets stolen; that’s not that big a
deal. We’d teach our kids not to care about the bike or the
shoes or whatever.”  Public Schools  It was the lack of decent public schools near their
neighborhood that sent them packing to the suburbs north of
Detroit, Patel said.  Detroit public schools ranked last among 17 big U.S. cities
in science, reading and math scores of students participating in
national assessment tests, administered in early 2009. Detroit
public schools graduate 32 percent of their students, according
to a study by  Michigan State University , compared with a
national average of 72 percent.  So the Patels found a neighborhood school in Birmingham and
nestled into a three-bedroom home nearby, with a larger lawn, a
two-car garage and “a long, silly driveway I have to shovel,”
Patel said.  The shift of middle-class families from Detroit is one
reason University of Detroit Jesuit High School finds it harder
to enroll children from the city. The number of Detroit
residents attending the Catholic, all-boys high school has
fallen to 24 percent, from 26 percent a few years ago, said
Father Karl Kiser, president of the preparatory school.  “We’ve done a lot in the city to try to increase
enrollment, but those numbers are actually sinking,” Kiser
said. “Middle-class or working-class families in Detroit who
really care about education have gotten out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  