-- 
Wisconsin Prosecutor Adds Legislature as Defendants in Union-Powers Suit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-03-23T23:20:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/wisconsin-prosecutor-adds-legislature-as-defendants-in-union-powers-suit.html
Wisconsin ’s Senate and Assembly
were added as defendants in a county prosecutor’s lawsuit
seeking to quash a state law restricting public employees’ right
to engage in collective bargaining.  Dane County Prosecutor Ismael R. Ozanne filed the revised
complaint today in state court in Madison, Wisconsin’s capital.
He claims legislators violated the state’s open-meetings law
when they passed the bill.  Ozanne also added a claim that Secretary of State Doug La Follette, already a defendant in the case, doesn’t have the
authority to publish the law -- a step needed to put it into
effect -- because the measure is invalid.  Governor  Scott Walker  signed the challenged legislation on
March 11. It requires annual recertification votes for union
representation and makes voluntary the payment of union dues. It
exempts firefighters and police officers.  Organized labor and Democrats called the bill an attack on
workers. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of mass protests
at the Capitol.  Bill Cosh, a spokesman for state Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen , said he couldn’t immediately comment on the revised
complaint filed today.  Wisconsin Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi on March 18
issued a temporary restraining order barring La Follette, a
Democrat who has held the office for 28 years, from publishing
the law.  Appeal Request  Van Hollen, a Republican, has asked a state appellate court
for permission to appeal Sumi’s order, arguing Sumi doesn’t have
jurisdiction over the dispute or over the secretary of state,
who was required by statute to publish the law by March 25, 10
business days after it was signed.  La Follette told Bloomberg News today that he didn’t
support Van Hollen’s decision to appeal Sumi’s ruling.  “I would have preferred that they did not appeal,” La
Follette said of the attorney general’s office. “They were
representing the Republican Legislature and the governor but I
am elected independently by the people of Wisconsin and I was
very concerned about the Open-Meetings Law violation.”  At the hearing on the temporary restraining order, Sumi
denied La Follette’s request that he be allowed to be
represented by his own lawyer, Roger Sage.  “I was not happy about what was happening,” La Follette
said.“I didn’t have much choice about it.” He is the grand
nephew of  Robert M. La Follette , the former Wisconsin governor
and U.S. senator who in 1924 ran for U.S. President on the
Progressive ticket, losing to Republican  Calvin Coolidge .  ‘Multiple Communications’  Cosh said state  Justice Department  lawyers had had
“multiple communications” with La Follette about the
litigation.  “Communications between his attorneys and the Secretary La
Follette are privileged. Pursuant to that privilege, we are
ethically and legally bound not to disclose the content of those
communications,” the spokesman said in an e-mailed statement.  Ozanne didn’t reply to an e-mailed request for comment on
La Follette’s statements.  The prosecutor today filed the second of two briefs with
the Madison-based Court of Appeals, responding to Van Hollen’s
request for permission to appeal.  Open-Meetings Law  The prosecutor yesterday defended Sumi’s authority to bar
the law he said was passed in violation of the open-meetings
law. In his filing today, Ozanne said the panel should deny Van
Hollen’s request for permission, in favor of waiting until after
a scheduled March 29 hearing before Sumi on the prosecutor’s
request for an injunction.  The Wisconsin Education Council today asked the court for
permission to file a friend-of-the-court brief backing Ozanne’s
suit and Sumi’s ruling. According to its  website , the
organization represents about 98,000 public education employees
on issues of public policy.  “If the act is not enjoined, public employees will suffer
irreparable harm  by being subject to a law passed in violation
of their constitutional right to open government,” the group
said in its proposed brief.  The case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne v.
Fitzgerald, 11cv1244,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  