-- 
Hyperactivity in Kids May Be Worsened by Artificial Food Dyes, U.S. Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-23T21:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-23/hyperactivity-in-kids-may-be-worsened-by-artificial-food-dyes-u-s-says.html
Artificial food coloring may worsen
hyperactivity in some children, U.S. regulators said, responding
to a  petition  to ban eight dyes used in food.  Studies suggest that some children with behavioral issues
such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder have a “unique
intolerance” to substances in food, including chemicals used to
make coloring brighter and more attractive, Food and Drug
Administration staff said in a  report  released today. There’s no
proof that these dyes cause hyperactivity, the agency said.  The  Center for Science in the Public Interest  urged the FDA
in 2008 to revoke approval for blue, green, orange, red and
yellow dyes linked to behavioral changes in hyperactive children
in studies. An FDA advisory committee is scheduled  to meet  next
week in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , to discuss the risks.  “Findings from relevant clinical trials indicate that the
effects on their behavior appear to be due to a unique
intolerance to these substances and not to any inherent
neurotoxic properties,” FDA staff said in the report.  The petition covers Blue Nos. 1 and 2, Green No. 3, Orange
B, Red Nos. 3 and 40, and Yellow Nos. 5 and 6. FDA  approval  of
these chemicals dates to the 1960s and is subject to batch
certification. The dyes are used to make a variety of candy,
beverages, baked goods and sausage. Citrus Red No. 2, used to
color orange skins, isn’t intended for processing and wasn’t
named in the petition.  Attention-Deficit Disorder  Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder  affects 3 percent
to 5 percent of U.S. children, according to the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. Symptoms include
fidgeting, excessive talking and abandoning chores and homework.
The condition is usually diagnosed in childhood and can continue
as an adult.  The Washington-based Center for Science cited studies from
2004 and 2007 that showed a link between food dyes and
hyperactivity in children. The amount of color additives
certified for use in food has increased and is often greater
than the doses that have been tested, the group said.  “It’s probably going to be very difficult for the FDA to
ban dyes even if they wanted to,” Michael F. Jacobson,
executive director of the Center for Science, said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s probably easier for them to require
a warning label. Industry will fight it every inch of the way.”  European regulators require warning labels noting that food
dyes may affect children’s behavior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 