-- 
Hacker Mitnick Duped Corporate Cyber-Cops, Cracked Wiretaps

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-08-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/hacker-mitnick-duped-corporate-cyber-cops-cracked-wiretaps.html
Genius comes in many forms. Kevin
Mitnick has at least two, neither particularly admirable.  As he portrays himself in “ Ghost in the Wires: My
Adventures as the World’s Most Wanted Hacker ,” Mitnick
possesses a rare ability to penetrate sophisticated computer
systems. Even greater than his technical skills, it turns out,
is his ability to manipulate people, particularly the corporate
drones who held the door open for his invasions.  Time and again, armed with little more than the name of a
legitimate employee and a few bits of company jargon, Mitnick
was able to con people into delivering astonishing rewards:
software source codes, lists of passwords, access to supposedly
hardened systems. His book is a fascinating and often appalling
tour of the ways in which human stupidity can trump human
ingenuity -- as well as an absorbing account of the author’s
activities and eventual capture.  In the years since his 2000 release from federal prison,
Mitnick has become a  computer-security consultant  and speaker.
Still, he can’t hide a whiff of -- pride? nostalgia? -- for the
depredations that landed him in the clink.  He got started early, figuring out how to game the Los
Angeles bus system as an alienated 1970s teenager before
graduating into phone phreaking, manipulating the telephone
system into serving up endless free long-distance minutes. (The
book’s foreword is written by another former phone phreak whose
life took a decidedly different course: Steve Wozniak, the co-
founder of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) )  ‘Tailgating’ Employees  In time, Mitnick graduated to out-and-out hacking, and the
rise of PCs, wireless phones and the Internet opened enormous
new vistas for his activities. He mastered the art of
“tailgating,” following a pack of employees into a supposedly
secure building, and honed his talent for conning people.  In a typical episode, he tricks a Pacific Bell Telephone
Co. security employee into confirming that wiretaps have been
placed on his father’s lines, then gains the ability to listen
in on other taps by figuring out that the phone company never
changed the “12345678” default password set by the equipment
manufacturer.  By his own account, his accomplishments -- if they can be
called that -- included stealing the code used on Digital
Equipment Corp. and Sun Microsystems computers and Motorola and
Nokia wireless phones, gaining access to the telephone company’s
customer and billing records, hacking into the California
Department of Motor Vehicles and even intercepting traffic from
law-enforcement agencies.  Just for the Thrill  Mitnick insists he never attempted to profit from his
activities: His principal motivations were to prove his prowess
and, later, to keep tabs on those pursuing him.  Law-enforcement officials were continually puzzled over his
motivations, searching for what he says was nonexistent evidence
that he was selling information.  “Apparently, it never occurred to any of them that I might
be doing it just for the challenge,” he says. For them,
“hacking made no sense if there wasn’t money being made.”  It wasn’t those exploits, though, that turned him into the
wanted-poster boy for the Internet age. The honor for that, in
his telling, goes to what he calls wildly untrue allegations --
that he hacked into Norad, wiretapped the FBI, and cyber-stalked
actress  Kristy McNichol  -- some of which wound up in a page-one
New York Times article.  Eventually, his hubris led him to cross paths with
computer-security expert Tsutomu Shimomura, whose assistance to
federal investigators led to his 1995 arrest, later documented
in Shimomura’s book “ Takedown .”  Guilty as Charged  Let Mitnick be indignant at his press coverage; “Ghost in
the Wires” provides more than enough examples of his guilt, in
human relations even more than with computers. His book is full
of sad people he treats badly, starting with his almost
pathologically supportive mother and, most notably, his wife,
who loses him to his computer pursuits, then takes up with his
closest friend and hacking partner, Lewis De Payne.  It’s a mark of Mitnick’s obsession that this betrayal
wasn’t enough to prevent him from renewing his hacking
partnership with DePayne. In the end, “Ghost in the Wires”
provides ample evidence that the line between genius and illness
can be a thin one.  “Ghost in the Wires” is published by Little, Brown (413
pages, $25.99). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is the technology columnist for Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 