-- 
Afghanistan Raids by U.S. Commandos Almost Triple Since 2009, NATO Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-12T15:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/afghanistan-raids-by-u-s-commandos-nearly-triple-since-2009-nato-says.html
The U.S. military in  Afghanistan  has
nearly tripled since 2009 the frequency of commando raids
launched against Taliban or insurgent groups, according to NATO
figures.  This year, from Jan. 1 through this week, the U.S. -- with
Afghanistan and NATO assistance -- has launched 1,879 missions,
with 916 “targets” killed or captured, according to the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.  That compares with 1,780 missions for all of last year,
with 825 targets killed or captured, and 675 missions in 2009,
when 306 adversaries were killed or captured, according to a
NATO spokesman, U.S. Army Major Jason Waggoner.  “Even if the primary target is not killed or captured on
these missions, 35% of those times, the next closest associate
or another individual directly linked to the target is killed or
captured,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Roughly 7,000 of the 61,000 personnel under the  U.S.
Special Operations Command  are in Afghanistan today.  Special operations forces “continue to apply steady
pressure throughout the entire country from the north down to
Helmand, with a majority of the focus on the eastern beltway,”
Waggoner said.  They target senior leaders, fighters and facilitators in
both the Taliban and Haqqani insurgent network within
Afghanistan, he said. The network has attacked U.S. forces in at
least six Afghan provinces, including the capital, Kabul.  Commando Deaths  Interest in the size and scope of U.S. special operations
forces in Afghanistan has escalated since a U.S. CH-47 Chinook
helicopter was shot down Aug. 6, killing the 30 U.S. personnel
aboard -- 17 Navy SEALS, five sailors assigned to SEAL units,
five Army pilots and three Air Force special tactics commandos.
The crash also killed an interpreter and seven Afghan troops who
were working with the Americans.  Those fatalities brought to 44 the number of U.S. special
operations troops killed in Afghanistan this year, up from 40
last year, 33 in 2009 and 220 overall since late 2001, when
small teams of U.S. Army  Green Berets  landed in Afghanistan and
worked with CIA paramilitary teams to temporarily rout the
Taliban, according to figures.  The increased raids reflect a greater number of commandos
in Afghanistan as  Iraq  operations wind down, following the
increased use of conventional forces for securing the population
under President Barack Obama’s troop “surge.”  Mission Advocates  “With the surge, it made sense to have the general-purpose
forces assume more responsibility for securing the population
and to have more SOF released for these missions,” said Andrew Krepinevich, president of the  Center for Strategic and Budgetary
Assessments , a Washington-based policy research group.  “The missions have been generally successful -- so we keep
conducting them,” he said.  Inside the Pentagon,  Michael Vickers , an advocate of
strikes by special operations forces, has risen in influence
from a 1980s-era Green Beret and CIA paramilitary specialist to
an analyst at the CSBA to assistant secretary of defense for
special operations to his current position as the Defense
Department’s undersecretary for intelligence.  “Strikes by special forces are absolutely critical” if
the U.S.-lead coalition is going to defeat the Taliban or force
their more moderate elements to reach a lasting political
accommodation, said  Anthony Cordesman , a defense analyst with
the  Center for Strategic and International Studies .  Destroying or weakening the Taliban’s key leadership
“simply can’t be done by defeating their forces in the field or
through drone attacks in Pakistan,” he said.  The near-tripling of missions, combined with conventional
military successes and drone strikes, “has to have had a major
impact on leaders and key fighters,” Cordesman said.  Commando Coordination  The increased missions are also the product of better
coordination between the intelligence and commando communities
highlighted by the May 1 raid that killed  Osama bin Laden .  U.S. intelligence agencies and elite special-operations
units in Afghanistan work in small groups that consolidate and
analyze real-time information from informants, satellites and
eavesdropping on top Taliban and al-Qaeda operatives.  Post-9/11 “tactical cooperation grew and was expanded and
refined” under U.S. Army General  Stanley McChrystal , “whose
hunter-killer” teams in Iraq were replicated when he took over
in 2009 command of the NATO mission in Afghanistan, New York
Times reporters Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker write in a new
book, “ Counterstrike:  The Untold Story of America’s Secret
Campaign Against Al Qaeda.”  The pace of the “intelligence-driven operations
skyrocketed” with more than 12 raids a night supported by the
CIA and the Defense Intelligence Agency, they write.  Resilient Foe  “That kind of seamless operational cooperation became
common on a smaller scale in  Yemen ,  Pakistan  and other shadowy
battlegrounds,” they write in their book, to be published Aug.
16.  Brian Katulis , a national security specialist at the Center
for American Progress, a policy group in Washington, said “the
targeted strikes, combined with increased drone attacks across
the border in Pakistan, demonstrate the Obama administration’s
attempts to marginalize the insurgency.”  “It’s a much more aggressive approach than you saw in the
first eight years of the war,” Katulis said in an Aug. 10
interview. “The question is whether this leads to greater
overall stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan.”  Civilian deaths haven’t decreased this year, Katulis said.
While the vast majority are caused by insurgents and not the
U.S.-led coalition, they reflect on the fragility of security
overall, he said.  “Despite the increase in operations, the insurgency seems
not to relent,” said Brookings Institution defense analyst
 Michael O’Hanlon . “On balance I think we are weakening them,
but less so than I would have expected given their resilience
and ability to regenerate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  