-- 
Mafia-Linked Stake in Sicilian Wind Farm Recovered by Greentech

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-08-12T16:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/mafia-linked-stake-in-sicilian-wind-farm-recovered-by-greentech.html
Greentech Energy Systems (GES)  A/S, a
Danish renewable-power developer, recovered the 15 percent stake
in a Sicilian wind farm swept up when anti-mafia police seized
assets from a former shareholder in the project.  A court in the city of Trapani, Sicily, returned the stake
in the Minerva Messina wind farm, Greentech said in a  statement 
today. The plant was one of the assets acquired when Greentech
purchased the project’s holding company in 2007. The Danish
company later bought a 15 percent share held by businessman Vito Nicastri after discovering he was being probed by the police.  The company wasn’t accused of any wrongdoing and production
continued at the plant, with 34,500 megawatt-hours generated in
the year to July 18, more than a quarter of Greentech’s output.  “Having an investigation into the seizure of shares due to
a mafia connection was not nice,” said Chief Executive Officer
Sigieri Diaz della Vittoria Pallavicini in a phone interview
from  Rome  today. “Now we’re off the black list for investors.”  Greentech plans to cut dependence on  Italy , where it has
more than 168 megawatts of wind power in operation. In March, it
wrote down projects in the country because of market conditions
and local opposition, and seeks to focus on business in Poland.
The Italian government, beset by rising interest rates and a
sluggish economy, says it will curb clean-energy incentives.  The renewable-power company, based in Herlev,  Denmark , is
studying a takeover of domestic competitor  Scan Energy A/S  to
add assets beyond Italy, Diaz Pallavicini said on Aug. 9.  Cash Rich  Scan Energy referred a call from Bloomberg News seeking
comment to Jorgen Elmer, a lawyer at Lund Elmer Sandager LLP,
who said his client was in the process of restructuring.  “We have to have a negotiation with parties interested
who might want to buy,” Elmer said by phone.  Greentech is “cash rich” since closing a merger yesterday
with GWM Renewable Energy, a unit of Geneva-based financial
services company GWM Group, Diaz Pallavicini said. The Danish
company has said it will spend at least 100 million euros ($142
million), plus 400 million euros of debt financing, in the next
year on new projects, mainly in  Poland , Spain and  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  