-- 
Air Berlin to Drop Routes as Loss Looms

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-12T10:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/air-berlin-to-drop-routes-as-loss-looms.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest airline, said it will shrink its network and slash
capacity by more than 1 million seats as fuel costs, taxes and
the impact of Arab unrest push it toward a full-year loss.  Air Berlin fell as much as 6.5 percent in Frankfurt trading
after the company said after the close yesterday that it may
fail to post positive annual earnings before interest and tax.  Europe ’s third-biggest discount carrier, which had been
targeting an operating profit, will respond by implementing “far
reaching measures” including second-half capacity cuts, route
cancellations and reduced frequencies, it said in a statement.  “The operating flexibility within the model is simply not
sufficient to cope with the recurrent exceptionals that this
industry is exposed to, whether that’s harsh winter weather, ash
clouds or the  Middle East  and North Africa,” said Neil Glynn, an
a Credit Suisse analyst in  London  with an “underperform” rating.  Air Berlin’s operating loss widened to 32.2 million euros
($46 million) in the second quarter from 28.2 million euros a
year earlier, it said yesterday, worse than the 18.4 million-
euro figure predicted by analysts. Revenue of 1.12 billion euros
was also “lower than planned,” the company said.  The Berlin-based carrier had said on March 24 it would
return to profit this year from an operating loss of 9.3 million
euros in 2010, buoyed by economic growth, rising employment and
an increase in business travel.  Chief Executive Officer Joachim Hunold said the same day
that the company planned to reduce summer capacity to Egypt and
 Tunisia  by 33 percent because of the unrest. Air Berlin
currently serves 13 destinations in the two countries plus
Algeria and  Morocco , according to its website.  Shares of the carrier were trading 4.4 percent lower at
2.56 euros as of 11:52 a.m. local time, taking declines this
year to 31 percent and valuing the company at 218 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  