-- 
Air India Chief Jadhav Removed as Nandan to Steer Turnaround

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-08-12T14:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/air-india-chief-jadhav-removed-as-nandan-to-steer-turnaround-2-.html
Air India  Ltd. Chairman Arvind Jadhav has been removed from the state-controlled carrier as it
tries to win agreement from lenders to restructure debts and
turn profitable.  Rohit Nandan, a joint secretary at the Ministry of Civil
Aviation, will replace Jadhav, who was also managing director,
P.K. Mohanty, a spokesman at the ministry, said by phone in New
Delhi today. Nandan will head the airline for three years.  Air India will reduce staff numbers, Civil Aviation
Minister Vayalar Ravi told lawmakers in parliament, without
elaborating, as it seeks to pare losses running at 6 billion
rupees ($132 million) a month. The carrier is struggling after
ordering more than 100 new planes and losing market share to Jet
Airways ( India ) Ltd. and discount operator IndiGo.  “Whoever comes in has a very hard task ahead,” said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-based director at the Centre for Asia Pacific
Aviation, an industry adviser. “Just changing the chairman for
the sake of changing isn’t going to achieve anything.”  The cabinet on Aug. 4 approved a 12 billion-rupee cash
injection into Air India, a day after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  told lawmakers that the government will try all ways and
means to revive the carrier and pay overdue salaries.  The airline is seeking as much as 175 billion rupees from
the government to help reduce debt of 442 billion rupees and pay
for planes on order. It lost 69.9 billion rupees in the year
ended March 31, Ravi said in a statement presented in parliament
earlier this month.  The Star Alliance airline group has also put on hold Air
India’s request to join after the company failed to meet the
minimum conditions it agreed to more than four years ago.  Jadhav, an official from the Indian Administrative Service,
became chief in May 2009. He had to contend with at least three
strikes, including a 10-day walkout by pilots this year, amid
delayed salary payments and demands for higher wages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  