-- 
Mantega Says Brazil Can Use Bank Reserves to Fight Crisis

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-08-12T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/mantega-says-brazil-can-use-bank-reserves-to-fight-crisis.html
Brazil  could employ the 400 billion
reais ($246 billion) that banks hold in reserves at the central
bank in the event of a crisis caused by turbulence in world
markets, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  “The central bank has a bigger volume of reserves today,
of more than 400 billion reais, which could be employed if
necessary,” Mantega said in a video shown at an event in  Sao
Paulo  last night. “We have successful experience from the
crisis of 2008, and all the instruments created are at the
disposal of the government.”  Brazil eased banks’ reserve requirements in the fourth
quarter of 2008 as the economy suffered its deepest contraction
on record in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Brazil’s economy returned to growth in the second
quarter of 2009, and in 2010 registered its fastest expansion in
more than two decades, after the central bank slashed its
benchmark  interest rate  five percentage points to 8.75 percent,
and the government implemented a fiscal stimulus.  Speaking at the same event, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said Brazil needs to maintain fiscal
discipline to protect itself from volatility in the global
economy and bring inflation under control.  Tombini said that Brazil is doing the necessary
“housekeeping” to prepare itself from turbulence in world
markets.  The real has fallen 4.7 percent against the dollar this
month, the most of 7 Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after hitting a 12-year high in July.  Tombini repeated the central bank’s pledge to slow
inflation to 4.5 percent next year, and said the government’s
policies were “consistent” with this.  Inflation accelerated to 6.87 percent in July, the fastest
pace in six years, and the fourth straight month it has exceeded
the upper limit of its target range. The central bank has raised
its benchmark interest rate at all five of its policy meetings
this year to try to cool the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  