-- 
Tanzania Energy Regulator Suspends BP’s Domestic Fuel Permit Over Shortage

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-08-12T14:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/tanzania-energy-regulator-suspends-bp-s-domestic-fuel-license.html
Tanzania’s energy-industry regulator
suspended British Petroleum Tanzania Ltd.’s wholesale license
for three months amid a fuel shortage the authority says has
been caused by suppliers disgruntled with lower prices.  BP retailers in the East African country will be allowed to
continue supplying to motorists as long as they source fuel from
other wholesalers, Haruna Masebu, director-general of the Energy
and Water Utilities Authority, said in an interview today. BP
will also be able to continue supplying fuel to the aviation
industry, it said.  Three other companies, including Engen Petroleum Tanzania
Ltd.,  OILCOM Tanzania Ltd.  and Carmel Oil Tanzania Ltd. were
issued with warning letters over disruptions to fuel supplies,
Masebu said.  Motorists in  Dar es Salaam  have faced queues at gas
stations since Aug. 5 amid a gasoline shortage. The industry
regulator, which sets prices every two weeks, cut the cost of a
liter of gasoline by 9.2 percent on Aug. 3, while diesel was
reduced by 8.3 percent. The country currently has in storage 41
million liters of gasoline, enough supply for 48 days, and 92
million liters of diesel, able to cover 30 days, it says.  “There is enough fuel storage in the country, but companies
are not distributing because we reduced the price,” Titus Kiguo,
a spokesman for the regulator, said in an interview on Aug. 10.
“We will not increase the price because  oil companies  want that.
We will continue with our usual two-week price reviews.”  Price Increases  The regulator has increased fuel prices since at least
June, according to statements published by the regulator in
newspapers including the Daily News. The Aug. 3 reduction
followed a change in the pricing formula, according to a
statement published in Daily News.  A person who answered the phone at OILCOM said no one was
available to comment, while a person at BP said the general
manager was out of the office. A person who answered the phone
of BP’s lawyer, Fatma Karuma, said she was in a meeting. No one
answered the phone at Engen’s office when Bloomberg called
seeking comment.  The new pricing formula introduced by the regulator is “not
sustainable and puts our business in jeopardy,” Wayne Hartmann,
general manager of international business at Engen, was quoted
as saying in the Daily News on Aug. 10. Engen is selling fuel in
the interim at a loss, as it consults with the authority to
reach a resolution, it said.  Tanzania’s annual inflation rate climbed to a 14-month high
of 10.9 percent in June amid rising fuel and food prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
440 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 