-- 
Fernandez Seeks Rebound in Re-Election Bid as Argentine Primary Vote Nears

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-12T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/argentina-primary-vote-to-test-fernandez-s-re-election-prospects.html
An open primary on Aug. 14 is
becoming more urgent for Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s re-election efforts after a string of defeats in
regional votes undermined support for the government.  Argentines can vote for any candidate in the Aug. 14
primary, which will give an indication of whether Fernandez, 58,
has enough backing to win another four-year term in the first-
round of the national election on Oct. 23 over opponents
including lawmaker Ricardo Alfonsin and former President Eduardo
Duhalde. Voting is mandatory.  Support for Fernandez fell to 36.8 percent last month from
39 percent in June, according to a July 22-26 survey by pollster
Management & Fit, following social protests and a corruption
scandal involving a government ally. A global slowdown also
threatens to erode Fernandez’s record of delivering average
annual economic growth of 5.6 percent since 2008.  “The idea that everything was already wrapped up has been
killed,” said Federico Gonzalez, a political analyst at polling
company Opinion Autenticada in  Buenos Aires . The primary “will
show that we are heading toward the October election with
uncertainty” over Fernandez’s appeal.  Investors Fleeing   Investors began dumping Argentine assets following  Standard
& Poor’s  decision last week to cut the U.S. credit rating one
level to AA+. The benchmark Merval stock index tumbled 10.7
percent on Aug. 8, the most in the world, while the cost of
insurance against a default over the next five years rose the
most after  Pakistan .  Popular support for Fernandez slipped as pro-government
candidates struggled in regional races. Last month, opposition
leader Mauricio Macri was re-elected Mayor of Buenos Aires with
a bigger margin than forecast and Fernandez ally Agustin Rossi
finished third in the gubernatorial race in Santa Fe province.
On Aug. 6, Jose de la Sota was elected Governor of Cordoba, the
country’s second-biggest electoral district, after refusing to
endorse Fernandez, a fellow member of the Peronist party.  Fernandez was also hit by a corruption scandal over
misappropriation of funds to build homes for poor families by
the  Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo , a human rights group with
close ties to the government. Fernandez hasn’t been accused of
wrong-doing in the controversy.  Even with these setbacks, Fernandez’s closest allies are
struggling to close the gap with the president.  Opposition Support  Alfonsin, 59, is running second with 17.5 percent and
Duhalde, 69, had 12.7 percent support, according to Buenos
Aires-based Management & Fit. About 30 percent of respondents in
the survey supported other candidates or are undecided. The poll
had a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  Under Argentine law, a candidate needs to win 45 percent of
the presidential vote, or 40 percent and hold a 10 percentage
point lead over the second-place finisher, to avoid a Nov. 20
runoff.  Duhalde is gaining ground and will do better than polls
suggest, said an official with his campaign who declined to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.
Officials at Fernandez’s and Alfonsin’s campaigns didn’t respond
to messages left by Bloomberg.  Fernandez, a lawyer and mother of two, succeeded her
husband  Nestor Kirchner  in 2007 and has since presided over the
country’s fastest economic expansion in five years. The economy
grew 9.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier and
9.2 percent in 2010, the most since 2005. Unemployment in the
second quarter tumbled to a record low of 7.3 percent.  Job Creation   “Count on me to do what remains to be done in  Argentina ,
which is to deepen the policies of inclusion and continue this
fantastic process of re-industrialization and job creation,”
Fernandez said at a rally Aug. 10 to close her primary campaign.  Fernandez has tapped record central bank reserves to pay
off debt, boosted spending on infrastructure, increased pension
payments and created a program to pay poor families who keep
their children enrolled in school. Last year she restructured
$12.9 billion of bonds remaining from the 2001 default,
prompting Argentine dollar debt to surge 36 percent, the most
among major emerging markets, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  “Fernandez’s big strength is the economic growth and
social improvements she instigated,” said  Daniel Kerner , a
political analyst at the Eurasia Group, in a phone interview in
Buenos Aires.  Even amid the global economic crisis, the peso has fallen
just 0.4 percent this month to 4.1578 per dollar, the fourth-
best performance among 25 major emerging market economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Tapping Reserves  Fernandez’s policy of using central bank reserves to keep
the peso stable and pay off debt have helped fuel double-digit
inflation, according to former central bank President Alfonso
Prat-Gay. The government tapped $6.6 billion in central bank
reserves in 2010 to pay debt and plans to use $7.5 billion this
year.  “From now until the elections in October the government
will use reserves to keep a stable peso,” Segura said in an
interview from  New York . “But the crisis will hurt the next
government.”  While the government said that consumer prices rose 9.7
percent in June, opposition lawmakers say that prices rose an
average of 23.6 percent. Fernandez has fined private economists,
including Orlando Ferreres & Asociados and Ecolatina, for
providing inflation estimates that differ from the official
rate.  Alfonsin, son of former President Raul Alfonsin, has based
his campaign in part on pledges to improve inflation reporting
and slow price increases.  Hyperinflation  Price increases of 5,000 percent in 1989 helped force
Alfonsin’s father, Raul, to leave the presidency five months
before his term was due to end. The poor economic track record
of his father’s government and the fact that his Radical Civic
Union party has stepped down from power early twice in the past
20 years means Alfonsin will struggle to gather enough votes to
defeat Fernandez in a runoff, Kerner said.  While the government has suffered at the polls in recent
weeks, Fernandez can take heart by the fact that most of the
defeats in regional votes came in provinces already controlled
by the opposition, said Kerner. Voters are backing current
office holders or their successors as a result of years of
economic growth, he added.  “The provincial elections so far have showed that when
there’s a good economic situation, people tend to vote for the
incumbent and don’t seek changes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  