-- 
Market-Wary Investors Seek Ways to Insure Millions in Cash

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-08-12T16:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/market-wary-investors-stretch-fdic-limits-to-insure-millions-in-accounts.html
U.S. investors seeking safety in
cash amid the market turmoil can take advantage of several
methods to insure millions above the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.’s $250,000 limit.  A husband and wife could each have $250,000 in individual
bank accounts, the maximum covered by  FDIC insurance , and
$250,000 each in retirement accounts such as IRAs invested in
bank products rather than mutual funds or annuities. They also
each can set up $250,000 trust accounts naming each other as
beneficiaries and deposit another $500,000 in a joint account,
where each co-owner is insured up to $250,000.  “That total comes to $2 million fully insured,” said FDIC
spokesman  David Barr .  Investors are holding onto cash amid concern the  U.S.
economy  may lapse into another recession. Cash held by U.S.
banks surged 8.4 percent to a record  $981  billion during the
week ending July 27, the  Federal Reserve  said in an Aug. 5
report.  “The key is to try and maximize the productivity of that
cash,” as yields are approaching zero on some money-market
funds and bank products, said Tom Dunn, who specializes in cash
management for clients with at least $1 million to invest in
federally insured programs. Dunn is senior vice president of
investments for First Financial Equity Corp. in  Dallas .  For those seeking insurance above the FDIC limits at one
bank, the  Promontory Interfinancial Network LLC  will split up a
large amount of cash among several banks to stay under the cap.
The Arlington, Virginia-based company has been offering this
service, known as a certificate of deposit account registry
service, or CDARS, since 2003.  CD Network  A customer with $1 million who uses one of the
participating banks may have the cash placed in CDs at five
different banks, said company spokesman Phil Battey. Each CD is
worth less than $250,000 to make sure any interest earnings are
also insured, he said.  The network includes about 3,000 banks and savers can
insure up to $50 million through CDs in multiple banks. The
average holding for individuals using the service is about
$925,000, said Battey. Fees for the service are embedded in the
offering rates.  Similar services exist that split large deposits into
money-market deposit accounts at multiple banks to stay under
FDIC limits. Money-market deposit accounts may be FDIC insured
while money-market mutual funds, even if sold at a bank, are
not, said Barr, the FDIC spokesman.  Deposits Rise  Institutional Deposits Corp.  provides an interest rate of
0.3 percent to investors and has $745 million in money-market
deposit accounts through its network of 184 banks, said Bill
Burdette, president of the Miami-based company.  Deposits through the  Federally Insured Cash Account , which
offers up to $20 million of FDIC insurance at a current rate of
about 0.40 percent, increased 7 percent in the last week, said
Eric Lansky. Lansky is a director at StoneCastle Partners LLC in
New York, which runs the FICA program. Both FICA and IDC
primarily serve businesses and nonprofits, and some high-net-
worth investors.  “A lot of our customers have more than $250,000 that they
want to insure,” said Robin Loftus, chief operating officer for
 Security Bank  in Springfield,  Illinois . The community bank
participates in the CDARS and IDC programs because some affluent
customers want CDs and others prefer money-market  savings
accounts  for quicker access to their funds, she said.  Low Rates  Consumers who use the networks should make sure they don’t
have other accounts at banks where the money is placed that may
push them over the insured limits, said Greg McBride, senior
financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a unit of Bankrate Inc.  Savers who want to put their money in CDs should do so now
because rates will continue to drop, said Dan Geller, executive
vice president of Market Rates Insight in  San Anselmo ,
 California . “It’s inevitable as long as the current economic
conditions remain,” he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lowered its yield in the last week to
1.75 percent from 2 percent for a new five-year CD with a
minimum deposit of $10,000,  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for the New
York-based bank, said in an e-mail on Aug. 10.  The national average yield as of Aug. 10 on three-year CDs
is 0.91 percent and 1.54 percent on five-year CDs, according to
 North Palm Beach , Florida-based Bankrate.com. The top yielding
online, FDIC-insured savings accounts are returning 1.1 percent,
Bankrate.com data show.  ‘Problem With Cash’  The seven-day compound yield of the average taxable money-
market fund was  0.02 percent  as of Aug. 9, according to
IMoneyNet, a research firm based in Westborough,  Massachusetts ,
that tracks money funds.  “That’s the problem with cash,” said Greg Peterson,
director of research at Ballentine Partners in Waltham,
Massachusetts, which advises clients who typically have a net
worth of at least $20 million. “It’s not going to yield much
because  interest rates  are so low.” The average rate of
inflation this year through June was 2.8 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  Peterson said his firm started selling stocks and
purchasing lower-risk assets in May and has recommended short-
term, investment grade corporate bonds for those that need
income. Investors should have a six-month reserve of cash and
bonds, he said.  Deposit Fees  Banks may start charging retail customers for large
deposits because they’re already holding so much cash, said
Geller of Market Rates Insight. That’s because deposits cost
banks money for FDIC insurance assessments while loan demand
remains weak, Bankrate’s McBride said.  Unusually high cash deposits prompted  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custody bank, to impose fees
of 0.13 percent on some institutional clients.  “Some clients during these times of market volatility have
moved out of equities and are sitting on cash or in general want
to keep their powder dry to get back in,” said Ram Subramaniam,
head of products for  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)   Brokerages including TD Ameritrade and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) 
offer FDIC-insured CDs, known as brokered CDs, from various
banks. A one-year brokered CD bought through Schwab is yielding
0.5 percent, said Jeff Morley, vice president of portfolio
consulting at the San Francisco-based firm.  While yields may be “slightly higher” on some brokered
CDs, they’re not without risk, said McBride of Bankrate. That’s
because it may not be as simple to get out prior to maturity by
paying a penalty as with a traditional CD, McBride said.
Brokered CDs are sold on the secondary market and “what you get
is what an investor is willing to pay for it,” he said.  ‘Kick Yourself’  Investors may have uninvested cash in brokerage accounts
“swept” into FDIC-insured accounts, earning  0.01 percent , at
TD Ameritrade and  Schwab . Clients may get a higher yield on
those funds if they move them into a Schwab high-yield checking
or savings account that pays as much as 0.4 percent, said
Morley.  Diahann Lassus said she’s raised the maximum cash
allocation in her clients’ portfolios in the past couple of
weeks “to build an extra cushion because of the volatility in
the market, and so we can sleep at night.” Investors shifting
some of their assets to cash should consider money-market
accounts, Treasury bills, bank CDs or bank savings accounts,
said Lassus, who’s president of the fee-only advisory firm
Lassus Wherley in New Providence,  New Jersey .  “If you sell everything and go to cash you’re going to
kick yourself,” she said. “It’s very hard to get back into a
market once you’ve done that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 