-- 
Harper Says Canada Inks Free-Trade Agreement With Honduras

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-08-12T20:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/harper-says-canada-reaches-free-trade-agreement-with-honduran-government.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said his country has reached a free-trade agreement with
Honduras.  Harper announced the deal today after a meeting in San
Pedro Sula with Honduran President Porfirio Lobo, who was
elected in 2009 after Manuel Zelaya was ousted in a military-
backed coup.  “Today’s visit should be taken as evidence of our earnest
desire for a stronger relationship with Honduras -- one based
upon a commitment to human rights, democracy, security and
prosperity,” Harper said at a news conference with Lobo.  The  Organization of American States , a group of Latin
American countries that also includes  Canada  and the  United
States , temporarily suspended Honduras’ membership following the
coup that deposed Zelaya, calling it unlawful.  In its 2011  annual report  on Honduras,  Amnesty
International  said Lobo’s government hadn’t sufficiently
investigated allegations of human-rights abuses, including
arbitrary detention and mistreatment of protesters.  New Democratic Party lawmaker Robert Chisholm, the party’s
chief spokesman on trade issues, said in  a statement  Thursday
that the government shouldn’t ignore human-rights concerns when
negotiating trade deals.  Harper said the wealth created by the trade deal will help
Honduras improve its human-rights record.  ‘Significant Problems’  “We know there are significant problems of security and
human rights in this country, but we have no information to
suggest that those are in any way perpetrated by the
government,” Harper told reporters. “As we’ve seen in so many
countries, without prosperity, we do not make progress on
fundamental issues of democracy and human rights.”  Since his  Conservative Party  came to power in 2006, Harper
has signed bilateral trade deals with nine countries, including
Colombia, Peru and Panama.  Canada and Honduras agreed to start free-trade negotiations
in October 2010. Merchandise trade between the two countries
reached C$192 million ($194 million) last year, government
figures show.  Gross domestic product per capita in Canada was C$47,540 in
2010, compared with C$2,083 in Honduras, according to government
figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in San Pedro Sula at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  