-- 
Stocks Advance to Cap Week of Record Swings for S&P 500; Treasuries Climb

-- B y   D a n i e l   T i l l e s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-12T20:44:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/asian-stocks-copper-climb-on-u-s-data-euro-weakens-treasuries-advance.html
U.S. stocks rose, capping a week of
record swings for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as an
increase in retail sales tempered concern the economy is
slowing. European shares extended a rebound from a two-year low
after some nations banned short-sales. Treasuries gained.  The  S&P 500 , which fell or rose at least 4.4 percent in the
previous four sessions, climbed 0.5 percent to 1,178.81 at 4
p.m. in New York to trim its weekly drop to 1.7 percent. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index jumped 3.7 percent as banks climbed for a
second day, surging 4.5 percent as a group after sinking 6.7
percent on Aug. 10. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell
nine basis points to 2.24 percent. The Swiss franc slid against
all 16 major peers as the nation considers pegging it to the
euro.  About $6.8 trillion was wiped off the value of global
equity markets from July 26 through yesterday after S&P
downgraded  U.S. debt  for the first time, riots swept across
Britain and Europe’s debt crisis deepened. Government data today
showed retail sales climbed in July by the most in four months,
further easing concern about the economy following an unexpected
drop in jobless claims yesterday.  France , Spain,  Italy  and
 Belgium  banned short-selling, or bearish bets placed with
borrowed stock.  “You’ve got a couple of positive data points over the past
week, including retail sales,”  Stephen Wood , who helps oversee
$163 billion as the New York-based chief market strategist for
Russell Investments, said in a telephone interview. “Any
information about the health of the consumer is important,” he
said. “The short-selling ban in Europe may be providing some
temporary relief to the market today. But it’s mostly another
attempt to buy time to address larger structural issues.”  Record Swings  The swings in U.S. equities this week were unprecedented in
the history of the American stock market, according to data
compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg and  Howard
Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P.  The S&P 500 plunged 6.7 percent on Aug. 8, its biggest
slump since December 2008, in the first trading session after
the U.S. was stripped of its AAA credit rating at S&P. The index
rebounded 4.7 percent the next day as the  Federal Reserve  said
it will leave its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
through at least the middle of 2013. The gauge then fell 4.4
percent on Aug. 10 and rebounded 4.6 percent yesterday. Never
before has the index reversed moves that large each day over
four sessions, the data show.  Two-Day Rally  The S&P 500 rallied 5.2 percent over the past two sessions
for its biggest back-to-back gain since March 2009. The index is
down about 14 percent from a three-year high at the end of
April.  A gauge of retailers in the S&P 500 climbed 1.5 percent, as
26 of its 30 stocks advanced. Caterpillar Inc. added 2.9
percent, pacing gains among companies most-tied to the economy.
Hewlett-Packard Co. advanced 4.1 percent after Jefferies Group
Inc. raised its recommendation for the shares.  The 0.5 percent increase in retail sales reported by the
Commerce Department matched the median forecast of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 0.3 percent increase
in June that was larger than previously estimated. Excluding
auto sales, purchases rose more than projected.  The S&P 500 briefly erased gains today after confidence
among U.S. consumers plunged in August to the lowest level since
May 1980, adding to concern that weak employment gains and
volatility in the stock market will prompt households to
retrench. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment slumped to 54.9 from 63.7 the prior
month. The gauge was projected to decline to 62, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect the debt of U.S. companies fell from
the highest level in more than a year. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index of credit-default swaps, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.2 basis points to a
mid-price of 115.38 basis points as 4:33 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  All but 18 of the companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 gained.
 Societe Generale  SA rallied 5.7 percent, paring its loss for the
week to 11 percent. France’s stock market regulator opened an
investigation into speculation that affected trading in shares
of Societe Generale SA, said the agency’s president, Jean-Pierre
Jouyet. Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank, on Aug.
10 denied “all market rumors” and asked regulators to open a
probe after speculation that France’s creditworthiness was in
doubt sent the shares tumbling 15 percent that day.  Response to Plunge  European regulators are divided over how to respond after a
rout that sent the region’s bank stocks to their lowest in
almost 2 1/2 years this week. While France,  Spain , Italy and
Belgium banned short-selling to calm markets reeling from the
debt crisis,  Germany  and the Netherlands have said they don’t
plan further restrictions on short sales. British regulators
said they don’t plan to limit the practice.  Two- and 10-year Treasury note yields set record lows this
week, with the 10-year yield plunging the most since 2008, as
investors purchased Treasuries on signs of a widening debt
crisis in Europe and the Fed’s plan to leave the benchmark rate
unchanged until at least mid-2013.  The 30-year Treasury bond’s yield decreased five basis
points to 3.72 percent following a surge of 25 points yesterday
after demand dropped at a $16 billion auction of the securities.
The sale of 30-year debt yesterday, the first since S&P cut the
U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5, drew the lowest level of demand
since February 2009.  Franc Weakens  The Swiss franc extended losses versus the euro after a
record drop yesterday following the central bank’s plan to
consider pegging the currency to the euro. The Tages-Anzeiger
newspaper reported that the  Swiss National Bank  probably
wouldn’t face criticism from  Switzerland ’s main parties if it
communicated a target for the franc exchange rate.  The franc depreciated 1.9 percent against the euro, after
plunging more than 5 percent yesterday, and weakened 1.9 percent
versus the dollar.  Italian 10-year bonds rose for the sixth day, the longest
run of gains since August 2010, with the yield falling three
basis points to 5.02 percent. The yield has tumbled more than a
full percentage point during the streak as the  European Central
Bank  bought the securities this week, according to people with
knowledge of the transactions. The central bank declined to
comment.  Irish two-year note yields sank 98 basis points to 9.72
percent, down from 13.55 percent a week ago. Spanish two-year
yields decreased three basis points.  Crude oil for September delivery slipped 0.4 percent to
$85.38 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , after
earlier dropping by 2 percent. Gold futures slipped 0.5 percent
to $1,742.60 an ounce.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed, capping
a weekly drop of 4.9 percent. Developing-nation equity mutual
funds had $7.7 billion of withdrawals in the week ended Aug. 10,
the third-biggest outflows on record, Citigroup Inc. said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Tilles in London at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  