-- 
Asian Stocks Fall for a Third Week Amid Economic Growth, Earnings Concerns

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-12T23:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/asian-stocks-fall-for-a-third-week-amid-economic-growth-earnings-concerns.html
Asian stocks declined for a third
week after Standard & Poor’s Rating Service cut the U.S. credit
rating and as concern grew  Europe ’s debt crisis will spread,
sparking speculation the global economic recovery will weaken.  Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s No. 1 exporter of
consumer electronics, tumbled 10 percent in Seoul on speculation
shipments to the U.S. and Europe will decline. HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s largest lender by market value, sank 6.6 percent in
 Hong Kong .  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the world’s third-biggest maker
of computer memory chips, plunged 21 percent after posting a
first-quarter loss.  “Fear has taken over,” said  Paul Xiradis , who manages
about $12 billion in assets as chief executive officer of Ausbil
Dexia Ltd. in Sydney. “It’s like a rapid fire burning away the
market, but like all things it’s going to exhaust itself
eventually. There are obviously still concerns about what’s
happening in the U.S., Europe and  China , but it appears to me
we’re seeing all the classic signs of a blowout or a climax.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 3.3 percent to 121.92
this week, extending a three-week decline to 12.3 percent.
Investor confidence has eroded in recent weeks as a deadlock in
the U.S. congress brought the government to the brink of default,
while economic reports showed the world’s biggest economy is
slowing. Signs Europe’s debt crisis is widening also battered
sentiment.  Regional Indexes  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank 3.6 percent for the
week after the government cut its forecast for economic growth
this year to 0.5 percent from 1.5 percent previously as a record
earthquake in March disrupted production. South Korea’s Kospi
Index slumped 7.7 percent even after the nation’s central bank
left  interest rates  for a second month.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.3 percent this week
after the country’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
three years in July, limiting the scope for monetary easing to
support growth. China’s benchmark index along with Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped more
than 20 percent from their peaks this week, entering so-called
bear markets.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has tumbled 12.4 percent since
July 26 amid a global selloff that erased more than $7 trillion
from world markets since July 26. The slump deepened this week
after S&P on Aug. 5 downgraded the U.S. credit rating. The Asian
gauge is trading at 12.2 times estimated earnings, the lowest
since December 2008.  Short-Selling Ban  The global stocks rout prompted  South Korea ,  France ,  Spain ,
Italy and Belgium to ban short selling. Short-sellers sell
borrowed shares with plans to buy them back later at a lower
price, a practice politicians and some investors blame for
roiling markets.  Companies that export cars and consumer electronics to the
U.S. and Europe bore the brunt of the selling. Honda Motor Co.,
which gets about half of it sales in North America and Europe,
sank 12 percent to 2,537 yen in  Tokyo .  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of
Bravia Televisions and PlayStation game consoles, dropped 11
percent to 1,630 yen. Samsung Electronics, the world’s second-
biggest maker of mobile phones by sales, declined 10 percent to
707,000 won in  Seoul .  Banks dropped as bond yields rose and the cost of insuring
corporate debt in Europe surged to the highest level in more
than two years, sparking concern borrowing costs will increase.
HSBC fell 7.6 percent to HK$67.15 in Hong Kong. Standard
Chartered Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest lender by market value
dropped 6.8 percent to HK$177.80. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s largest publicly traded bank, fell 6.5 percent to
357 yen in Tokyo.  Energy Producers  A gauge of energy producers posted the biggest decline
among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this
week as crude oil futures fell for a third week.  Inpex Corp.,  Japan ’s biggest energy explorer, lost 3.4
percent to 515,000 yen. Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil
producer, dropped 8.5 percent to HK$14.22 in Hong Kong.  Elpida Memory slumped 21 percent to 516 yen. The company
reported on Aug. 8 a first-quarter net loss of 7.87 billion yen
compared with a profit of 30.7 billion yen a year earlier,
citing lower prices and the yen’s appreciation.  Of the 503 companies that reported earnings since July 11
through 6 p.m. in Hong Kong yesterday, 223 surpassed analyst
estimates, while 159 fell short, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 