-- 
Tata Steel Profit Almost Triples on Sale of Riversdale Stake, Settlement

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-08-12T11:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/tata-steel-net-almost-triples-on-sale-of-riversdale-stake-beats-estimate.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  said fiscal
first-quarter profit almost tripled, boosted by gains from
selling its stake in Riversdale Mining Ltd. and a settlement won
over a breach of contract at its Teesside Cast Products unit.  Net income at India’s largest steel producer, including 
that of Tata Steel Europe Ltd., rose to 53.5 billion rupees 
($1.17 billion) in the quarter through June from 18.3 billion 
rupees a year earlier, according to a statement. That beat the 
19.7 billion-rupee median estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by 
Bloomberg. Sales advanced 22 percent to 328.4 billion rupees.  Tata Steel sold its entire stake in  Australia ’s Riversdale
Mining to Rio Tinto Group for A$1.06 billion ($1.1 billion),
after doubling its value in less than four years. The company 
also received $130 million as compensation from buyers that 
walked out of a 10-year contract at Teesside.  Operating profit fell 3.4 percent to 32.7 billion rupees
after a 25 percent increase in costs, the Mumbai-based company 
said. Raw-material expenses rose 44 percent, driven by
higher coking-coal prices. Tata Steel  Europe , acquired in 2007,
is completely dependent on outside sources for raw materials.  “On the operations side, the earnings didn’t give any
positive surprises,” said Ravindra Deshpande, an analyst with
Elara Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Profit margins will be under
pressure in the coming quarters, as steel prices are not moving
upward even as raw-material prices remain high.”  Tata Steel fell 2.8 percent to 471 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has declined 31 percent 
this year, compared with the Sensitive Index’s 18 percent drop.  Riversdale Sale  Income from sources other than the main business, including
a 28.8 billion-rupee gain from the Riversdale stake sale,
soared to 38.8 billion rupees from 593 million rupees a year
earlier, the company said. Total costs increased to 297.3
billion rupees from 238 billion rupees.  While steelmakers globally benefited from a recovery in
demand last quarter, Tata Steel is witnessing “definite” signs 
of a slowdown in Europe, where it operates almost two-thirds of 
its capacity, Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar said today in 
Mumbai. Profit margins may shrink in the third and fourth 
quarters of the year ending March 31, he said.  Capital Spending  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization at Tata's European operations remained at $78 to 
$80 a metric ton, while the Jamshedpur plant in  India  showed 
9.2 percent Ebitda growth, Group Chief Financial Officer Koushik
Chatterjee said today. The company, which has about $3.5 billion
of cash and a net-debt-to-equity ratio of 1.02, expects capital
spending of $3 billion this fiscal year, Chatterjee said.  India’s steel consumption is forecast to grow 13.3 percent
this year and 14.3 percent next year, more than double the pace
of global demand, according to an April 18 report by the World
Steel Association.  Tata, hoping to benefit from the double-digit growth in
steel demand this year and next, is likely to increase output
after raising capacity by 43 percent at its only Indian 
factory in the eastern city of Jamshedpur by March. It's also 
building a 6 million-ton plant in the eastern state of Orissa.  “Good rains this year will push up agricultural output 
and farm income, leading to higher demand from steel-intensive 
sectors like  consumer goods  and automobiles in the second 
half,”  Madan Sabnavis , chief economist at Mumbai-based ratings 
company Credit Analysis & Research Ltd., said on Aug. 10.
“India’s growth is a domestic story and I don’t expect any
impact from a global slowdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 keenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  