-- 
Lawyer Should Get as Long as 46 Months in Prison in Inside Case, U.S. Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-12T21:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/lawyer-should-get-as-long-as-46-months-in-prison-in-inside-case-u-s-says.html
Jason Goldfarb, an attorney who
pleaded guilty to passing inside information from two other
lawyers to ex-Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , should spend
as long as three years and 10 months in prison, the U.S. said.  Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in  Manhattan  said Goldfarb should be sentenced within the range
prescribed by federal sentencing guidelines and forfeit $1.1
million, the amount they claim was gained in the scheme. The
minimum term under the guidelines is three years, one month.  “Goldfarb’s crimes were particularly egregious because of
his status as an attorney,” prosecutors said in court papers
filed today. “While working as an attorney obligated to protect
client confidences, Goldfarb engaged in a scheme to
misappropriate information protected by the attorney-client
privilege in order to enrich himself.”  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  is free to disregard
the guidelines when he sentences Goldfarb.  Goffer was convicted of all 14 criminal counts against him
in June, in the second trial of defendants charged in a
nationwide investigation of  insider trading  at  hedge funds .
Goffer’s former boss, Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam ,
was convicted of insider trading in May. Prosecutors are seeking
a sentence of more than 24 years when Rajaratnam is sentenced
Sept. 27.  Conspiracy Alleged  Harvey Greenberg, a lawyer for Goldfarb, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the government’s
sentencing request.  Prosecutors claimed Goldfarb conspired with Goffer to pay
thousands of dollars to Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas,
lawyers at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP, for information about
transactions their firm was working on. Cutillo, who was
Goldfarb’s college roommate, and Santarlas both pleaded guilty.  In pleading guilty, Cutillo admitted in court in January
that he and Santarlas leaked information about transactions
involving 3Com Inc. and Axcan Pharma Inc. Goldfarb passed the
tips to Goffer, who traded on the information, Cutillo said.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  