-- 
Bachmann Would Reduce Social Security, Medicare Pay for Future Recipients

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-13T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/bachmann-says-entitlements-should-be-cut-for-future-recipients.html
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann 
said she would reduce Medicare and Social Security benefits for
all but current recipients as part of an effort to reduce the
federal deficit.  “We will reform the entitlement programs now, not five
years from now, not 26 years from now, now,” Bachmann said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With Al Hunt” airing
this weekend. “Anyone who is not yet on those programs, we are
going to change them.”  Bachmann, seeking the  Republican Party ’s presidential
nomination in 2012, also said her experience in creating jobs in
the private sector gives her an advantage over Texas Republican
Governor  Rick Perry , who is set to announce his own White House
candidacy today in  South Carolina .  “We have created jobs. We’ve signed both sides of a
paycheck. I get it,” Bachmann said, in a reference to a mental
health care practice she founded with her husband, Marcus.  Her comments came on the eve of the Iowa Straw Poll in
Ames, an event that analysts say will winnow the Republican
field that wants to challenge President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  Bachmann also said she would have allowed  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and General Motors Co. to go bankrupt rather than intervene with
a federal government bailout. “I am an unashamed apologist for
the free market,” Bachmann said.  On the issue of entitlements such as Medicare and Social
Security, Bachmann advocates cuts that would go deeper than
those proposed earlier this year by Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, and approved by the U.S. House.  Ryan’s Plan  Ryan’s plan would have excluded people who are 55 and older
from any changes in benefits. Bachmann voted for it.  Ryan, who chairs the House Budget Committee, called for
reducing the deficit by $4.4 trillion over 10 years, with cuts
including replacing Medicare with guaranteed benefits to pay for
private insurance. Ryan’s plan would use means testing to give
reduced payments to senior citizens with high incomes.  Bachmann said Social Security and Medicare spending should
be reined in with reductions through means testing or
eligibility age. “We all know it needs to be done,” she said.  The Minnesota Republican said Americans are poised to
reject Obama’s re-election bid in favor of a challenger “who
has the backbone to turn the economy around.”  Bachmann, who has a following among Tea Party supporters,
is working to expand her base among Republican fiscal
conservatives to compete in the presidential race against early
frontrunner  Mitt Romney , the former Republican governor of
 Massachusetts .  Business Experience  She said her strengths include experience with U.S. tax law
and her background in running a business. “We figured out how
to amass capital and how to create two locations in our business
and how to employ people,” she said. “That’s a strong skill,
to know how to run a profit.”  On the issue of government bailouts, Bachmann said that
while “no one likes the idea of a large corporation failing,”
they do so because of their own bad decisions. “Citibank for
one made some very unwise loans,” she said. “When you look at
GM, they made some very unwise union contract negotiation deals.  “Why should the federal government come in and prop up
inefficient burdensome deals that could never be met?” she
said. Had the government allowed big banks and automakers to
fail, she said, “we would have had a better, more efficient
economy and certainly we wouldn’t have had the debt burden.”  GM Bailout  GM last week reported second-quarter profit of $2.52
billion, its sixth consecutive quarterly profit. The automaker
made $6.17 billion last year. Its bankrupt predecessor, General
Motors Corp., lost $82 billion from 2005 to 2008.  The U.S. took a 61 percent ownership of GM as part of the
automaker’s government-led bailout and bankruptcy reorganization
in 2009. The Treasury sold shares equal to a 28 percent stake in
a November initial public offering.  Bachmann was asked to explain why the  bond market  has
rallied while  Standard & Poor’s  has downgraded  U.S. debt  -- one
of only three  ratings agencies  to do so.  “It’s kind of like, ‘choose your poison,’” she said.
“Where do you want to invest? And right now, it’s still
considered safest, but it’s not a great investment.”  Bachmann said she would be “a lot tougher on  China ” on
the issue of currency manipulation than Obama has been. Pressed
for details, she said the specifics would be in “negotiations
and strategies” that presidents execute behind closed doors.  Bachmann, a Christian who earned her law degree at Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based Oral Roberts University, was asked if a
homosexual can be a good Christian.  “I’m running for the presidency of the  United States ,”
she said. “I’m not running to be anyone’s judge.”  “I love people,” Bachmann said. “That’s up to God to
make that decision. It’s not up to me. Of course, I think that,
if they have a faith, that is between them and God. I can’t
intervene.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  