-- 
Bahrain’s Al-Wefaq Party to Boycott Parliamentary Elections

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-12T19:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/bahrain-s-al-wefaq-party-to-boycott-parliamentary-elections-1-.html
Bahrain’s Al-Wefaq, the country’s
main Shiite Muslim opposition group, said it will boycott a
special parliamentary election scheduled for next month, a
representative for the group said today.  “We do not want to participate in an election when the
government has no intention of working with us,” Khalil al-
Marzooq said in a telephone interview. “All of the revolutions
we’ve seen in the  Middle East  were held by ordinary people, not
by parliamentarians. We will still fight for equal rights for
the people of Bahrain.”  Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, was rocked by
the protests that broke out in February and lasted for a month.
The demonstrations were led by the country’s Shiite Muslim
majority, who demanded democracy and higher  living standards ,
and were suppressed after the nation’s Sunni ruling family
declared a state of emergency and invited troops from
neighboring  Saudi Arabia  to help restore order.  The government said it will hold elections on Sept. 24 to
fill at least 18 vacant seats in parliament after Al-Wefaq
members resigned in February to protest the government’s
crackdown on pro-democracy rallies. A second round of voting
will take place on Oct. 1, the Bahrain News Agency reported,
citing Justice Minister Sheikh Khalid bin Ali Al Khalifa. Al-
Wefaq pulled out of the dialogue on July 17, saying the talks
weren’t aimed at achieving serious results.  Al-Marzooq said the decision to boycott the election is
final. “We need to see some real political amendments,” he
said.  The crackdown earlier this year left 33 people dead, Cherif Bassiouni, the head of an independent fact-finding commission
set up by the king, said on July 24.  Shiites make up about 70 percent of Bahrain’s population of
less than 1 million, and many retain cultural and family ties
with  Iran  as well as with Shiites in neighboring Saudi Arabia.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 