-- 
Bank of America Defeats Arizona Bid to Privately Talk to Former Employees

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-12T20:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/bank-of-america-defeats-arizona-bid-to-privately-talk-to-former-employees.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which the
Arizona Attorney General’s Office sued for consumer fraud,
defeated the state’s attempt to gather information by
interviewing former bank employees in private.  The state can’t interview former call-center employees, who
dealt with borrowers about their mortgages, outside the presence
of bank attorneys, Superior Court Judge  Arthur Anderson  in
Phoenix ruled in a decision filed today.  The attorney general’s office said the interviews are
necessary to investigate claims against Bank of America and
learn about its operations. The state accuses the bank in a
lawsuit of misleading borrowers who sought loan modifications to
reduce their mortgage payments.  The state said it fears Bank of America will interfere in
the interviews if not conducted privately because the bank
hindered a federal investigation into its foreclosure practices,
according to court papers. Bank of America said it cooperated
with the U.S. inquiry.  Amy Rezzonico, a spokeswoman for  Arizona  Attorney General
Tom Horne, said in an e-mail that the office is “disappointed”
with the decision.  ‘Impede Our Ability’  “We will go forward and conduct interviews or depositions
with former employees in accordance with the decision and hope
that the bank’s lawyers don’t use their presence at the
interviews to impede our ability to gather information,” she
said.  Jumana Bauwens, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank was pleased
with the ruling.  “The court simply confirmed the ethical rule in Arizona
that prohibits interviews of former bank employees outside the
presence of bank counsel,” she said. “The bank welcomes
interviews conducted within the ethical rules.”  The case is Arizona v. Countrywide Financial Corp., CV2010-
033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story: David McLaughlin in  New
York  at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  