-- 
Berlin Wall Ceremony Triggers Debate Over German History, Political Divide

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-13T11:46:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/berlin-wall-commemorated-by-germany-50-years-after-construction.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  and other
German leaders gathered in the capital today to mark the 50th
anniversary of the Berlin Wall’s construction as a debate over
its place in history laid bare a legacy of political division.  Merkel, on her first official engagement after a three-week
summer break, was joined by German President  Christian Wulff  and
Berlin Mayor Klaus Wowereit at the  Berlin Wall Memorial , one of
the few remaining sections of wall in central Berlin. The mayor
added his voice to the chorus of politicians accusing some of
attempting to trivialize the impact of the Berlin Wall.  “It’s shocking that today some people still believe that
the Communist Party had good reasons to seal off” West Berlin,
Mayor Wowereit said. “No. For the injustice, for the violation
of human rights, for the deaths caused by the wall and the
barbed wire, there are no good reasons and no justification.”  The mayor spoke to several hundred onlookers, including
relatives of those killed trying to cross from the East to the
West before the communist regime collapsed in 1989, leading to
German reunification the following year. On the morning of Aug.
13, 1961, Berliners awoke to find East German security forces
building a security barrier of fences and barbed wire to seal
off West Berlin. The wall stood for more than 28 years and came
to embody the entrenched battle lines of the  Cold War .  Those divisions resurfaced last week after a Forsa poll
showed that more than a third of Berliners said they felt the
building of the wall was at least partly warranted to stem the
flow of refugees from East  Germany  and stabilize tensions.  ‘Affected My Whole Life’  Twenty-five percent of the residents of the German capital
said they “partly” agreed that the wall’s construction was
“necessary and justified,” according to the Aug. 3 survey
commissioned by the newspaper  Berliner Zeitung . Ten percent said
they agreed fully, while 62 percent rejected the suggestion.  Some 2.7 million Germans in the Soviet-dominated East fled
to  West Germany  between 1949 and the erection of the wall, equal
to one-seventh of the population of the communist state. The
wave of refugees sapped East Germany of its most qualified
workers and created a crisis that threatened to take to breaking
point Cold War tensions between the  Soviet Union  and the U.S.  “This event is important to me because it has so much to
do with my own life,” Merkel, who grew up in East Germany, said
in a  video podcast  on July 23. “I couldn’t visit my aunt; I
couldn’t visit my cousins. That affected my whole life.”  Memorial Area  The leaders spoke at a newly landscaped outdoor memorial
area that includes information posts explaining the wall’s
history, including a display with the names and illuminated
photos of most of those who died. At least 136 people  died 
trying to cross it or while walking near it; eight of the dead
were border guards. Berlin observed a minute of silence at noon.  The debate over the  Berlin Wall ’s legacy was further fueled
this week when Gesine Loetzsch, co-leader of the anti-capitalist
Left Party, said its construction was a result of World War II
and the attack by  Nazi Germany  on the Soviet Union.  The Left Party, which includes former members of the East
German Communist Party, has 76 seats in the 620-seat federal
lower house of parliament and is junior partner in the Social
Democrat-led coalition that rules the city-state of Berlin.  “You can’t view the event in an isolated way,” Loetzsch
told a rally in the Baltic Sea port city of Rostock on Aug. 9,
according to the  Deutsche Presse-Agentur . “Germany’s division
is very much a result of World War II, which Germany started.”  German politicians accused the Left leader of trivializing
the destruction and suffering caused by the wall. Hermann Groehe, the general secretary of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats ,
said in an interview with the  Berliner Morgenpost  newspaper that
Loetzsch’s statements were “shameful and scandalous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  