-- 
Berlin Wall’s Lesson for the Barrier-Builders of Today: Frederick Taylor

-- B y   F r e d e r i c k   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-08-12T00:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/berlin-wall-s-lesson-for-the-barrier-builders-of-today-frederick-taylor.html
It was a chilly night for high
summer in Berlin 50 years ago tomorrow, and it took East German
Communists only about five hours to divide one of  Europe ’s
grandest cities neatly in two.  Starting around 1 a.m., thousands of work teams overseen by
armed guards installed bollards, fencing and barbed wire,
blocking every street and right of way that ran between the
eastern sector of the old German capital and the three western
zones occupied by the U.S., the U.K. and  France . Rail and subway
links were cut; lines now stopped at the new “border” that the
Communists had created. Anyone attempting to cross was to be
stopped forcibly and, if necessary, lethally.  The aim was to halt the disastrous hemorrhaging of East
Germany’s discontented population into the haven of West Berlin.
Over the previous 12 years, this exodus had cost the drab puppet
state some 2 million of its best and brightest.  Within hours, the capitalist enclave was duly isolated and
the flood of refugees reduced to a trickle. To that extent, the
wall was a triumph. The construction of the almost 100-mile
barrier that became known as the “Berlin Wall” was an impressive
example of what a totalitarian command economy could achieve.
However, it was also an admission of defeat. Why was this
necessary, if the communist system was superior?  Crisis of Confidence  The summer of 1961 seems an odd moment for the  Soviet Union 
and its European satellites to have had a crisis of confidence.
Four months earlier, the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin’s epochal space
flight had seemed to prove the superiority of Soviet science.
The Bay of Pigs fiasco in April had shown that the U.S. couldn’t
prevent communism even in Cuba, its own backyard. Nikita Khrushchev had trounced  John F. Kennedy , the inexperienced young
American president, at their summit in Vienna in early June.  Khrushchev’s boast that communism would overtake capitalism
seemed momentarily plausible. In this atmosphere, why would the
government in Moscow sanction such a retrograde step as the
Berlin Wall?  First, one has to remember that for the Russians, the
occupation of “their” part of postwar  Germany  held enormous
symbolic, as well as strategic, importance. The Red Army’s long
advance to Berlin during World War II cost at least 8 million
military and as many as 15 million civilians dead.  The Soviet presence in Berlin and eastern Germany was a
sacred reminder of that dearly-bought victory over Nazism. The
existence of a Soviet-controlled state on German territory was
also a guarantee that Germany would never again menace the
Russian people.  In any case, there was little downside to the provocation.
Neither the Kennedy administration in Washington nor the
governments of the other two main Western powers occupying West
Berlin took any steps to roll back the wall.  Documents show that officials in both Paris and  London 
almost welcomed its construction. It guaranteed the long-term
division -- and therefore weakening -- of Germany, which both
countries desired. Francois Mauriac, the Nobel laureate and
biographer of President  Charles de Gaulle , summed up French
sentiment when he quipped that he loved Germany so dearly that
he wanted two of them.  On the morning after the wall’s construction, the U.K.
ambassador to  West Germany , Christopher Steel, merely cabled
London to express his surprise that the East Germans had “waited
so long” to take this measure. He and his Foreign Office
colleagues spent the rest of the crisis trying to ensure that
the Americans didn’t do anything “silly,” like trying to tear
the wall down.  Longing for Stability  The British needn’t have worried.  Washington  wasn’t
prepared to risk war (so long as the Communists didn’t threaten
West Berlin) and even hoped that the building of the wall,
brutally immoral as it was, would usher in an era of increased
European stability. The U.S. had other problems -- Cuba,
 Southeast Asia ,  Taiwan ,  Korea , the Congo -- crowding its agenda.  The only time the U.S. came close to an armed response was
in October 1961, when the East German authorities tried to
prevent American diplomats from travelling freely through both
East and West Berlin, as they were permitted to under the
Potsdam agreement of 1945.  Tellingly, the genuinely tense “Checkpoint Charlie”
confrontation had nothing to do with the existence of the wall.
It was about national prestige. Tanks were called in, Kennedy
and Khrushchev struck a deal -- the Soviet tanks would reverse
first, and the U.S. would let the wall stand -- and any chance
that the Berlin crisis would ignite World War III passed.  For 28 years, the wall gave the communist bloc a kind of
sealed laboratory environment, inside which its leaders had
their chance to fulfill Khrushchev’s promises. As we know, they
failed. Spectacularly. Capitalism may have seemed on the retreat
in 1961, but the  Berlin Wall , built to secure the communist
system, planted the seeds of its own destruction.  It is true the Berlin Wall created a certain stability --
that of the deep freeze. When the wall fell in November 1989, it
seemed as though Europe and the world had entered a new era of
global possibility.  Yet the thaw in the Cold War ice revealed other ancient,
precarious fault lines -- religious, cultural and nationalist.
As the wall recedes into history, we are still dealing with this
uncomfortable fact.  Fifty years on from August 1961, we still have wall-like
barriers in  Baghdad , in divided Cyprus and  Northern Ireland ,
between  Mexico  and the U.S., and, most controversially, between
 Israel  and the  West Bank . The difference is, of course, that
these exist to keep people out rather than keep an unhappy
population in.  If we look back to the Great Wall of  China  or to Hadrian’s
Wall, constructed almost two millennia ago in Roman Britain as
protection from “barbarian” northern neighbors, as well as at
their modern counterparts, we can see what formidable barriers
have in common: They all stem from insecurity, if not
desperation.  Border walls represent a last resort when a state either
can’t or won’t deal with a problem that threatens its existence.
As such, history seems to prove, they are temporary. Like the
Berlin Wall, they are ultimately likely to be unsuccessful. They
buy time, but time is a commodity that, notoriously, runs out.
As it did for East Germany.  (Frederick Taylor is the author of “Exorcising Hitler: The
Occupation and Denazification of Germany. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Frederick Taylor at  fred.taylor170@btinternet.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  