-- 
Bernanke Seizes Day With Financial Repression as Congress Shirks Policies

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-12T20:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/bernanke-seizes-day-with-financial-repression-as-congress-shirks-policies.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s flattening of bond yields may be just the push
investors and companies need to take risks with their cash.  The Fed’s decision this week to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  near zero through mid-2013 sent five-year Treasury yields
as low as 0.82 percent, below the 2.21 percent two-year rate
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
Lower returns on the safest investments will spur equities
purchases, said  David Kelly  of JPMorgan Funds.  “The Fed’s making it extremely painful not to take on some
risk,” said Kelly, who helps oversee $408 billion as chief
market strategist for the New York-based firm. “People will
tend to push money into equities.”  Bernanke and his colleagues acted days after a deal to
raise the debt ceiling and reduce federal budget deficits failed
to avert a cut to the nation’s AAA credit rating by  Standard &
Poor’s . The central bank’s decision, and a signal it’s willing
to take further action, helped spur a rally in U.S. stocks from
an 11-month low.  “This is aimed at encouraging people to leverage up, with
the knowledge that their borrowing costs will likely be very low
for a long period of time,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist
at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,178.81 in New York today, extending yesterday’s 4.6 percent
gain.  Declining returns on  savings accounts  and certificates of
deposit may encourage consumers and corporations that have been
hoarding cash to start investing it, JPMorgan’s Kelly said.  Buying Back Stock  “The lower yields are, the more these companies are going
to have an incentive to either invest directly in the stock
market or even simpler, just buy back their own stock,” he
said. “The incentive for a clear-thinking CEO must be huge.”  Companies stockpiled a record $1.9 trillion in cash in the
first three months of 2011, according to the Fed data from June.
Bank of New York Mellon, the world’s largest custodial bank,
said Aug. 4 it will begin to charge institutional clients for
“extraordinarily high” cash deposits to stem a flight of
capital into the safety of  bank deposits .  Americans saved 5.4 percent of their disposable income in
June, the Commerce Department said this month. That’s up from a
5 percent rate in May and is the highest since September 2010.
It was 1.5 percent in 2005, the lowest since at least 1959, amid
the housing boom and 3.1 percent economic growth.  Certificates of Deposit  Savers are getting average interest rates on 6-month
certificates of deposit this week of 0.58 percent nationwide,
down from 0.60 percent last week, according to Bankrate.com.
Rates on one-year CDs fell this week to 0.86 percent, while 5-
year CDs fetched 2.04 percent.  The Fed said it would keep its target for overnight loans
among banks at a record low for at least two years to support a
recovery that’s “considerably slower” than anticipated.  Two-year Treasury yields have become the equivalent of
short-term bills, with rates declining to 0.187 percent, about
the same as the average yield on three-month bills over the past
three years.  “The Fed has vindicated its power over the term structure
of interest rates by being clear about the expected path of
short-term rates,” said  Peter Fisher , head of fixed income at
BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset management firm, who
was markets chief at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  from
1994 to 2001. “It does encourage those looking for returns to
look in credit assets and then further out the yield curve.”  Yields on investment-grade corporate debt average 2.01
percentage points higher than comparable Treasuries, according
to data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Operation Twist  The Fed’s action is reminiscent of a joint action with the
Treasury Department known as Operation Twist intended to pull
the nation out of a recession in 1960-1961. The Fed purchased
longer-dated Treasury bonds and sold short-term bills in a bid
to flatten the yield curve.  One difference, according to Fisher: Bernanke is trying to
create very low short-term rates, while Operation Twist was
focused on reducing longer-term borrowing costs.  The Fed’s action this week may also have another purpose,
said  Marvin Goodfriend , an economics professor at  Carnegie
Mellon University  in Pittsburgh.  “It is mainly a signal that the Fed will do more,
including buying  government bonds , if the Fed believes the
economy needs it,” said Goodfriend, a former research director
at the Richmond Fed. The Fed in June ended a $600 billion bond-
purchase program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  