-- 
BHP Skipping Buyback Would Be ‘Poor Signal,’ BlackRock Says

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-08-12T16:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/bhp-failing-to-renew-buyback-would-be-bad-signal-blackrock-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s biggest
shareholder, BlackRock Inc., said the world’s biggest mining
company should start another share buyback because failing to do
so would send a “poor signal” to the market.  BHP completed a $10 billion buyback in Sydney and London in
June, six months ahead of schedule. The Melbourne-based company
agreed to buy  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  last month for about $12.1
billion.  “It will be interesting to see what their next move is,
whether they do announce a further buyback or whether they feel
that given current market volatility and given the acquisition
they choose not to,” BlackRock’s Catherine Raw, who helps
manage the $17 billion World Mining Fund, said by telephone from
 London . “That would send a poor signal to the market.”  BHP’s Sydney-traded stock has declined 16 percent this
year, 7.8 percent this month, and fell to a 14-month low on Aug.
8. Its London traded stock has slumped 21 percent this year and
11 percent this month. It rose 2.6 percent to 2,018 pence today.
BHP is the world’s ninth-largest company by market value.  BHP is due to report 2011 fiscal-year earnings on Aug. 24.
Net income will jump to a record $22.5 billion, according to the
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BlackRock is the largest shareholder of BHP’s Australian
stock, with a 5.7 percent stake, according to Bloomberg data,
and controls 10 percent of BHP’s London stock, the data show.  “Given the environment of very low  interest rates , of
dividend yields for equity markets as a whole being quite high,
then for the mining sector to not respond accordingly in these
very high cash-flow environments would be a mistake,” Raw said
Aug. 9.  Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  