-- 
Biggest Emerging Stock Fund Outflows Since January 2008 May Be Buy Signal

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-12T15:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/biggest-emerging-stock-fund-outflows-since-january-2008-may-be-buy-signal.html
The biggest outflows from emerging-
market equity funds since January 2008 may be a signal to buy
stocks at the lowest valuations in 2 1/2 years.  Investors pulled $7.7 billion in the week to Aug. 10, the
third-largest withdrawal on record and about 1.1 percent of
assets under management, according to research firm EPFR Global.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped an average 17 percent in
the six months after outflows of this magnitude during the past
decade, posting gains on 11 of 12 occasions, data compiled by
EPFR Global and Bloomberg show.  The MSCI gauge sank as much as 20 percent from its May 2
high this week on concern the  U.S. economy  is stalling and
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening. The slump sent valuations 30
percent below the 20 year average at 8.9 times analysts’ 12-
month profit estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg and Morgan
Stanley show. Fund outflows are a contrarian signal for rallies
because they show pessimistic investors have already sold,
according to Commerzbank AG’s  Michael Ganske .  “When things are selling off and investors are very
bearish and panicking then it’s clearly a good time to add
positions,” Ganske, head of emerging-markets research at
Commerzbank in  London , said in a phone interview. “There is
clearly a compelling argument to reassess exposure in emerging
equities as valuations are very, very cheap.”  The strategy of buying emerging-market stocks after weeks
when outflows exceeded 1 percent of assets under management
produced average gains of 2.2 percent in one month, 8.5 percent
in three months and 28 percent in 12 months, according to data
compiled by EPFR Global and Bloomberg.  History Shows Gains  Investors have also been rewarded for buying when the MSCI
emerging index fell below 9 times earnings. The last dip to
those levels in October 2008 was followed by a 60 percent rally
during the next 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
gauge climbed 44 percent in the year after valuations tumbled
that low in August 1998, the month Russia defaulted on $40
billion of debt, the data show.  The MSCI index was little changed today after two days of
gains. Reports today showed French economic growth stalled last
quarter and euro-region industrial production unexpectedly fell
in June.  The 21-country gauge has retreated about 5 percent this
week after an unprecedented downgrade of America’s top credit
rating by  Standard & Poor’s  and signs that Italy and  Spain  may
struggle to refinance debt. The MSCI Emerging Markets Energy
Index sank 7 percent, the most among 10 industry gauges, as  oil
prices  tumbled.  ‘Growth Scare’  A further retreat in commodities may spur more outflows
from developing-nation equity funds, according to John-Paul Smith, emerging-market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  “Over the short term it’s most likely a by-product of the
global turmoil rather than a change of view on the relative
attractions of emerging-market equities,” Smith said. “The
real damage is likely to happen further out if, as we expect,
investors become more negative about the fundamental prospects
of both emerging markets and commodities.”  The MSCI index fell more than 15 percent in a month after
fund outflows reached more than one percent of assets in August
2001, while the gauge retreated 6.5 percent when withdrawals
exceeded that level in May 2006, data compiled by EPFR and
Bloomberg show.  This week’s retreat in emerging-market share prices has
produced buying opportunities and slowing growth in the
developed world may ease inflation pressures in developing
nations, said Ivo Kovachev, an emerging-markets money manager at
London-based JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd.  The People’s Bank of China will leave borrowing costs
unchanged for the rest of this year, according to eight of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg this week. The  Bank of Korea  kept
 interest rates  unchanged for a second month on Aug. 11, while
 Indonesia  stayed on hold Aug. 9.  “There has been a growth scare in the world,” said
Kovachev. “But perhaps a bit perversely, it may help emerging
markets because this year they were suffering from overheating
and inflation risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 