-- 
Blackstone Said to Buy $80 Million Loan on California Offices

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-08-12T21:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/blackstone-said-to-purchase-80-million-loan-on-california-office-complex.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  bought an $80
million junior loan on the Pacific Shores Center office complex
in  Redwood City ,  California , setting the stage for the buyout
firm to take ownership should landlord Starwood Capital Group
Inc. default, said two people with knowledge of the purchase.  Blackstone, the biggest office landlord in Northern
California, paid about $70 million for the junior mezzanine loan
on the eight-building complex south of  San Francisco , or about
87.5 cents on the dollar, according to one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
The loan was sold by funds managed by a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
unit through broker Eastdil Secured LLC. The sale was completed
July 27, the person said.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone,
declined to comment on the matter.  “We’re very happy with the performance of the asset and
have been very active leasing the property,” Starwood Capital,
based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in an e-mailed statement.
“Occupancy is currently 93 percent and we anticipate even
stronger momentum in leasing activity and rents.” Starwood
officials wouldn’t comment further.  The loan purchase was reported Aug. 10 by Real Estate
Alert.  Starwood Capital bought Pacific Shores in December 2006,
paying about $833 million near the height of the commercial
 property market  in its first office acquisition in the San
Francisco Bay Area. It immediately sold two of the buildings,
1400 and 1500 Seaport Blvd., to San Francisco-based Shorenstein
Properties LLC.  Debt Maturities  The loan Blackstone bought is subordinate to $70.8 million
of other mezzanine debt. The $150.8 million of total mezzanine
financing will mature on Dec. 6, and a $331.8 million senior
securitized mortgage will mature on Jan. 1, 2012, according to
one of the people familiar with the terms and data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mezzanine loans typically bridge the gap between the
first mortgage and the buyer’s equity.  Pacific Shores Center was valued at $603.4 million in
November 2006, Bloomberg data show. The decline in property
values means the property is now valued at close to the debt on
the complex of $482.6 million, making it harder for Starwood to
refinance, said one of the people familiar with the situation.
The complex faces lease expirations with three of its biggest
tenants in 2012 and 2013, according to Bloomberg data.  Starwood Capital bought Pacific Shores from closely held
Jay Paul Co., the San Francisco-based company that developed the
property, and Walton Street Capital LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  