-- 
Blue Cross Must Face Michigan, U.S. Hospital Pricing Lawsuit, Court Rules

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-12T18:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/blue-cross-must-face-michigan-u-s-hospital-pricing-lawsuit-court-rules.html
Blue Cross Blue Shield of  Michigan 
lost a bid for dismissal of a joint U.S.-state lawsuit accusing
the state’s biggest health insurer of driving up competitors’
costs through preferential-pricing hospital contracts.  U.S. District Judge Denise Page Hood in Detroit today
denied the carrier’s request to throw out the lawsuit, filed
last year. The governments are challenging Blue Cross’s so-
called most favored nation, or MFN, contracts requiring
hospitals to charge its competitors at least as much as it pays,
if not more, for services.  “It is plausible that the MFNs entered into by Blue Cross
with various hospitals in Michigan establish anticompetitive
effects as to other health insurers and the cost of  health
services ,” Hood said in a 23-page opinion that put in writing a
June 7 oral ruling.  The company told the court earlier it will appeal.  Blue Cross of Michigan had revenue of more than $10 billion
in 2009 and insures more than 3 million state residents,
according to Hood’s opinion,  The governments said in the Oct. 18 complaint that the
nonprofit insurer contracted with 70 of the state’s 131 general
acute-care hospitals, comprising more than 40 percent of the
state’s acute-care beds.  In some cases, those hospitals charged rivals 30 percent to
40 percent more than Blue Cross, the U.S. Justice Department
said in a statement when the suit was filed.  Company Response  Helen Stojic, a Blue Cross spokeswoman, said today in an e-
mailed statement that the contracts “guarantee the lowest
prices for millions of people.”  “Our hospital discounts are a vital part of our statutory
mission to provide Michigan residents with statewide access to
health care at a reasonable cost,”  Jeffrey Rumley , the company
general counsel, said in the statement. “At a time when
insurance premiums are increasing because of medical costs, it
hurts consumers when attorneys attempt to remove tools that
insurers use to negotiate the lowest possible cost for medical
care in the hospital.”  The case is U.S. v. Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan,
2:10-cv-14155, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
( Detroit ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  