-- 
Bond Yields Drop Even as Kan Fails to Heed Moody’s Warning: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-08-12T03:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/bond-yields-drop-even-as-kan-fails-to-heed-moody-s-warning-japan-credit.html
When Moody’s Investors Service
warned in May it may cut  Japan ’s credit rating, it said the
government needed to generate economic growth and come up with a
plan to reduce its deficits. So far, Japan hasn’t done either.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration hasn’t specified
a target year for increasing taxes to cut the world’s largest
debt. The government reduced its growth forecast today for this
year by 66 percent, saying global economic uncertainty is among
risks to the outlook. A Moody’s decision may come this month.  The possibility of a downgrade hasn’t increased borrowing
costs in Japan, with 10-year government debt yielding 1.04
percent, the least among the 32 bond markets worldwide tracked
by Bloomberg. In the U.S., the loss of the nation’s top credit
score for the first time also pulled down Treasury yields to a
record low as investors piled into bonds as a haven from the
ensuing global stock rout.  “I see odds of more than 50 percent that Japan’s rating
will be cut,” said Akio Kato, team leader for Japanese debt in
Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs the $30
billion Global Sovereign Open fund, the country’s biggest mutual
fund. “It’s getting more uncertain that Japan’s economy will
maintain momentum, as the yen appreciates to this degree and
export demand is more likely to decline.”  Japan’s 10-year bond yield slid to 0.975 percent on Aug. 9,
the lowest since November. That compared with 1.250 percent on
Jan. 27 when  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating
for the first time in nine years.  Bond Returns  “The Japanese outlook is negative, and the main reason is
because they have been through a very sharp recession,” Kim Eng Tan, a Singapore-based S&P analyst, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. The negative outlook means there’s an “at
least one in three” chance S&P will cut the rating, he said.  Japan’s bonds have returned investors 0.2 percent in August,
set for a sixth monthly gain, according to an index compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Treasuries have returned 2
percent this month.  A Moody’s move would likely have little impact on Japanese
bonds as 95 percent of the securities are held by domestic
investors, said Tetsuya Inoue, chief researcher for financial
markets at Tokyo-based Nomura Research Institute Ltd.  Japan has posted a current-account surplus each month since
January 1985, except for four months. The surpluses allow the
nation to finance itself without relying on foreign capital. The
current account is the difference between total exports of goods,
services and transfers, and imports of them.  “Bond yields wouldn’t surge” even if there’s a rating cut
as long as that surplus remains, said Makoto Noji, a senior bond
and currency strategist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Moody’s Warning  Moody’s put the nation’s Aa2 rating on review for a
downgrade on May 31, saying that government debt will balloon
“inexorably” without an effective strategy. Decisions on
reviews are expected to be announced within three months,
according to the rating company.  Thomas Byrne , Moody’s senior
vice president, sovereign risk, wasn’t immediately available to
comment for this story.  Japan has the world’s biggest public debt, which is 23
percent larger than the U.S.’s, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The nation’s government debt increased to 943.8 trillion yen
($12.3 trillion) as of the end of June, the  Finance Ministry 
said on Aug. 10.  The country’s export-reliant economic outlook has been
clouded by slower-than-estimated U.S. growth and the yen’s
approaching a postwar high. To stem the appreciation, Japan sold
the currency last week for the third time in a year. Moody’s
said on Aug. 8 that gains in the yen even after the intervention
are “credit negative” for the nation’s “fragile” recovery.  Bank of Japan   Japan’s economy will grow 0.5 percent in the year started
April 1, compared with a January forecast for a 1.5 percent
expansion, the Cabinet Office said today. The Bank of Japan
bolstered stimulus by 10 trillion yen on Aug. 4, the same day
Japan intervened in the  currency market  for the first time since
March after a record earthquake.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual
rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the first quarter, the
Commerce Department said last month. Economists had estimated a
1.8 percent increase.  Two-year Treasury yields slid to within four basis points
of their Japanese equivalent today, the smallest spread since
1992, reducing the allure of dollar-denominated assets.  ‘Equivocal’ Plan  The yen traded at 76.89 per dollar as of 12:20 p.m. in
 Tokyo , nearing the postwar record of 76.25 reached on March 17.
A stronger local currency reduces the overseas earnings at
Japanese companies when repatriated. It also makes Japanese-made
products costlier outside the country.  Kan’s government modified a pledge to double the 5 percent
sales tax by 2015 after some ruling party members objected to a
specific deadline. The government will raise the levy to 10
percent by the “middle” of this decade, it said on June 30.  Japan will spend about 10 trillion yen in a third package
to rebuild after a record earthquake in March, Katsuya Okada,
secretary-general of the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, said
July 27. The government will fund the extra budget with bonds
that will be repaid with higher taxes, he said.  Still, the government’s “equivocal” wording for the
schedule of a tax increase is a negative for Japan’s rating,
said Kokusai’s Kato.  Credit-default swaps for Japanese debt, used to speculate
on  credit quality , rose this week. Five-year swaps climbed to
109 basis points yesterday, the most since March, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices in the privately negotiated market. A drop in price
signals improved perceptions of creditworthiness, while an
increase suggests the opposite.  “Japan will have to rely on overseas investors sometime in
the future,” said Inoue, who worked for the BOJ for more than
two decades before joining Nomura. “But if Japan’s rating is
very low at that time, it’s troublesome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  