-- 
Brazil’s GWI Funds Closed for Redemptions After Market Sell-Off, BNY Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-08-12T17:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/brazil-s-gwi-funds-closed-for-redemptions-new-investments-bny-says.html
Brazil ’s  GWI Asset Management  closed
some of its funds for at least the second time since 2008 after
the global market sell-off crushed its leveraged equity bets.  GWI, a Sao Paulo-based firm that had $270 million under
management as of June, shut nine funds for redemptions and new
investments, Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the administrator of
the funds, said in regulatory filings yesterday. Investors have
been called to an Aug. 26 meeting to determine the future of
eight of the funds, GWI said today on its website.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge plunged 17 percent in the
six days through Aug. 8 after entering a  bear market  last month
as concerns mounted that the European and U.S. debt crises are
sinking the global economy into recession. When GWI closed two
funds in October 2008 amid the global financial crisis, the firm
was one of Brazil’s top performers and oversaw the equivalent of
$1.7 billion.  “Successive portfolio losses stemming from the recent
volatility in global markets, exposure to the  derivatives market 
and significant concentration in the assets of a few issuers”
led to the closure of one of the funds, Fundo de Investimento em
Acoes GWI Private Investimento no Exterior, BNY said in one
filing.  Investors in the fund were called upon to inject money
after its asset value turned negative, BNY said. The fund had
210.2 million reais in net assets on July 1, according to data
from the securities regulator, known as CVM.  Korean Community  While BNY didn’t elaborate on the reasons for closing the
other eight funds, GWI on its website  cites  the use of leverage
strategies in some of them. GWI partner Mu Hak You, who
according to data compiled by Bloomberg manages several of the
funds, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Apart from the nine being closed, the CVM’s  website  lists
only one other GWI fund, a real-estate investment vehicle.  GWI Asset Management was founded in 1995 as a financial-
services company for Brazil’s Korean immigrant community,
according to its website. In 1998, it shifted focus to investing
in Brazilian equities. The firm’s GWI Leverage Fundo de
Investimento em Acoes fund beat at least 98 percent of peers in
2006, 2007 and 2009, during which year it soared 244 percent.  The Bovespa index’s 17 percent slide from the end of last
month through Aug. 8 was the largest for any six-day period
since October 2008. The measure has rebounded 9.6 percent
through yesterday.  Marfrig Losses  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,  Latin America ’s second-largest beef
producer, led declines during that rout with a 41 percent drop.
Funds managed by GWI were holding 5.22 percent of the company’s
common stock as of March 4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Marfrig rose 2.3 percent in Sao Paulo to 8.61 reais
at 10:59 a.m. New York time today, its first gain in 14
sessions.  The GWI Leverage fund saw net assets drop to 27.2 million
reais on Aug. 8 from 110.8 million reais on July 1, according to
CVM data. The fund, which held 65 percent of its assets in
Marfrig stock as of June 30, is down 78 percent this year
through Aug. 9 after losing 34 percent in 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The GWI Private Investimento fund, down 99 percent this
year through Aug. 8, posted a 43 percent decline in 2010. It
held 70 percent of its assets in Marfrig stock as of June 30.  Brokerages provide margin loans to customers who want to
borrow money to buy stocks. If the value of a company’s shares
decline below a certain level, the broker will issue a margin
call. The customer must then pay down the margin loan or provide
additional collateral.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  