-- 
Brown Echoes Harvard as Ivy League University Seeks Swap Exit: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-12T15:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/brown-echoes-harvard-as-ivy-leaguer-joins-swap-exit-muni-credit.html
Brown University  is unwinding an
interest-rate swap with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  that may cost
one of the world’s richest schools about $5 million.  One of eight elite Ivy League schools, Brown is joining an
exodus from the municipal swaps market sparked by the credit
crisis. States, cities and nonprofit organizations across the
U.S. have spent more than $4 billion ending the agreements since
2008, paying exit fees to Wall Street banks that sold the
derivatives as a way to lower interest costs on long-term debt.  “The basic assumptions were wrong,” said Andrew Kalotay,
a debt-management adviser based in  New York . “Under ideal
circumstance they could have worked out, but what are the
chances when you have a 30-year deal that everything would go
exactly as predicted?”  Brown, whose trustees include alumnus  Brian T. Moynihan ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s chief executive officer, began unwinding
its deal with Goldman Sachs this week. It sold $70.6 million of
bonds, refinancing debt from 2001 that was used for construction
and renovation projects on its Providence,  Rhode Island , campus.
The refinancing includes converting $53.7 million of swap-linked
variable-rate debt to a conventional fixed-rate security.  The cost to exit the swap contract, which changes with
short-term benchmark lending rates, was about $5.1 million on
June 30, according to a report from Moody’s Investors Service.
The university hasn’t determined yet when it will pay the
penalty, said Elizabeth Huidekoper, Brown’s executive vice
president for finance and administration.  Bank of America  Bank of America led banks handling the sale.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  Ruth Simmons, Brown’s president since 2001, resigned from
the Goldman Sachs board in February 2010 after 10 years. Calls
seeking comment from her spokeswoman, Marisa Quinn, weren’t
returned.  Brown, like other borrowers, is finding that swaps no
longer produce savings. The university sold the variable-rate
bonds in 2001 and has been exchanging payments with New York-
based Goldman Sachs since 2006, leaving it with a fixed annual
interest rate of about 3.9 percent, according to the offering
document. Rating companies now require the school to keep more
cash on hand to back variable-rate debt, Huidekoper said.  “There’s such a premium now put on having liquidity by the
rating agencies that you have to have a pretty big portfolio to
make it worth it,” said Huidekoper, the  former  vice president
for finance at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .
“Over the long term, we want to be more invested and not be
required to keep so much cash on hand,” she said.  Guarantees Debt  Brown guarantees its own variable-rate debt against the
possibility of market failure. Most in the municipal market pay
banks to be buyers of last resort. Banks have lifted their so-
called liquidity fees since the collapse of credit markets in
2008, which has also undermined savings from swaps.  California’s Water Resources Department paid more than $305
million to New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and other firms last
year to terminate derivatives linked to $3.7 billion of its debt
instead of paying the higher fees for liquidity.  Harvard, the world’s wealthiest school, paid $497.6 million
in December 2008 to end $1.1 billion of swaps with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs, and separately arranged to end
another $764 million of the agreements at a cost of $425
million. Harvard is the oldest member of the Ivy League, a group
of universities in the U.S. Northeast.  Comparative Yield  Brown, which charges about $53,000 a year for tuition, room
and board, sold bonds on Aug. 10 through the Rhode Island Health
and Educational Building Corp., paying a top yield of almost 3.8
percent on securities maturing in September 2032. The sale
occurred as the yield on top-rated 20-year tax-exempt securities
reached 3.5 percent yesterday, the lowest since November.  “You really have to do your work on all the universities
because there are such differences between them,” said John Bonnell, who helps oversee $3.75 billion as a  fund manager  in
 San Antonio  at USAA Investment Management Co. “We like to see
ones that are dominant market players, with very strong student
demand.”  The university, rated Aa1 by Moody’s and AA+ by  Standard &
Poor’s , one step below the top ranking for both, admitted 9
percent of applicants in 2010. Its endowment was $2.2 billion as
of June 30, 2010, the smallest in the  Ivy League  and 27th
largest in  North America ,  according to  the National Association
of College and University Business Officers.  The university expects a double-digit return for the fiscal
year that ended June 30, after a 10.2 percent gain the year
before, according to the bond-offering document.  Brown, which has about $615 million of debt, has two more
swap agreements outstanding, one with Goldman Sachs that has a
notional value of $85.5 million and another with JPMorgan on $44
million in debt, according to its most-recent financial
statement. It said in June 2010 that unwinding the larger deal
would cost about $9.6 million, while the smaller would take $9.9
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  