-- 
Bulgaria GDP Slowed in Second Quarter on Investment, Exports

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-12T11:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/bulgarian-economy-slowed-in-second-quarter-on-low-consumption.html
Bulgaria ’s economic recovery slowed
in the second quarter as investment declined and export growth
eased.  Gross domestic product rose 1.9 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a revised 3.4 percent in the previous
three months, the Sofia-based statistics institute said today in
a preliminary estimate on its website. GDP advanced 0.1 percent
in the quarter.  Bulgaria is emerging from its first recession in more than
a decade after a three-year lending boom stalled and foreign
investment dried up during the global credit crisis. The
 European Union’s  poorest country by per-capita GDP is counting
on foreign demand for its metals, machinery, textiles and
furniture to help offset weak consumption at home.  “The result is weaker than I expected,”  Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Research in  London , said by e-mail. “It’s largely due to a
sharp drop in quarterly exports.”  Exports, which are equivalent to about two thirds of GDP
and include car-parts producers such as Melexis NV and Montupet,
fell 0.5 percent in the second quarter after a 4.6 percent
increase in the previous three months, the statistics office
said. Annual growth slowed to 11.5 percent from 20 percent in
the first quarter, while imports grew 8.6 percent from a year
earlier compared with 8.9 percent.  Consumption, Investment  Household consumption rose 1.1 percent in the second
quarter from the year-earlier period after a 0.8 percent decline
in the previous three months, the office said. Public
consumption fell 2.9 percent.  January-May foreign investment fell by 56 million euros
($79.7 million), compared with 323 million euros a year ago,
according to central bank data. Retail sales fell 0.8 percent
from a year earlier in June after growing 1.7 percent in May,
the statistics office said Aug. 8.  Merrill Lynch hasn’t changed its full-year growth forecast
of 3.2 percent after the preliminary data because “domestic
demand is recovering at a healthy pace,” Tenconi said.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its full-year GDP
forecast for Bulgaria yesterday to 3 percent from 2.5 percent.
The government, which kept corporate and personal income taxes
at an EU-low of 10 percent, sees 3.6 percent growth this year.
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  estimates 2011 growth at 2.7 percent, while
 Greece ’s EFG Eurobank Ergasias predicts a 3.2 percent expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  