-- 
Cadel Evans Gets Back on His Bike as Australia Salutes Tour de France Win

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-12T04:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/cadel-evans-gets-back-on-his-bike-as-australia-salutes-tour-de-france-win.html
Tour de France  champion Cadel Evans
got back in the saddle in a homecoming parade to celebrate
becoming the first Australian winner of cycling’s most-
prestigious race.  About 25,000 people turned out today as Evans, wearing his
race winner’s yellow jersey and draped in an Australian flag,
completed a 600-meter (600 yards) ride through downtown
 Melbourne  before attending a ceremony at Federation Square.  “This is great, fantastic, everyone’s missing out on
school and work, right?” Evans, 34, said in a on-stage
interview that was broadcast live on six Australian television
channels. “Wow! I could say I’m overwhelmed but that would be
the understatement of this month at least.”  The parade was arranged after Evans decided to make a
special trip to  Australia  after last month becoming the third
non-European to win the 108-year-old Tour de  France . He hadn’t
been scheduled to return to Australia until the end of October
following end of the European cycling season.  Evans, who landed at Melbourne Airport yesterday to see his
family and take part in several functions, splits his time
between bases in  Switzerland  and Barwon Heads, a coastal town
about 40 miles southwest of Melbourne.  Evans signed autographs before scooting along at the start
of his ride. He zig-zagged the road to shake hands with people,
many of whom waved yellow flags as they lined the route.  After completing his ride, he was greeted by cheers as he
took to the stage at Federation Square.  Giant Jersey  Evans acknowledged the crowd by raising two arms in the air
before being welcomed by local officials including Victorian
state premier Ted Baillieu. A message of congratulation from
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  was also broadcast on a
giant video screen above the stage.  “In Australian sport, there has never been a greater
performance,” Baillieu said before the crowd unfurled a giant
yellow jersey with the message “Australia Congratulates
Cadel.”  Evans’s victory in the 21-stage Tour de France, which
followed runner-up finishes in 2007 and 2008, has drawn
comparisons with Australia’s greatest sporting feats.  The former mountain biker joined cricketer Donald Bradman,
swimmer Dawn Fraser and the 1983 America’s Cup-winning sailing
crew of Australia II among the nation’s greatest sporting
champions, the Age newspaper said in a July 25 opinion piece.  The  Daily Telegraph  ranked Evans’s win second amongst the
country’s sporting achievements behind  Rod Laver ’s sweeps of the
four Grand Slam tennis titles in 1962 and 1969.  “We’ve nearly conquered everything there is in sport,”
Evans said. “I’m sure something else will come up.”  Evans said he’ll fly to the U.S. tomorrow to prepare for
his next scheduled race, the inaugural USA Pro Cycling Challenge
in  Colorado  starting Aug. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  