-- 
CafePress Tests Wall Street Appetite for One-of-a-Kind Products

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/cafepress-tests-wall-street-appetite-for-one-of-a-kind-products.html
Jenn Zieser sold her first custom T-
shirt on CafePress Inc. for fun in 2006. She now makes about
$25,000 a year from the site, more than at her regular job.  Zieser, a 41-year-old from  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , is part of a
wave of entrepreneurs selling unique merchandise in online
marketplaces. CafePress, Etsy Inc., Zazzle Inc. and Spreadshirt
all help users find buyers for one-of-a-kind wares -- everything
from shirts to magnets to  iPad cozies . Now CafePress’s initial
public offering, which may come this year, will test whether
 Wall Street  is ready to embrace the concept.  Web-savvy consumers are increasingly seeking out customized
goods, said Frank Piller, a founder of the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology ’s  Smart Customization Group . The
challenge facing CafePress and its peers will be moving beyond
their status as hobby businesses, expanding sales and
withstanding the scrutiny of publicly traded companies.  “Consumers are more educated -- they are really willing to
adopt this model,” Piller said. “However, no one has proven
that you can bring it up to a large scale.”  CafePress and other would-be IPOs will have to contend with
an increasingly skittish market for public offerings. Eleven
U.S. IPOs have been withdrawn or postponed since Aug. 7, the
most in one week since 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tough Climate  Sluggish  consumer spending  also could hurt CafePress and
similar sites, said  Francis Gaskins , the president of
 IPODesktop.com , which tracks the IPO market. “They’re going
into an adverse consumer-spending climate,” he said.  Marc Cowlin, a  spokesman  for  San Mateo , California-based
CafePress, declined to comment, citing the company’s quiet
period before its IPO.  CafePress, which filed for its IPO in June, shipped 6
million items in 2010, ranging from clothing to  drinking glasses 
to blankets. The company lets customers design and purchase
products with their own text and images, or they can purchase
predesigned products from stores run by entrepreneurs.  Philip Rooke will be among those closely watching the
company’s stock-market debut. Rooke, the CEO of Leipzig,
Germany-based  Spreadshirt , said he wants to find out how the
market will value a company that specializes in customization.  Spreadshirt, like CafePress, lets users design their own T-
shirts and other apparel. In contrast to its larger competitor,
Spreadshirt gets more than half of its revenue from fulfilling
orders made through the websites of other shops. Those customers
typically don’t know they’re making purchases using
Spreadshirt’s system, Rooke said.  Selling Ideas  “The point of our platform is to bring partners’ ideas and
customers’ ideas to life, so the customer ends up with a shirt
they like and want to wear every day,” he said.  Etsy, which markets itself as  the world’s handmade
marketplace , also stands to benefit from consumers buying unique
and custom-made items, said Adam Brown, a spokesman for the
 Brooklyn , New York-based  company .  “More people will find Etsy if they want things that can
be customized,” he said. “Our vision is to really give people
a choice, give people the option to have different ways to buy
things that don’t just involve mass production.”  Etsy runs an online marketplace for buyers and sellers of
just about everything handmade, from earrings to  turtleneck dog
sweaters . Unlike CafePress, Etsy doesn’t fill orders or process
transactions. Instead, it charges a 20 cent listing fee and 3.5
percent of the price of an item when it’s sold.  Etsy Sales  Etsy’s revenue will reach $105.9 million next year, up from
$40 million in 2010, according to an estimate from  GreenCrest
Capital Management LLC . GreenCrest valued Etsy at about $300
million in the event of an IPO or acquisition -- neither of
which are currently planned, according to Brown.  Zazzle, meanwhile, offers customizable products ranging
from T-shirts to speakers. It sees itself as a technology
company, and is focused on giving customers a highly realistic
impression of what their clothing or accessories will look like,
said Jason Kang, vice president of marketing at  Redwood City ,
California-based  Zazzle .  “While you can’t touch the shirt, we allow you to zoom in
and see the fabric and the way the colors are going to look on
that fabric,” Kang said. “We’re working toward advancing the
realness factor of these products.”  Some of the companies may become takeover targets, rather
than IPOs. Spreadshirt’s Rooke said several buyers -- both
private-equity firms and clothing companies -- have expressed
interest in purchasing his business.  ‘Interested Parties’  “We’ve had several interested parties that are currently
in discussions with our shareholders,” Rooke said, without
naming them. He also declined to provide details on the
company’s finances, though he said Spreadshirt is profitable.  At CafePress, merchants set their own prices, and then keep
the difference between that number and the amount CafePress
charges for supplies. There also are bonuses for shopkeepers who
sell more items. CafePress sells products through its own
marketplace as well, giving designers a 10 percent commission.  The hurdle for CafePress is making a profit while
fulfilling many small orders -- the average order size is about
$50. In the first six months of 2011, CafePress swung to a loss
of $960,000, from a profit of $140,000 in the year-ago period.
Sales rose 46 percent to $69.4 million.  Using the site has been profitable for Zieser. After
selling her first shirt before Thanksgiving in 2006 -- it was
emblazoned with the word “turkey” -- the monthly checks started
growing. So she began spending more time thinking up catchy
slogans for her products. Now the revenue exceeds the income
from her job tutoring children.  Her best-seller? A  design  with the slogan “Choose Your
Weapon” and an image of cooking utensils.  “It kind of was a hobby that turned into a profitable
business,” Zieser said. “It was fun, so I didn’t really think
of it as work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  