-- 
California Pro Paddler Rojas Wins Charity Race Around Manhattan for Autism

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-12T19:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/california-pro-paddler-rojas-wins-charity-race-around-manhattan-for-autism.html
Professional Rob Rojas won the
 O’Neill SEA Paddle NYC  today, covering the 26.5-mile water
course from Manhattan’s West Side to the Brooklyn Bridge in 3
hours, 56 minutes.  Annabel Anderson of  New Zealand  was the top women’s
finisher, and second in the entire field, in 4:11, race
spokeswoman Shannon Furey said in an e-mail.  The race went up the  Hudson River , into the Harlem River at
the northern tip of Manhattan and down the East River to the
Brooklyn Bridge. Racers competing standing up, paddling on
oversized surfboards.  Samantha Cerone, a hedge-fund analyst who specializes in
distressed assets, finished in under six hours, and Dan Jones, a
managing director of mortgage sales and trading at Gleacher &
Co. Securities, completed the course in just over seven hours,
according to Furey.  Today’s race included 165 paddlers from as far away as
 Hawaii , New Zealand and  Mexico . Every participant was required
to raise at least $1,000 to be split between the  Surfers’
Environmental Alliance  and eight autism foundations. The race
expects to raise a total of $350,000, down $50,000 from last
year, according to race co-founder and SEA executive director
Andrew Mencinsky.  “The event means a lot, obviously this is for a great
cause,” Rojas, 37, said in an e-mailed statement. “We’re in
 New York City  and who doesn’t want to win in  New York  City?”  Winning History  Rojas won the  Hennessey’s International Paddleboard
Championships  in  San Diego  last year and is the first stand-up
paddle athlete to be sponsored by O’Neill, according to the
clothing company’s website. The San Clemente,  California ,
resident is a former swimmer at the  University of Virginia  and
was introduced to stand-up paddle after graduating.  Cerone, 27, left Schultze Asset Management LLC last month
to pursue a business degree at  Columbia University . She started
stand-up paddling two years ago and said she was inspired to
compete this year after requiring help to complete last year’s
race.  “When I got to the finish line and people were
congratulating me, I had this empty feeling that I didn’t
deserve to be congratulated,” Cerone said in a telephone
interview, referring to her 2010 finish. “At that moment I said
to myself, ‘Next year I am going to do it right.’”  Jones, who first competed in 2009, finished a little over
an hour behind Cerone, Furey said. The 43-year-old trained for
the race mostly on weekends in Spring Lake,  New Jersey .  The race originated in 2007 with fewer than 40 participants
and has grown along with the sport, which retailers, rental
sites and participants say is expanding. Jones said he has at
least 10 colleagues in his office who are practicing or shopping
for paddleboards.  At  New York Kayak Co.  on Pier 40 along  Manhattan ’s West
Side, where today’s race began, stand-up paddle sales have
quintupled in the past year, and grown to between 15 to 20
percent of the company’s business, owner Randall Henriksen said
in an interview.  Rojas won $1,500 as the fastest man and Anderson won $1,000
as the fastest woman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 