-- 
Canadian Dollar Declines on Lowest U.S. Confidence Since 1980

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-12T21:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/canadian-dollar-declines-on-lowest-u-s-confidence-since-1980.html
Canada ’s dollar fell after a report
showed confidence among consumers in the U.S., the nation’s
biggest trade partner, plunged to the lowest since May 1980.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known, posted a
third consecutive weekly loss as concern the global economic
recovery is stalling prompted a selloff in riskier assets,
boosting the U.S. currency as a haven.  “The whole risk unwind that we had over the last few days,
with equity markets falling heavily and flows back into U.S.
assets, hit all those activity-sensitive currencies,” said Tom Levinson, a currency strategist at ING Groep NV, by phone from
 London , referring to the dollars of Canada,  Australia  and  New
Zealand . “If you look at the many barometers of risk out there,
they still suggest that things are somewhat stressed.”  The loonie depreciated 0.3 percent to 98.73 cents per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.42 cents yesterday,
extending the weekly drop to 0.5 percent. The currency slid on
Aug. 9 to C$1.0010, the weakest level since Feb. 1. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0128.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell 0.3
percent to $85.43 a barrel in  New York , extending its weekly
drop to 1.7 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased
0.5 percent, reducing its five-day drop to 1.7 percent. The
S&P/TSX Composite Index, unchanged today, registered a 3.1
percent increase during the five days.  The  S&P 500 Index  has fallen 14 percent from a three-year
high at the end of April on concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis is getting worse, signs the global economy is slowing and
S&P’s downgrade of the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating.  Government Bonds  Government two-year bonds fell, pushing the yield up two
basis points to 0.93 percent. It dropped on Aug. 9 to 0.783
percent, the lowest level in Bloomberg records dating to 1989.  The Canadian currency pared losses earlier today after a
government report showed retail sales in the U.S. climbed in
July by the most in four months.  The loonie has outperformed about half its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week, posting its biggest drop against the
yen, a 2.7 percent decline. It has risen by the widest margin
versus the South African rand, advancing 3.1 percent.  The Canadian dollar “has held in pretty well after the
parity fiasco earlier this week,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst
in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said
via e-mail. “Investors still favor buying the Canadian dollar
on  U.S. dollar  rallies. Once we get back to trading
fundamentals, it should be a thumbs-up to wanting to own some
Canadian dollars in your portfolio.”  Popplewell predicted the loonie will end the year at 98
cents per U.S. dollar. ING’s Levinson said he sees it
appreciating to 92 cents against the greenback, as the  U.S.
economy  improves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  