-- 
Capitec to Maintain Growth Rate for Next 5 Years, ‘Resistant’ to Takeover

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-08-12T10:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/capitec-to-maintain-growth-rate-for-next-5-years-resistant-to-takeover.html
Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI) ,  South
Africa ’s fastest-growing bank, can maintain its rate of adding
at least 50 branches a year for the next five years, Chief
Executive Riaan Stassen said.  The lender, which provides unsecured loans and
transactional savings accounts, also aims to double the number
of point-of-sale terminals it installs to 5,000 a month over the
next two years, he said. Capitec has 10,000 point-of-sale
terminals, electronic devices that allow clients to withdraw
cash, check balances or make loan repayments, in South Africa.  “There is a huge opportunity to broaden banking,” Stassen
said in an interview at the company’s head office in
Stellenbosch, near Cape Town, yesterday. Branches, which cost
about 1 million rand ($138,000) each to open, become profitable
within six months of starting, he said.  Capitec, which has 470 outlets across Africa’s largest
economy and 3.25 million active customers, adds about 90,000
clients a month by offering transactional accounts that have
less complicated fee structures than those of larger rivals
Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  and  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) 
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South Africa’s fourth-largest bank, added
94,000 new retail clients in the six months through June.  The lender, which adds 200 workers a month to the 6,000 it
currently employs, is looking at improving “efficiencies” that
will further drive down its costs over the next year, Stassen
said, declining to elaborate on the initiatives.  African Bank
Investments Ltd. (ABL) , based in Johannesburg, is South Africa’s
largest provider of unsecured loans.  ‘Protect The Market’  Over the next year, Capitec will assess how customers
behave with an increased loan facility of up 120,000 rand over a
60 month period at an average interest rate of 22 percent before
considering whether loan sizes and periods will increase, he
said. This follows African Bank’s strategy of increasing credit
over longer periods to its best clients.  “We’re not rushing in,” Stassen said. “We need to
protect the market from itself.”  Capitec, started in 2001 amid the collapse of small-loans
provider Unifer Holdings Ltd., is “very resistant to be taken
over by a financial institution,” Stassen said, adding that the
lender aligns itself more with retailers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  