-- 
Cemex’s 13% Yields Lure Citigroup After Record Bond Plunge: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-12T18:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/cemex-s-13-yields-lure-citigroup-after-record-bond-plunge-mexico-credit.html
Cemex SAB’s bonds are yielding more
than twice the average for Mexican corporate debt, prompting
Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc to recommend buying the notes in
a bet the company’s cement sales will weather the global
economic slowdown.  Yields on Cemex’s dollar bonds due in 2016 soared 207 basis
points in the past week, the most since the bonds were issued in
December 2009, to 13.09 percent, according to data compiled
Bloomberg data. The average yield on Mexican corporate debt rose
one basis point in the same period to 6.31 percent, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. data show. Borrowing costs for Latin American
companies that share Cemex’s rating jumped 86 points as slowing
U.S. growth sparked a sell-off.  Cemex’s yield surge is unwarranted because the largest
cement maker in the Americas will weather slowing growth in
 Mexico  and the U.S. enough to service bank debt it refinanced
during in 2009 to avoid default, said  Christopher Buck , a
corporate debt analyst at Barclays. Weakening demand from the
U.S., the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports,
prompted Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Bank of America Corp. to cut their growth forecasts for the
Latin American country this month.  “Bonds look incredibly cheap,” Buck said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “Even in a worst-case scenario if we
see a contraction in overall gross domestic product in Mexico at
some point down the line, we don’t believe that you’ll see a
massive contraction in cement consumption.”  Treasury Spread  Cemex’s bonds yield 1,179 basis points more than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mexican  government bonds  due the same year yield 2.37
percent. The company is rated B by Standard and Poor’s, five
levels below investment grade and six steps below Mexico.  Cemex, based in Monterrey, Mexico, has 4.1 billion pesos
($334 million) of local bonds and about $195 million of bank
debt outside the financing agreement that matures through the
end of 2013, making a default unlikely, said Eric Ollom, a
credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. The company has repaid $7.5
billion of the $15 billion  bank loan  refinancing it obtained in
August 2009 that helped it avoid default.  The company’s net debt relative to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose to 7.16
times at the end of June. A covenant under Cemex’s bank
agreement calls for the ration to be at 7 times or below. It
reported a net loss of $294 million in the second quarter on
July 22. While sales in Mexico rose 4.9 percent to $968 million,
they tumbled 9.5 percent in the U.S. to $619 million.  ‘Good Time’  “It’s a good time to buy the bonds if you can stomach the
volatility,” Ollom, who recommends investors buy Cemex’s notes
due in 2018, said in a telephone interview from New York. “It
seems to have bottomed out. The market still has concerns
regarding growth, profits, and bank covenants, but few believe a
default is forthcoming.”  Jorge Perez , a Cemex spokesman in the Monterrey suburb of
San Pedro Garza Garcia, declined to comment on the performance
of the company’s bonds.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points
to 189 as of 2:34 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 12.2816 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December 2012 was unchanged at 5.05 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis point to 161 yesterday, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Policy makers lowered on Aug. 10 their economic growth
forecasts for this year to a range of 3.8 percent to 4.8 percent
from as much as 5 percent. The bank also cut its estimate for
2012.  “The balance of risks for growth in the Mexican economy
has deteriorated,” the bank said in its quarterly report.  Concern the expansion in the U.S. is slowing mounted after
S&P cut the country’s AAA rating on Aug. 5, triggering a global
rout. Federal Reserve officials said this week that growth is
“considerably slower” than anticipated. The  U.S. economy ,
Cemex’s biggest foreign market, may grow 2.5 percent this year
after expanding 3 percent in 2010, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 65 economists.  Stock Sinks  “One of the main markets for the company is the U.S.,”
Nuria Jorba Arimany, a credit analyst at Union Bancaire Privee
in Zurich, said in a telephone interview. “That justifies Cemex
being one of the bonds that have suffered the most in the recent
selloff.”  Fitch Ratings today revised Cemex’s credit rating outlook
to stable from positive because of “anemic prospects” for
private construction to recover in the U.S., where cement
consumption plummeted to 70 million tons last year from 127
million tons in 2006. Fitch left Cemex’s credit rating at B.  “A vibrant U.S. construction market is crucial to the
recovery of Cemex’s credit profile,” Fitch said in a statement.  Cemex’s stock fell 5.7 percent in the past week, the sixth
worst performer in Mexico’s benchmark IPC Index.  Rinker Debt  Cemex ran into debt troubles after borrowing to pay $14.2
billion for Rinker Group Ltd. in July 2007 on the bet that a
decline in the U.S. housing market, which began in 2006, would
be temporary. Housing starts on an annual basis have dropped to
629,000 in June from a record high of 2.27 million in January
2006.  The company has issued $2.45 billion of debt overseas,
making it the biggest Mexican corporate issuer, to repay bank
debt. It is scheduled to make $8.1 billion in debt payments in
2014, the most in a single year for the company.  The yield on Cemex’s bonds due in 2018 rose 33 basis points
yesterday to 13.56 percent, while the price sank 1.22 cents on
the dollar to 80.97 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “At a price in the low 80s, a trader would have to think
it would default to push it lower on a price basis,”
Citigroup’s Ollom said. “I don’t think that will happen. The
company has time to fix itself before 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  