-- 
Chicago Spot Gasoline Strengthens to Highest Premium Since June

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-12T20:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/chicago-spot-gasoline-strengthens-to-highest-premium-since-june.html
Spot gasoline in  Chicago 
strengthened to its highest premium versus futures since June 3
on speculation that work at BP Plc’s refinery in Whiting,
Indiana, tightened supplies.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Chicago gained 2.37
cents to 6 cents a gallon against futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  as of 4:06 p.m. East Coast time, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel began trading at a
premium earlier this week for the first time since July 5.  “BP Whiting is obviously the heart and soul of the Chicago
gasoline market,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research
at PFGBest in Chicago. “Whenever there’s a hiccup there, the
gasoline market in Chicago goes crazy.”  BP returned a crude unit to service at the plant after
completing maintenance, a person with knowledge of the situation
told Bloomberg yesterday. The unit, known as Pipestill 11C, was
closed for work on a furnace in late July, another person said
earlier this month.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the Midwest, or Group
3, narrowed 75 cents to a discount of 1.5 cents a gallon. The
fuel weakened yesterday for the first time in five days.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Memphis refinery may not be back at
full production for at least 60 days, Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam said in a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency
earlier this week. The plant was shut after a fire last week.  The discount for conventional gasoline in the  Gulf Coast 
was unchanged at 9 cents a gallon.  Conventional unleaded gasoline to be blended with ethanol,
or CBOB, in New York Harbor was unchanged at 4.38 cents a gallon
over futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  