-- 
CGE Rises Most Since 2008 After Shareholders End Accord

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-12T18:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/chile-s-cge-gains-after-controlling-shareholders-end-accord.html
Cia. General de Electricidad SA, a
Chilean energy holding company, rose the most in almost three
years after announcing the end of an accord among its
controllers that limited management’s ability to make
investments and take other actions without their consent.  CGE rose 9.1 percent to 2,580 pesos at 2:06 p.m. New York
time, the steepest gain since October 2008  Chile’s Marin and Hornauer families announced the end of
the shareholder pact, which also included the Perez-Cruz family,
in a  filing  to regulators yesterday. It didn’t give reasons for
the termination.  “The shareholder pact set too many conditions on what the
company could do and there were internal squabbles among members
of the pact regarding the management of the company,” Jorge Donoso, an analyst at Santiago-based brokerage Larrain Vial SA,
said in a telephone interview today.  The Marin and Hornauer families together own about 44
percent of the company, while the Perez-Cruz family has 11
percent, according to yesterday’s filing, which added that the
Marin and Hornauers share ideas in common “regarding the
control and influence in CGE’s management.”  The Perez-Cruz family has become a minority voice in the
company, Donoso said.  The problems between the controlling shareholders began
five years ago after the death of Chairman Gabriel Del Real,
Santiago-based newspaper La Tercera wrote, without saying where
it obtained the information. Development plans implemented by
his successor, Jorge Marin, were opposed by the Perez-Cruz
family, particularly regarding the number of board members and
executive appointments.  Pilar Alamos, deputy communications manager of CGE, said
the company wouldn’t comment on the reasons the pact was ended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  