-- 
Chile May Have Lost 8% of Copper Output on Weather, Strikes

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C r a z e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-12T18:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/chile-may-have-lost-8-of-national-copper-output-codelco-says.html
Chile , the world’s largest copper
producer, may have lost about 8 percent of its output this year
because of adverse weather, strikes and project delays, Codelco
Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said.  Production has been hurt by weather problems, especially in
Chile’s north, as well as workers protests, he said today in an
interview at the company’s El Teniente mine. Santiago-based
Codelco, the world’s top producer, may miss its output target
for the year after union action and weather-related problems,
Chairman Gerardo Jofre said in a separate interview.  “If we add this all up we get a significant impact on
estimated production, perhaps about 8 percent of national
output,” Hernandez said. The lost output is “not
recoverable,” he said.  Copper prices have climbed 22 percent in the past year as
production at mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
Rio Tinto Group were affected by falling ore grades, labor
disputes and adverse weather. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in
an Aug. 8 report that copper will climb to $11,000 a metric ton
in 12 month as supplies tighten because of growth in emerging
economies. Copper for delivery in three months fell $16, or 0.2
percent, to $8,865 a ton on the London Metal Exchange today as
of 1:55 p.m. New York time.  Workers at BHP’s Escondida unit in Chile agreed on Aug. 5
to accept a package of benefits to end a two-week strike at the
world’s biggest copper mine. Codelco workers staged a one-day
stoppage July 12 in the first companywide strike since 1993.  Chile’s state-owned Codelco expects prices for the metal to
remain at current levels for the rest of 2011, Hernandez said.
Falling demand has mitigated the loss of output, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  