-- 
China’s Lending Slips to Less-Than-Forecast $77 Billion as Economy Cools

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-12T08:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/china-s-lending-slips-to-less-than-forecast-77-billion-as-economy-cools.html
China ’s new lending sank to the
least this year in July and  money supply  expanded at a slower
pace, adding to signs the fastest-growing major economy is
cooling as the global recovery falters.  Lending of 492.6 billion yuan ($77 billion) was less than
the 550 billion yuan median estimate in a Bloomberg News Survey
of 21 economists and 633.9 billion yuan in June. M2, the
broadest measure of money supply, rose 14.7 percent after a 15.9
percent gain in June. The People’s Bank of China released the
data on its website today.  China may have limited room for more stimulus in the event
of a global slowdown as officials grapple with inflation at a
three-year high and the risk that loans to local government
investment vehicles will sour. Plunging stock markets have
signaled investors’ concern at a widening European debt crisis
and weakness in the  U.S. economy .  “Today’s data should reassure Beijing that rate hikes and
other measures are having the intended effect of tightening
credit conditions and reducing upward pressure on inflation,”
said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based emerging-market strategist
at Royal Bank of  Canada .  The Shanghai Composite Index closed 0.5 percent higher,
before the data was released.  Reserve Ratios  The central bank has paused for eight weeks in raising
lenders’ reserve requirements, the longest gap since the latest
series of increases began in November, as smaller companies
complain of funding shortages. The central bank, which has
raised  interest rates  five times since mid-October, won’t move
again this year, according to eight of 10 analysts surveyed on
Aug. 9.  “Beijing is now in a wait-and-see mode regarding policy
stance,” said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. With inflation likely to moderate to 4
percent to 4.5 percent by the end of the year, “it’s quite safe
to expect no rate and reserve ratio hikes in the second half,”
Lu said.  Consumer prices climbed 6.5 percent in July from a year
earlier after a 6.4 percent increase the previous month, the
statistics bureau said Aug. 9. The nation’s top economic
planning agency said this week that inflation is approaching a
peak and is likely to moderate in the second half because of a
favorable base effect.  China’s gross domestic product grew 9.5 percent in the
second quarter, slowing from a 9.7 percent gain in the first
three months of this year. Industrial production and fixed-asset
investment both expanded at a less-than-estimated pace last
month, adding to signs that the economy is slowing.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  