-- 
China’s PBOC Concerned at Debt Levels in U.S., Contagion Risk From Europe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-12T19:46:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/china-central-bank-says-debt-level-in-u-s-developed-nations-worrisome-.html
China ’s central bank said that the
U.S. faces “debt sustainability” risks in the medium- and
long-term, the latest expression of concern from the nation that
is America’s biggest creditor.  “Developed countries’ debt problems are worrisome” and
may restrain a longer-term global recovery, the People’s Bank of
China said in a  quarterly monetary policy report  on its website
yesterday. In addition, the euro zone’s debt woes may spread to
“key nations,” it said.  At the same time, the risk of a U.S. default has been
“basically eliminated in the short term” after the raising of
the government’s debt ceiling, it said.  The central bank expressed confidence that the expansion of
the Chinese economy will be sustained, citing factors including
urbanization, the construction of low-cost housing and the
potential for big gains in consumption. Fighting inflation will
remain the top priority in the second half of this year and
monetary policy will remain “prudent,” the report said.  China owns $1.16 trillion of U.S. Treasuries, more than any
other nation.  Elevated unemployment in the U.S. and other developed
countries will curb global demand, the central bank said. It
said that China is likely to see net foreign-exchange inflows in
the second half.  Capital Inflows  “Extremely loose international monetary conditions are
hard to reverse in the short term and a large amount of capital
is still likely to flow into relatively fast-growing emerging
countries,” it said in the statement.  The People’s Bank of China repeated a pledge to improve the
yuan exchange-rate mechanism and to keep the currency
“basically stable” at a reasonable and balanced level. The
Chinese currency rose to a 17-year high this week as policy
makers sought to counter accelerating inflation.  “The foundation of stabilizing prices is still not solid
enough, and the situation is not optimistic,” it said.  Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent last month and inflation
has exceeded the government’s full-year target of 4 percent each
month this year. Gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent in
the second quarter, slowing from a 9.7 percent gain in the first
three months.  The central bank said it will employ “multiple policy
tools” such as  interest rates , exchange rates and bank reserve
requirements to manage liquidity.  The economy is headed in the direction expected as a result
of macro-control measures, it said.  “Keeping the economy growing at a steady and appropriate
pace and returning it to a sustainable level is both conducive
to rein in the relatively rapid price increases and to adjust
the economic structure and growth mode in the long term,” the
statement said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  