-- 
China Said to Tell Banks to Tighten Property Lending as Curbs Take Effect

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-12T03:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/china-regulators-said-to-tell-banks-to-tighten-curbs-on-property-lending.html
Chinese regulators have told banks
to tighten lending for real estate on concern credit risks will
increase as the impact of government curbs deepens in the next
three to five months, a person familiar with the matter said.  The  China  Banking Regulatory Commission told lenders last
month not to extend the maturity of loans to developers, not to
grant new credit to help developers repay maturing debt and to
set significantly higher standards on loans for commercial
properties than residential, the person said, declining to be
identified as the discussions were private.  The regulator aims to guard against the risk of bad loans
should government efforts to cool the market cause property
prices to fall. China’s home prices rose at the slowest pace in
11 months in July after the government imposed limits on
purchases, mortgages and land sales as part of a campaign that’s
lasted for more than a year.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, fell 1.2 percent to 8.45 yuan as of 10:23 a.m. in
Shenzhen trading. The nation’s benchmark  Shanghai  Composite
Index rose 0.6 percent. Poly Real Estate Group Co. dropped 0.5
percent and Gemdale Corp. fell 0.2 percent in Shanghai.  The market rout this month sparked by concerns the global
economy may be faltering won’t persuade Chinese regulators to
ease their efforts to rein in property, said Minzu Securities Co.
analyst Cui Juan.  Implement Rules  The banking regulator, in an e-mailed response to questions,
said banks should enhance their monitoring of non-residential
property loans, including commercial property-collateralized
loans and consumer loans. Lenders should also prevent bank loans
from “illegally flowing” into the property market, it said.  “In the second half, the CBRC will urge banks to
consistently implement regulatory requirements,” according to
the e-mailed statement.  The regulator’s efforts to protect banks from the effects
of a possible plunge in property prices have included stress
tests, mortgage restrictions and increased capital requirements.
 Liu Mingkang , head of the regulator, told  China Central
Television  last month that the nation’s banks can withstand as
much as a 50 percent drop in property prices.  China’s home prices rose at the slowest pace in 11 months
in July, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., operator of the
nation’s biggest property website. The State Council, China’s
cabinet, said last month it will expand measures aimed at
curbing home prices to smaller cities after limiting purchases
in the largest urban areas including Beijing and Shanghai.  Price Gains  Last year, property prices in China’s 70 biggest cities
rose by more than 9 percent for nine consecutive months,
according to government data. The peak increase was in May 2010,
when prices gained 12.8 percent from a year earlier.  The banking regulator told lenders that land auction
failures in the first half, falling  home prices  in some cities
and funding difficulties for smaller developers were among signs
that property curbs were taking effect, the person said.  China failed to sell 353 parcels of land at auction in the
first seven months of this year, 242 percent more than the same
period a year earlier, the Beijing Times reported on Aug. 3,
citing Beijing Homelink Real Estate Co.  Twenty six out of China’s 70 biggest cities tracked by the
National Bureau of Statistics reported either a decline or no
change in home prices in June as compared with May, six more
than the previous month, according to the bureau. Data also
showed that price gains slowed in 24 cities.  Commercial Property  Banks were told to be particularly alert to risks in
commercial properties, where the regulator said speculative
funds are increasingly flowing because of curbs in the
residential market, according to the person. A 75.5 percent
surge in developers’ funding from overseas in the first half was
also seen by the regulator as evidence of hot money entering the
property market, the person said.  “Overall monetary tightening may ease if the external
environment continues worsening, but restrictions on the
property market are unlikely to relax in the near term,” Minzu
Securities’s Cui said. “Property curbs have yet to see obvious
effects and they need to be enhanced and deepened.”  Concerns the global economy may be faltering and  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating have contributed to
a more than 4 percent drop in China’s benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index this month.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index have all
fallen by more than 9 percent in the same period.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  