-- 
China Rate Swaps Have Third Weekly Slide on Global Slowdown

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-12T09:03:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/china-rate-swaps-set-for-third-weekly-drop-on-global-slowdown.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps dropped
for a third week on speculation the central bank won’t use
interest rates to quell inflation as the global economy cools.  The one-year contract declined to its lowest level in
almost two months yesterday as the yuan jumped by the most since
November. The People’s Bank of China may rely more on currency
appreciation to ease imported inflation, the China Securities
Journal said in a front-page commentary today. The  Shanghai 
Composite Index of shares lost 4 percent this month.  “External uncertainties are rising and stocks are weak so
it’s hard to continue tightening aggressively,” said Ju Wang, a
fixed-income strategist for Asian emerging markets at  Barclays
Capital  in Singapore. “Policy is shifting toward yuan
appreciation instead of interest rates to fight inflation, at
least for the time being.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, slid 29 basis
points this week to 3.57 percent as of 4:38 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, today and reached 3.54
percent yesterday, the lowest level since June 14.  The yuan strengthened 0.8 percent this week, the most since
2007, to 6.3895 per dollar in Shanghai, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a measure of interbank
funding availability, fell seven basis points this week to 3.085
percent and was two basis points lower today, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center.  ‘Contagious Impact’  The central bank has increased  interest rates  five times
since September and raised major lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios to a record 21.5 percent, policies that pushed the seven-
day repurchase rate to a three-year high of 9.20 percent on June
24. Consumer prices climbed 6.5 percent from a year earlier in
July, after increasing 6.4 percent the previous month, the
statistics bureau said on Aug. 9.  “We do not expect the PBOC to hike domestic interest rates
mostly because of the deteriorating outlook of the U.S. and
 Europe ’s economic growth and the contagious impact on China,”
said Linan Liu, an interest-rate strategist at Deutsche Bank AG
in  Hong Kong .  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bonds due June
2016 dropped 10 basis points this week to 3.83 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center. The rate rose five
basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  