-- 
Citadel Slashes Distressed-Bond, Loan Team Amid Investment Bank Sale Talks

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-08-12T14:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/citadel-slashes-distressed-bond-loan-team-amid-investment-bank-sale-talks.html
Citadel LLC’s securities unit
slashed its distressed debt and loan team as the $11 billion
hedge fund founded by  Ken Griffin  tries to sell its investment
bank.  Art de Pena, Patrick McCarthy, Dan Newman and Grenville Day
are among sales people, analysts and traders whose positions
were eliminated yesterday, according to four people familiar
with the situation. Others include Evan Kaufman, Keshav Lall,
Neal Jhaveri, and Tiffany Teitel, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the moves aren’t public.  Citadel, which was founded by Ken Griffin, is in talks to
shed its securities brokerage after trading volumes of high-
yield debt fell in July to the lowest level since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investor concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis is intensifying has sent leveraged loan
prices to the lowest in more than a year, while distressed bonds
are declining the most since October 2008.  Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Citadel, declined to
comment. Kaufman, Lall, Jhaveri, Day, Teitel, de Pena, McCarthy
and Newman either declined comment or couldn’t be reached.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
has dropped for 14 days to 88.2 cents on the dollar, the lowest
since July 2010. A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of U.S.
distressed debt has lost 11 percent this month.  Citadel has been looking for buyers to hire its investment
bankers and take over any obligations to its employees,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The company
talked to  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, about the Paris-based bank taking
on a team of fixed-income salespeople and traders, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private. No deal has been struck, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  