-- 
Clinton Urges Syria Allies to Get on ‘Right Side of History’

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-13T09:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/clinton-urges-syria-s-allies-to-cut-of-trade-arms-sales-to-assad-regime.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged nations doing business with Syria to cut off trade
and arms sales to the regime of President Bashar al-Assad and
“get on the right side of history.”  Citing a “crescendo of condemnation” against Assad’s
five-month crackdown on protesters, Clinton used an appearance
with reporters at the State Department yesterday to make a
public appeal for increasing the international pressure building
against the Syrian government.  “We urge those countries still buying Syrian oil and gas,
those countries still sending Assad weapons, those countries
whose political and economic support give him comfort in his
brutality, to get on the right side of history,” Clinton said.  The revolt against Assad’s rule began in March after the
leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  were toppled in uprisings and
unrest spread to Bahrain and Yemen. Syria, whose oil production
is declining, produces about 386,000 barrels of crude a day and
has the ninth-largest oil reserves in the  Middle East , according
to data from BP Plc.  “We are consulting closely with partners around the world
and we expect to see action,” Clinton said. While she declined
to name any specific countries doing business with Syria during
the press conference, she singled out  China , India and  Russia  in
an Aug. 11 interview with  CBS News .  Chinese Investments  “We want to see China take steps with us,” Clinton told
CBS, according to a transcript of the interview. “We want to
see  India , because India and China have large energy investments
inside of Syria. We want to see Russia cease selling arms to the
Assad regime.”  Syrian security forces have killed at least 56 anti-
government protesters in the past four days in the eastern town
of Deir al-Zour, the central province of Homs, the northern
governorate of Idlib and in the southern part of Daraa, where
the uprising began, said Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria.  At least 17 protesters died yesterday in Homs, Idlib, the
Hama governorate, the city of Aleppo, Deir al-Zour and suburbs
of the capital, Damascus, as thousands marched, said Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights. While
Syrian forces moved into the coastal city of Latakia and imposed
a curfew overnight, the country was relatively quiet early
today, with no injuries or casualties reported, Merhi said.  Rising Death Toll  At least three people died from injuries sustained in
protests after prayers late yesterday,  Al Arabiya  reported
today, citing activists. Two died in Deir al-Zour and one in
Albu Kamal, it said.  Merhi and Qurabi, who compile the names of the dead, say
Assad’s forces have killed more than 2,400 protesters and
detained thousands since the revolt began. Syrian security
forces have detained more than 30,000 people, with some in
cages, according to State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland.  “We are trying and succeeding at putting together an
international effort so there will be no temptation on the part
of anyone inside the Assad regime to claim that it’s only the
 United States , or maybe that it’s only the West,” Clinton said
yesterday. “Indeed, it’s the entire world. We’re making the
case to our international partners to intensify the financial
and political pressure to get the Syrian government to cease its
brutality against its own citizens.”  Work ‘Paying Off’  Pointing to a recent United Nations statement against the
Syrian regime and condemnation of the violence by both the  Arab
League  and the Gulf Cooperation Council, Clinton said, “There’s
a lot of work going on and I think that work is paying off.”  “Defections in the army are increasing, we are in the
hundreds now and will be in the thousands shortly,” Hussein
Harmoush, a lieutenant colonel who split from the military in
June and is the spokesman for the Free Arab Syrian Army, said in
a phone interview yesterday from  Syria , near the border with
 Turkey .  Harmoush, 39, who served in the army since 1991, said he
and other defectors left when their mission “changed from
protecting the state and preserving order to killing innocent
people.” He said the defector forces don’t actively engage
government troops in battle and are present at protests in a
“protective capacity to defend protesters.”  At least two members of the security forces were killed by
gunmen in the Damascus suburb of Douma, the state-run SANA news
agency reported yesterday. More than 500 members of the forces
have died since the start of the unrest, according to the
government.  Syria’s economic growth is forecast to slow to 3 percent
this year from 3.2 percent in 2010, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in April, while the  Institute of International Finance 
estimates the economy may contract 3 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  