-- 
Colombia Bank’s Global Concerns Boosts Chance for Pause

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-08-12T19:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/colombia-bank-s-global-concerns-boosts-chance-for-pause-1-.html
Colombian policy makers last month
raised  interest rates  only after a detailed discussion of
inflation, accelerating economic growth and the threat posed by
a global economic slowdown, heightening the possibility they
will keep the rate unchanged next week.  In the second consecutive split decision, the central bank
raised the benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 4.50 percent on
July 29 over the dissent of at least one board member, who
argued for a pause and said additional rate increases might
boost inflows and fan inflation.  “While internal variables remain positive, the external
context is very somber,” said Julian Marquez, an analyst at
Bogota-based Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage, in an
e-mailed  note  to investors. “We expect a pause at the August
meeting.”  Since the seven-member  board  met last month, global
markets have tumbled as the European debt crisis and  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of  U.S. debt  have shaken investor confidence in
a worldwide recovery.  Peru ’s central bank kept its benchmark
rate unchanged yesterday for a third month, citing rising global
risks. Chilean and Brazilian policy makers this month may also
decide to pause given current market turbulence, BNP Paribas
said in a report this week.  “For the remainder of 2012 developed economies will
confront limited growth,” according to minutes of the meeting.
“The rhythm of expansion will probably remain under historic
averages due to the high levels of indebtedness and increasing
financial costs.”  ‘Dynamism’  Colombia’s policy makers have raised borrowing costs by 150
basis points in 2011, the third most among the inflation
targeting central banks in  Latin America  after Chile and Brazil.  While inflation remains within the bank’s 2 percent to 4
percent target range, the annual rate rose to a two-year high of
3.42 percent in July and a majority of the board’s members
expressed concern about a rapid expansion of domestic demand.  Among reasons for voting to raise, the members pointed to
“the dynamism in the Colombian economy led especially by
household consumption and investment in public works projects.”
Business and home credit is increasing “significantly above
gross domestic product” because real interest rates remain at
historically low levels, they said.  Total gross lending rose 23 percent in May from a year
earlier -- eclipsing  Brazil ’s 20 percent pace -- to a record
191.2 trillion pesos ($107.3 billion).  Local, Global View  Most policy makers said Colombia’s accelerating economy,
which Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said yesterday may
grow as much as 7 percent in the third quarter, suggests a
closing output gap in the second half of 2011. They discussed
“ever increasing” bank lending and  consumer debt .  Growth in the second quarter would likely be similar to the
first quarter when it expanded a year-on-year 5.1 percent while
the economy is likely to accelerate in the second half of the
year, the minutes said.  The bank raised its 2011 economic growth forecast to a
range of 4.5 percent to 6.5 percent, up from 4 percent to 6
percent previously.  The dissenting board member noted that “the monetary
authority of our main trading partner, the  United States  under
the pressure of stagnation, fears of a double-dip recession and
persistent and high unemployment will undoubtedly not begin to
raise before 2013.”  Feedback Loop  The same board member noted that inflation remained within
the bank’s target range and that a rate increase would likely
lead to increased inflows. That could lead to a further
expansion of credit, according to the minutes.  “We could end up feeding what we seek to control,
inflation,” the board member said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve in fact this week did announce
that it would keep interest rates at an all-time low through
mid-2013. Higher borrowing costs in Colombia going forward would
then widen the current U.S.- Colombia  yield gap and so help
attract additional inflows.  In a separate report, a central bank survey showed that
economists expect policy makers to keep inflation in check.  Economists covering the Colombian economy maintained their
2011 inflation forecast at 3.3 percent, according to a central
bank survey of 39 economists published today. They expect
inflation to slow to 0.13 percent this month from 0.14 percent
in July.  Economists surveyed by the bank also expect policy makers
to raise the benchmark rate to 5 percent by year-end, according
to the average estimate in the survey.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helen Murphy at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  