-- 
Colombia Peso Gains to One-Week High on Increased Inflow Bets

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-08-12T19:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/colombia-peso-gains-to-one-week-high-on-increased-inflow-bets.html
Colombia ’s peso rose to the
strongest in a week amid bets the U.S. Federal Reserve will
implement a third round of asset purchases to bolster the
world’s biggest economy, leading to increased inflows into the
South American country.  The peso climbed 0.2 percent to 1,785.70 per dollar at 2:28
p.m. New York time, from 1,789.57 yesterday. Earlier it touched
1,777.89, the strongest level since Aug. 4. The currency climbed
0.2 percent this week, its biggest increase since the five days
ended July 1.  “There’s a lot of speculation” the Fed will initiate a
third round of stimulus measures, said  Carlos Torres , head
analyst at brokerage Asesores en Valores SA in Bogota. “Given
interest rates will likely continue to rise in Colombia, people
are betting some of that liquidity will come here,” he said.  The Fed pledged this week to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low at least through the middle of 2013 in a
bid to ignite the flagging economic recovery after a worldwide
stock rout. The  Federal Open Market Committee  is ready to deploy
a range of policy tools “as appropriate,” the body said in an
Aug. 9 statement.  Banco de la Republica will raise its overnight lending rate
to 5 percent by year-end, according to the average forecast in a
survey published by the central bank today.  ‘Very Worried’  Colombian policy makers are concerned about the possibility
the Fed will start a third round of asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said
in an interview in  Buenos Aires , where he is attending a meeting
of regional finance officials.  “I’m very worried about the possibility of a QE3,”
Echeverry said. “It could bring another phase of the currency
war.”  South American countries need to strengthen regional trade
and tools to help defend themselves from a global crisis, he
said.  Colombia’s peso bonds rose, pushing yields to their lowest
level since November, following gains in U.S. Treasuries and
amid controlled inflation in the South American country.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due in July 2024
fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.47
percent, according to data compiled by the nation’s stock
exchange. That’s its lowest since Nov. 9. The bond’s price rose
0.367 centavo to 120.497 centavos per peso.  Investors “should be careful” as the benchmark bond due
July 2024 approaches its record low of 7.38 percent, Torres
said.  “Even though inflation remains under control, there are a
lot of risks and uncertainties in external markets,” he said.  Economists expect Colombia’s inflation to end this year at
3.3 percent, according to a central bank survey. The forecast
remained unchanged from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  