-- 
Commodities Head for Biggest Three-Day Rally Since Decmeber on Retail Data

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s
-- 
2011-08-12T16:39:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/commodities-extend-advance-as-growth-shortages-may-spur-demand.html
Commodities advanced, heading for
the biggest three-day gain in eight months, after an increase in
U.S. retail sales boosted optimism that the global economy will
sustain demand for crops, energy and industrial metals.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24  raw materials  rose
0.6 percent to 647.15 at 12:36 p.m. in New York. Agricultural
commodities led the rally. Crude oil rose to a one-week high.  “I’m a believer in global growth,” said Walter “Bucky”
Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham, Alabama. “Given the supply constraints that
exist across the wide range of commodities, they are attractive,
if you are betting on global growth.”  U.S. retail sales climbed in July by the most in four
months, showing consumers are holding up even as employment
slows.  China  is forecast to sustain 9 percent growth.  The GSCI Index jumped 4.7 percent in the previous two days
after The  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep  interest rates  at a
record low and U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly dropped.  On Aug. 8, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended that
investors buy commodities because growth in emerging markets is
enough to tighten supplies.  Investor  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings, said
today he is “bullish” on commodities and owns very few stocks
because of dimming prospects for financial markets as the debt
crisis deepens in Europe and the U.S.  “If the economy does not get better, commodities are the
place to be,” Rogers, who predicted the start of the global
commodity rally in 1999, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview.
Raw materials are more appealing because the world’s central
banks “will print money” to revive their economies, and
because rising demand will trigger shortages, he said.  Cotton rose as much as 4 cents a pound, the most allowed by
ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Wheat in  Chicago  rose for the
fourth straight day, heading for the longest rally since
January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Lindores in London at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  