-- 
Crude Heads for Third Weekly Drop on Concern Volatility Threatens Recovery

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-12T10:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/crude-heads-for-third-weekly-drop-on-concern-volatility-threatens-recovery.html
Oil fell in  New York , heading for a
third weekly decline, on signs that the global recovery is
slowing down and demand for fuels will be reduced.  Futures slid as much as 2 percent, ending a two-day climb.
Crude has fallen to a 10-month low of $75.71 a barrel and traded
as high as $85.97 this week.  France ’s economy failed to grow in
the second quarter and manufacturing in the euro region
unexpectedly declined in June, reports today showed.  “Fear is the driving factor,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head
of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , whose
forecast for prices in the second quarter was third-closest
among 29. “In the last few years things have hardly been worse
than they are now. We have extremely low growth from the U.S., a
slowdown in  China , definitely troubles in the  euro zone .”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as $1.70 to
$84.02 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $85.22 at 10:51 a.m. London time. Yesterday,
the contract gained 3.4 percent to $85.72. Futures have lost 1.9
percent this week and 6.7 percent in 2011.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as $1.16, or 1.1
percent, to $106.86 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $23 to U.S. futures, down from a record
close of $23.79 on Aug. 10.  European Economy  France’s economy unexpectedly stalled in the second quarter
as  consumer spending  plunged, Paris-based statistics office
Insee said today. Gross domestic product was unchanged from the
first quarter, when it rose 0.9 percent, the most in four years.  Industrial production in the euro region fell in June, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. The
0.7 percent decline was led by a drop in capital goods such as
machinery, adding to signs the economy is losing momentum as
governments struggle to contain the debt crisis.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel plan to meet next week after concern that the
euro-area debt crisis will spread rattled French markets. The
leaders of Europe’s two largest economies will discuss economic
governance of the 17-nation euro region in Paris on Aug. 16,
according to separate statements yesterday.  Oil in New York may gain next week as U.S. stockpiles
decline and fuel demand increases, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Twelve of 29 analysts and traders, or 41 percent,
forecast crude will increase through Aug. 19. Last week, 51
percent of respondents predicted a decrease.  U.S. Data  Prices may rebound as a “hammer” forms on the weekly
candlestick chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Futures rallied about 13 percent in the six weeks after a
similar technical pattern in May 2010.  Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped last week to the
lowest since May as high earners, homeowners and those working
full time turned more pessimistic, the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index showed yesterday.  Oil surged yesterday after applications for U.S.
unemployment benefits unexpectedly slid to the lowest in four
months. The number of applications for U.S. unemployment
payments fell 7,000 in the week ended Aug. 6 to 395,000, the
fewest since early April.  “The biggest downside risk is that all this volatility
cripples confidence,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who
predicts oil in New York will average $98 a barrel in the third
quarter. “There are continued concerns around  Europe  and
sovereign debt and when you overlay that on weaker than expected
macro data, it can cause people to fear for the worst.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  