-- 
Debt-Panel Outcome Clouded by Pressure From Lawmakers’ Backers

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/debt-panel-outcome-is-clouded-by-resistance-from-u-s-lawmakers-backers.html
The 12-member congressional panel
charged with finding $1.5 trillion in budget savings may be
unable to overcome resistance from the lobbyists, donors and
interest groups that sustain them in office.  The committee, already split by internal divisions over
taxes and entitlements, will examine defense and health care for
possible cuts, and both industries have influence with its
members. Health professionals are the biggest donors to three of
the House members. Three senators have dozens of military
installations to protect, and employees of defense contractor
 Boeing Co. (BA)  are top donors to the panel’s co-chairwoman,  Patty Murray .  Retirees are among the largest givers to almost all the
lawmakers, and members considering scaling back Social Security
or the Medicare insurance program for the elderly will confront
a barrage of lobbying by the seniors’ group AARP.  “Nobody wants to promise their cohorts any kind of pain
and suffering or divergence from the current theology,” said
Bill Frenzel, a former congressman who served as the ranking
Republican on the House Budget Committee. Republican distaste
for tax increases and Democrats’ insistence on protecting
entitlement programs is a “doomsday formula,” he said.  The panel, whose work has taken on greater urgency since
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating, is already
facing doubts about whether it can meet a Nov. 23 deadline for a
plan and head off a round of automatic, across-the-board
spending cuts. It includes six Democrats who back tax increases
and six Republicans who signed a pledge to oppose that. Few have
engaged in bipartisan efforts on major issues; 11 of the 12 have
voted with their party at least 90 percent of the time.  Pelosi Names Allies  House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi yesterday completed
the panel’s membership by appointing three of her closest
allies: fellow House leaders Chris Van Hollen of Maryland,  James Clyburn  of  South Carolina  and Xavier Becerra of  California . A
day earlier, House Speaker John Boehner tapped Republican
Conference Chairman  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas, and Ways and Means
Committee Chairman Dave Camp and Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman Fred Upton, both of Michigan.  The Democratic senators serving on the panel are Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  of Montana,  John Kerry  of
Massachusetts and Murray of Washington, who runs her party’s
fundraising efforts for senators. Their Republican counterparts
are Senators Jon Kyl of Arizona,  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania and
 Rob Portman  of Ohio, who served as President George W. Bush’s
budget director. Hensarling will join Murray as co-leader of the
panel.  ‘Situation is Worsening’  When S&P on Aug. 5 lowered the U.S.’s AAA credit rating for
the first time, it said lawmakers weren’t doing enough to reduce
record deficits by raising taxes or cutting spending, and it
dismissed the Aug. 2 deal that averted default and created the
super committee as inadequate. A failure by the panel would
renew the risk for the nation’s borrowing power.  “If the S&P downgrade had any meaning, it is that our
situation is worsening, our debt ratio increases and, even if
the super committee on deficit reduction met this target, the
debt ratio will still be increasing after 10 years,” said
Frenzel, a scholar at the Brookings Institution. “If I were a
rater, I would think that augured for bad days ahead.”  Markets are reacting to concern about debt worldwide. While
stocks rebounded yesterday, the  S&P 500  has dropped 9.3 percent
in August after lawmakers announced the deal to raise the debt
ceiling and avert default. At the same time, the benchmark 10-
year Treasury note’s yield has fallen from a 2011 high of 3.766
percent on Feb. 9 to as low as 2.0346 percent on Aug. 9,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  Panel Members  That concern will make the new committee the central focus
of political and lobbying activity in  Washington  for the next
four months.  Four of the panelists -- Becerra, Baucus, Camp and
Hensarling -- voted against a deficit-reduction plan last year
while serving on a bipartisan commission set up by President
Barack Obama. The commission, led by former Republican Senator
 Alan Simpson  of Wyoming and Erskine Bowles, once President Bill Clinton’s chief of staff, proposed a mix of tax increases and
spending cuts.  “If you are going to say taxes and entitlements are off
the table, I don’t know what they can do that hasn’t already
been done,” said Robert Bixby, president of the nonpartisan
Concord Coalition, an Arlington, Virginia-based group that
advocates for a balanced budget.  ‘Gang’ is Absent  The leaders of both parties also decided against naming
members of the bipartisan “Gang of Six” senators, who proposed
their own debt-reduction plan. Simpson, in an Aug. 8 Bloomberg
Television interview, said such a move would spell disaster.  “If you don’t see the Gang of Six -- the three Democrats
and three Republicans -- represented very well on that super
committee, you will know that it has been destined for
failure,” Simpson said.  Unless the panel pushes through a deficit-reduction package
by year’s end, $1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending cuts
will be triggered over a decade, starting in 2013, equally
targeting defense and non-defense programs.  The 12 panel members need a simple majority to make a
recommendation. While that may make it easier to agree on a
compromise to send to Congress for a year-end vote, the
pressures on the panel may make a deal unlikely.  Financial firms are concerned that the committee might opt
for changes such as an increase in the tax rate on carried
interest -- the profit share paid private equity managers and
venture capitalists -- while defense companies need to preserve
contracts. Industries from telecommunications to transportation
might be affected by tax and spending changes.  Natural Constituencies  The members have some natural constituencies. Automakers
such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have extensive operations in Michigan,
home to Upton and Camp, and in Portman’s state of Ohio.  Toomey, Portman and Murray have the most military
installations in their states, potentially positioning them to
fight defense cuts. Defense contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is
headquartered in Van Hollen’s district;  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,
the third-largest U.S. defense contractor, had the most federal
contract spending in Hensarling’s district in fiscal year 2010,
Bloomberg Government data shows.  Dallas-based phone company  AT&T Inc. (T)  ranks in the top-five
donor lists for three members: Clyburn, Upton and Hensarling.
Employees at New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are leading
contributors to two of the members, Baucus and Kerry, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Health Professionals  The Club for Growth, an anti-tax group that Toomey used to
lead, ranked as the top single donor for both Toomey and Kyl.  Health professionals are the biggest block of donors to
Upton, Camp and Becerra, while Hensarling has received the most
from the finance industry. Aside from retired people, the
biggest donor for both Portman and Toomey is the securities and
investment industry. For Kyl, it’s the real-estate industry.  Van Hollen , Clyburn and all three Senate Democrats got the
biggest chunk of money from lawyers and law firms, which often
includes lobbyists.  Labor unions rank in the top five donor lists for both
Clyburn and Becerra, close allies who voted 100 percent of the
time with the AFL-CIO’s stated positions in 2010. Unions would
resist any proposal by the deficit-reduction panel to curb
Social Security and Medicare spending.  Social Security  Toomey’s state has the largest proportion of Social
Security recipients among the panel’s senators, while Camp has
the highest proportion in a single district, according to
Bloomberg Government data.  House and Senate leaders named lawmakers who probably won’t
face a stiff re-election fight soon. The six House members were
all re-elected with at least 62 percent of the vote, and none of
the six senators are facing voters in 2012.  That’s critical because lobbyists and interest groups will
be all over the group, Simpson said.  “Once you get specific, you’re gonna get eaten, you’re
gonna get clobbered,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net 
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  