-- 
Delancey, Qatari Diar to Buy London Olympic Village Site for $907 Million

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-12T14:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/delancey-qatari-diar-to-buy-london-olympic-village-site-for-907-million.html
U.K. developer Delancey Estates Plc
and a unit of Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund agreed to pay 557
million pounds ($906 million) for the athlete’s village in
 London ’s Olympic Park.  The deal includes the purchase by closely held Delancey and
Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. of 1,439 homes from the
Olympic Delivery Authority that can be resold or rented out, the
ODA said in a statement today. The ODA is responsible for
developing the venues and infrastructure for the 2012 Games and
their use after the event.  London Olympic officials are focusing on finding ways to
convert and sell facilities built for the 2012 Games after
previous host cities such as Athens were left with unused or
underutilized properties. The east London soccer team West Ham
United soccer in March won the right to take over the Olympic
stadium after the event.  The Olympic Village, which cost 1.1 billion pounds to
build, will house 17,000 athletes and officials across 67 acres
(27 hectares) during the Games, the government said in May 2009.
Delancey and Qatari Diar can build an additional 2,000
residential units on the site in London’s East End district.  “This is a great deal for London and shows the confidence
big private investors have in the future of the city and the
future of east London,” Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in a separate
statement.  Shell Centre  The purchase is part of Qatar’s expanding London property
holdings. Qatari Diar and Canary Wharf Group Plc last month
agreed to buy most of Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Shell Centre site
near Waterloo railroad station for 300 million pounds. A
separate investment fund from the Persian Gulf state owns 28
percent of Canary Wharf’s majority shareholder.  Other Qatar investments in the U.K. capital include the
Harrod’s department store, the U.S. embassy site in Grosvenor
Square, the Chelsea Barracks redevelopment project in one of the
city’s most expensive neighborhoods and a stake in the Shard
skyscraper, which will be  Europe ’s tallest building when it’s
completed in 2012.  The Olympic Village deal includes the long-term management
of the site, according to the statement. The government will get
a share of any profits from the development. Most of the 1,439
homes purchased will be rented out by Qatari Diar and Delancey,
rather than sold.  ‘Regeneration’  Delancy owns commercial and residential property across the
U.K. including the New Commercial Courts on Fetter Lane in the
City of London financial district and the N1 shopping center in
the Islington area of London.  Triathlon Homes has already bought 1,379 of the existing
homes and will convert them into low-income housing, according
to the London 2012 website.  “I am confident that these experienced property investors
will deliver a modern, spacious neighborhood that will
contribute hugely to the regeneration of the area including the
provision of much needed new housing,” Secretary of State for
Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport Jeremy Hunt said in the
statement.  The Games of the 30th Olympiad were awarded to London after
the city told the  International Olympic Committee  that the event
would regenerate east London. The opening ceremony is on July
27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 