-- 
Mealamu to Lead All Blacks as McCaw, Carter Among 9 Rested for Springboks

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-12T07:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/mealamu-to-lead-all-blacks-as-mccaw-carter-among-9-rested-for-springboks.html
New Zealand  rugby selectors rested
nine senior players including captain Richie McCaw and playmaker
 Dan Carter  for next week’s Tri-Nations match in South Africa.  Owen Franks, Corey Flynn,  Brad Thorn , Kieran Read, Conrad Smith, Mils Muliaina and Sitiveni Sivivatu were also left off
the 25-man squad named today. Hooker Keven Mealamu will captain
the All Blacks in McCaw’s absence, while Israel Dagg, Richard
Kahui,  Tony Woodcock  and Isaia Toeava all return from injury.  New Zealand tops the Tri-Nations standings after beating
South Africa and Australia at home. Coach Graham Henry said the
Aug. 20 game against the Springboks in Port Elizabeth was a
chance for players to press their case for inclusion in the 30-
man squad for the World Cup starting next month.  “We have players returning from injury who will be playing
for the All Blacks for the first time this year, while others
will be looking to take the opportunity to stake a further claim
in the black jersey and ensure selection in the Rugby World
Cup,” Henry said in a statement. “We will have a team which is
hungry to play well.”  Second-rower Jarrad Hoeata was passed fit to travel today
following a scan on his injured right shoulder.  Tom Donnelly  was
released from the squad, which will depart tomorrow.  Forwards: John Afoa, Wyatt Crockett, Ben Franks, Jarrad
Hoeata, Andrew Hore, Jerome Kaino,  Keven Mealamu , Liam Messam,
Adam Thomson, Samuel Whitelock, Ali Williams, Tony Woodcock,
Victor Vito.  Backs: Jimmy Cowan, Israel Dagg, Andy Ellis, Hosea Gear,
Zac Guildford, Richard Kahui, Cory Jane, Ma’a Nonu, Colin Slade,
Isaia Toeava, Piri Weepu, Sonny Bill Williams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  