-- 
Obama's Health-Care Law Moves Toward Supreme Court With Appeals Ruling

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/health-care-mandate-ruled-unconstitutional.html
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law moved closer to review by the U.S. Supreme Court with a
federal appellate ruling that its requirement for most Americans
to have insurance coverage is unconstitutional.  The 2 to 1 ruling conflicts with an earlier decision by a
federal appeals panel in Cincinnati, which upheld the individual
mandate. The provision exceeds Congress’s power to regulate
commerce, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta ruled yesterday,
affirming in part a lower court in a lawsuit filed by 26 states.  “This guarantees that the Supreme Court will rule on the
constitutionality of the individual mandate, and makes it very
likely that the court’s ruling will come by the end of June
2012,” said Kevin Walsh, an assistant professor at the
University of Richmond School of Law in Virginia.  The U.S.  Supreme Court  often decides to accept cases where
two or more of the federal appeals courts are in disagreement.
Plaintiffs in the Cincinnati case have already asked the high
court to review that ruling. A third federal appeals panel in
Richmond, Virginia, has heard arguments in two cases brought
over the health care law and has yet to rule.  In yesterday’s ruling, the majority wrote that the
“mandate represents a wholly novel and potentially unbounded
assertion of congressional authority.” The law requires
“Americans to purchase an expensive health insurance product
they have elected not to buy, and to make them repurchase that
insurance product every month for their entire lives.”  While throwing out the mandate, the panel overruled the
lower court’s decision in that case to reject the entire health
care law as a result.  ‘Fully Operative’  “Excising the individual mandate from the act does not
prevent the remaining provisions from being fully operative as a
law,” Chief U.S. Circuit Judge Joel Dubina, a Republican
appointee, and U.S. Circuit Judge Frank M. Hull, a Democratic
appointee, wrote. Hull is the first judge appointed by a
Democratic president to rule against the law. Dissenting in
part, U.S. Circuit Judge Stanley Marcus, a Republican lower-
court appointee later elevated by President Bill Clinton, said
he would have upheld the act in its entirety.  Stephanie Cutter , a deputy senior adviser to Obama, said in
an Internet posting that “we strongly disagree with this
decision and we are confident it will not stand.”  “The individual responsibility provision -- the main part
of the law at issue in these cases -- is constitutional,”
Cutter said. “Those who claim this provision exceeds Congress’
power to regulate interstate commerce are incorrect.”  ‘Strongly Disagree’  “The  Department of Justice  believes -- as the Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit held, and the dissenting judge in
the Eleventh Circuit concluded -- that the Affordable Care Act
is constitutional,” the  Justice Department  said in an e-mailed
statement. “We strongly disagree with the court’s decision.”
The government said it’s considering the “next appropriate
steps.”  The U.S. may seek a review of yesterday’ decision by the
full  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Eleventh Circuit, or it may
petition the U.S. Supreme Court. The mandate provision isn’t
scheduled to take effect until 2014.  Florida  Attorney General Pam Bondi, a Republican, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday that the “ruling by the
Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals upholds our position that the
federal health care law exceeds Congress’ power.”  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed
into law on March 23, 2010. Then-Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum  sued the same day on behalf of his state and a dozen
others. Thirteen more states signed on later. The health-care
act bars insurers from denying coverage to people who are sick
and from imposing lifetime limits on costs. It requires almost
all Americans 18 and over to obtain coverage.  Exceeded Its Power  The Atlanta court upheld portions of U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson’s ruling in Pensacola, Florida, that Congress
exceeded its power in requiring that almost every American
obtain insurance starting in 2014.  The U.S. has called the mandatory-coverage provision the
linchpin of the statute because it will add younger and
healthier people to the pool of the insured population, making
the program viable for insurers.  Vinson on Jan. 31 ruled that Congress exceeded its powers
under the U.S. Constitution’s commerce clause when it created
the requirement. Concluding that the mandate was integral to the
rest of the legislation, he invalidated the entire act.  The Obama administration appealed Vinson’s ruling to the
Eleventh Circuit. The panel, comprised of two judges originally
nominated by Republican President  Ronald Reagan  and one picked
by Democratic President  Bill Clinton , heard argument on June 8.  ‘Most Difficult Issue’  “The most difficult issue in the case is the individual
mandate,” Dubina, first nominated to the federal bench by
Reagan in 1986, said at the start of the June 8 session in
Atlanta. Reagan named Marcus to the federal bench in Miami in
1985. Clinton selected him for the appellate court in 1997. Hull
was a 1994 Clinton nominee.  “The question you have before you is that everyone is
consuming the goods; it’s about failure to pay,” Acting U.S.
Solicitor General Neal Katyal told the panel during the oral
argument. The solicitor general is the Justice Department’s top
courtroom attorney.  “The Commerce Clause only gives Congress the power to
regulate, not to compel,” states’ attorney Paul D. Clement, a
solicitor general under President  George W. Bush , told the court
later.  Marcus, in his dissenting opinion in yesterday’s decision,
said that while he agreed with the majority in reversing
Vinson’s invalidation of the entire act, he would have upheld
the mandate provision too.  ‘Close Relationship’  “By ignoring the close relationship between the health
insurance and health care services markets, the plaintiffs and
the majority seek to avoid the hard fact that the uninsured as a
class are actively consuming substantial quantities of health
care services now -- not just next week, next month, or next
year,” Marcus wrote, making them active participants in
interstate commerce subject to federal regulation.  The Cincinnati-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit, in its 2-1 ruling on June 29, became the first
appellate panel to rule in favor of the law. The court affirmed
a Detroit federal judge’s decision last year to throw out a
challenge by the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Thomas More Law
Center, a Christian-based public interest law firm which has
sought review by the U.S. Supreme Court.  “Not every intrusive law is an unconstitutionally
intrusive law,” U.S. Circuit Judge Jeffrey Sutton, the first
Republican-appointed judge to back the law in litigation across
the country, said in the majority opinion.  Party Lines  Lower-court rulings have broken entirely along party lines,
with federal judges appointed by Republican presidents
invalidating the mandate and those appointed by Democrats
upholding it.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond on May 10 heard the
Obama administration’s challenge to a lower court ruling that
sided with  Virginia  Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, who
filed a separate lawsuit the same day as McCollum.  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson in Richmond, appointed by
Bush, a Republican, had struck down the individual mandate as
unconstitutional while leaving the rest of the act standing.  Clinton Appointee  The Richmond panel also heard an appeal by Lynchburg,
Virginia-based Liberty University, which sought to reverse
another judge’s dismissal of its challenge to the law. That
ruling was by Judge Norman K. Moon, who was appointed by
Clinton.  The appellate panel hasn’t rendered a decision.  “I think this makes Supreme Court review inevitable,” A.
Christopher Bryant, a University of Cincinnati law professor,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “It’s almost impossible to
imagine a situation in which it would not eventually come
about.”  With decisions by six U.S. appeals court judges -- three
ruling to invalidate the mandate and three others voting to
uphold the statutory structure -- and four lower-court judges
having issued divergent opinions on the act’s merits, Bryant
said pressure is mounting for the Supreme Court to act.  “There’s enough division of authority that there’s going
to need to be authoritative resolution,” he said.  Stephen Presser, a professor of law at  Northwestern
University  in Chicago agreed, saying it was “inconceivable”
that the high court would not take the case.  “It all boils down to one very, very simple point,” he
said in a phone interview. “If the federal government can do
this, can they do everything?”  The case is State of Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Eleventh Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  