-- 
Heebner Bets on JPMorgan, Tiffany, While Selling Apple Stake

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-08-12T16:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/heebner-bets-on-jpmorgan-chase-tiffany-while-selling-all-shares-in-apple.html
Kenneth Heebner, one of the top-
performing diversified U.S. stock mutual-fund managers over a
10-year period, added financial and consumer discretionary
shares in the second quarter and sold all shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Heebner’s Capital Growth Management LP purchased about 1.38
million shares of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the three-month period
ended June 30, as well as stakes in automaker  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
casino-owner  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , and  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the  New York- 
based jewelry-store operator, according to a filing today with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Boston-based
firm sold its $111 million stake of Cupertino, California-based
Apple, the maker of iPhones and iPads.  Heebner, 70, ran the best-performing diversified U.S. stock
fund over a 10-year period for 11 straight quarters before he
was unseated in the first quarter of 2011 by Thomas Soviero,
manager of the $4.2 billion Fidelity Advisor Leveraged Company
Stock Fund. He had boosted shares of Apple in the first quarter
and is known for making concentrated bets in industries from
homebuilding to commodities and for his willingness to shift
gears quickly.  Financial companies were the biggest allocation of Capital
Growth’s portfolio in the second quarter, making up 36.7 percent
of the firm’s holdings. Consumer discretionary stocks had the
second-biggest weight with 25.8 percent. Moody’s Corp.,  Discover
Financial Services (DFS)  and  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  are other financial
and real estate companies Heebner added during the second
quarter. He exited  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  General Growth Properties
Inc. (GGP)   Capital Growth had sold all 109,900 shares of New York-
based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in the first quarter. Heebner
also exited Ford and  General Motors Co. (GM)  during that period.  In the second quarter, he built his stake in Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford back up to $230.1 million. Ford lost 35
percent this year through yesterday to $10.94, compared with a
6.8 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net . 