-- 
Emerging-Market Equity Funds Post Third-Largest Weekly Outflows on Record

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-08-12T08:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/emerging-market-equity-funds-post-third-largest-weekly-outflows-on-record.html
Emerging-market equity funds posted
the third-largest weekly outflows on record amid  Standard &
Poor’s  unprecedented downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and a
spread in Europe’s debt crisis, Citigroup Inc. said.  Funds investing in developing-nation stocks reported
withdrawals of $7.7 billion in the week ended Aug. 10, Citigroup
analysts led by Markus Rosgen said in a report today, citing
figures compiled by EPFR Global. That took total net outflows
for the year to $14 billion, according to Citigroup.  “The credit downgrade of US by S&P and market concerns of
spreading European debt crisis led to brutal market selloff and
redemptions,” Kelly Kwok, one of the analysts in the Citigroup
report, wrote in an e-mail.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 11 percent in the five
days ended Aug. 10 after S&P cut the U.S.’s sovereign-debt
rating from AAA to AA+ and as contagion from Europe’s debt
crisis threatened to spread to Italy, Spain and France. Almost
$7 trillion has been erased from global equity values since July
26, with benchmark indexes in Brazil and  China  falling more than
20 percent from their recent highs to enter so-called bear
markets.  MSCI’s developing-nation index fell 0.3 percent to 986.66
as of 4:25 p.m. in Singapore, taking its loss for this year to
14 percent. That’s more than the 8.8 percent fall in the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index. Companies on the emerging-market index are trading
at 9.8 times estimated earnings, less than the four-year average
multiple of 11.9 times.  Lowering Targets  Citigroup analysts this week lowered their stock-index
forecasts for  India , South Korea and Taiwan and China, citing
the global market turmoil and the outlook for economic growth
worldwide.  Morgan Stanley set a “bear-case target” of 940 for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index this year. A bear-case scenario
entails a combination of a Chinese hard landing for the economy,
a U.S. double-dip recession and a worsening of the European debt
crisis, analysts led by  Jonathan Garner  said in a report dated
Aug. 8. China and Malaysia are most likely to be defensive in a
bear-case scenario, they said.  Asia  excluding Japan equity funds reported $2.9 billion of
outflows during the week, while emerging  Europe ,  Middle East  and
African funds lost $940 million, Citigroup said. Withdrawals
from funds investing in Latin America stock amounted to $693
million, while the diversified emerging-market equity funds saw
$3.2 billion of outflows, according to the report.  Markets ‘Oversold’  Hans Goetti, Finaport Investment Intelligence’s chief
investment officer for Asia, said markets are “oversold” and
that a new round of asset purchases by the  Federal Reserve  under
the program known as quantitative easing could boost shares. The
Fed said on Aug. 9 it will keep benchmark  interest rates  near
zero until mid-2013, spurring a two-day, 2.2 percent rebound in
the MSCI Emerging Market Index.  “If you look at the fundamentals, we actually expect the
Fed to come up with more substantial measures rather than just
keeping interest rates low for another two years,” Goetti said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s a matter of time
till QE3 comes with additional asset purchase. That could spark
another rally in equities and risky assets.” Zurich-based
Finaport oversees $1.4 billion in client assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  