-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline for a Third Week Amid Global Fund Outlows

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-12T22:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/emerging-market-stocks-snap-two-day-gain-technology-shares-stage-decline.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
third week in a row as confidence among U.S. consumers plunged
to a three-decade low while investors pulled the most money from
global stock funds since 2008, adding to concern that the
world’s economic growth is slowing.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed as of
4:30 p.m. in  New York , sending the gauge down 4.9 percent this
week. Increases in Latin American stock markets, including
 Brazil , Chile and Colombia, helped blunt declines in India,
South Korea and  Taiwan . Most eastern European markets gained
after short-selling bans were imposed in four Euro-region
nations.  Reports today showed French economic growth stalled last
quarter and euro-region industrial production unexpectedly fell
in June. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
August index of consumer sentiment fell to 54.9 from 63.7 a
month earlier, the lowest level since May 1980. An earlier U.S.
report showed retail sales climbed 0.5 percent in July, matching
the median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Emerging-market equity mutual funds had more than $7
billion of withdrawals in the week ended Aug. 10, the most since
the third week of 2008, EPFR Global said in a report.  “The stock market has almost priced in negative factors,”
said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “Investors may still be concerned about the global
outlook, but there’s limited room for further declines in the
market.”  Confidence Eroded  The MSCI gauge has dropped 18 percent from its May 2 high,
sending valuations to 9.1 times analysts’ 12-month profit
estimates, 30 percent below the 20-year average, data compiled
by Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley show.  The downgrade of America’s top credit rating by  Standard &
Poor’s , weaker-than-forecast U.S. economic data and signs that
Italy and Spain may struggle to refinance debt have eroded
investor confidence in riskier assets this month, erasing more
than $6.8 trillion of global stock-market value from July 26
through yesterday.  Most emerging-market currencies weakened versus the dollar
for the week, led by the South African rand with a 3.6 percent
drop and Poland’s zloty, which lost 3.3 percent.  China ’s yuan
rose 0.8 percent, the best performer among 25 emerging
economies, as the nation reported its biggest trade surplus in
two years.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index edged up 0.2 percent, posting its
first weekly gain in three. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the state-
controlled oil company advanced for the fourth day. Chile’s Lan,
Latin America’s largest airline by market share, was recommended
for “approval without restrictions” for its planned takeover of
Tam SA by Brazil’s  Finance Ministry . Both airlines gained.  Eastern  Europe   Shares in Eastern Europe led the retreat in emerging
markets this week. The Ukrainian Equities Index sank 17 percent,
the Czech PX Index lost 9.5 percent and Hungary’s BUX index
retreated 8.6 percent.  France,  Spain , Italy and Belgium imposed bans on short-
selling beginning today to stabilize markets after Societe
Generale SA dropped to its lowest price since March 2009 on Aug.
10.  Other European nations are divided over how to respond
after a rout that sent the region’s bank stocks to their lowest
in almost 2 1/2 years this week.  Germany  and the Netherlands
have said they don’t plan further restrictions on short sales,
while British regulators said they don’t plan to limit the
practice.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries shed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 372, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Sensex Falls  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped 1.3
percent today after higher-than-expected growth in factory
output intensified concern that there will be further interest-
rate increases. China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.5
percent, while  Russia ’s Micex Index increased 2.2 percent as
shares of OAO Lukoil and OAO Rosneft rallied.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa retreated from a
15-month high, plunging 16 basis points to 253, according to
data provider CMA in London.  “Investor sentiment has improved from the panic we have
seen at the start of the week,” said Fitz Aclan, who helps
manage about $12 billion at Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank
Inc. “Still, it’s too early to say that we are already out of
the woods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 