-- 
Enron Billionaire Bankrolls California Advocate for Public Pension Changes

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-12T01:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/enron-billionaire-bankrolls-california-advocate-for-public-pension-changes.html
John D. Arnold, a former Enron Corp.
trader in  Texas  who became a billionaire by buying and selling
natural gas, is bankrolling a group supporting changes to limit
California’s pension-fund obligations.  Arnold, who formed hedge fund Centaurus Advisors LLC in
Houston after leaving Enron, started a foundation that Meredith
Simonton, a spokeswoman, said has given $150,000 to the
California group.  The organization set up by Arnold and his wife, Laura, a
lawyer, plans to be involved in pension-overhaul efforts around
the U.S., Simonton said by telephone from Houston. State and
local governments confront “massive financial distress” from
the gap between assets and promised benefits, she said.  “Our attention to pension reform is not California-
specific,” Simonton said. “We chose to get involved there
because there are people who are engaged and choosing to
illuminate the problems and address possible solutions.”  The  California Foundation for Fiscal Responsibility , the
group they support,  proposed  a 401(k)-style savings plan as an
option for future government workers, benefit limits and raising
the minimum  retirement age  to 62, from as early as 50. A
California prison guard with five years on the job can  retire  at
50 and get a pension under current rules.  Power-Crisis Role  Enron, the Houston energy company that went bankrupt in
December 2001, played a major role in California’s 2000-2001
power crisis, with traders  bragging  about “stealing money from
‘Grandma Millie,’” according to the state  Justice Department .
The company paid Arnold, whose trades had little to do with gas
bound for California, an $8 million bonus that year, according
to a July 2002  article  published by the New York Times.  Millions of Californians endured rolling blackouts in 2001
as demand for power outstripped supply, with the disruptions
driving Pacific Gas & Electric Co. into bankruptcy and resulting
in $9 billion in excess charges to ratepayers, the state said.
In 2004,  California  Attorney General Bill Lockyer sued Enron for
its part in manipulating the markets. The natural-gas unit where
Arnold worked wasn’t implicated.  The California foundation backed by the Arnolds is headed
by Marcia Fritz, a suburban Sacramento accountant and a
Democrat, and focuses on educating people and officials. Another
organization, California Pension Reform, plans a November 2012
ballot measure to cap government pension contributions at 6
percent of an employee’s salary for all except those working in
public safety, for which the limit would be 9 percent.  Libertarian and Democrat  Arnold, 37, is a libertarian while his wife is a Democrat,
Fritz said. Simonton said the Arnolds declined to be interviewed
on their support for Fritz’s group.  Their foundation, like the one run by Fritz, is restricted
from political activities as a 501(c)3 tax-exempt organization
under U.S. law.  “I can’t say, ‘Go for this’” proposal because of that tax
status, Fritz said Aug. 8. In promoting a bipartisan legislative
approach, she said, “I’m looking to avoid the fights we’ve seen
in  Wisconsin  and  New Jersey .”  Her organization and the one backing the ballot measure are
opposed by a union group called Californians for Retirement
Security. Steve Maviglio, a spokesman, has sought to compel
Fritz to disclose her foundation’s financial backers.  “Clearly, transparency is an issue,” Maviglio said by
telephone last week. “Voters deserve to know who’s paying for
their propaganda.”  Philanthropic Pledge  The Arnolds pledged last year to donate a majority of their
wealth, according to Giving Pledge LLC in  Seattle . The couple
said their foundation would be “an instrument to effect
positive and transformative change” in a pledge letter. Similar
vows have been made by  Warren Buffett  and  Bill Gates .  The Laura and John Arnold Foundation listed $660.3 million
in assets at the end of 2009, according to its most recent
federal  tax return . It contributed or handed out $7.6 million in
2009, none of it for political causes, the return shows.
Donations to 501(c)3 groups, such as the $349.7 million that the
Arnolds gave the foundation in 2009, can be tax-deductible.  Arnold earned about $900 million in 2009 from Centaurus,
according to the Seeking Alpha website. He made $1.5 billion in
2008, according to figures reported by the New York Times.  Stock-market declines in 2008 and 2009 widened the gap
between the assets of U.S. public pensions and their projected
obligations, intensifying a debate over benefit costs. Estimates
of the gap vary from $700 billion to more than $3 trillion.  Short $240 Billion  California’s 10 largest funds were short a combined $240
billion last year, the Little Hoover Commission reported in
February. The independent government-oversight group recommended
some of the same changes Fritz’s foundation advocates.  Her organization  says  retirement benefits cost California
too much, causing job cuts among workers including teachers when
spending plans are reduced. California’s “largest and best”
companies spend two-thirds less than the state to support
employee retirement plans, the group says on its website.  The unions represented by Maviglio  counter  that pensions
represent a small portion of costs for state and local
governments. On its website, the group says that as a proportion
of payrolls, governments pay no more into pensions now than they
did in the 1980s.  The Pension Reform group backing the 2012 ballot measure
hasn’t disclosed its financial supporters. Daniel Pellissier,
the group’s president and a former deputy energy secretary under
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , said he didn’t know whether any
donors to his organization also gave to the Fritz group.  Pellissier, a Republican, said the bipartisan legislative
approach advocated by Fritz hasn’t produced change.  “The Legislature has pretty much proved that they’re not
going to do anything substantial,” he said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net  and  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  