-- 
Letiste Praha Aims to Double Number of Long-Haul Flights, Official Says

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-08-12T11:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/letiste-praha-aims-to-double-number-of-long-haul-flights-official-says.html
Letiste Praha AS, the operator of
 Prague ’s largest airport, plans to double the number of long-
haul flights in three to four years to boost the number of
passengers that transfer in Prague and reduce its dependence on
unprofitable state-carrier Ceske Aerolinie AS.  “In three years we may have direct flights to countries
such as China or  Vietnam ,” the airport’s senior executive
director Jiri Pos said in an interview. “There’s a huge
potential for growth in long-haul flights which have been
underplayed in Prague.”  The Czech government merged Letiste, which runs the
international Airport Prague Ruzyne, with the money-losing
airline CSA into a joint company called Cesky Aeroholding AS to
revamp the carrier before its planned sale in 2012. Letiste’s
share of passengers that transfer flights in Prague fell to 19
percent from 24 percent since the CSA overhaul began in 2010,
Pos said. CSA is the airport’s largest client.  The airport, which cleared 11.6 million passengers last
year, about 8 million fewer passengers than Vienna’s
international airport, expects to reach an annual target of 20
million travelers by 2020 after a new runway, the airport’s
third, is built, Pos, who also is chairman of Letiste’s board of
directors, said. The runway, which will cost about 9 billion
koruna ($528 million) and may open in 2016, will boost airport
capacity by a third during rush hours, Pos said.  CSA  CSA’s passenger share declined to a current 37 percent from
previous 50 percent due to the carrier’s overhaul, Pos said.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British Airways Plc were among the
airlines that helped fill the void, the executive said.  CSA reduced its fleet to 38 jets from 49 at the beginning
of 2010 and cut flights with a higher share of transfer
passengers, Miroslav Dvorak, Letiste’s chief executive officer
and the head of Cesky Aeroholding, said on June 1. The carrier
also started further layoffs of air crews this month as part of
the overhaul.  Letiste doesn’t have any “indications” from CSA that it
plans to reduce flights beyond the already announced revamp plan
for the rest of the year, Pos said.  The merger of the airport facilities with CSA came after
the government scrapped plans to sell or lease the airport and
an attempt sell CSA failed.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lenka Ponikelska in
Prague   lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  