-- 
European Bank Troubles Demonstrate Cost of Uncertainty: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-12T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/european-banks-show-cost-of-uncertainty-view.html
Financial markets’ growing concern
about the state of European banks exposes a reality that the
political theater in the U.S. had obscured: The euro area’s debt
troubles are probably the single largest threat to the global
economy.  The share prices of European banks, and in particular
 France ’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, have plunged in recent days as
investors speculate that the banks could be facing investment
losses and difficulties borrowing money. SocGen has denied the
rumors, but the nature and veracity of the specific concerns is
almost secondary.  European leaders have created a fertile ground for panic
by failing to dispel the main uncertainty: How they will resolve
the financial troubles of strapped euro-area governments, how
much banks holding the governments’ bonds stand to lose as a
result, and whether the banks can be bailed out.  Investors’ dark view demonstrates how costly uncertainty
can be. Consider, for example, the market value of bank equity
compared with how much the banks say they’re worth in their
financial statements.  As of Thursday, SocGen’s market value stood at only 52
percent of tangible common equity, suggesting that investors
think it will need about 16 billion euros ($22.8 billion) in
fresh capital to cover losses, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For a group of 31 European banks, the market-to-
tangible-equity ratio was just under 70 percent, implying they
collectively face losses that would require some 137 billion
euros ($195.1 billion) in capital to offset.  Money-Market Funds  European bank troubles matter for the U.S. and the rest of
the world, in part because the money-market funds in which
millions of U.S. households keep their savings have invested
heavily in European bank debt. Trouble at money-market funds
would disrupt the short-term lending markets on which U.S.
companies depend to pay suppliers and their own workers. Much as
after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy, the
resulting credit freeze could force companies to slash
production and fire workers, triggering a sharp recession in the
world’s largest economy.  Ideally,  Europe  would conduct stress tests showing exactly
how much banks can lose and immediately announce how they will
raise the necessary capital, much as the U.S. did in 2009. But
no  stress test  can be credible until European leaders own up to
the fact that some governments can’t pay all their debts, define
the losses investors will take and put a system in place to
guarantee the debts that can be paid.  As Bloomberg View has advocated, the best route to clarity
-- and stability -- would be for all the governments of the euro
area to issue new bonds guaranteed by a unified  finance ministry 
with taxation power. Investors would exchange the debt of
individual governments for the euro bonds, probably at discount
rates that would erase some of the debt at the investors’
expense. The remaining sovereign debt would be sustainable.
Banks and investors would know the extent of their losses.  It won’t be pretty, but ultimately the bloodletting will
have to happen.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 