-- 
European Stocks Retreat for Third Week, Entering Bear Market as Banks Fall

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-12T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/european-stocks-retreat-for-third-week-entering-bear-market.html
European stocks declined for a third
week as banks tumbled amid speculation that the region’s
government-debt crisis will spread to France and  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA slumped 11 percent as Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea  was forced to defend France’s second-
largest bank against speculation that deterioration in the
nation’s creditworthiness would damage its stability. Kloeckner
& Co. SE fell 22 percent as the German steel trader’s earnings
trailed analyst projections. Standard Life Plc jumped the most
in two years after profit beat estimates.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.6 percent to
237.49 this past week, entering a bear market for the first time
since March 2009. The gauge sank 23 percent from the peak in
February to the two-year low reached on Aug. 10. The measure
trimmed its weekly drop with a 3.7 percent rally yesterday as
 France ,  Spain ,  Italy  and  Belgium  imposed bans on short selling
to stabilize markets.  “It was rather astonishing how France and French banks
came under pressure this week,” said Markus Huber, head of
German sales trading at ETX Capital in  London . “The problem we
are facing in Europe is that bailing out other countries is
negatively influencing states like France and Italy.”  U.S. Downgrade  S&P downgraded the U.S.’s sovereign-debt rating by one
level to AA+ after the close of trading on Aug. 5 and maintained
its “negative” outlook, citing political failure to reduce
record deficits. S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings affirmed France’s top credit grade this week as relative
yields on the nation’s debt climbed on concern that the debt
crisis is spreading to the euro region’s second-largest economy.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will meet in Paris on Aug. 16 after concern that
the sovereign-debt crisis will spread to the region’s larger
economies rattled the French stock market.  “The U.S. downgrade has been a tricky business working out
whether it’s a financial or a political one,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich. “On the path we are heading down now, there is probably
good reason for future downgrades in European sovereigns to
come.”  European stocks retreated this week even after the  Federal
Reserve  pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low at least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated. The U.S. central bank
said it’s “prepared to employ” additional tools to bolster an
economy hobbled by weak hiring and anemic household spending.  Consumer Confidence   A report yesterday showed confidence among U.S. consumers
plunged in August to the lowest level since May 1980. Separate
data showed industrial production in the euro area unexpectedly
fell in June, led by a drop in capital goods such as machinery.  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets this week. Germany’s DAX declined 3.8 percent
while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 1.4 percent. France’s CAC 40
slid 2 percent, rebounding over the past two days after a 5.5
percent plunge on Aug. 10 that was the biggest since 2008.  Societe Generale sank 11 percent. The French bank was among
those targeted by investors because of its perceived dependence
on short-term funding, according to analysts at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. Credit-default swaps insuring Societe
Generale’s bonds climbed to a record high yesterday, according
to CMA prices.  BNP, Deutsche Bank  BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank, dropped 8.4 percent,
while Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s largest lender, tumbled 9.1
percent. Alpha Bank SA and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  declined
more than 5 percent.  Kloeckner led declining shares in the Stoxx 600 after
reporting second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization of 62 million euros ($88
million), missing the average analyst estimate of 87.2 million
euros. The stock plunged 22 percent, its biggest weekly drop in
more than two years.  RWE AG, Germany’s second-biggest utility, retreated 14
percent, the most since October 2008. The company said first-
half profit dropped after cutting full-year earnings targets
because of the costs of phasing out nuclear power stations.  Larger rival EON AG also lost 14 percent this week after
saying it will eliminate more than 10 percent of its workforce
and cut dividends as first-half earnings plunged because of
 Germany ’s decision to shut down all atomic reactors by 2022.  Standard Life advanced 17 percent as Scotland’s largest
insurer said operating profit was 262 million pounds ($426
million) for the six months to June 30, compared with 182
million pounds a year earlier. That beat the 193.5 million-pound
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Salzgitter AG rallied 8.1 percent after posting a first-
half profit of 93.7 million euros compared with a 3.5 million-
euro loss a year earlier. The German steelmaker said sales
surged 18 percent and cited the “favorable” economic
environment as well as cost reductions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  