-- 
Euro-Region June Industrial Output Falls; France Grinds to Halt

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-08-12T10:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/euro-region-industrial-production-unexpectedly-declined-in-june.html
European industrial production
unexpectedly fell in June and  France ’s economy stalled in the
second quarter, adding to signs that growth is losing momentum
as governments struggle to contain the debt crisis.  Production in the 17-nation euro area slipped 0.7 percent
from May, the European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg
said today. In France, the economy failed to expand from the
first quarter, according to Paris-based statistics office Insee,
missing the median forecast of 0.3 percent growth in a Bloomberg
News survey of 15 economists.  European leaders last month pledged a second bailout
package for  Greece  in a bid to restore investor confidence and
prevent the crisis from spreading across the region. While
companies including German carmaker Porsche AG are relying on
faster-growing markets to fuel sales, European economic
confidence weakened in July and manufacturing growth slowed,
according to Markit Economics’ gauge based on a survey of
purchasing managers.  “The outlook for the second half of the year looks
gloomy,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic research at
 ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “We expect the economy to remain
sluggish and there is a considerable risk of recession.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.4236 at 11:58 a.m. in Brussels. The currency has appreciated
6.4 percent against the dollar this year.  Greek Slump  Economists had forecast euro-region output to remain
unchanged from the previous month, the median of 30 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey showed. It was the biggest monthly drop
since Sept. 2010. Output increased 2.9 percent in the year.  Euro-region growth probably weakened in the second quarter
from 0.8 percent in the previous three months, European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Aug. 4. In the year,
the economy may expand about 1.9 percent before cooling to 1.7
percent in 2012, the Frankfurt-based central bank estimates.  Greece’s economy contracted 6.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, a separate report showed today.
Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, is scheduled to publish
second-quarter GDP on Aug. 16. The EU’s statistics office will
release its report on the same day.  “Recent economic data indicate a deceleration in the pace
of economic growth in the past few months,” the ECB said in its
monthly report published yesterday. “Uncertainty is
particularly high. Downside risks may have intensified.”  Russia,  Hong Kong   Economies around the globe are also cooling, suggesting
European companies may struggle to maintain their export sales
growth. Hong Kong’s economy shrank for the first time since the
global financial crisis in the second quarter. In Russia,
economic growth weakened for the second consecutive quarter.  With governments cutting spending and raising taxes to
lower budget deficits, companies have relied on emerging-market
demand to bolster orders. Porsche, the German sports-car maker,
said on Aug. 1 that first-quarter operating profit jumped 59
percent, with the fastest sales growth in  China . Italian rival
Ferrari SpA said last month that first-half sales more than
doubled in the Greater China region.  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, today
reported third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.
The Essen, Germany-based company said European demand is
dropping “sharply.”  Euro-region output of capital goods slumped 1.5 percent in
June from the previous month, when it rose 1.1 percent, today’s
report showed. Energy production slipped 0.4 percent and output
of intermediate goods decreased 0.6 percent. Production of
durable  consumer goods  declined 2.5 percent from May.  Global ‘Uncertainties’  Europe’s economy may not be able to rely on industrial
demand to help drive an expansion. Chinese industrial-production
growth slowed in July from a year earlier.  In Europe, concern about a  budget crisis  spilling over into
the broader economy led to a 25 percent decline in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index over the past six months.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Europe’s largest automaker, said last month it expects demand in
its home western European market to be “burdened” in the
second half, while global economic growth may slow somewhat.  “The global environment is marked by uncertainties,”
 Peter Loescher , chief executive officer at  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s
largest engineering company, said on July 28. “The global
economy continues to grow. However, the upswing is losing
momentum” and there “are a number of risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  