-- 
Mexico Corn Imports to Surge to Record as Output Outlook Cut

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-08-12T20:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/mexico-corn-imports-to-surge-to-record-as-output-outlook-cut-2-.html
Corn output in  Mexico  will fall
short of previous estimates, forcing the world’s second-biggest
corn buyer to boost purchases from foreign suppliers by 36
percent to a record, the National Confederation of Farmers said.  The outlook for domestic corn output this year was cut to
22 million metric tons, from a previous estimate of 25.1 million
tons, Hector Salazar, secretary general of the Mexico City-based
group, said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News. The drop may force Mexico to import a record
12.1 million tons of yellow corn, up from 8.9 million tons last
year, he said.  Corn futures have surged 69 percent in the past year,
fueled by supply concerns in the U.S. and other producing
nations. Crops in Mexico, where the grain is a staple in
products from tortillas to hot drinks, was cut by about 4.5
million tons after frost last winter in the northern region,
according to the  Agriculture Ministry .  “If Mexican imports reach those levels, it would put
additional upside pressure on prices,” said Marty Foreman, an
economist for Doane Advisory Services Co. in  St. Louis ,
 Missouri . “Markets were expecting an increase of imports of 1
million or 1 1/2 million tons.”  Corn Futures  Of the 12.1 million tons of yellow corn that Mexico may
import this year, about 75 percent will be used to feed animals,
Salazar said. The rest is mostly for industrial consumption, he
said. Mexico usually imports between 8 million and 9 million
tons of yellow corn a year.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 0.1 percent to
close at $7.1425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
price rose 1.6 percent for the week, the second straight gain,
after the U.S. government said yesterday that output will rise
less than expected this year because of hot weather in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 