-- 
Operator of Fake Hedge Fund Koifman Sentenced to 63 Months in Prison

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-12T19:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/fake-hedge-fund-operator-receives-63-month-sentence-for-20-million-scheme.html
Benjamin Koifman, who pleaded guilty
to conspiracy for his role in a scheme to cheat investors with a
phony New York-based hedge fund, was sentenced to five years and
three months in prison.  Koifman and William Shternfeld ran A.R. Capital Global Fund
LP, an unregistered  investment adviser , and ARC Global Fund, a
hedge fund that said it invested in equity of international real
estate, according to prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara.  Koifman was sentenced by U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein 
in Manhattan today. At a separate hearing, Stein said he intends
to impose the same sentence on Shternfeld in October after the
defendant undergoes a medical evaluation.  Prosecutors claimed that, from 2004 to 2006, Shternfeld and
Koifman engaged in a scheme with co-conspirators to get at least
70 investors to invest about $20 million in the ARC Global Fund
by making false statements about it.  At the hearing today, Koifman, 36, cried three times during
his remarks to the judge while pleading for a light sentence.  “I did terrible things,” Koifman told Stein. “This
mistake has caused people including my family to suffer.”  Koifman was also sentenced to three years’ supervised
probation and ordered to pay restitution of $7 million. The same
probation and restitution would be ordered for Shternfeld, the
judge said. As part of their plea agreement, Koifman and
Shternfeld paid $50,000 of the restitution so far.  “He knew this was a fraud,” the judge said to Koifman’s
lawyer, Arthur Gershfeld. “He kept calling elderly people. They
took the money and ran. That’s pretty pernicious.”  Oral Cancer  Shternfeld and his lawyer,  Michael Rosen , argued before the
judge that the Bureau of Prisons may not have the ability to
properly treat Shternfeld, who has oral cancer and wears a mouth
prosthesis that needs adjustments every few months.  Stein agreed for Shternfeld to have a medical evaluation
and rescheduled his sentencing for Oct. 13.  “I’m ready to be sentenced,” Shternfeld said in court.
“But do I have to go through torture every day?”  Prosecutors said they recovered $620,000 in the bank
accounts of A.R. Capital. Other money obtained in the fraud was
sent to the Ukraine and other countries that were formerly part
of the  Soviet Union  and won’t be recovered, said Assistant U.S.
Attorney Daniel Goldman.  Two other men in the case, Igor Levin of  Brooklyn ,  New
York , and Yevgeny Shvartsshteyn of Belle Harbor, New York,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy in December.  The case is U.S. v. Shternfeld, 10-cr-00031, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 