-- 
Fannie, Freddie Should Renegotiate Treasury Contracts: Watchdog

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-12T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/fannie-freddie-should-renegotiate-treasury-contracts-watchdog.html
Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac should
revisit their agreements to manage President  Barack Obama ’s
anti-foreclosure efforts, a government watchdog said.  The two U.S.-controlled mortgage companies should
renegotiate with the U.S. Treasury Department to hold down
expenses and establish a way to resolve disputes, according to a
report released today by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s
inspector general. The report said the existing contracts didn’t
define the scope of the work or how much the companies would be
paid.  The report highlights tension between the FHFA, the
regulator charged with protecting the companies’ financial
interests, and the Treasury, which owns most of the mortgage
companies after bailing them out during the 2008 financial
crisis. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have since drawn more than
$170 billion in Treasury aid, making them currently the biggest
recipients of federal aid.  At the same time, they manage and enforce Obama’s Home Loan
Modification Program, or HAMP, under contracts with Treasury.
The February 2009 HAMP  agreements  set forth basic
responsibilities without detailing what the companies would get
paid or the scope of their work.  The contracts committed “significant resources at a time
when there were substantial concerns about the enterprises’
financial and operational capacity,” the inspector general
found.  The report, while faulting FHFA for failing to negotiate
terms, found no evidence that the contracts had compromised the
agency’s independence.  The housing agency agreed with the recommendation and will
establish dispute resolution measures by the end of the year,
senior associate director Meg Burns said in a written response.
Gaps in the contracts were “purposeful with full anticipation
that negotiations would continue.”  Significant disputes arose almost from the beginning. FHFA
Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco sparred with Treasury over the
companies’ reimbursement and pushed back against administration
requests to “initiate risky and costly projects,” the report
found.  FHFA had operated under the assumption that they would be
reimbursed for the full cost of administering the loan-
modification effort, which pays mortgage servicers for each
borrower they help, the inspector general reported.  Treasury disagreed and said it would pay only for
modifications on loans not owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or
 Freddie Mac . The differential was significant: As of June 30,
more than half of all loans modified under HAMP were owned by
the government-controlled enterprises.  “The position of Treasury -- which controlled the purse
strings -- prevailed, and the enterprises have not been
reimbursed for work related to mortgages they own or
guarantee,” the inspector general’s office found.  The Treasury values Fannie Mae’s contract at almost $112
million and Freddie Mac’s at more than $160 million.  The inspector general found that FHFA has “exhibited
independence” by prohibiting the government-sponsored
enterprises from participating in other loan-modification
programs that might hurt the companies’ profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 