-- 
Fed’s Dudley Reduces His Expectations for U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-08-12T15:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/fed-s-dudley-reduces-his-expectations-for-u-s-economic-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William C. Dudley said policy makers gave a “sober
assessment” of the  U.S. economy  this week and that he cut his
forecast for growth.  “Economic growth so far in 2011 has been quite a bit
slower than we expected earlier in the year,” Dudley, 58,  said
today  at the bank’s New York headquarters. “In the last few
months conditions in the labor market have deteriorated again
and the  unemployment rate  edged up. Household spending has
flattened out, and the housing sector is depressed.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this week
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013 to revive an economic recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated. Fed officials also
“discussed the range of policy tools” available to boost
growth and are “prepared to employ those tools as
appropriate,” the FOMC said.  “Following the release of the FOMC’s statement, market
interest rates generally moved lower, which should help provide
some additional support for economic activity and jobs,” Dudley
said. “I would note, however, that conditions remain unsettled
and the equity market in particular remains very volatile.”  The Fed made the rate pledge after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S. government’s credit rating and  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsened, roiling markets worldwide. The S&P 500 Index of
stocks fell 18 percent from a three year high on April 29
through Aug. 8. The index rose 0.8 percent to 1,182.15 at 11:36
a.m. in New York trading.  Downgrades Forecast  Dudley said that he has downgraded his forecast while
expecting to see “stronger growth” in the second half of the
year because “some of the weakness” in the first six months
was due to “temporary factors” like higher commodity prices
and supply chain disruptions caused by the earthquake in  Japan .  “But it is clear that not all of the weakness was due to
these one-time factors -- and in light of this, I have revised
down my expectations for the pace of recovery going forward,”
Dudley said.  Dudley declined to quantify his forecast in response to
questions from reporters. He said while he’s not expecting the
economy to slip back into another recession, the risks of a
relapse have increased.  “We do not expect a double-dip recession but clearly when
the economy is growing more slowly you would have to say that
the risks have risen somewhat,” Dudley said. “We’re still
expecting our economy to accelerate in the second half of the
year.”  Jury ‘Still Out’  “The jury’s still out” on the specific pace of growth in
part because “we’ve had a lot of turbulence in financial
markets,” he said, adding that the impact from market turmoil
will depend on how long it persists, and to what extent
financial conditions tighten as a result.  Growth slowed to a 1.6 percent rate during the second
quarter from a year earlier. About 70 percent of the time when
the pace has fallen below 2 percent, a contraction has followed
within a year, according to data since World War II in an April
study by Jeremy Nalewaik, a Fed board staff economist.  Dudley repeated his call for U.S. fiscal improvement “over
the long-term” and noted “some progress” through this month’s
agreement to raise the debt limit.  He sees “no sign in the
markets” that there’s “any lack of doubt” that the U.S. is
committed “to do what’s necessary” to address fiscal
shortfalls.  U.S. Rating  Referring to the U.S. credit rating cut, Dudley said, “my
hope is that the downgrade will be viewed as a shot across the
bow that will reinforce” the “determination to do what’s
necessary.”  “Obviously the Treasury was unhappy with the downgrade,”
but “let’s make a positive out of it that -- this is a warning
sign of what happens if you don’t do what you  need to do in a
timely way. So, let’s get on with it.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he wouldn’t let dissent
from three policy makers over the rate commitment -- the most
opposition to a FOMC decision in 18 years -- stop him from
expanding record monetary stimulus. Dudley, vice chairman of the
FOMC, voted with Bernanke.  Third Round  While the FOMC didn’t specify which tools it’s considering
using, Bernanke said in July that if the recovery weakens the
Fed may weigh beginning a third round of bond purchases or
pledge to keep its balance sheet at a record high for a longer
period of time. The Fed purchased $1.7 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage debt from December 2008 to March 2010 and another $600
billion of Treasuries from November through June.  Dudley said growth in the New York Fed’s district “though
somewhat stronger than at the national level, has nonetheless
been disappointing.”  Employment growth in the region has been hurt by government
cutbacks, and “another potentially troubling development” are
job losses in the financial industry, Dudley said.  “It is difficult to say when the pace of job growth will
pick up,” Dudley said. Jobs are being added in industries like
health care and education, and some industries are hiring to
replace earlier layoffs, such as administrative support, he
said.  New York City ’s securities industry has lost nearly 4,000
jobs since April, Dudley said. “More difficulties may lie
ahead” in the industry, he said, noting “recent announcements
of consolidations and layoffs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  