-- 
Chrysler Adds Fiat 500 Times Square Drive-in as Sales Set to Miss Target

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/fiat-500-times-square-drive-in-guerrilla-marketing-boost-sales-effort.html
Chrysler Group LLC, majority owned
by  Fiat SpA (F) , “probably” won’t hit its target to sell 50,000 of
the new Fiat 500 in  North America  this year after it took longer
to open new stores than previously expected, an executive said.  The company is intensifying 500 marketing efforts,
including a planned promotion in Times Square in  New York , Laura Soave, head of the Fiat brand under Chrysler, said in an
interview. About 100 Fiat stores have opened in the U.S.,
including about 30 in July. The goal is to have 130 by year-end.  “We have coverage now, so now is the time for us to turn
this up,” she said. “We’ve activated the smaller guerrilla-
type marketing, but then these are the bigger events that are
going to get us bigger awareness.”  The marketing push and added outlets should increase Fiat
500 U.S. sales at least 30 percent in August over July, Soave
said yesterday in an interview at Chrysler’s Auburn Hills,
Michigan, headquarters. Chrysler reported U.S. 500 sales of
3,038 in July, with a total of 7,982 for the year so far.
Another 3,064 Fiats have sold in  Canada  this year through July.  Chrysler is responsible for reintroducing the Fiat brand in
the U.S. after an absence of almost 30 years.  The U.S. automaker in March began selling the 500, with its
clam-shaped hood that evokes the model’s original design, at a
starting price of $15,500 against  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Smart and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Mini small cars.  Marketing Expands  A national 500 marketing campaign began in early July with
advertising that included spots on the Internet and in movie
theaters. Earlier this month, television commercials began
airing that show a young couple going to a drive-in movie in a
Fiat 500.  This weekend, Soave will begin in  Manhattan  a series of
marketing events. The company will park 36 of the cars in Times
Square for guests to watch movies on the jumbotron, she said.  “This is going to be our biggest signature event,” she
said. Soave plans similar promotions in  Chicago , Miami and  Santa
Monica ,  California .  On a smaller scale, Fiat has been sending 15 teams with
500s to drive and park around major U.S. markets, such as  Los
Angeles , to attract attention, showing off a new iPad
application and handing out brochures.  Chrysler also began in July offering financing as low as
1.9 percent for 36 months on the hatchback.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who heads both
Fiat and Chrysler, wants to merge the carmakers to reduce costs
and generate more than 100 billion euros ($142 billion) in
revenue by 2014. Fiat gained control of Chrysler through the
U.S. automaker’s 2009 bankruptcy restructuring. Fiat last month
increased its ownership stake to 53.5 percent on a fully diluted
basis.  Dealer Delays  Instead of using Chrysler’s existing franchise stores, the
automaker picked 130 dealers to open new U.S. Fiat showrooms.
Chrysler had wanted those showrooms to open by February for a
March marketing push.  Only about a dozen were up and running by late February
because it was taking franchise holders longer to get government
permit approvals for their projects, Soave has said.  “We lost the whole first quarter,” Soave said. If the
store openings had occurred as planned, the sales target
would’ve been achieved, she said. Now, that will “probably
not” occur this year, she said.  Fiat is working on two more TV commercials to begin running
in September along with plans to keep the Fiat marketing push
going long-term to build the brand, Soave said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  