-- 
Former Nasdaq Managing Director Johnson Sentenced to 3 1/2 Years in Prison

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-08-12T18:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/former-nasdaq-executive-johnson-sentenced-to-3-1-2-years-in-insider-case.html
Former Nasdaq Stock Market Managing
Director  Donald Johnson  was sentenced to 3 1/2 years in prison
for using information obtained from his position with the
exchange to engage in  insider trading  and ordered to pay back
$755,066 he made from illegal trades.  Johnson, 57, who pleaded guilty in May to one count of
 securities fraud , was sentenced today in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia . He faced as many as 20 years at
sentencing, though U.S. sentencing guidelines recommend a 37 to
46 month range. The judge said Johnson deserved the 42-month
sentence because he violated his duty to investors.  “The conduct fundamentally compromises the integrity of
the  securities market ,” U.S. District Judge Anthony Trenga
said, adding that Johnson’s case is “sad and tragic” and
“directly undermined the confidence the investing public has in
the securities exchange.”  Johnson bought and sold shares of five Nasdaq-listed
companies based on inside information from 2006 to 2009, he said
at his plea hearing, and often made the trades from his work
computer at  Nasdaq , according to a lawsuit filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in Manhattan federal court.  At his sentencing hearing today, Johnson, wearing a dark
suit and yellow tie, expressed remorse to the judge, saying he
wanted to “make amends.”  “If I had to come up with a word for what I did, it is
stupidity,” Johnson said. “There aren’t any answers to explain
my activity.”  Intelligence Desk  Johnson, a former managing director at Nasdaq’s market
intelligence desk in New York, admitted making more than
$640,000 from the illegal trades. Among the shares he traded was
 United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  based on inside information about test
results for the drug Viveta, now called Tyvaso, and about the
approval of the drug, the  Justice Department  said.  “Insider trading is an insidious crime,” said Justin
Goodyear, a trial attorney with the fraud section of the U.S.
Justice Department’s criminal division at the hearing today.
“He took advantage of his position of trust and used
information for his own benefit.”  “Today’s sentence should leave no doubt in the minds of
investors inclined to cheat that insider trading is a serious
crime, with serious consequences,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
General Lanny Breuer said today in an e-mailed statement.  “He learned what every other trader on  Wall Street  must
now realize: We’re watching, and when you’re caught you’ll face
serious time in prison,” Breuer said.  In the case of  Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. (PPDI) ,
Johnson bet the stock would rise when the public learned it
would be included in the Nasdaq-100, he admitted in his plea.  Poor Earnings  “The penalties of these actions are nothing short of
crushing,” said Johnson’s defense lawyer Jonathan Simms, who
asked for a jail term of no more than 18 months during today’s
hearing. “This man has endured a lot.”  Johnson used a brokerage account in his wife’s name to
conceal the illicit trades, the Justice Department said. Other
securities he traded based on inside information were Central
Garden and Pet Co., Digene Corp., Idexx Laboratories Inc. and
Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc., according to the
government.  Earnings Reports  Nasdaq OMX said in May that it was cooperating with the
probe. The second-largest U.S. exchange operator, Nasdaq OMX is
one of only two venues in the country for public companies to
list their shares. Those companies often supply the exchange
with confidential financial information, such as earnings
reports, which Johnson handled. Nasdaq spokesman Frank De Maria
wasn’t immediately available for comment on the sentencing.  Nasdaq OMX, based in  New York , opened its market
intelligence desk in 2002, offering companies analysis of their
stocks’ trading and market statistics and information. Nasdaq
OMX got about 19 percent of its first-quarter revenue from its
global listing services unit, which includes annual fees charged
to companies it lists.  The case is U.S. v. Johnson, 11-00254, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia in Alexandria at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 