-- 
French Economy Stalls With Decline in Consumer Spending as Exports Dwindle

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-12T09:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/french-economy-stalls-as-spending-declines.html
France’s economy unexpectedly
stalled in the second quarter as consumer spending plunged just
as investors spooked by  Europe ’s debt crisis turn their
attention to the euro region’s second-largest economy.  Gross domestic product was unchanged from the first
quarter, when it rose 0.9 percent, the most in four years,
Paris-based statistics office Insee said today. Economists
forecast a 0.3 percent gain, the median of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  The slowdown may jeopardize President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
target of 2 percent growth for 2011, a key component in the
government’s plans to reduce its deficit. Concerns about debt
and slow growth have caused credit default swaps on French
 government bonds  to double in the past six weeks. Swaps
approached a record high today.  “We will not have tremendous growth especially with these
austerity programs,” Philippe d’Arvisenet, a global economist
at BNP Paribas in Paris, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. Even so, austerity measures are “inescapable,” he
said. Otherwise, “you have more turmoil in the markets.”  ‘Determination’  France  moved center-stage in the debt crisis this week, as
the yield on government debt compared to German bonds rose to a
euro-era record. France’s CAC 40 Index plunged 5.5 percent on
Aug. 10, dragged down by banks including Societe Generale SA,
which is heading for a 19 percent retreat this week. Sarkozy and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet in Paris on Aug. 16 to
discuss the crisis.  The French government will hold firm to its deficit-
reduction targets and its growth forecasts, Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said after today’s report.  “No one should doubt our determination to respect the
deficit targets that the president of the republic has fixed,”
Baroin said in an interview on RTL Radio. He said tax levels
would not rise, and the  deficit reduction  would come from
spending cuts.  France has pledged to reduce the deficit to 5.7 percent of
output this year and 4.6 percent in 2012. It then aims to reduce
it to 3 percent and 2 percent in the two following years. The
 International Monetary Fund  said last month that on current
plans, France will fail to achieve its targets in 2012 and 2013.  Consumer spending, previously the motor for the French
economy, fell 0.7 percent in the report, while exports were
flat. Investment was the only significant contributor to growth,
gaining 0.9 percent.  ‘Still Investing’  “The good news is that companies are still investing,”
Michel Martinez, an economist at  Societe Generale  in Paris, said
before the data came out. “The concerns are about
competitiveness and slowing world trade.”  Sarkozy this week moved up the process of approving the
2012 budget by a month, announcing a meeting of his inner
Cabinet on Aug. 24.  France “is set to miss” its deficit target “unless it
takes further action,”  Christian Schulz , an economist at
Berenberg Bank in London, said in a note to clients. “While the
miss may not be large, the evidence and expectation of slower
growth and more fiscal drag is likely to fuel the nervousness of
markets.”  Efforts to reduce the deficit could further hit growth,
said d’Arvisenet at BNP.  ‘Never Happy’  “Markets are never happy,” he said. “We want growth but
also we want consolidation. You give consolidation, they are not
happy because there is no growth. There is growth but no
consolidation, they are not happy.”  The spread between the yield on French 10-year government
debt and benchmark German bunds rose as high as 89 basis points
this week from 40 at the start of July. It was at 71 basis
points today.  Credit default swaps on France have doubled in the past six
weeks to 169.8 basis points, more than triple the U.S., which
last week lost its top rating at  Standard & Poor’s . Swaps on
France rose 4 basis points to 173, within 1.5 basis points of a
closing-price record high, according to CMA at 9 a.m. in  London .
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of debt.  The French government expects the economy to grow 2 percent
this year and 2.25 percent in 2012. The IMF predicts growth of
2.1 percent and 1.9 percent. Schulz said France’s long-term
growth prospects remain “intact” because of the lack of any
real-estate or credit bubble.  Growth Forecasts  D’Arvisenet at BNP said the government may have to cut its
2011 forecast to 1.7 or 1.8 percent growth.  Jennifer McKeown ,
senior European economist at  Capital Economics  in London, said
she’s now expecting expansion of 1.5 percent this year.  “Next week’s release might show that  Germany  performed a
bit better, but with Italy and  Spain  barely growing, the euro-
zone as a whole will have managed only a very modest expansion
in the second quarter,” McKeown said in a note to clients. “As
for France itself, the 0.7 percent drop in  consumer spending  was
the sharpest in nearly 15 years, suggesting that the household
sector can no longer be relied upon to support the economy.”  Even with a record trade deficit of more than 7 billion
euros in both April and May, international trade added 0.3
percent to growth in the second quarter because of a 0.9 percent
decline in imports, Insee said.  Baroin said the slowdown in consumer spending resulted from
the expiry of a government-funded rebate system for buyers of
new cars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  