-- 
Fugro Declines After First-Half Profit Misses Estimates

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-08-12T09:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/fugro-declines-after-first-half-profit-misses-estimates-1-.html
Fugro NV (FUR) , the world’s largest
surveyor of deepwater  oil fields , slumped as much as 9.1 percent
in Amsterdam trading after earnings missed analysts’ estimates
because of the slowing world economy and price pressures.  Fugro fell as much as 3.76 euros and traded at 38.51 euros
at 11:15 a.m. local time. The stock is down 37 percent so far
this year.  First-half earnings before tax and interest of 141 million
euros ($200 million) missed the average estimate of 160 million
euros in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts. Fugro forecast
full-year net income of about 260 million euros on sales of
about 2.5 billion euros.  “Both the actual first-half results as well as the
guidance for the full year as a whole are disappointing,”
Martijn den Drijver, an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam,
said today in a note. SNS has a “buy” rating on the stock and
expects to revise down its estimates.  The uncertain global economic outlook may lead to projects
being deferred and clients awarding projects at the last minute,
Leidschendam-based Fugro said in a statement. The company
gathers information about possible petroleum reservoirs under
the sea floor in areas such as the  Gulf of Mexico , the North Sea
and  Brazil .  “ In some market segments we expect to experience
continued price pressure,” the company said in the statement.
The European debt crisis and political unrest in the Middle East
and Africa “created uncertainties in various market segments in
which Fugro is exposed,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net 
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  