-- 
French Bonds Rally on Vow To Maintain Deficit Pledge as GDP Growth Stalls

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-12T15:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/german-bunds-climb-as-french-gdp-stalls-before-european-factory-production.html
French 10-year bonds rose, pushing
the extra yield investors get to hold them instead of German
bunds to a two-week low, as the nation’s finance minister vowed
to meet deficit-reduction targets and bank stocks rallied.  Spanish and Italian 10-year bond yields extended their
biggest weekly drop in the euro era after the  European Central
Bank  bought the securities, according to people familiar with
the deals. German notes slid as the ECB said overnight lending
to financial institutions fell yesterday from a three-month
high.  France ’s government will hold firm to its economic targets
and growth forecasts, Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said.  “The idea that they’re looking to add austerity and get
their financial house in order has been a good fillip to the
market,”  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London , said of France.  The yield on the French 10-year bond decreased eight basis
points to 2.97 percent at 3:47 p.m. in London, leaving it 18
basis points lower in the week. The 3.25 percent securities
maturing in October 2021 gained 0.665, or 6.54 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,423) face amount, to 102.39.  The gains in French bonds reduced the additional yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of their German
peers by nine basis points to 64.7 basis points, the smallest
gap since July 28. The spread climbed to 89 basis points on Aug.
8, the most in the euro era, based on closing-market rates.  French Data  French gross domestic product was unchanged from the first
quarter, government statistics showed today. Economists expected
the French economy to grow 0.3 percent, according to the median
prediction 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The country has
pledged to reduce the deficit to 5.7 percent of output this year
and 4.6 percent in 2012. It then aims to reduce it to 3 percent
and 2 percent in the two following years.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will meet in Paris on Aug. 16.  The French-German yield premium and higher costs to protect
French debt against non-payment aren’t justified, Myles Bradshaw, a  money manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  The German 10-year yield rose two basis points to 2.33
percent, while two-year yields also increased two basis points
to 0.68 percent, amid reduced demand for the safest fixed-income
assets.  Marginal Lending  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of equities rose 2.9 percent,
paced by bank shares’ 4 percent gain. France, Spain, Italy and
 Belgium  banned so-called short selling of equities yesterday.  Banks tapped the ECB’s marginal lending facility for 227
million euros, compared with 4.06 billion euros the previous
day, according to data published by the central bank today. The
spike in overnight lending fueled speculation yesterday that
some banks were being locked out of money markets.  The Italian 10-year yield dropped three basis points,
headed for a 108 basis-point drop this week. The Spanish rate is
down 106 basis points since Aug. 5, the most in a week since
before the euro’s introduction in 1999. The ECB bought Italian
bonds today, three people with knowledge of the transactions
said. A spokesman for the ECB declined to comment.  Portuguese Bonds  Portuguese bonds rose, with the five-year yield falling 15
basis points to 11.52 percent. A team of European Union and
International Monetary Fund inspectors said the nation is “on
track” to meet its 2011 deficit goal, putting the nation in
line to receive an 11.5 billion-euro aid payment next month.  Irish two-year note yields fell 51 basis points to 10.19
percent.  The nation’s recent bond rally was driven by “the
contribution of reassurance in the market about the Irish
program of recovery and actions from the ECB in the securities
market program,” Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan 
said at an event in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania today.  German  government bonds  handed investors a 4.6 percent
return this year, compared with 6.4 percent for U.S. Treasuries
and 3.6 percent in France, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish bonds have returned 4.8 percent, while
Italian debt is little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  