-- 
Withdrawals From Stock Funds Biggest Since ’08

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-08-12T18:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/global-stock-funds-post-biggest-withdrawals-since-2008-on-u-s-downgrade.html
Investors pulled the most money from
global stock funds since 2008 in the past week as the  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of Treasuries and the deepening European debt
crisis prompted a flight into cash and gold.  Funds that buy global equities suffered $3.5 billion in net
withdrawals in the week ended Aug. 10, the most since the second
week of October 2008, according to  Cameron Brandt , director of
research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.
Investors removed $11.7 billion from funds that invest in U.S.
equities, the most since May 2010 when investors pulled money
following a one-day market crash that briefly erased $862
billion.  “This week had a feeling of capitulation as we saw
investors running for cover,” Brandt said in a telephone
interview. “The last time we saw this kind of flight to
safety” was in 2008, he said.  Investors have rushed into money-market funds and gold as
global equity markets lost $6.8 trillion in value since July 26.
On Aug. 5, S&P downgraded  U.S. debt  for the first time, sending
the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down by 6.7 percent on
the first trading session after the move. In  Europe , riots swept
across Britain and the sovereign-debt crisis deepened in the
countries that use the euro.  Earnings at asset-management firms will be cut by 5 percent
to 15 percent in 2012 as a result of investors’ reaction the
market selloff, Daniel Fannon, an analyst with Jefferies & Co.
in  San Francisco , wrote in a note to clients today.  ‘Lingering Impact’  Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG)  and T. Rowe Price Group Inc.
will be “hardest hit” because they have more stock funds, he
wrote. Franklin Resources Inc. will see the least impact because
of its sizable global fixed-income business, according to
Fannon.  “This latest market correction will doubt have a lingering
impact on investor sentiment and risk appetites,” Fannon wrote.  Stocks in Standard & Poor’s asset manager and custody bank
index have declined about 5 percent since Aug. 5, compared with
the 1.2 percent decline in the S&P 500.  U.S. money funds attracted $61 billion in the week ended
Aug. 9, according to data from iMoneyNet in Westborough,
Massachusetts. Gold and precious metals funds drew $2.1 billion
in the past week, EPFR said.  The  S&P 500  recovered some losses as it rose 4.6 percent
yesterday and 1.1 percent as of 1:42 p.m. today in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  