-- 
Google Antitrust Probe Said to Grow as FTC Demands Information

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-08-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/google-probe-expands-as-ftc-demands-information.html
The antitrust investigation of
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  by the U.S.  Federal Trade Commission  has expanded
with demands for information from other technology companies,
two people familiar with the matter said.  The people, who didn’t want to be named because they
weren’t authorized to speak about the probe, said they didn’t
know which companies received the so-called civil investigative
demands from the FTC. The demands are similar to subpoenas.  Likely recipients of the demands, which will probably be
sent out in groups, are rivals that have complained that Google
has used its dominance as the world’s most popular search engine
to hurt competition in the Internet industry, said a third
person familiar with the matter.  Those companies include  Microsoft Corp. , online travel
agency  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Yelp Inc. , a restaurant review website,
said the third person, asking for anonymity because of the lack
of authorization to speak publicly.  Microsoft hasn’t received a demand yet, said Jack Evans, a
spokesman for the Redmond, Washington-based company. “We will
cooperate with any request we receive for additional information
from the FTC,” he said in an e-mail.  Vince Sollitto, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Yelp,
declined to comment. Katie Dinas, a spokeswoman for Bellevue,
Washington-based Expedia, didn’t immediately return phone calls
and an e-mail seeking comment.  “We understand that with success comes scrutiny and we’re
happy to answer any questions about our business,” said
Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-based
Google.  Outside Reviews  Google said July 21 that it decided to remove outside
reviews from its Places pages, which direct users to local
establishments. Companies including Yelp and Expedia’s
TripAdvisor complained that Google used their content without
permission and misrepresented information on their sites.  The FTC has been talking to Internet companies for months
in preparation for sending out the demands, the third person
said.  In June, the FTC sent Google a subpoena related to the
investigation, according to a regulatory filing by the company.  The FTC is focusing on whether Google unfairly ranks search
results to favor its own businesses and increases advertising
rates for competitors, the third person said. The agency also is
examining whether the company is using its control of the
Android mobile operating system to discourage smart-phone makers
from using rivals’ applications, the person said.  In a Massachusetts state court case,  Skyhook Wireless 
alleges Google pressured Motorola Inc. and other Skyhook
customers not to use the Boston-based company’s software for
pinpointing a cell phone’s location.  Google makes a product that competes with Skyhook’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  