-- 
Gorilla-Masked Kidnappers Explode Watermelons; ‘Senna’: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/gorilla-masked-kidnappers-explode-watermelons-senna-s-legend-rick-warner.html
Time is a crucial element in “ 30
Minutes or Less ,” a wacky action/comedy about a pizza-delivery
guy who’s kidnapped and forced to rob a bank.  The title refers to the guarantee Nick’s pizzeria makes to
customers: If the food doesn’t arrive in a half-hour, it’s free.  More relevant is the 10 hours Nick (Jesse Eisenberg) has to
steal $100,000 from a bank. That’s the deadline he’s given by
Dwayne (Danny McBride) and Travis (Nick Swardson), the clueless
kidnappers who wear gorilla masks while strapping a bomb to
Nick’s chest and threatening to detonate it if he doesn’t follow
their directions.  Dwayne, who still lives with his grouchy, despotic dad
(Fred Ward), wants the dough to hire a hit man to kill the old
man and inherit some of the millions he won in a lottery.  Director Ruben Fleischer showed a flair for this kind of
loopiness in his debut feature, “Zombieland.” This time out,
his attempt to mix mirth with mayhem is less successful.  Forget the fact that the plot (from screenwriter Michael
Diliberti) is similar to a 2003 incident in  Pennsylvania  that
ended with a pizza-delivery man getting blown to smithereens.
Turning real tragedy into fictional comedy may be tasteless, but
it’s nothing new.  No, the problems here are the all-too-familiar sex-and-
stoner humor, unconvincing relationships and crudely directed
action scenes.  The actors, including Aziz Ansari as Nick’s best friend and
fellow bank robber and Michael Pena as the fearsome hit man,
play their caricatured roles with zest. What they can’t do is
make sense of the story, which includes a flamethrower,
exploding watermelons and a surprise ending that observant
viewers will see coming a mile away.  “30 Minutes or Less,” from  Columbia Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Senna’  Three million people lined the streets of  Sao Paulo  in 1994
for Ayrton Senna’s funeral and another 100 million watched on
television. The champion race-car driver who died in a crash at
the age of 34 was a Brazilian hero who lifted the spirits of a
country plagued by poverty and repression.  His story is told with passion and flair in “ Senna ,” a
documentary that chronicles his meteoric rise, three Formula One
titles, bitter feud with rival Alain Prost, strong Catholic
faith and shocking death at the San Marino Grand Prix.  Crash Footage  Asif Kapadia’s film features of lot of seldom-seen footage
from Senna’s races and personal life, including harrowing shots
taken from an onboard camera in his car just before his fatal
crash into a wall.  Prost criticized Senna’s reckless driving style and pious
pronouncements about religion. While the documentary doesn’t shy
away from Senna’s faults, it’s clearly a tribute to a racing
legend who captured the imagination of his sport and nation.  “Senna,” from Producers Distribution Agency, is playing
in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 