-- 
Governor Subbarao Says ‘Too Early’ to Signal Change in India Rate Stance

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-12T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/governor-subbarao-says-too-early-to-signal-change-in-india-rate-stance.html
India ’s central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said it’s “too early to say” whether there
will be a change in the nation’s monetary policy stance after
stocks plunged worldwide on concern of a global slowdown.  “We don’t know how this market turbulence over the last
week will evolve,” Subbarao said in Kathmandu, Nepal, yesterday.
“I am hoping this knee-jerk reaction will extinguish.”  Subbarao, whose term was extended by two years on Aug. 9,
has to weigh the risks to expansion posed by Europe’s debt
crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery after increasing interest
rates to slow inflation. The threat of a global downturn wiped
more than $8 trillion of value from stocks worldwide between
July 22 and Aug. 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index fell 1.3 percent
in Mumbai yesterday. The rupee gained 0.1 percent to 45.34 per
dollar, and the yield on the 7.80 percent bond due April 2021
rose 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 8.31 percent.  “Markets will continue to respond to economic developments,
especially statements by the U.S. Fed, the U.S. economic data,
debt concerns in  Europe  and the recovery trajectory in  Japan ,”
Subbarao said. “So, there are a lot of uncertainties that we
will take into account while we formulate our response in the
monetary policy review.”  He said companies in India still have “pricing power” and
there is a need to curb inflation expectations.  Inflation Forecast  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation in July will
probably be 9.2 percent, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey, staying above 9 percent for eight
straight months. The commerce ministry will release the data on
Aug. 16.  “Inflation remains the main challenge for India’s central
bank,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc. “The  Reserve Bank  of India will have to
tighten rates until inflation shows significant easing.”  India’s industrial production grew 8.8 percent in June, the
quickest pace in three months, the commerce ministry said
yesterday, maintaining pressure for higher borrowing costs.  The Reserve Bank has increased its repurchase rate 11 times
since mid-March 2010, and last raised it on July 26 by half a
percentage point to 8 percent.  The next policy statement is scheduled for Sept. 16.  ‘Lot of Developments’  “There will be a lot of developments till then,” Subbarao
said. “It’s too early to say if we will change our stance.”  By contrast, finance ministers and central bankers from the
Group of Seven nations, which include the U.S., U.K. and  Germany ,
said in a statement on Aug. 8 that they will “take all
necessary measures to support financial stability and growth in
a spirit of close cooperation and confidence.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve Aug. 9 decided to hold its key
 interest rate  at a record low through mid-2013.  The U.S.’s policy stance “will have implications on
emerging economies, particularly for India,” Subbarao said.  “In the short-term, there will be some outflows as we saw
last week,” Subbarao said. “In the medium-term as the world
adjusts or gets over this knee-jerk response, there will a flood
of outflows or inflows - it is difficult to decide.”  He said if “uncertainty” persists for a long time there
will be “flight to safety.”  Capital Inflows  “On the other hand, if there is some calm restored, even
if the basic problem is not solved, capital inflows will
continue,” Subbarao said. “So,  capital controls  are advisable
in certain circumstances,” he said without elaborating.  Asian officials, battling inflation pressures, expects
capital inflows to surge after the Fed said it will keep rates
at record lows and pledged additional measures if needed.  Central banks in  Asia  have enacted the world’s steepest
rate increases since the start of 2010 to damp price gains,
attracting overseas funds. Besides India,  China  and  Thailand 
raised borrowing costs further in July, while  Malaysia , the
Philippines and  Indonesia  left them unchanged as officials
assess global risks.  Capital flows to emerging markets “could continue to
complicate monetary policy,” Philippine central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said Aug. 10. In China, the National Development
and Reform Commission said that any further quantitative easing
in the U.S. may boost inflows of funds and commodity costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  