-- 
Greentech Studies Purchase of Scan Energy to Expand Out of Italy

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-08-12T09:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/greentech-studies-purchase-of-scan-energy-to-expand-out-of-italy.html
Greentech Energy Systems (GES)  A/S, a
Danish renewable-power developer, is studying an acquisition of
domestic competitor  Scan Energy A/S  as it seeks to add assets
outside  Italy , where it gets most of its sales.  “We are looking at Scan Energy,” Chief Executive Officer
Sigieri Diaz della Vittoria Pallavicini said in a telephone
interview from  Rome . “We are looking at their portfolio as they
are in liquidation.”  Greentech intends to cut its dependence on Italy, where it
has more than 168 megawatts of wind power in operation. In March
it wrote down projects in the country, citing an uncertain
market, local opposition and a plan to focus on  Poland . Italy’s
government, like  Spain  and the U.K., has announced plans to curb
clean-energy incentives amid economic stagnation.  “We have to have a negotiation with parties interested who
might want to buy,” Jorgen Elmer, a lawyer for Scan Energy at
Lund Elmer Sandager LLP, said today by phone. He confirmed the
company is restructuring, and couldn’t comment on whether it’s
facing liquidation. A request for comment from Scan Energy was
referred to Elmer.  Greentech, based in Herlev,  Denmark , is studying purchases
to expand its wind and solar operations, Diaz Pallavicini said
Aug. 9. It will spend at least 100 million euros ($142 million)
within 12 months, plus debt financing of 400 million euros, on
new projects mainly in Poland, Spain and  Germany , he said.  Cash Rich  The company, which agreed in May to merge with GWM
Renewable Energy, a unit of the Geneva-based financial services
company GWM Group, is “cash rich” since the deal was completed
yesterday, Diaz Pallavicini said.  In a year’s time, Greentech is targeting 100 megawatts of
projects in each of the six European countries where it’s
active, he said. That’s part of a drive to operate a total of
1,000 megawatts by the end of 2012, accelerating a three-to-
five-year target announced in October.  In June, the company said construction of its  Cagliari II 
wind farm in Sardinia was halted because of “allegedly committed
irregularities in the development.” The project remains on hold
pending resolution of a planning-approval dispute, the CEO said.  “We should have the plant running again very soon,”
Chairman Peter Hostgaard-Jensen said by phone on Aug. 8.  A separate Italian project has also undergone an
investigation this year. Greentech went to court in February to
recover a 15 percent stake in the Minerva Messina wind farm,
previously held by Vito Nicastri, a Sicilian whose assets were
seized by police last September.  The project is operating while Greentech awaits the return
of its share. The company hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  