-- 
Groupama Says It Didn’t Sell a ‘Single’ Societe Generale Share Amid Rout

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-12T16:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/groupama-says-it-didn-t-sell-a-single-societe-generale-share-during-rout.html
Groupama SA ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s
second-biggest investor, didn’t sell “a single share” in the
bank in the past six weeks even as the stock plunged and
analysts questioned the insurer’s financial strength.  The investments in Societe Generale and  Mediobanca SpA (MB) 
“are strategic holdings” Aneta Lazarevic, a spokeswoman for
the French insurer said today in a telephone interview. “We
haven’t sold a single share.”  Societe Generale has declined by almost a third this month
amid investors’ concern over the bank’s reliance on short-term
funding and speculation that Groupama may have been forced to
reduce its stake. Analysts at CreditSights and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch say Groupama may sell its holdings in the future
as market declines reduce its solvency ratio, which trails
European rivals, and as European regulations are implemented.  “They are looking for an opportunity to sell” their stock
holdings, said Christian Dinesen, head of international credit
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London . “Selling
equities would be a balance between their need to improve their
solvency versus the impact on their profit and loss account.”
By selling the stake, the insurer would limit its potential
losses, which would boost the solvency ratio.  That measure probably dropped to 117 percent by Aug. 4 from
130 percent at the end of June due to falls in equity markets,
Christian Collin, Groupama vice president of finance and risk,
said in a  conference call  this month. That trails Zurich
Financial Services’ ratio of 242 percent and  Axa SA (CS) ’s 186
percent.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA , Italy’s biggest insurer,
has a solvency ratio of 134 percent.  An insurer’s solvency ratio is a measure of its ability to
meet its long-term liabilities. The higher the percentage the
more the firm’s net income can cover its future payouts to
customers and creditors.  ‘Extremely Weak’  Groupama’s solvency ratio is “extremely weak” due to its
equity holdings, which comprise 15 percent of its assets,
according to Philippe Picagne, lead insurance analyst at
 CreditSights Ltd.  in London. That’s more than three times the
proportion of Zurich and Axa, who have 3.5 percent and 4 percent
of their assets in stocks.  Collin said in August the firm’s solvency is “stable” and
noted that it had marked all its periphery debt to its market
price when posting its results. Lazarevic, the Groupama
spokeswoman, repeated his comments today.  The insurer holds 4.25 percent of Societe Generale, making
it the bank’s second-biggest shareholder behind employees of the
company, according to a regulatory filing in March. Groupama is
the fourth-biggest shareholder in Mediobanca,  Italy ’s biggest
publicly-traded investment bank, with a 3.1 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Equity Holdings  Collin said the insurer plans to reduce its equity holdings
to 5 percent from 15 percent before Solvency II, new European
regulations for insurers to be implemented in 2013. The firm
would consider selling when the CAC 40 is around 4,100 points,
he said. The index was up 4 percent at 3,213.88 points in Paris
today.  Groupama also owns 4.5 billion euros ($6.4 billion) of
Greek government bonds, 17 percent of which belong to
shareholders and the rest to policyholders, according to the
company’s half-year earnings published this month. Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings Ltd. downgraded the insurers’ credit
score in the last three months because of its investments in
 Greece .  Selling Equities  “It’s clear the eurozone crisis makes some pressure on our
solvency but I want to underline that we don’t want to join the
collective panic,” Collin said Aug. 4. “We don’t see any
default of Spain and Italy.”  Selling equities, even at a loss, may be a way of
stabilizing its assets, Picagne said. “Selling equities would
be a means to protect from a further decline in the market,” he
said.  Societe Generale has declined 33 percent in the past month
on concerns about its perceived reliance on short-term funding,
according to analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The
stock rose 5.7 percent to 24.30 euros today in Paris trading.
Mediobanca is down 2.5 percent this month and today climbed 9.9
percent to 6.12 euros a share.  Fresh Capital  Groupama needs about 2 billion euros of fresh capital to
pass Solvency II,  Europe ’s new insurance regulations due to be
implemented next year, CreditSights’ Picagne wrote in a note
dated Aug. 7. Should it fail to raise the funds, Groupama will
be forced to sell some of its insurance divisions, he said.  The CAC 40 has dropped 3.2 percent since Aug. 4 and the
STOXX Europe 600 Index is down 2.3 percent. “This does bring
them closer to a potential S&P downgrade,” Dinesen said.  Groupama’s 750 million euros of senior subordinated notes
due in 2039 yield 709 basis points more than government debt,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That’s 133 basis
points more than at the start of the month. The company has the
option to repay, or call, the notes in 2019.  The insurer was cut by Standard and Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings in the last three months due to its holdings of
periphery euro-zone  government bonds . S&P lowered its  credit
rating  to BBB+ from A- in May citing “material exposure to
Greek government bonds.” Fitch reduced its rating to A- from A
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  