-- 
Icahn Seeks to Narrow Forest’s Drug Research Focus in Battle for Board

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-08-12T20:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/icahn-seeks-to-cut-forest-s-spending-focus-on-primary-care-in-board-fight.html
Carl Icahn , the billionaire investor
seeking board representation at  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , will
focus the drugmaker on medicines prescribed by primary-care
physicians and look to reduce spending if his bid is successful,
said Alex Denner, one of Icahn’s director nominees.  Icahn’s group is seeking four seats on New York-based
Forest’s 10-member board, saying the current directors have been
in place too long and lack independence. Icahn also contends
that new drugs spread across therapeutic areas may not generate
enough revenue to make up for the loss of patent protection on
two of Forest’s top-selling drugs, the antidepressant Lexapro
and Alzheimer’s medicine Namenda.  “If elected, we would work with the board to focus the
company on opportunities that have positive return for
shareholders,” Denner, senior managing director at  Icahn
Enterprises LP (IEP) , said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We
would apply a return-on-investment rigor to spending and some of
the smaller marketed products that are not within the primary-
care focus.”  Shareholders are set to vote Aug. 18 at the company’s
annual meeting. Icahn has the second-largest stake in Forest,
with 9.2 percent of the stock as of Aug. 8, according to a
regulatory filing. Denner said Icahn’s group has “wide
support” from shareholders.  Shareholder Support  “We’re hearing each day about new shareholders supporting
us,” he said.  Wellington Management Co. is Forest’s largest investor with
12.7 percent of the company as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Forest rose 16 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $34.25 at
4:02 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 7.1 percent this year.  Forest has nominated a 10-member slate with three new
directors, saying it has a diversified set of experimental
medicines and leadership that’s “focused on continuing to build
sustainable momentum and value for all shareholders.”  The company’s marketing strategy has always been focused on
primary care, Lesley Bogdanow, an outside spokeswoman for
Forest, wrote in an e-mail today.  “In addition, we believe our shareholders and analysts
understand that cutting spending while launching five new
products is a recipe for failure,” she said. “We are confident
that our shareholders, unlike Denner, understand our business
and our strategy and will come to the right decision.”  Lexapro and Namenda generated 82 percent of Forest’s $4.4
billion in revenue for the year ended March 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The drugmaker also sells Bystolic
for hypertension and Savella for the chronic pain disorder
fibromyalgia. The company’s antibiotic for drug-resistant skin
infections, Teflaro, was approved by U.S. regulators in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 