-- 
Icahn Boosts Lions Gate Stake Past 33%

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-12T23:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/icahn-boosts-lions-gate-stake-past-33-.html
Billionaire Carl Icahn resumed
purchases of stock in  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , the film
and TV studio that makes “Mad Men,” eight months after ending
a bid to take over the company.  Icahn bought 702,877 shares over the past two days at
prices of $6.74 to $6.90 each, bringing his total to 45.5
million shares, according to a filing. He has 33.2 percent of
the total, based on the share count in Lions Gate’s quarterly
earnings report this week.  The purchases are Icahn’s first since July 2010 and may
signal a change in strategy for the 75-year-old investor. The
studio, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , has been in a
standoff with Icahn, who ended a $7.50-a-share buyout offer in
December, after marshaling enough investors to block his bid for
five board seats. The parties also tussled in court.  In May, Icahn asked a federal court judge in  New York  to
dismiss Lions Gate’s last legal claim, an allegation that he
paid a special price for Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban’s 5.4
percent stake in the movie studio, according to legal documents
filed at the time.  Lions Gate, based in Vancouver, rose 12 cents to $7 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 7.5 percent this year.  Peter Wilkes, a Lions Gate spokesman, said the company had
no comment. A call to Icahn’s New York office wasn’t immediately
returned.  The company plans to hold its annual shareholder meeting on
Sept. 13 in Toronto, according to a separate filing today.  Management, led by Chief Executive Officer Jon Feltheimer
and Vice Chairman Michael Burns, has kept the investor at bay
with help from board member and ex-Icahn protégé  Mark Rachesky ,
whose MHR Fund Management has 29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  