-- 
Tiger Woods in Danger of Missing U.S. PGA Championship Cut at 7-Over Par

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-12T20:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/tiger-woods-may-need-second-round-66-to-avoid-missing-pga-championship-cut.html
Tiger Woods  is 7-over par midway
through the second round at the U.S.  PGA Championship  and may
not advance to weekend play at a major tournament for the third
time as a professional.  Woods, a four-time PGA Championship winner, is even par
through nine holes today after shooting a 7-over 77 yesterday at
Atlanta Athletic Club. It was his worst first-round score in one
of golf’s four Grand Slam events.  The projected cut line is 4-over par, with the top 70 and
ties qualifying for the final two rounds.  If it doesn’t change, Woods would have to shoot 3-under for
his final nine holes today to make the cut at the tournament for
the 14th straight time. The second nine holes at Atlanta
Athletic Club’s Highlands Course were more difficult than the
first nine yesterday, playing an average of 1.8 strokes above
par.  Woods was 9-over par before making birdies at the eighth
and ninth holes. He’s 13 strokes behind leader  Steve Stricker .  The 35-year-old Woods last failed to qualify for weekend
play in a major at the 2009 British Open. His only other missed
cut at a major as a professional was at the 2006  U.S. Open .
Woods missed the cut at the 1996 Masters Tournament as an
amateur.  Woods is winless since November 2009 and may be ineligible
for the U.S. PGA Tour playoffs should he miss the weekend in
Atlanta. A two-time FedEx Cup winner as the PGA Tour’s season-
long points champion, Woods entered the PGA Championship ranked
 129th.   The top 125 players qualify for the Barclays tournament --
the first playoff event -- which starts Aug. 25 in Plainfield,
 New Jersey . Woods previously said he won’t play in next week’s
tournament in Greensboro,  North Carolina , because of family
commitments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  