-- 
Illinois Budget Doesn’t Address Pension Payment Backlog, Moody’s Says

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/illinois-budget-doesn-t-address-pension-payment-backlog-moody-s-says.html
The  Illinois  fiscal 2012 budget
doesn’t address the state’s “sizeable backlog of unpaid bills
and an unsustainable ascent” in spending for pension benefits,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  The increase in state corporate and individual income tax-
rates that took effect in January will contain growth in total
liabilities of almost $120 billion, and the budget ends a
practice of issuing bonds to pay current-year expenses, Moody’s
said in a “special comment” yesterday.  Still, the tax increases are a short-term solution because
the rates decrease in 2015, leaving the state with a
“significant funding burden” to meet its unfunded pension
liability of about $80 billion and the likelihood that late
payments to vendors will persist, Moody’s said.  “The state may be able to use increased tax revenue to
chip away at its large balance of past-due budgetary payment
obligations, but it has not adopted a comprehensive plan to do
so,” the company said.  Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn ’s office declined comment on
the report,  Kelly Kraft , the governor’s budget spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka has estimated that the amount
outstanding was $7.4 billion as of June 30, including $3.8
billion of general unpaid bills, $1.3 billion of vouchers, $1.2
billion of unpaid health insurance costs and $650 million of
corporate tax refunds, Moody’s said.  Illinois, which borrowed to make its two most recent annual
pension payments, is the lowest-rated state in the estimation of
Moody’s, at A1.  Standard & Poor’s  has it at A+.  Moody’s said that other risks to the state’s fiscal 2012
budget are reduced aid payments caused by cuts in federal
funding from the debt-ceiling agreement and a faltering economic
recovery.  “Because of its financial weakness, Illinois is less well
positioned than other states to handle a renewed downturn in the
national economy,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
mniquette@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  