-- 
Hindalco First-Quarter Profit Rises 21% on Aluminum Prices

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-08-12T14:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/hindalco-first-quarter-profit-rises-21-on-aluminum-prices.html
Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,  India ’s
largest aluminum maker, said fiscal first-quarter profit gained
21 percent, beating estimates, on higher prices.  Net income climbed to 6.44 billion rupees ($142 million) in
the three months ended June 30 from 5.34 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. The median
profit estimate of 18 analysts polled by Bloomberg was 6.19
billion rupees. Sales grew 16 percent to 60.3 billion rupees.  Hindalco, controlled by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla,
benefited from higher prices of aluminum and copper as economic
growth in  China  and India fueled demand for homes, appliances
and automobiles. Average aluminum prices during the quarter
gained 23 percent from a year earlier on the London Metal
Exchange, while copper rose 30 percent.  Hindalco shares declined 4.5 percent to 150.20 rupees at
the close of trading in Mumbai. The shares have dropped 39
percent this year, compared with an 18 percent decline in the
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Cost of production rose 20 percent during the quarter, as
fuel and electricity expenses climbed 25 percent and raw
material expenses rose 27 percent, the company said. The debt
crisis in parts of  Europe  and the recent downgrade of the U.S.
sovereign rating may lower prices of copper and aluminum,
Hindalco said.  ‘Many Challenges’  “There were many challenges and they will continue to be
challenges,” Managing Director Debu Bhattacharya said today in
Mumbai. “The global challenges are known. There is a big
challenge in India and that is the cost of coal.”  Average power-station coal prices at  Australia ’s Newcastle
port rose 21 percent during the quarter to $120 a ton, according
to research group McCloskey Group Ltd. Electricity accounts for
almost 40 percent of the cost of making aluminum.  Net income at unit Novelis Inc., which makes aluminum
sheets for cars and beverage cans, rose 24 percent to $62
million, helped by a 3 percent increase in shipments of flat-
rolled products, it said in a statement on Aug. 9. Net sales
increased 23 percent to $3.1 billion.  “As a flat-rolled products producer, Novelis’s margins are
relatively immune to London Metal Exchange metal price
fluctuations,” analysts Chandrani De and Parita Ashar at
Mumbai-based Ambit Capital Pvt. said in a report on Novelis
earnings.  Hindalco is building a 92 billion-rupee ($2 billion)
alumina smelter and power project in Madhya Pradesh that is
expected to start production in December, Bhattacharya said on
May 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai on 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net 
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  