-- 
India to Top U.S. Lending With $575 Million in Solar Deals

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-12T11:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/india-to-top-u-s-ex-im-lending-with-575-million-in-solar-deals.html
The  U.S. Export-Import Bank expects
 India  to become its biggest recipient of funding next year, led
by loans for clean-energy projects including $575 million of
solar deals.  The Export-Import Bank’s lending plans won’t be affected by
concern that the renewable  energy industry  may be vulnerable to
a new global recession, said Craig S. O’Connor, director of the
bank’s office of renewable energy.  “This sector isn’t risky,” O’Connor said in an interview
at a conference in  New Delhi . “It’ll continue to grow.”  The funding could ease a hurdle facing India as its aims to
build 20,000 megawatts of solar capacity by 2022 and join
Germany in trying to develop cleaner, safer sources of power
after  Japan ’s nuclear disaster. About $3.2 billion of Indian
projects have found it difficult to get loans from commercial
banks, and more funding could help such U.S. panel producers as
 First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA)  that face China competition.  “India could become Ex-Im Bank’s largest market next
year,” with a bulk of the deals in the renewable-energy
industry, O’Connor said.  The Export-Import Bank is authorized by Congress to lend as
much as $100 billion to help finance projects that buy U.S.
goods and services. It has approved $1.4 billion in new deals
for India in this financial year, raising its overall lending to
the country to $5.5 billion.  That includes $75 million in funding already approved for
Indian solar projects, while another $500 million of deals are
in the pipeline, O’Connor said.  Under Pressure  The bank has come under pressure to support cleaner
projects after approving in the last fiscal year coal-fired
power plants and other ventures that will emit more than 20
million metric tons of carbon pollution annually, the most since
the lender started releasing data in 2001. It agreed to $900
million in loan guarantees for an Indian coal plant only after
the builder,  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , pledged to pursue solar
projects after groups such as the  Sierra Club  opposed the deal.  The bank can offer solar project loans with  interest rates 
that are “in the single digits even after hedging,” O’Connor
said. In comparison, India’s electricity regulator estimates the
local cost of funding for the industry at 13.3 percent.  O’Connor disputed perceptions that renewable energy
investments are more at risk from a global decline because
governments could reduce subsidies. Renewable power plants tend
to have long-term power purchase contracts that guarantee
tariffs for about 15 years, which make them reliable
investments, he said.  Concerns that governments could roll back subsidies have
driven clean-energy stocks to a 2 1/2-year low. The Wilderhill
New Energy Global Innovation Index lost 14 percent this month
while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  is down 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 