-- 
Indian Bond Yields Rise Most in 3 Weeks as Factory Output Jumps

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-08-12T12:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/india-s-bonds-poised-for-weekly-gain-on-global-financial-woes.html
India ’s 10-year bond yields jumped
the most in almost three weeks, on speculation a pick-up in
industrial growth and food inflation may prompt the central bank
to further raise  interest rates .  India’s industrial output rose 8.8 percent in June from a
year earlier, the quickest pace in three months, according to
government data released today. The median of 23 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 5.5 percent advance. Food prices
rose 9.9 percent in the week ended July 30 from a year earlier,
official data showed yesterday, the most since the period to
April 23. Wholesale prices, the government’s preferred measure
of inflation, will be released on Aug. 16.  “The strong industrial output data and concerns about
persistent inflation caused yields to rise,” said R.S. Chauhan,
the Mumbai-based chief dealer in charge of fixed income and
currencies at  State Bank  of Bikaner & Jaipur. “The view on
interest rates will get clearer once the inflation data is out
next week.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent notes due April 2021 rose 10
basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 8.31 percent at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, the biggest jump since July 26, according
to the central bank’s trading system. The rate is little changed
this week.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has boosted borrowing costs five
times this year to curb inflation that held above 9 percent for
seven months. The nation’s wholesale price-based inflation rate
may have slowed to 9.20 percent in July from 9.44 percent a week
earlier, according to a survey of 22 analysts conducted by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  