-- 
India Industrial Ouput Growth Unexpectedly Quickens, Weathering Rate Rises

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-12T11:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/india-industrial-ouput-growth-unexpectedly-quickens-weathering-rate-rises.html
India ’s industrial production grew
at the quickest pace in three months in June, weathering the
fastest interest-rate increases among  Asia ’s major economies.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 8.8 percent
from a year earlier, following a revised 5.9 percent gain in
May, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in New
Delhi today. The median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 5.5 percent advance.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, whose term
was extended by two years on Aug. 9, has to weigh the risks to
expansion posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S.
recovery after tightening monetary policy to slow inflation.
Asian central banks from  South Korea  to  Indonesia  kept borrowing
costs unchanged this week as they assess the global economy.  “The RBI has a difficult job at hand,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based regional economist at Barclays Plc.
“The worries over inflation aren’t going away, and at the same
time it has to keep an eye on global growth risks.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index fell 1.3 percent
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The rupee was little changed
at 45.40 per dollar, and the yield on the 7.80 percent bond due
April 2021 rose 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
8.29 percent.  Inflation Forecast  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation in July will
probably be 9.2 percent, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey, staying above 9 percent for eight
straight months. The commerce ministry will release the data on
Aug. 16.  The  Reserve Bank  has increased borrowing costs 11 times
since mid-March 2010. Its repurchase rate is 8 percent.  Inflation is a political issue in India as it erodes
spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the population live on less than $2 a
day.  Steel and cement production, and an expansion in bank loans
in India, show demand pressures are growing, stoking prices.  Steel output by companies including Tata Steel Ltd. climbed
12.5 percent in June from a year earlier, compared with a 6.1
percent gain in May, according to the commerce ministry. Cement
production rose 0.8 percent after a 2.3 percent decline in May,
the ministry said.  Commercial loans given by lenders such as  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,
the nation’s biggest private lender, jumped 19.33 percent in the
12 months to July 15, exceeding the central bank’s 18 percent
projection, according to Reserve Bank data.  Manufacturing Jump  Manufacturing expanded 10 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with a 6.1 percent increase in May, today’s
report showed. Mining output gained 0.6 percent and electricity
rose 7.9 percent. Capital goods production surged 37.7 percent
in June after a 6.1 percent gain in the previous month, it said.  “In July, we said that we were seeing signs of growth
moderation and that it was not broad based,” Reserve Bank of
India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said at an event in  New Delhi 
today. Today’s industrial production data, “sort of validates
that view,” he said.  Gokarn said India’s monetary policy will take into account
global developments and that “from the view point of growth
sustainability, keeping inflation relatively low is a critical
one.”  Global Concerns  Concerns that the global economy will slow wiped more than
$8 trillion of value from stocks worldwide between July 22 and
Aug. 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of
Seven nations, which include the U.S., U.K. and  Germany , said in
a statement on Aug. 8 that they will “take all necessary
measures to support financial stability and growth in a spirit
of close cooperation and confidence.”  India’s central bank said Aug. 8 that while “downside
risks” to India’s expansion may have increased amid weakness in
the global economy, “they are likely to have limited impact.”  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said Aug. 6 that India’s
challenge is to tame inflation.  The Reserve Bank last month maintained its growth forecast
of 8 percent for the current fiscal year ending March 31. The
economy expanded 8.5 percent the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  