-- 
Palin’s Iowa Crowd Shows Turmoil of Republican Primary

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-12T19:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/iowa-poll-may-be-the-last-straw-for-some-republicans-with-field-wide-open.html
On the eve of the  Iowa Straw Poll  of
Republican presidential aspirants, non-candidate Sarah Palin was
mobbed as she slowly worked her way through the  Iowa  State Fair
after arriving in Des Moines as part of her periodic “One
Nation” bus tour.  The former Alaska governor was noncommittal about whether
she intends to join the presidential race, saying she intends to
make a decision by the early fall. “I think the more the
merrier, the more the better in these debates and out there in
the arena,” Palin said. “It’s better for voters to have more
choices.”  Asked if she would visit the straw poll venue at  Iowa State
University  in Ames tomorrow, the 2008 Republican vice
presidential nominee said: “No, I don’t want to step on
anybody’s toes, so we won’t be in the state tomorrow.”  The star treatment given Palin, who was trailed by the news
media and supporters, offered a reminder of the unsettled nature
of the Republican primary. While some contenders have been
campaigning for months, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  is scheduled
to announce his candidacy tomorrow in South Carolina.  Palin, who previously this year took her bus tour to
several northeastern states, announced her Iowa stop on Aug. 12 
as political activity was intensifying in advance of the straw
poll.  Importance of Speeches  In the past, many Iowa voters didn’t actually listen to
speeches by presidential candidates inside  Iowa State
University’s  basketball arena, the straw poll venue.  This year, with a wide-open Republican field vying to
challenge President Barack Obama in 2012, there is a sense that
the undecided may base their votes on something other than just
who offers the best food or musical act at the gathering.  “There are a number of Iowa Republicans I’ve talked to at
events that say they’re actually going to listen to the speeches
before they decide,” said  Matt Strawn , chairman of the
 Republican Party  of Iowa.  “It’s pretty volatile,” said Steve Scheffler, a
Republican National Committee member from Iowa who so far is
neutral in the presidential race. “I’ve never seen it this
unsettled -- ever.”  Bob Haus , a Republican strategist in Iowa and a straw poll
organizer, also predicted a high number of undecided voters. He
pointed to the importance of a well-received speech in 2007 by
former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , who came from relative
obscurity to finish second in the straw poll.  “He converted a fair chunk of people with his speech that
day,” Haus said.  Back in Iowa  Huckabee, now a Fox News commentator, will be part of the
spectacle again this year, playing his bass guitar at the straw
poll tents of former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, former
 Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty  and former Godfather’s Pizza
Inc. executive  Herman Cain .  After finishing behind former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in the 2007 straw poll, Huckabee won the Iowa caucuses in
January 2008 and remains popular in the state.  Michele Bachmann , a House member from Minnesota seeking the
Republican presidential nomination, plans some musical
competition at her tent -- country singer Randy Travis -- as
well as “a petting zoo for the kids.”  Straw Poll Stakes  Bachmann and Pawlenty have much to gain, or lose, in the
straw poll. The intensity of the contest between the two was on
display at Iowa State last night at a Fox News-sponsored debate
of the candidates, where Pawlenty said Bachmann has “a record
of misstating and making false statements.”  “She said she’s got a titanium spine,” he said. “It’s
not her spine we’re worried about; it’s her record of results.”  Bachmann, an Iowa native who has drawn enthusiastic
audiences in her campaign there, framed her attack by likening
some of Pawlenty’s positions to Obama’s. Charging that Pawlenty
has supported an individual mandate requiring insurance coverage
-- a main element of the health-care measure the president got
passed last year over Republican opposition, Bachmann said
“that sounds a lot more like  Barack Obama , if you ask me.”  The debate marked the start of a more aggressive phase of
the campaign, as candidates sought to draw distinctions among
themselves and other contenders and make their case for beating
Obama amid a struggling U.S. economy and gyrating financial
markets.  Perry Visit  Adding to the uncertainty is the pending entry into the
race by Perry, 61, who will make his first Iowa appearance
roughly 24 hours after the straw poll results are announced. A
nationwide USA Today/Gallup  poll  published this week showed
Perry in second place, behind Romney, among Republicans and
Republican-leaning independents.  Perry’s name won’t be on the straw poll ballot, although
supporters have been encouraging people to write it in, an
option available for the first time this year.  Once he gets to Iowa, Perry may have some apologizing to
do. Some activists are upset that he skipped the straw poll and
decided to make clear his presidential ambition in a spotlight-
stealing  South Carolina  speech scheduled for the same day.  Craig Robinson , editor of The Iowa Republican website and a
former state party political director, called Perry’s decision a
“slap in the face to Republican voters in Iowa,” as well as to
the other candidates seeking the nomination.  “The move makes it obvious that Governor Perry either
doesn’t understand the Iowa caucuses or doesn’t respect the role
that Iowa plays in the nominating process,” Robinson  wrote .  Not a Predictor  While the straw poll is designed to gauge the early
popularity of Republican presidential hopefuls, it isn’t
necessarily an indicator of who will win the party’s caucuses in
Iowa next year, much less the nomination.  Romney’s 2007 straw poll win is the most recent example.
After spending roughly $2 million on his straw poll campaign, he
finished second in the state’s caucuses and lost the 2008
nomination to Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona . Romney, 64,
decided against actively competing in the straw poll this year.  Besides Romney, Pawlenty, Bachmann, Santorum and Cain, the
other candidates on tomorrow’s ballot are Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , Representative Thaddeus McCotter of  Michigan ,
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  and former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr.  A ballot spot was guaranteed by renting space at the straw
poll or by placement there by the state party. The event doubles
as a fund-raiser for the state Republican Party.  Attendance requires a $30 admission ticket, so better-
financed candidates often pick up that cost and provide bus
rides to the venue, along with food and entertainment. Some
campaigns quietly complain about the expense.  ‘Transfer Payments’  “It is just one series of transfer payments from the
candidates to the Republican Party of Iowa,” said David Yepsen,
a former political writer at the  Des Moines  Register who is now
director of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at  Southern
Illinois University Carbondale . “It starts to smack of shaking
down of candidates.”  Chronicling the activity will be roughly 700 journalists
from around the globe who have signed up for credentials. The
voting tomorrow begins at 10 a.m. and ends at 4 p.m. local time.  In 2007, about 14,300 ballots were cast, and Romney won
with just 4,516 votes.  Even though the straw poll represents only a fraction of
Iowa Republicans, party leaders defend the event, saying it
tests the organizational ability of the campaigns before the
caucuses.  Counting On Supporters  “Most of these campaigns would love to know in August, if
somebody is committed to driving to Ames or to get on a bus,
that’s somebody you know you can count on on a cold February
night,” Strawn said. “From a campaign perspective, I think
it’s incredibly important.”  The stakes in the straw poll may be highest for Pawlenty,
50. He has placed his greatest emphasis on Iowa since he began
pursuing the presidency. A poor straw poll showing would fuel
the view that he has failed to gain traction in the state.  “It’s an important event, but it’s not the ultimate
event,” Pawlenty told reporters Aug. 8. “There’s a lot of
uniqueness to the straw poll that gives some advantage to
candidates like Ron Paul or Michele Bachmann. But within that,
we’re going to do well.”  Pawlenty said his fundraising wouldn’t be hurt by a third-
place finish.  “It depends who the other two spots are,” he said.
“If somebody came in first who the country didn’t view as a
credible candidate, that’s less of a hurdle to going forward for
fundraising and political support.”  Asked if he was referring to Bachmann, 55, and Paul, 75,
Pawlenty said he didn’t intend to.  As for Palin’s visit, Pawlenty said, “I think the
fairgrounds are big enough for everyone.”  In 2007, former Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson dropped
out of the presidential race shortly after finishing sixth in
the straw poll.  “I knew I was dead,” he  told  the Des Moines Register in a
recent interview. “It wiped me out and took all my money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines, Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Des Moines, Iowa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  