-- 
Japan Slashes GDP Forecast

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-12T00:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/japan-slashes-gdp-forecast.html
Japan  cut its growth forecast for
this year after a record earthquake disrupted output and
depressed  consumer spending .  Gross domestic product will increase 0.5 percent in the
year started April 1, compared with a January forecast for a 1.5
percent expansion, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo today. GDP
will increase 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent in the following year
as the nation rebuilds from the March 11 catastrophe, according
to the report.  The government said it would monitor foreign-exchange
markets closely after intervening in markets last week for the
first time since March to prevent the currency from derailing
the nation’s recovery. Risks to the outlook also include power
supply constraints after the Fukushima nuclear accident and
growing uncertainty over the outlook for the global economy, the
government said in today’s report.  Today’s forecast compares with a 0.4 percent growth
forecast for this fiscal year from the  Bank of Japan , which
added monetary stimulus last week to counter a global stock rout
and the surging yen. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  ordered yen
selling on the same day as the currency approached its post-war
high of 76.25 yen per dollar.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that
“headwinds” buffeting the U.K. economy are intensifying “by
the day” and officials can expand stimulus if the outlook for
growth deteriorates further. The Federal Reserve plans to keep
its key rate at a record low at least through mid-2013 and has
pledged additional measures as needed, while the  European
Central Bank  has resumed bond purchases.  Consumer Prices  GDP unadjusted for price changes will probably decline 0.4
percent in the year ending March, the government said. Consumer
prices including energy costs will increase 0.2 percent,
reflecting rising energy prices, the report said.  Supply-chain disruptions are easing and sentiment has been
improving since the quake, according to today’s report compiled
by the Cabinet Office. It also added that spending from both
consumers and companies will rebound and exports will grow,
leading to a “considerably high” growth rate in the second
half of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito n  Tokyo  at 
 Aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  