-- 
Jefferson County Extends Bondholder Talks After Rejecting Offer

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-08-13T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/jefferson-county-to-extend-creditor-talks-to-sept-16-as-bankruptcy-looms.html
Jefferson County, Alabama, officials
extended until mid-September talks with creditors holding $3.14
billion of sewer bonds after rejecting a proposed settlement to
avert what would be the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  County commissioners said yesterday they wanted to take a
larger role in the negotiations, which have been led by Governor
Robert Bentley and his chief of staff. The commission approved a
resolution to negotiate directly with the creditors, the largest
of which is  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “You won’t see us around here much,” said commission
President David Carrington at a public meeting where officials
deliberated on the creditors’ plan. “We’re going to be in
Montgomery, we’re going to be in New York; we’re going to do our
best as a commission to resolve this.”  Yesterday’s public meeting followed a 24-hour see-saw that
had commissioners believing they could reach a deal the night of
Aug. 11 and then ready to file for bankruptcy the next morning,
according to interviews with members of the panel.  The decision to extend the talks until Sept. 16 came after
the five-member commission outlined concerns with an offer by
bondholders to settle the crisis. The county of 660,000, home to
Birmingham, the state’s largest city, has struggled after a
sewer-bond refinancing collapsed during the 2008 credit squeeze.  Its woes intensified when the state Legislature declined to
act after a court struck down an occupational tax in March. The
tax generated about a quarter of the county’s general-fund
revenue, and officials have put more than 500 employees on
unpaid leave.  Four Scenarios  Terms of the creditors’ latest offer include four scenarios
for raising sewer rates to support a $2.33 billion debt
refinancing by June 30, 2012.  The base-case scenario, which doesn’t include $1 billion in
bond insurance, would amount to a 25 percent rate increase over
18 months, which Commissioner George Bowman called excessive.
The other plans called for increases ranging from 6.1 percent to
7.1 percent in the first three years, with 3 percent annual
boosts for the next 36 years. Commissioners suggested those
proposals may be acceptable.  “The difference between what the county proposed and what
the creditors offered in terms of practical impact on ratepayers
is about 30 cents per month on an average sewer bill,” said
 David Perry , Alabama’s finance director, in a telephone
interview after the meeting. “That is an amazing feat for the
county to have gotten an offer that attractive.”  Perry said the differences are “so minor in the grand
scheme of things that it would be a shame to see the county file
for bankruptcy.”  One-Third Less  Creditors would get back $2.07 billion, or about 33 percent
less than the amount outstanding. Another $233 million would go
to a debt-service  reserve fund . Commissioner Jimmie Stephens
said he was disappointed the creditors hadn’t agreed to cap the
 interest rate  for the borrowing.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman in New York, declined
to comment.  The bondholders’ seven-page plan calls for the creation of
an independent sewer authority that would manage the system. A
majority of its board members would be appointed by the
governor.  “We lose total control by the creation of this
organization,” Bowman said. New debt issued by the authority
would be backed by a “moral obligation” pledge of the state.  Assistance Program  Creditors also proposed a $20 million low-income assistance
program to help poor residents pay for the increases in their
sewer bills, and an agreement by all parties to dismiss
outstanding litigation.  As part of the offer, state lawmakers would be asked to
shore up the county’s general fund by finding replacement
revenue for the occupational tax. In June, a bill that would
have given the county the ability to boost levies on sales,
leases and rentals, alcoholic beverages and other goods and
services was killed on the last day of the legislative session
by a single senator, Scott Beason, a Republican who represents a
portion of the county.  The new sewer authority and the state’s non-binding
guarantee to make up deficiencies in debt-service payments
require the action of the state Legislature.  If  Alabama  needed to come to the county’s aid, Jefferson
would have to reimburse the state with local revenue.
Commissioners said there were too many contingencies in the
creditors’ offer.  Third Time  It was the third time in about two weeks that county
officials met to consider authorizing a Chapter 9 bankruptcy
filing, only to vote to extend talks.  Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said she would agree to
keep negotiating out of respect for the governor, who has said
he would do everything in his power to avoid bankruptcy.  The governor “asked us to give him some more time” to
persuade legislators to offer more assistance to the county,
said Little Brown. The governor has agreed to call a special
session of the Legislature in September, the commission said.  Commissioner Joe Knight demanded that county officials take
a bigger role in negotiations.  “We’re not afraid to file Chapter 9,” he said. “I’m not
willing to allow more time unless we’re called into the
negotiations.”  Knight said he learned yesterday morning that creditors
were refusing to budge on commission concerns with the offer
delivered the previous afternoon, he said in an interview after
the meeting.  “My understanding then was, ‘This was it,’” he said. “I
was not satisfied.”  He said he went into yesterday’s executive session
expecting to come out and vote for bankruptcy.  Carrington, the commission’s president, said he was hoping
to reach a better deal with creditors into yesterday’s early
hours.  “As late as midnight or 1 a.m., I thought we were making
substantive progress,” he said after the meeting. “And then
the lawyers got involved. It sort of got off track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net :
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  