-- 
JPMorgan Proves Bond Deal Death in Jefferson County No Bar to New Business

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/jpmorgan-proves-bond-deal-death-in-jefferson-county-no-bar-to-new-business.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Charles LeCroy  said the key to landing bond deals in Jefferson County,
Alabama, was finding out whom to pay off. In one example, that
meant a $2.6 million payment to Bill Blount, a local banker and
longtime friend of County Commissioner  Larry Langford .  “It’s a lot of money, but in the end it’s worth it on a
billion-dollar deal,” LeCroy told a colleague in 2003, according
to a complaint filed by the  Securities and Exchange Commission.   That’s because in the $2.9-trillion market for state and
local government debt, where 80 percent of all financings are
negotiated in private, conflicts of interest prevail. While
Langford and Blount are in jail, LeCroy is fighting an SEC
action. JPMorgan, which provided most of the toxic debt that
devastated Jefferson County, has suffered no loss of business as
the nation’s third-largest underwriter of municipal bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Just 21 months ago, JPMorgan agreed to a $722 million  SEC
settlement  to end a case over secret payments to friends of
Jefferson County commissioners. The financings arranged by
JPMorgan, a package of floating-rate debt and derivatives,
exposed taxpayers to the 2008 credit crisis and dealt a blow
that may lead the county to approve the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy as soon as today.  “As an outsider looking in, it just certainly appears to me
that JPMorgan ravaged this county,” said Robert Brooks, a
finance professor at the  University of Alabama  in Tuscaloosa and
the author of a textbook on derivatives. “They convinced
Jefferson County to pursue a strategy they never would have
followed to generate a lot of fees.”  Deals Backfired  Jefferson County’s financing shows how  Wall Street  peddled
complex bond-and-derivative deals that backfired on taxpayers,
from small Pennsylvania school districts to California’s state
government. Banks may have charged $20 billion in hidden fees on
the derivatives alone, Andrew Kalotay, a New York-based
financial consultant who specializes in such agreements, told an
SEC hearing in Jefferson County last month. The agreements
allowed lenders to earn fees that were rarely, if ever,
disclosed, while exposing municipalities to unexpected increases
in borrowing costs.  Yet while JPMorgan’s deals denuded Jefferson County, the
company has emerged with its municipal-debt underwriting
business unscathed. During the past two years, public officials
from  California  to Massachusetts hired the New York-based bank
to arrange $64.7 billion of bond offerings, making it the third-
largest underwriter in the market for state and local
securities, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Very Aggressive’  “The issuers need the bankers,” said  Christopher Whalen ,
managing director of Torrance, California-based Institutional
Risk Analytics, which assesses banks. “Morgan’s a big house and
they’re very aggressive and they’re out there looking for
business everywhere. So people tend to forget.”  Last month, without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
JPMorgan agreed to pay $211 million in a separate settlement
with state and federal regulators over charges that its
municipal-derivatives unit participated in an industry-wide
scheme to fix prices and overcharge local governments on
investment contracts. The bank blamed former employees and said
it has increased oversight of its public finance business.  In a motion to dismiss a lawsuit by Jefferson County,
JPMorgan said the county was inappropriately attempting to lay
blame for the debt crisis at the bank’s feet.  “The simple fact is that the county took on too much debt
and vastly underestimated the cost of building out its sewer
system,” lawyers for JPMorgan argued. “These problems were
only exacerbated by the county’s poor management of its sewer
system and the current credit crisis.”  Dodd-Frank Law  JPMorgan spokesman  Justin Perras  declined to comment for
this story and said Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , who
joined JPMorgan after the Jefferson County deals were done,
wasn’t available for an interview. William B. Harrison Jr., the
bank’s CEO at the time it sold the contracts, didn’t return
phone calls seeking comment.  The county’s collapse has loomed over the municipal  bond
market  for more than three years and inspired provisions in the
Dodd-Frank law seeking to protect localities from complex
financial trades involving derivatives. Officials are asking
JPMorgan and other creditors to forgive about $1 billion of the
bonds or may decide as soon as today to file for  bankruptcy
protection  to escape the debts.  Money-Saving Plan  In Jefferson County, JPMorgan pitched a money-saving plan
that converted almost all the county’s $3 billion of sewer-
system debt into floating-rate securities coupled with
derivatives. The deals comprised the largest transactions in
municipal swaps and auction-rate bonds, a form of floating-rate
borrowing, in the bank’s history, according to the SEC.  Like homeowners who turned to exotic mortgages, officials
refinanced 93 percent of the sewer bonds into securities with
adjustable  interest rates . They bought interest-rate swaps, in
which two parties make periodic payments based on an underlying
measure of borrowing costs. The contracts were supposed to
offset the floating rates the county paid and give it a fixed
rate that was lower than on traditional bonds.  The county paid JPMorgan, Bear Stearns Cos, Bank of America
Corp. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. $120 million in fees for
swap trades. Those fees were as much as six times the prevailing
rate, according to a report by former county financial adviser
Porter White & Co. of Birmingham,  Alabama .  The money-saving strategy backfired. JPMorgan’s financings
unraveled in early 2008 as the subprime mortgage-market meltdown
sent ripples through Wall Street, undermining the credit ratings
of the companies that insured Jefferson County’s bonds.  Interest Costs Soared  The county’s interest costs soared as investors dumped the
bonds. After banks demanded early payoffs, the county defaulted.
The swaps exposed the county to hundreds of millions in fees to
refinance.  JPMorgan’s Dimon has moved to put the municipal crisis
behind him.  In 2008, the bank said it got out of the business of
selling interest-rate swaps to state and local governments. In
November 2009, it settled with the SEC over allegations that
LeCroy and former JPMorgan colleague Douglas MacFaddin funneled
$8 million of secret payments to bankers, including Blount, who
had ties to Jefferson County politicians.  “It looks like they’ve done the right things to limit the
reputational damage,” said Matt Fabian, who tracks the state
and local government securities industry for Municipal Market
Advisors Inc. in Concord,  Massachusetts .  In the Jefferson County case, much of the blame for the
collapse has been cast on corrupt politicians.  ‘Hasn’t Hurt’  “It hasn’t hurt them a bit because the whole thing has
been sold that they were dealing with corrupt officials,” said
Christopher Taylor, the executive director of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board from 1978 until 2007. “But the
truth of the matter is they were in bed with the issuer.”  Larry Langford, the former commissioner in charge of
finance, was found guilty on U.S. criminal charges of accepting
bribes from Blount, who pleaded guilty in the case.  LeCroy and MacFaddin, the former head of municipal
derivatives for the bank, are fighting SEC civil claims that
they failed to disclose payments to Blount and others. JPMorgan
fired LeCroy in 2004 and terminated MacFaddin in 2008. No one
from JPMorgan is accused of criminal wrongdoing.  MacFaddin and LeCroy have argued that the SEC lacks
authority to pursue them under federal anti-fraud statutes
because the interest-rate swaps aren’t securities.  Richard Lawler, MacFaddin’s attorney, declined to comment.
LeCroy’s lawyer, Lisa Mathewson, also declined to comment.  21 People  In Jefferson County, 21 people, including four county
commissioners, were convicted or pleaded guilty to charges
related to the sewer construction or financing.  Former County commissioner Langford, 63, a longtime friend
of Blount’s who was responsible for finance, was convicted of
taking $242,000 in bribes in exchange for steering business to
Blount. Langford lost an appeal of his convictions, according to
a notice posted Aug. 5 by the federal appeals court in Atlanta.  According to the SEC, LeCroy also paid fees to two other
local firms to win the support of another former commissioner.  LeCroy joked about the tactics with a fellow JPMorgan
banker in 2003. “We have to pick the partners who are going to
get free money from us this time,” he said, according to the
SEC complaint.  Deals Raised Questions  Bond insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc., which backed about $1
billion of the bonds, said in a lawsuit that JPMorgan knew that
the county wouldn’t have enough revenue to pay its debts in a
few years but kept a report documenting that secret.  A least one banker at JPMorgan, Charles Giffin, raised
internal questions about the risk.  “Do these guys know the risks they are taking (in large
doses)?” Giffin wrote in a May 12, 2003, e-mail to a colleague,
when asked to prepare materials explaining why the county should
buy more derivatives, according to SEC records. “Shouldn’t we
be pitching diversification arguments?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  San Francisco  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net 
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  