-- 
Kasich Presses Ohio Turnpike Sale Even as Indiana Toll Road Value Declines

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/kasich-presses-ohio-turnpike-sale-even-as-indiana-toll-road-value-declines.html
Governor  John Kasich  said he is
convinced that leasing the  Ohio Turnpike  is “a winner,” even
as current and former governors in neighboring states say they
doubt he would get as much as they did for their toll roads.  Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  said it’s “unreasonable”
for Ohio to expect the $3.8 billion investors paid for his toll
road in 2006. The $12.8 billion bid for Pennsylvania’s turnpike
in 2008, which was rejected by lawmakers, likely would be less
today, former Governor  Ed Rendell  said.  Kasich said it’s wrong to compare past deals with what Ohio
may get because they were done before the 2008 financial
collapse weakened the market for private leases of state assets.
 Ohio , which is hiring advisers to explore a lease, can still tap
the 241-mile (388-kilometer) toll road’s underutilized value to
pay for infrastructure projects it otherwise couldn’t afford,
and will walk away from a deal if the price is too low, he said.  “We’re not disappointed with the numbers we’re hearing at
this point,” Kasich said in an Aug. 4 telephone interview from
Columbus. “If we get a good deal, great. If we don’t have a
great deal, we won’t do it.”  Kasich, 59, a first-term Republican, declined to say how
much would determine a good deal for the turnpike, which opened
in 1955 and runs across northern Ohio from  Pennsylvania  to
Indiana. He has said Ohio could get as much as $3 billion, of
which $600 million would be used to pay off turnpike bonds.  Puerto Rico  The recent lease of two Puerto Rico toll roads covering 56
miles shows there is private-sector interest, said Robert Poole,
director of transportation studies at the Los Angeles-based
Reason Foundation, which advocates free markets and limited
government.  Puerto Rico announced June 20 it will receive $1.08 billion
up front plus $356 million in improvements during a 40-year
lease from Goldman Sachs Infrastructure Partners II and  Abertis
Infraestructuras SA (ABE) ,  Spain ’s biggest toll-road operator.  The Ohio Turnpike should get as much or more interest
because “other things equal, that would be a much more
attractive asset to acquire than a road on an island,” Poole
said in a telephone interview.  Still, it’s unlikely Ohio would get offers comparable to
what was received by  Indiana , Pennsylvania and Chicago’s $1.8
billion lease of its Skyway in 2005 because they were highly
leveraged deals with an expectation of economic growth that
didn’t materialize, Poole said.  ‘Sweet Spot’  Leasing the Ohio Turnpike doesn’t make sense if the state
gets less than Indiana for a longer road that’s in better shape,
said Gary Suhadolnik, a Republican who was executive director of
the Ohio Turnpike Commission from 2003 to 2008.  “We’re going to accept less than Indiana and giving them a
better road,” Suhadolnik said in a telephone interview.  Daniels said in a July 25 telephone interview that Indiana
hit a “double sweet spot” with its lease of the 157-mile toll
road to fund highway and bridge projects.  The markets were favorable, and bidders were aggressive in
seeking to establish themselves with such deals by offering
three times the value of the road in state hands, Daniels said.  “I don’t know anybody who thinks that could ever happen
again, but that leaves a lot of room for a great, great deal,”
said Daniels, a two-term Republican.  Failed Deal  The bid for the 545-mile Pennsylvania Turnpike by Abertis
and Citi Infrastructure Investors died because the Legislature
didn’t want to lose patronage jobs at the Turnpike Commission,
Rendell said in an Aug. 9 telephone interview from Philadelphia.
Ohio and Pennsylvania probably wouldn’t get as good an offer
today, he said.  “But could they get a good deal? I think probably yes,”
said Rendell, a two-term Democrat.  It’s unlikely an Ohio deal would be structured like
Indiana’s or Pennsylvania’s because prices and markets have
changed since the global financial crisis, said D.J. Gribbin, a
managing director for Macquarie Capital (USA) Inc. The company
holds leases or operates four U.S. toll roads, including
Indiana’s, and advised  Puerto Rico  on its deal.  Still, there is more capital available worldwide to be
invested in infrastructure than available projects, and Ohio is
“going about it in absolutely the right way,” Gribbin said.  Road Revenue  Ohio is soliciting letters of interest by Aug. 24 to hire a
consultant team, according to a state posting. The first phase,
which may last up to four months, will involve analyzing options
including a lease, partial private operation and the state
selling bonds backed by toll revenue, said  Jerry Wray , director
of the state transportation department.  If a lease is recommended, which Wray said is his first
option, the second phase would involve developing a request for
proposals within six months that the Legislature must approve,
the posting said.  The final phase would be helping to evaluate and award a
bid, with a goal to complete a deal in 18 months to two years,
Wray said in an interview.  The Ohio Turnpike collected $232.2 million of toll revenue
in 2010, according to the commission’s annual  report . Fares were
last raised in October 2009. It costs the driver of a vehicle
with two axles and shorter than 7 feet 6 inches (229
centimeters) $15 to travel the full length of the road if they
pay cash, according to the commission’s  website .  An Ohio turnpike revenue bond maturing in February 2021
traded on Aug. 10 for an average yield of 3.26 percent, down
from 4.32 percent on Jan. 18, according to Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond is rated
AA by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Capital Needs  Fitch has a negative outlook on the debt, based in part on
the need to replace the road’s original concrete base, “a
project that could possibly result in significant capital or
debt needs in future years that are beyond current
expectations,” the company said in an October report.  Ohio expects a lease term of about 40 years, compared with
Indiana’s 75-year deal and  Chicago ’s 99-year agreement, Wray
said. It also would retain a percentage of the toll revenue over
time, even if that reduces the upfront payment, he said.  Any lease contract also would restrict future fare
increases and set requirements for road maintenance, Wray said.  That doesn’t reassure Dave Schuler, a truck driver from
 Cleveland  who travels the Ohio Turnpike five times a week. Road
conditions and snow removal might suffer under a private
operator, he said.  Toll Fears  “I just can’t see it benefiting anyone using the toll
road,” Schuler, 48, said in an interview at a turnpike service
plaza in Mantua, Ohio. “I think the quality would go down and
tolls would go up.”  The state’s contract plus market forces will keep tolls in
line and the roadway maintained, and the experience of other
states won’t deter Ohio, Wray said.  “There’s a lot of talk out there about this deal that went
bad, and that deal that went bad -- some of them because of the
finances, some of them because of the politics or whatever --but
nothing that would scare us away from doing this,” Wray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  