-- 
Kenya Raises Discount-Window Charge After Currency Slides

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-12T11:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/kenya-raises-discount-window-charge-after-currency-slides-1-.html
The  Central Bank of Kenya  increased
charges for banks using its overnight discount window, a move
that may reduce liquidity and shore up a currency that slid to a
17-year low this week.  The Nairobi-based bank added a 3 percentage-point
“penalty” on the benchmark interest rate or  interbank rate ,
whichever is higher, it said in an e-mailed statement today. The
bank had previously applied its key lending rate, currently 6.25
percent. The average interbank rate is 7.1 percent, according to
the bank’s website.  “They are trying to tighten the money market,” Andrew Mwangangi, head of fixed-income at Kestrel Capital East Africa
Ltd., said by phone from the capital Nairobi today. “They are
trying to achieve two things, one, to rein in inflation and at
the same time ensure that  currency depreciation  is not being
helped by cheap funds at the central bank.”  The Kenyan shilling has declined 13 percent against the
dollar since the start of the year, and was trading 0.5 percent
stronger at 92.95 as of 1:30 p.m. in Nairobi. It weakened to
95.10 on Aug. 9, the lowest since March 1994 when currency-
controls were removed.  Inflation in East Africa’s largest economy accelerated for
the ninth consecutive month to 15.5 percent in July on higher
food and fuel costs.  The  central bank  also barred banks from re-lending funds
borrowed via the discount window to other banks on the same or
following day. It said it will examine lenders’ foreign-exchange
transactions over the previous four trading days when
determining eligibility for the discount window. The changes
take effect from Aug. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 