-- 
Kocherlakota Says He Sees No Need for Further Fed Monetary Accommodation

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-08-12T14:12:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/kocherlakota-says-he-sees-no-need-for-further-fed-monetary-accommodation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President Narayana Kocherlakota said he sees no need for further
monetary accommodation, releasing a statement to explain his
dissenting vote at the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting.  “I do not believe that providing more accommodation --
easing monetary policy -- is the appropriate response to these
changes in the economy,” he said today, referring to falling
unemployment since November and rising inflation as measured by
the Fed’s preferred price gauge.  The statement is a rare preemptive move among Fed bank
presidents, who typically discuss their decisions for the first
time in speeches or in response to questions afterward. It was
issued after the Fed’s blackout period ended, which is midnight
Eastern time on the Thursday after a meeting. Fed officials are
prohibited from speaking on policy or the economy until the
blackout is lifted.  This week, Kocherlakota joined two other regional bank
presidents,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and Richard Fisher
of  Dallas , in posing the most opposition to a Fed decision in
almost 19 years. They dissented from a pledge by the  Federal
Open Market Committee  to hold  interest rates  near zero until at
least mid-2013, preferring instead to maintain a commitment to
do so for an unspecified “extended period.”  Data Evolution  “I dissented from this change in language because the
evolution of macroeconomic data did not reflect a need to make
monetary policy more accommodative than in November 2010,” when
the Fed launched a second round of quantitative easing, said
Kocherlakota, 47, the Fed’s youngest policy maker.  “I believe that in November, the Committee judiciously
chose a level of accommodation that was well calibrated for the
prevailing economic conditions,” he said. Unemployment remains
“disturbingly high,” yet has fallen since November. The
jobless rate stood at 9.1 percent as of July, down from 9.8
percent in November.  Kocherlakota, who has led the  Minneapolis Fed  since October
2009, said his future votes will be “based on the evolution of
the data” on the personal consumption expenditures price index,
medium-term inflation expectations, and unemployment.  The Minneapolis bank president built his career in academia
and is former chairman of the economics department at the
University of Minnesota in Minneapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  