-- 
New China Life Insurance Said to Plan $4 Billion IPO as Early as October

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-08-12T03:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/new-china-life-insurance-said-to-plan-4-billion-ipo-as-early-as-october.html
New China Life Insurance Co., the
Chinese insurer backed by  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , plans to
raise up to $4 billion in an initial public offering, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The share sale may take place as early as October, after
the Beijing-based insurer filed an application for the IPO to
the Hong Kong stock exchange this week, the people said, asking
not to be identified. The company may raise $3 billion to $4
billion by selling stock in Hong Kong and Shanghai, one of the
people said.  New China Life is planning the IPO as slowing economic
growth in the U.S. and the European sovereign debt crisis
spurred a global equity market rout. In May, people familiar
with the matter said the share sale could raise as much as $5
billion.  New China Life’s media office didn’t immediately reply to
an e-mail seeking comment today.  The company hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
China International Capital Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
 UBS AG (UBSN)  to manage the Hong Kong sale, people said in May.  New China Life posted a profit of 2.3 billion yuan ($359
million) last year, according to the 2010 annual  report  posted
on its website on April 29. The company’s total assets stood at
304.6 billion yuan as of Dec. 31, the report showed.  New China Life boosted gross premiums by 40 percent last
year to become the nation’s third-biggest life insurer by market
share, overtaking China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., according
to  government data .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  