-- 
NY Meatpacking District Draws Levi’s, Loses McCartney

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-08-17T16:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/new-york-s-meatpacking-district-draws-levi-s-as-mccartney-decamps-to-soho.html
(Corrects purchaser of Levi’s store building in 14th
paragraph of story published Aug. 12.)  Jeffrey Kalinsky opened a fashion
boutique in  Manhattan ’s meatpacking district in 1999. In those
days, he said, the neighborhood was “lawless.”  “There was meat and blood and smells,” Kalinsky, 48, said
in a telephone interview. “Obviously it was not a walking,
trafficked neighborhood.”  Stores such as Kalinsky’s  Jeffrey New York  transformed the
neighborhood of slaughterhouses and packing plants into an area
known for chic restaurants and trendy shops and clubs. Now its
popularity is driving up rents. One long-time tenant, British
designer Stella McCartney, who sells $2,345 wool twill coats and
$995 fabric tote bags, is relocating her lone East Coast store,
in the district since 2002, to Soho later this year.  New tenants include chain stores with broader appeal, such
as Levi Strauss & Co., which in November began selling jeans
starting at $54 from a ground-floor shop on West 14th Street
that the company describes as “premium concept.” Fashion chain
Intermix and Sephora, which has more than 280 cosmetics stores
in the U.S. and  Canada , will join the neighborhood next month.  “Rents have gone through the roof,” Robert Tunis, vice
chairman at brokerage Colliers International in  New York , said
in a telephone interview. “There are a number of tenants that
have indicated they’re potentially leaving. These are moves off
of West 14th Street, which is the prime area of retail. It is
the epicenter, if you will.”  District’s Cachet  Asking rents for the highest-quality retail spaces in the
Meatpacking District averaged $400 to $500 a square foot in
July, according to Tunis; Faith Hope Consolo, chairman of retail
leasing at Prudential Douglas Elliman in New York; and Jeffrey Roseman, executive vice president at Newmark Knight Frank’s New
York retail division.  For all of downtown Manhattan, defined by the Real Estate
Board of New York as everything south of 14th Street, asking
retail rents averaged $103 a square foot at the end of March,
the trade group said. Retail landlords in the neighborhood of
Soho, which means South of Houston Street, sought an average of
$268 a square foot in the second quarter, according to a  report 
by New York-based broker  Cushman & Wakefield  Inc.  In 2010, Meatpacking District landlords along West 14th
Street, from Hudson Street to 10th Avenue, sought an average of
$373 a square foot, according to the Real Estate Board.  The trade group didn’t collect data for the neighborhood a
decade ago, when designers such as McCartney arrived and signed
long-term leases. Consolo estimated rents averaged $75 a square
foot at the time.  Return on Investments  One reason for the rent increases is that landlords who
bought real estate at peak prices during the past few years are
seeking a return on their investments, Roseman said.  In a neighborhood where properties traditionally have been
owned by a few families, there have been at least 12 commercial-
property transactions in the past five years, with a total value
of $314.3 million, according to  New York City  property records
and data from Real Capital Analytics Inc. The two biggest
recorded sales were for $70 million each.  Developer Joseph Sitt purchased two Meatpacking District
properties in 2007, for $23.4 million and $9.9 million,
according to city records.  Neighborhood Evolution  “What prompted my initial investment in that area was
seeing the evolution of other neighborhoods in New York,” Sitt,
who witnessed the rebirth of Soho in the 1980s as a college
student, said in a telephone interview. “I did not want to
watch another one pass me by without being a player and a
participant in it.”  A separate company, Sitt Asset Management, along with
 Carlyle Group , purchased a West 14th Street building in 2007
with three ground-floor retail spaces, city property records
show. Levi Strauss, based in  San Francisco , chose that building
for its store, which features an in-house tailor. The storefront
had been empty for more than eight months, according to Laura
Pomerantz, founding partner at PBS Real Estate LLC in New York
and the broker representing both the landlord and retailer in
the deal.  Asking rent for the ground-floor space was $450 a square
foot, Pomerantz said. The figure was 20 percent higher than the
average rent for the neighborhood listed by the Real Estate
Board in March 2010, a month after the lease was signed.  Joseph Sitt said he has sought rents of as much as $600 a
square foot along West 14th Street to help recoup his
investments in the district. The increases are not hurting the
neighborhood and are a reflection of its growing popularity, he
said.  Apple, McQueen  “Businesses that can’t do high volume will be lost to the
businesses that can,” Sitt said. “If I lost an  Alexander McQueen  and gained an Apple, I’d rather have an Apple.”  McQueen’s shop on West 14th Street, which sells $1,900
clutch purses and $1,520 silk shirts, opened in 2002, the same
year as McCartney’s. The late designer’s work was celebrated in
an exhibit at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art that closed
Aug. 7.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the Cupertino, California-based maker of the
iPad and MacBook, opened its store on the corner of West 14th
Street and Ninth Avenue in 2007.  McCartney, whose brand is a joint venture with Amsterdam-
based Gucci Group NV, is moving because the neighborhood’s
asking rents have become too high for her, Prudential’s Consolo
said. The designer signed a lease in June at 112 Greene St. in
Soho, where asking rents were about $250 a square foot,
according to Joel Isaacs, founder of Isaacs & Co., McCartney’s
broker.  Shuttered Stores  Arabella Rufino, a spokeswoman for the designer in New
York, didn’t return two phone messages and three e-mails seeking
comment on the reasons for McCartney’s departure from the
district.  When McCartney leaves, she’ll join other retailers who have
shuttered their Meatpacking District stores. Auto, a home
accessories shop that opened in 1999, and Shelly Steffee, a
women’s clothing and jewelry boutique in the neighborhood since
2001, both closed last year.  Fashion retailers Lucy Barnes and Girlshop, and Bodum,
seller of French-press coffeemakers, closed stores in 2007,
according to Julian Kline, program manager of the Meatpacking
District Improvement Association, a neighborhood development
group. Dernier Cri, a rock ‘n’ roll inspired fashion retailer
that had a shop on Washington Street for a decade, left the
following year.  Retail Vacancies  In the second quarter of 2009, the district’s retail
vacancy was among the highest in Manhattan at 13 percent,
according to Consolo. Today, about 10 percent to 12 percent of
the neighborhood’s retail space is empty, Tunis of Colliers
estimated. The vacancy rate in Soho, where McCartney will be
relocating, was 6.5 percent in the second quarter, Cushman &
Wakefield said in its report.  “We’re seeing a transition going on,” Consolo said in an
e-mail. “I think we’re in the middle of a brief uptick in
vacancy as the pioneers move around.”  On a July afternoon, couples wearing sunglasses and
designer jeans sat at sidewalk tables outside Pastis restaurant
at Ninth Avenue and Little West 12th Street. Packs of office
workers funneled into a German-style beer garden at the base of
the Standard hotel.  High Line ‘Hype’  Around the corner, camera-carrying tourists popped in and
out of stores, passing through rows of construction scaffolding
to ascend to the  High Line , the railroad viaduct that was turned
into a park in 2009. More than 2 million people visited the park
last year, according to the Friends of the High Line
neighborhood group.  “The hype of High Line” is fueling changes in the
district, Consolo said. “Three, four years ago, nobody came to
New York asking for Meatpacking. Now, it’s, ‘I’ve gotta be in
Meatpacking.’”  The influx of tourists “broadens the types of retail,”
Consolo said. “You can’t just have $4,000 gowns and $1,000
shoes for whoever isn’t going to the Apple store.”  More retailers that offer appeal to a broader consumer base
may be coming to the neighborhood. Permit applications were
issued in April on behalf of  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  for a space
across West 14th Street from Jeffrey, according to New York
Department of Buildings records.  ‘Hip and Young’  Crystal Carroll, a spokeswoman for Philadelphia-based Urban
Outfitters, wrote in an e-mail that the company was “finalizing
details” for its New York expansion plans and declined to
comment further.  The chain had 176 stores in  North America  and  Europe  at the
end of its fiscal year in January, according to a regulatory
filing. It plans to open 12 more locations this fiscal year. The
retailer sells such items as sweater dresses, mustache-patterned
bandages and skull-shaped piggy banks.  Drew Hirsch, a salesman at the Diane von Furstenburg
boutique, one of the Meatpacking District’s pioneers, said the
entrance of more mainstream brands will make the neighborhood
more fun, hip and young.  “It seems that anyone can be here now,” Hirsch said.  Sephora, owned by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (LVMUY) , will open in September in a redeveloped space
managed by Aurora Capital Associates. Asking rent was $450 a
square foot, according to Jared Epstein, Aurora Capital’s vice
president of acquisitions and leasing.  Kiehl’s Shop  French fashion retailer  Vanita Rosa  plans to open a store
in the neighborhood, its first in New York City, later this
year. Kiehl’s Since 1851, which has 39 locations in the U.S. and
is owned by Paris-based L’Oreal SA, started selling its skin-and
hair-care products from its West 14th Street shop in June,
according to Lauren Rodolitz, a spokeswoman.  “There are big brands that might want to be in the
neighborhood who have the financial wherewithal to pay those
rents,” Kalinsky said. “There are also other people that just
do not want to pay those rents. People want to be there because
 Stella McCartney  and Alexander McQueen are there. If tenants of
this ilk leave, other tenants will not want to come to the
neighborhood.”  Kalinsky signed a 20-year lease for Jeffrey New York in
1999 and said he has no plans to go anywhere anytime soon. That
may change when his lease is up and he’s presented with the
rents now being sought in the neighborhood.  “I would imagine I’ll leave,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  