-- 
Nigeria Needs Tighter Control on Spending, Finance Minister-Designate Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-12T16:15:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/nigeria-needs-tighter-control-on-spending-finance-minister-designate-says.html
Nigeria ’s government needs to curb
spending to put the country on a “better fiscal path,” said
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who will start her job as the country’s
finance minister next week.  “We need to tighten fiscal policy,” Okonjo-Iweala, who
was a managing director at the  World Bank  since 2007, said in a
telephone interview from  Washington  today.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, boosted spending
this year as the continent’s most populous nation held elections
and increased wages. Okonjo-Iweala was finance minister between
2003 and 2006, spearheading talks that led the Paris Club group
of creditors to write off $18 billion in debt.  “The priorities of the president, which are to accelerate
growth and create jobs, will be my priority,” Okonjo-Iweala
said. “Top of my list is to get to grips with the new budget,
to craft the 2012 budget.”  Okonjo-Iweala resigned from the Cabinet in August 2006
following a demotion by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Her
mandate given by President Goodluck Jonathan is broader,
including coordinating economic policy, she said today.  “What the president wants me to do differently is to push
beyond finance, to take a role to help coordinate actions in the
economy, on reforms and implementation,” she said.  Okonjo-Iweala said she is in favor of the central bank’s
policy of pegging the naira to provide stability for businesses.
The central bank aims to keep the currency within a range of 3
percent above or below 150 per dollar.  The minister said her role won’t put her in opposition with
central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi, who has broadened his
mandate beyond  price stability , providing funding for
agriculture and power projects.  “We are not in opposing roles,” she said. “It’s not
about power. It’s about getting the economy working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  