-- 
Nigeria Eurobonds Head for Worst Week on Record as Oil Retreats

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-08-12T16:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/nigeria-s-eurobonds-head-for-biggest-weekly-drop-on-record-as-oil-retreats.html
Nigeria ’s dollar-denominated bonds
headed for their worst week on record, with yields rising to the
highest since April, after oil, the nation’s biggest foreign-
currency earner, fell for the third week.  The price on the 6.75 percent Eurobonds due 2021 of
 Africa ’s biggest oil producer declined for a seventh day, losing
less than 0.1 percent to 103 cents on the dollar, as of 4:37
p.m. in  London . The notes were poised for a weekly slump of 3.4
percent, the biggest five-day decline since their January issue.
The yield rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
6.323 percent, the highest since April 28, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The $500 million of bonds are Nigeria’s
only international notes.  Crude oil headed for the third weekly decline on signs that
the global recovery is slowing and demand for fuels will be
reduced. Nigeria relies on crude exports for 95 percent of its
foreign-currency earnings.  “The fiscal story in Nigeria could have weighted
negatively in the past few months because as global financial
and economic conditions deteriorate the market may be starting
to price a relative downturn in  oil prices ,”  Samir Gadio , a
London-based emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said in a phone interview today. “It doesn’t mean Nigeria
is going to default obviously; it has large reserves.”  The nation’s foreign-currency reserves fell 5.7 percent to
$35 billion as of Aug. 10 from a year ago, according to Central
Bank of Nigeria data.  ‘Less Optimistic’  “Considering the recent declines in the oil price we tend
to have a less optimistic view about the economic growth going
forward,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in a research note today.  Africa’s most populous nation is rated B+ by  Standard &
Poor’s , the fourth-highest junk assessment, and BB- with a
“negative” outlook by  Fitch Ratings , the third-highest non-
investment-grade level.  Nigeria’s dependence on oil weighs against its rating
outlook, Christian Esters, a Frankfurt-based credit analyst at
S&P, said in a phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  