-- 
Nigeria Oil Reliance Weighs on ‘Positive’ Bank Bailouts, S&P’s Esters Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-08-12T16:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/nigeria-oil-reliance-weighs-on-positive-bank-bailouts-s-p-s-esters-says.html
Nigeria ’s “positive” 2009 bailout
of lenders and reduction of nonperforming loans in the banking
industry is being outweighed by its dependence on oil and
continuing social unrest, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  “The banking sector has undergone a significant
transformation in the last two years,” Christian Esters, a
Frankfurt-based credit analyst at S&P, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “What holds the rating down is the remaining
political uncertainty, it is also the dependence on the oil
sector, prices and the low level of economic development
generally.”  S&P lowered the credit rating of  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer to B+, the fourth-highest junk rating, with a
“stable” outlook in August 2009. That’s the same month the
 Central Bank of Nigeria  injected 620 billion naira ($4.1
billion) into 10 lenders and fired the chief executives of eight
of the country’s 24 banks after a debt crisis that was spurred
by loans to equity speculators.  The central bank set up Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria,
or Amcon, in 2010 to buy nonperforming loans from lenders. Amcon
took over and injected 679 billion naira into Afribank Plc,  Bank
PHB Plc (PLATINUM)  and  Spring Bank Plc (SPRINGBK)  on Aug. 6 after the central bank
revoked their licenses the day before, saying they were unlikely
to meet a Sept. 30 deadline to recapitalize.  “The banks’ asset quality has markedly improved since
Amcon relieved the banks of the bad loans,” Esters said. “The
ratio of nonperforming loans has been brought down quite a lot
by this measure.”  Oil Reliance  Nigeria relies on crude exports for 95 percent of its
foreign-exchange earnings, making it vulnerable to oil-price
swings, said Esters. The nation’s foreign-currency reserves,
which have dropped 5.7 percent to $35 billion as of Aug. 10 from
a year earlier, could have risen more, he said.  Nigerian benchmark Bonny Light crude headed for its third
weekly retreat on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower
U.S. growth will reduce demand for fuel consumption. The spot
price has increased 4 percent since January and last traded 0.8
percent down at $109.49 a barrel. The 2011 budget of 4.5
trillion naira is based on a crude-oil price of $75 a barrel.  “The oil price assumption in their budget of $75 gives
them a little bit of flexibility to falling global prices, but
Nigeria is exposed to oil exports, prices and quantities,”
Esters said. “Their budget is exposed so their balance of
payments and current account is exposed to  oil prices .”  Eurobonds Drop  The price of Nigeria’s 6.75 percent Eurobonds due 2021 fell
for a seventh day, losing less than 0.1 percent to 103 cents on
the dollar, as of 4:37 p.m. in  London . The notes headed for a
weekly slump of 3.4 percent, the biggest five-day decline since
their January issue. The yield rose to 6.323 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, the highest since April 28. The
$500 million of bonds are Nigeria’s only international notes.  Africa’s most populous nation remains plagued by violence
and political uncertainty even as April elections that returned
Goodluck Jonathan to power went “fairly well,” Esters said.  Boko Haram, an extremist Islamist sect, has claimed and
been suspected of multiple bomb and gun attacks. Nigerian
authorities have blamed the group, which draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for an upsurge in violent
attacks in the mainly Muslim north in the past two years.  Social Tensions  Violence is being fueled by “economic division and
cultural division; it’s probably some dissatisfaction in the
north regarding the Jonathan decision to run for the
elections,” Esters said. Jonathan, a Christian from the oil-
rich southern Niger River delta region, succeeded Muslim
northerner, Umaru Yar’Adua, who died in May last year. Jonathan
defied a party rule that made it the north’s turn to produce a
presidential candidate. Nigeria, which has an estimated
population of 155 million, is divided between a mainly Muslim
north and largely Christian South.  “We expect social tensions to continue and we expect
incidents of violence to continue, including in the  Niger Delta ,
though there has been the amnesty and Jonathan himself is from
the Niger Delta, so that may help to keep things calm,” said
Esters.  A government amnesty in August 2009 ended most of the
fighting in the oil producing Niger River delta and disarmed
thousands of militant fighters, after attacks by armed groups
cut more than 28 percent of oil output between 2006 and 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  