-- 
Nobel Biocare Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Dollar, Costs

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-08-12T16:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/nobel-biocare-second-quarter-net-income-declines-on-expenses-1-.html
Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the
second-biggest dental implant maker, said second-quarter profit
fell 19 percent because of a declining dollar and higher costs
related to its NobelProcera prosthetic-technology line.  Nobel Biocare slid to the lowest in almost nine years in
Zurich trading after reporting net income dropped to 15.9
million euros ($23 million) from 19.6 million euros a year
earlier. Profit missed the 17.6 million-euro average estimate of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company is attempting to win back market share lost to
larger rival  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  after a reorganization that
has been complicated by a succession of three chief executive
officers since 2007. Nobel Biocare forecast today that 2011
earnings before interest and taxes, excluding currency effects
and exceptional expenses, will match last year’s figure, and
said it aims to “stabilize” the business over the short term.  “I see this as an angel that is falling from heaven,” CEO
Richard Laube said at a press conference today at company
headquarters in Glattbrugg,  Switzerland . “One of the wings is
slightly broken, twisted a bit. The challenge to me and the team
in place now is to get that wing fixed in the right way.”  Stock Drops  Nobel Biocare fell 64 centimes, or 5.2 percent, to 11.64
Swiss francs in Zurich trading, the lowest closing price since
Oct. 11, 2002. The stock has fallen 28 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends, in contrast to a 6.1 percent
return for the 34-company Stoxx 600 Health Care Index.  Second-quarter revenue dropped 7.8 percent to 142.9 million
euros, the company said today in a  statement . Sales were less
than the 151.3 million-euro average estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Excluding currency effects, revenue would
have declined by 3.9 percent, it said. Exchange-rate shifts and
spending on NobelProcera, including  information technology , also
added to operating costs, Nobel Biocare said.  Straumann overtook Nobel Biocare last year to become the
largest maker of dental implants, based on 2010 sales in Swiss
francs at exchange rates as of Dec. 31. The franc gained 11
percent against the dollar through June 30 from the end of last
year and has strengthened further since then, touching a record
high on Aug. 9. The euro has risen 6.3 percent versus the dollar
this year.  Eroding Market Share  “We have been declining and losing market share slowly
over 3 1/2 years,” Laube said. “It’s been a customer at a
time,” while “we believed we could grow every year.”  The manufacturer said it expects sales improvements in the
second half of the year and predicted that the dental-implant
business will grow in line with the market in 2012.  “Guidance is disappointing but not unexpected, given the
environment,” Lisa Bedell Clive, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note to investors today.  Nobel Biocare “appears to be toning down its
expectations” for the year, while the new CEO hasn’t presented
any initiatives to accelerate profitability and momentum yet,
Mikael von Euw, an analyst in Zurich at Helvea AG, wrote in a
report today.  Laube, formerly head of  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nutrition unit, became
CEO on May 1. The company named  Synthes Inc. (SYST)  CEO Michel Orsinger
as its chairman in July, effective early in 2012, to succeed
Heino von Prondzynski.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Glattbrugg, Switzerland, at   aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 