-- 
North Korea Favors ‘Win-Win’ Gas Pipeline, South Korea Says

-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-08-12T09:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/north-korea-positive-on-gas-pipeline-s-korea-says.html
North Korea is in favor of building
a natural  gas pipeline  linking Russia and  South Korea  that could
benefit both Asian nations, South Korean Foreign Minister Kim
Sung Hwan said today.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  told Kim the
pipeline has good prospects at a meeting earlier this month
after Russian and North Korean officials discussed the proposal,
Kim told reporters in Seoul today. The North Koreans are
“positive” about the plan, Lavrov said, according to Kim.  “North Korea may earn cash from the pipeline while South
Korea can import natural gas with lower costs,” Kim said.
“This would be the win-win project.”  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest importer of liquefied
natural gas, and Russian gas-export monopoly OAO Gazprom have
been trying to identify a supply route  since at least 2003 , when
they signed a cooperation accord. Other options include a
costlier and technically more challenging undersea pipeline, and
liquefied or compressed natural gas supplies.  Attempts to seek consent from  North Korea  to build a
pipeline in its territory come as the two countries remain
technically at war after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a
cease-fire. North Korea’s nuclear program and attacks on the
southern neighbor have kept relations tense.  State-run Korea Gas has said gas demand for the power
sector will grow 7.2 percent a year to 2015. South Korea, which
imports almost all its energy needs, imported 32.6 million
metric tons of LNG last year, up from 25.8 million tons in 2009.
Kogas, as the company is also known, buys about 1.5 million tons
of LNG from Russia’s Sakhalin-2 project.  Moscow-based Gazprom, seeking to diversify away from Europe
to gain revenue from fast-growing Asian markets, plans to sign a
so-called “road map” to supply South Korea by pipeline in the
near future, it said on Aug. 5. Supplies could start in 2017,
Gazprom has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in  Seoul  at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  