-- 
Norway’s Oil Fund Posts Lower Gains

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-12T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/norway-s-oil-fund-posts-smallest-gain-before-stock-rout.html
Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund
suffered its smallest quarterly gain in a year, foreshadowing
this month’s global stock rout amid concern U.S. and European
economic growth is stalling.  The $534 billion Government Pension Fund Global  returned
0.3 percent, as measured by a basket of currencies, in the
second quarter, the Oslo-based investor said today. The stock
portfolio fell 0.7 percent and its bonds holdings rose 1.8
percent. It was the worst performance since a loss in the second
quarter of 2010.  Global stocks have plunged on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will spread to larger economies in the region such as Italy and
as a credit downgrade of the U.S. this month intensified
speculation the world’s largest economy would reenter a
recession. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index dropped 0.3 percent in the
second quarter, before tumbling 13 percent since June.  “Signs of weaker economic growth in the U.S. and Europe
and fears of a contagion from the European sovereign debt crisis
reduced investors’ risk willingness,” said  Yngve Slyngstad ,
chief executive officer of Norges Bank Investment Management, in
a statement. “At the same time, demand rose for government
bonds from countries such as Germany, the U.K., France and the
U.S.”  Europe’s largest stock investor, which is part of the
central bank and gets its guidelines from the government, held
60.5 percent in stocks, 39.4 percent in bonds and 0.1 percent in
real estate at the end of the quarter. It’s mandated to hold 60
percent in stocks, 35 percent in bonds and 5 percent in real
estate, which it first bought this year.  Biggest Holdings  The fund said its worst performer in the second quarter was
HSBC Holdings Plc, its third biggest stock holding. The best
performer was Nestle SA, its second-biggest holding.  The largest stock holding in the quarter was Royal Dutch
Shell Plc at a value of 22 billion kroner. The largest bond
holdings were in  U.S. Treasuries , followed by the U.K. and
German  government bonds . Italian government debt was the fund’s
fifth largest holding and Spanish government debt was the eighth
largest.  Norway’s fund lost a record 633 billion kroner in 2008,
when the financial crisis erupted. The investor then responded
to the rout by increasing its stock holdings, which helped it
post a 26 percent return in 2009 and a 9.6 percent gain in 2010.  Debt Plight  Europe’s debt plight has worsened since the end of the
quarter and yields have surged since a July 21 European Union
summit approved an aid plan for  Greece  and measures to help
other euro-region countries before they need a bailout. The
 European Central Bank  last week shelved a plan to increase rates
and resume bond purchases to support the market and stop the
crisis from spreading to  Italy  and  Spain , the third- and fourth-
biggest euro-area economies.  Norway’s fund said in June that it had since the end of
2008 through 2010 cut its combined holdings in Greek, Irish,
Portuguese, Italian and Spanish government debt by 13 percent to
13.89 billion euros.  The  Oslo-based fund  got its first capital infusion in 1996
and has been taking on more risk as it expands globally,
increasing its stock portfolio from 40 percent in 2007. It first
added stocks in 1998, emerging markets in 2000 and this year
real estate to boost returns and safeguard wealth.  It completed its first real estate purchase this year,
buying 25 percent in the U.K. Crown Estate’s Regent Street and
also agreed in June to invest 702 million euros in Paris real
estate.  Norway, a nation of 4.9 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
the country’s largest energy company. Norway is the world’s
second-largest gas exporter and the seventh-biggest oil
exporter. The fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking
domestic inflation.  The government deposited 53 billion kroner of petroleum
revenue into the fund in the second quarter. The return missed
by 0.1 percentage point the benchmark set by the  Finance
Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  