-- 
Norway Appoints Former Hydro Executive to Head Terror Panel

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-08-12T12:51:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/norway-appoints-former-hydro-executive-to-head-terror-panel.html
Norway named Alexandra Bech Gjoerv,
a partner at an Oslo law-firm and a former executive at Norsk
Hydro ASA, as head of the commission looking into the July 22
terror attacks by Anders Behring Breivik that killed 77 people.  The commission was appointed “to conduct an independent
and thorough review and evaluation to draw lessons from the
attacks,” Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said today at a  press
conference  in Oslo. “The intention is that Norwegian society
may be best equipped to prevent and respond to possible future
attacks, while also taking care of the central values in
Norwegian society -- openness and democracy.”  The commission will consist of 10 people, including former
police officers, military personnel and health professionals.
 Bech Gjoerv , a partner at law-firm  Hjort , has worked at Norsk
Hydro ASA and sits on the board of Norske Skogindustrier ASA.  Other members include Hanne Bech Hansen, the former
Copenhagen police director and Lieutenant General Torgeir Hagen,
the former head of Norwegian military intelligence, as well as
Linda Motroeen Paulsen, the vice president of the  Red Cross .  The work is “extensive and difficult,” Gjoerv said. While
it has no mandate to consider personal responsibility it will
examine individual actions, she said at the press conference.  The government on July 27  decided  to set up the commission,
which is independent and will report to the premier. It will
submit a report in August next year.  Armed with a pistol and semi-automatic rifle, Breivik for
more than an hour shot people at a Labor Party youth camp on
Utoeya, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) from Oslo, killing 69,
including some as young as 14. Earlier he killed eight in a car
bomb blast in Oslo’s government district. While Breivik has
admitted to the killings, he hasn’t pleaded guilty.  Police are still investigating the attacks and said today
they have received about 1,400 tips from the public and
interrogated Breivik for 50 hours since his arrest on the
island. Police have so far said that there’s no evidence of
accomplices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  