-- 
Novatek Second-Quarter Net Doubles as Acquisition Boosts Growth

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-08-12T12:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/novatek-second-quarter-net-doubles-as-acquisition-boosts-growth.html
OAO Novatek said second-quarter
earnings more than doubled after the acquisition of a Siberian
gas project helped boost production amid rising prices.  Net income jumped to 14.4 billion rubles ($494 million)
from 7.14 billion rubles a year earlier,  Russia ’s second-biggest
gas producer said today in a statement.  Novatek bought 51 percent of OAO Sibneftegas at the end of
2010, and the asset will help boost total gas production by 30
percent this year, Chief Financial Officer Mark Gyetvay said in
March. That compares with an estimated 2 percent annual growth
by bigger rival, state-run OAO Gazprom.  Novatek has gained 76 percent in the last year, while
Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company, rose 5 percent. Russian
stocks slumped this week amid a drop in  oil prices  and because
of concerns that the global economy may slide back into
recession.  “Despite the strong growth and the recent weakness in the
stock price, Novatek continues trading at significant premiums
to Russian oil and gas companies as well as international gas
independents,” UralSib Financial Corp. said in a research note
yesterday.  Revenue rose by 58 percent to 40.6 billion rubles in the
second quarter because of higher sales and prices, the Tarko-
Sale, Siberia-based company said.  The gas producer increased output of the fuel 45 percent to
12 billion cubic meters in the second quarter from a year
earlier. Gas sales volumes rose 50 percent to 11.8 billion cubic
meters. Its share of Sibneftegas added 1.3 billion cubic meters
of gas.  “The increases were primarily due to the growth in
Novatek’s production capacity combined with the expansion of our
customer portfolio and higher natural gas demand in the domestic
market,” the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  