-- 
Obama’s 14th Amendment Stand Counters `Wimp’ Factor Claims: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-12T00:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/obama-s-14th-amendment-stand-counters-wimp-factor-claims-view.html
Many of President Barack Obama’s
friends on the left are disappointed with his performance during
the debt-ceiling negotiations. In fact, they are starting to
lose their enthusiasm for his re-election.  To be blunt, liberals are becoming convinced that Obama is
a wimp. The best evidence of his wimpiness is said to be his
failure to use his presidential power under the 14th Amendment
to override or simply ignore the debt-limit law. But about this
particular matter, Obama’s liberal critics are wrong. Regarding
the Constitution, this was Obama’s finest hour.  The 14th Amendment has been around since 1868 and is
probably the most heavily litigated provision in the
Constitution. Debt-ceiling battles have been going on since at
least World War II. Is it possible that, until a few months ago,
this extraordinary presidential power to ignore a law passed by
both houses of Congress and signed by himself or one of his
predecessors just sat there, unnoticed?  Yes, it’s possible. But is it likely? The precise words
are: “The validity of the public debt of the  United States ,
authorized by law … shall not be questioned.” Clear meaning
doesn’t exactly leap from that phrase. In the history of the
Supreme Court, it has been cited exactly once, in 1935.  Bill Clinton  said at the peak of the recent debt debate that, as
president, he had considered using the power of the 14th
Amendment twice, but didn’t need to because the Republicans
caved. He also apparently didn’t feel the need to mention it in
public. Nor had anyone else involved in debt-ceiling politics
(which got worse, but didn’t start, this year), until
suspiciously recently.  Obama, asked about asserting a 14th Amendment right to
raise the debt limit unilaterally -- or at least threatening to
do so -- said: “I’ve talked to my lawyers. They are not
persuaded that this is a winning argument.” And that was that.  Obama’s reluctance to use a power he felt he wasn’t
entitled to was impressive, even if the former constitutional
lawyer was wrong in his interpretation. When was the last time a
president voluntarily gave up power for no better reason than
obeying the Constitution (which, just incidentally, he has sworn
an oath to defend)? If it had been a Republican president and
his supporters in the legislature were making such a case for an
imperial presidency, liberals would be having fits.  Obama’s stand on principle is especially noble because he
might well have been able to use the public debt clause to have
his way, even if his interpretation of it was wrong. First, he
could have threatened to use it, even knowing in his heart that
he would not. And second, there’s a good chance the  Supreme
Court  would not take such a case.  We are accustomed to having the court settle our big
questions and tend to forget that judicial review is not in the
Constitution: It’s just because, procedurally, the Supreme Court
decides last that its view carries the day. But the court tends
to stay away from arguments between the other two branches.
Also, there is the question of standing: Who would have the
right to bring a suit for the court to rule on? Maybe no one.  Clinton, in a rare episode of back-seat driving, said that
in Obama’s place he would have asserted presidential power
“without hesitation,” to avoid the debt ceiling, “and force the
courts to stop me.” Clinton should know better than that.  Presidents and other government officials have an
independent obligation to obey the Constitution. They’re not
supposed to give defiance a try and see what happens. Courts
have no armies and, ultimately, no power to stop anyone from
doing anything. Their authority depends on constant
reinforcement and what they call in the theater a “willing
suspension of disbelief.” Macho talk like Clinton’s doesn’t
help.  No doubt it would have been useful for Obama to have that
arrow in his quiver. Rejecting it on constitutional grounds,
when everyone around you is advising otherwise, is not wimpy
behavior. In fact, it’s pretty courageous.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 