-- 
Obama Meets With Johnson & Johnson CEO Weldon, Xerox’s Burns

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-08-12T20:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/obama-to-meet-with-johnson-johnson-ceo-weldon-xerox-s-burns.html
President  Barack Obama  conferred
today with eight company executives, including Ursula Burns,
chief executive officer of  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  CEO
William Weldon, on ways to boost the economy and create jobs.  Burns and Weldon were joined at the White House meeting by
Kenneth Chenault, chairman of  American Express Co. (AXP) , Richard Davis, chairman and CEO of U.S. Bancorp, Larry Fink, chairman
and CEO of  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , Glenn Hutchins, co-CEO of Silver Lake
Financial Management Co., John Stumpf, chairman and CEO of  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and John Surma, chairman and CEO of  United States
Steel Corp. (X)  The meeting latest a little more than an hour.  With 15 months before the presidential election, Obama is
struggling to jump-start a weak economy and find ways to reduce
the 9.1 percent unemployment rate. The economy expanded at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter of 2011, less than
forecast, from a 0.4 percent pace in the first three months of
the year, Commerce Department figures showed last month.  Obama is “on the hunt” for new ideas about ways to create
jobs and will release proposals during the coming weeks,  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said at a briefing earlier
today.  Obama is urging Congress to pass three trade deals that may
create as many as 70,000 new jobs, renew the payroll tax cut and
an unemployment insurance program, and fund road and bridge
construction.  Economic Proposals  “Over the coming weeks, I’m going to be putting out more
proposals, week by week, that will help businesses hire and put
people back to work,” Obama said in a speech yesterday at
Johnson Controls Inc., in Holland, Michigan.  The president and the executives met privately in the
Roosevelt Room and neither Obama nor the executives made public
remarks afterward.  “The president firmly believes that every American who
wants a job should have one, and businesses large and small must
all be at the table as part of the collective solution,” a
statement released by the administration said.  Regular Meetings  Obama has hosted more than two-dozen roundtables, lunches
or dinners with business leaders since taking office in January
2009. The most recent was July 12 when he met with executives of
United Parcel Service Inc., International Business Machines
Corp., BNSF Railway Co. and Darden Restaurants Inc., among other
companies.  Today’s group had a bipartisan cast. Burns and Fink
contributed to Obama’s 2008 campaign, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks political giving. Hutchins gave to the presidential
campaigns of both Democrat  Hillary Clinton  and Republican Mitt Romney.  Davis gave to former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty’s
current run for the Republican nomination, and to his leadership
political action committee last year. Weldon backed 2008
Republican presidential nominee  John McCain , and gave $27,000 to
the Republican National Committee that year. Surma contributed
$5,000 to the House Republicans’ fundraising arm in 2010. Stumpf
gave $10,000 to the  National Republican Congressional Committee 
earlier this year.  The president also plans to talk about the economy and
solicit ideas from small-business owners and workers during a
three-day bus trip through Minnesota, Iowa and Illinois that
begins Aug. 15.  U.S. retail sales climbed 0.5 percent in July, the most in
four months, showing consumers were holding up at the start of
the third quarter. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which fell
or rose at least 4.4 percent in the previous four sessions,
climbed 0.7 percent to 1,181.18 at 1:24 p.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  