-- 
Obama to Host Business Leaders for Talks on Jobs, Economy

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-08-12T12:03:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/obama-to-host-business-leaders-for-talks-on-jobs-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  meets with
business leaders at the White House today for talks on creating
jobs and boosting the economy.  “He wants to discuss the economy, the industries that the
business leaders represent, and what they’re hearing and seeing
and ideas they have,” spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  With 15 months before the presidential election, Obama is
struggling to jump-start a weak economy and find ways to reduce
the 9.1 percent unemployment rate.  At  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  in Holland,  Michigan  yesterday, he
urged Congress when it returns in September to pass three
pending trade deals, renew the payroll tax cut and unemployment
insurance program, and fund road and bridge construction.  “And over the coming weeks, I’m going to be putting out
more proposals, week by week, that will help businesses hire and
put people back to work,” Obama said.  The president will be talking today with a “small and
diverse” group of business leaders, Carney said. The White
House hasn’t yet released the names of those attending the
meeting, which is closed to press coverage.  Obama has hosted more than two dozen roundtables, lunches
or dinners with business leaders since taking office in January
2009. The most recent was July 12 when he met with executives of
United Parcel Service Inc., International Business Machines
Corp., BNSF Railway Co. and Darden Restaurants Inc., among
others.  The president will solicit further ideas on the economy
with small-business owners and workers during a three-day bus
trip through Minnesota, Iowa and  Illinois  that begins Aug. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  