-- 
Obama’s Possible Picks for Fed Board Would Expand Ranks of PhD Economists

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-13T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/obama-said-to-plan-nomination-of-stein-clarida-to-fed-board-of-governors.html
President  Barack Obama  will probably
nominate two PhD economists with expertise in finance to serve
as governors on the  Federal Reserve  Board, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The president’s choices are Jeremy Stein, a Harvard
University professor who specializes in banking and finance, and
 Richard Clarida , an executive vice president at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the selections haven’t been
announced.  If the nominations are approved by the Senate, Obama will
have appointed or reappointed six of the seven Fed board members,
including Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. The chairman led a decision
this week to hold the key  interest rate  near zero at least
through mid-2013 to support a recovery described as
“considerably slower” than policy makers anticipated.  Stein and Clarida “are centrist policy makers, likely to
vote in line with Bernanke” on the  Federal Open Market
Committee , said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics.  Three regional bank presidents dissented from this week’s
decision. Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota , along
with  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and Richard Fisher of
Dallas, said they wanted to maintain the prior commitment to low
borrowing costs for an unspecified “extended period.”  The FOMC consists of the Fed’s Washington-based board as
well as the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
plus four the remaining 11 reserve bank presidents on a rotating
basis.  Qualified Nominees  White House spokesman Matt Lehrich said in a statement that
Obama “is considering a range of highly qualified nominees for
the Federal Reserve but has not made any decisions about whom he
would appoint to fill these critically important openings.”  The Wall Street Journal reported Obama’s plans for filling
the Fed Board seats yesterday.  Stein, 50, served in the Obama administration from February
to July of 2009 as a senior adviser to Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and as a staff economist on the White
House’s National Economic Council.  Clarida, 54, worked at the Treasury Department from
February 2002 until May 2003, serving under President George W. Bush as assistant secretary for economic policy, a position that
required Senate confirmation. He provided Treasury Secretary
John Snow with advice on the domestic and global economies,
international capital flows, corporate governance and the
maturity structure of  U.S. debt .  Improving the Odds  Nominating a former Bush administration official along with
one who served under Obama may improve the chances of
confirmation, Zandi said. “There are reasonably high odds that
they would get through the process,” he said.  Obama’s most recent pick for a seat on the Fed, Nobel
prize-winning economist  Peter Diamond , withdrew his nomination
in June after it ran into opposition from Senator
Richard Shelby of  Alabama , the senior Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee. Shelby said Diamond, a professor at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, lacked the practical
qualifications for the Fed job and experience regulating banks
and managing financial crises.  Only two of the board’s five current members, Bernanke and
Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen, hold a PhD in economics. Stein
earned his doctorate from the Massachusetts of Technology, where
Bernanke served as a visiting professor, although the two didn’t
overlap. Clarida earned his degree at Harvard.  Research Topics  Stein’s research topics include corporate investment and
financing decisions, risk management, stock-market efficiency
and capital allocation inside companies.  At Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, manager of the
world’s biggest mutual fund, Clarida is an executive vice
president in charge of the  New York  office and is the company’s
global strategic adviser. Clarida has published articles on
exchange rates, interest rates and international capital flows.
He is a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research,
where Stein is a research associate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ,
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  