-- 
Crude Oil Falls as U.S. Consumer Confidence Drops to Three-Decade Low

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-08-12T20:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/oil-rises-in-new-york-as-u-s-retail-sales-climb-the-most-in-four-months.html
Crude oil declined after a report
showed confidence among U.S. consumers plunged in August to the
lowest level in 31 years, signaling that economic growth may
drop in the world’s biggest oil-using country.  Oil fell 0.4 percent after the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment slumped to
54.9 from 63.7 the prior month. Futures rose as much as 1.9
percent earlier when the Commerce Department said retail
spending increased 0.5 percent following a 0.3 percent gain in
June that was larger than previously estimated.  “Economic concerns continue to be the primary driver of
the oil market,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF
Advisors in Houston. “It’s been quite a ride this week and the
market ended up slightly lower. It’s important to keep in mind
that we’re up quite a bit from the lows.”  Crude oil for September delivery dropped 34 cents to settle
at $85.38 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract decreased 1.7 percent this week after ranging from
$75.71 to $87.37 a barrel.  Brent oil for September settlement rose 1 cent to end the
session at $108.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe. The European benchmark was at a premium of $22.65 to
U.S. futures at the close today, down from a record $23.79 on
Aug. 10 based on settlement prices.  The consumer sentiment gauge was projected to decline to
62, according to the median forecast of 69 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index also
fell, dropping to minus 49.1 in the period to Aug. 7, its lowest
level since mid-May.  French Economic Growth  Prices dropped as much as 2 percent before floor trading
opened at 9 a.m. in New York after  France ’s economy failed to
grow in the second quarter and manufacturing in the euro region
unexpectedly declined in June.  Growth in France stalled as  consumer spending  plunged,
Paris-based statistics office Insee said today. Gross domestic
product was unchanged from the first quarter, when it rose 0.9
percent, the most in four years.  Industrial production in the euro region fell in June, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. The
0.7 percent decline was led by a drop in capital goods such as
machinery, adding to signs the economy is losing momentum as
governments struggle to contain the debt crisis.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel plan to meet next week after French markets were
rattled by concern that the euro-area debt crisis will spread.
The leaders of  Europe ’s two largest economies will discuss
economic governance of the 17-nation euro region in Paris on
Aug. 16, according to separate statements yesterday.  ‘The Driving Factor’  “Fear is the driving factor,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head
of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , whose
forecast for prices in the second quarter was third-closest
among 29. “In the last few years things have hardly been worse
than they are now. We have extremely low growth from the U.S., a
slowdown in  China , definitely troubles in the  euro zone .”  A cluster of thunderstorms 200 miles north of  Bermuda , one
of four Atlantic systems being monitored by the  National
Hurricane Center , has a 60 percent chance of becoming a tropical
depression or tropical storm in the next 48 hours, the center
said at 2 p.m.  New York  time.  Storm Watch  A system 1,000 miles east of the northern Leeward Islands
has a 50 percent chance of development, the center said. Traders
follow tropical storm forecasts in the Atlantic because the
storms can move into the  Gulf of Mexico , damage oil platforms
and refineries, and delay fuel shipments.  “Prices have held up pretty well,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “We may have
slipped at the end of the day because the storms in the Atlantic
are unlikely to move into the Gulf.”  New York oil may gain next week as U.S. stockpiles decline
and fuel demand increases, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Twelve of 29 analysts and traders, or 41 percent, forecast crude
will increase through Aug. 19. Last week, 51 percent of
respondents predicted a decrease.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 602,403
contracts as of 4:26 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 1.04
million contracts yesterday, 50 percent above the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.58 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  