-- 
London Riots Were the Bonfire of Consumers’ Vanities: A.A. Gill

-- B y   A . A .   G i l l
-- 
2011-08-12T00:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/london-riots-were-the-bonfire-of-consumers-vanities-a-a-gill.html
I know what caused it, if you’re
interested. Despite the wisenheimers’ head-scratching, garment-
rending, finger-wagging and tooth-sucking, I actually do know
the reason that out of the clear blue sky we were afflicted with
a Biblical, mythological, medieval plague of rioting.  (Don’t you agree, by the way, that of all the retrospective
experts’ tropes and tics, it’s the tooth-sucking that’s the most
offensive?)  It was all the fault of the clear blue sky. It was hubris
what done it. We’d actually begun to believe our luck had
changed, that we’d cracked the fate thing, the auguries were all
promising.  We’re not in the euro area -- phew. We’ve dodged the U.S.
downgrade. All the government’s “cuts with care” seem to be
slowly working, or at least not not working. There’s a scintilla
of growth. The coalition government felt grown up, the Olympics
construction is coming in ahead of time and budget, even the
bloody old weather was good. And England is beating  India  in the
test series, we’re to about become top nation at cricket, and
that’s never happened in living memory.  We were lulled and gulled and played for fools, beginning
to think we could be winners. It was fatal. The national
temperament is pessimistic fortitude. Our factory setting is
dull stoicism. We are the nation of good losers, of make do and
make tea.  Nemesis came as a letter from Libyan strongman  Muammar Qaddafi  calling on Prime Minister  David Cameron  to resign, as
he’d lost the trust of his people. Iran offered solidarity to
the young freedom fighters in Tottenham. In other circumstances
it might have been funny. Seen through a smoking high street, it
was galling. But when the politicians got up to the podium and
barked that we weren’t dealing with protesters, they were common
criminals, and would feel the full force of the law, well, it
sounded familiar. It sounded like  Syria ’s Bashar al-Assad.  The thing that raised the thermostat of fury wasn’t the
kids in the street but the inability of the law to get anywhere
near them. Police officers, weighed down by the gear of
suppression, huddled in shop doorways as businesses burnt.  The country that invented the modern police and the common
law they uphold, that prided itself on its manners and fair
play, had within hours descended to the point where it couldn’t
fulfill the most basic covenant of a state: to protect the lives
and property of its citizens. It’s been a bad year, a bad
century, for the police; hog-tied with red tape and form-
filling, lectured about political correctness and service-
provider jargon, accused of cheap corruption -- they were caught
in a stunned inertia.  Enter the Pundits  If the police were found wanting, then at least the
commentators weren’t. This was their moment. Newspaper
columnists and swivel-chair TV pundits, talk-radio bores and
bloggers, all rose gothically to the occasion and built
cathedrals of steepling opinion, buttressed with assertion and
selective observation. We may be short of coppers, but we have
more than enough opinions, and they were all over the riots.  One of the skills of a print columnist is to neatly combine
apparently unrelated stories to plait events in an attractive
and clever way. So it was a pleasure for many of them to see the
fear and panic in financial markets as karmically linked to
youths breaking into sportswear shops.  Capitalism had flaunted a crass and insistent consumerism
in front of this generation, while ensuring they could never be
part of it. The answer to this was apparently more
opportunities, more jobs and more investment. So the cause was
filthy capitalism, and the answer was more filthy capitalism.  The truth seems to be there was no truth. This was a rant
without reason, not the northern provincial version of the Arab
Spring; a Tottenham Summer. These rioters, when anyone could get
one to talk to a camera instead of nicking it, were shamingly
incoherent. They mumbled about lack of respect and free stuff,
and the rest of us watching on televisions we’d actually paid
for could hear our mothers going, ‘Both respect and stuff have
to be earned, not given.’  There is no ideal or ism with this crowd, no righteous
anger, no dream. This was just swift opportunism. Sensing a
blind spot, a weakness, and exploiting it for quick profit,
shorting your own neighborhood. So perhaps there was a lesson
learned from the market after all.  There is an interesting observation that might have some
currency across the Atlantic. The commentators on the left and
right grow their civic responsibility opinions out of divergent
beliefs on the nature of people. The right begins with the
assumption that we are born lazy, selfish and immoral, that the
purpose of civilization is to allow us to lift ourselves out of
wickedness into productivity. The left believes that we all
start perfect and that circumstances and expediency beat us down
and make us bad, and the purpose of civilization is to allow
people to achieve their true potential. The end result may be
semantics, but the reaction to a riot is very different.  A Hero Emerges  After four days we’ve learned our lesson. We were stuck
with the same tough luck. Groups of citizens took to the streets
with brooms and cups of tea to help their neighbors, and we
remembered we weren’t the lucky ones. We were the ones who kept
calm and carried on.  It turned out that the most noble and moving figure to
emerge through the broken glass and cinders wasn’t a policeman
or politician or commentator, but a father, a devout Muslim,
who’d given his dying son CPR after the boy had been struck by a
car that witnesses say was used as a weapon of racism. The next
morning he made a heart-rending and humbling  speech  for calm and
understanding. And then it started to rain.  (A.A. Gill, the restaurant and TV critic of the Sunday
Times of  London , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
A.A. Gill in London at  aagill1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 