-- 
London’s Rioters Are Thatcher’s Grandchildren: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-08-12T00:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/london-s-rioters-are-thatcher-s-grandchildren-commentary-by-pankaj-mishra.html
I am often asked, when in the U.S.
or  Europe , whether I feel frightened while traveling through
such obviously dangerous places as Afghanistan and Kashmir.  It’s hard for me to explain, and so I never confess, that I
feel more insecure on the streets of Tower Hamlets, a London
borough just south of Tottenham and Hackney, the epicenters of
London’s riots.  Tower Hamlets, where I often go to work in a friend’s
apartment, has among the highest rates of poverty, unemployment,
overcrowding and crime in Britain. But it is not a ghetto.
Segregation is more insidious, and inequality has shrewd
disguises, in what is also one of London’s most diverse
boroughs.  Among the rundown, gang-infested council estates, the bingo
halls, betting shops and working-class pubs, there are wine
bars, boutique shops, cafes and studio apartments costing more
than a half-million dollars. Bankers as well as artists,
designers and other well-paid members of the creative class have
turned pockets of Tower Hamlets into London’s answer to
 Manhattan ’s East Village.  With their obvious education, wealth and mobility, these
gentrifiers pay an indirect “inequality tax” in the form of
routine burglaries, muggings and occasional physical assaults. I
hear sirens in Tower Hamlets more frequently than in any other
part of London.  Teenage boys and young men in hoodies take evident pleasure
in the fear they provoke in passers-by, whom they taunt or
abuse, depending on their mood. White, black and Asian, these
menacing youths, who seem to have been released from any
obligations to family or community, have long reminded me of the
dystopian vision of Anthony Burgess’s “A Clockwork Orange.”  No Political Aims  It wasn’t surprising, then, that last week many of them
took advantage of a peaceful protest against the killing of a man
by the police to go on a looting spree. They have no political
aims -- apart from affirming their right to sport the latest
bling. As one woman bravely berating a mob this week in Hackney
 pointed out:  “We’re not fighting together for a cause, we’re
running down Foot Locker.”  In their indifference to the common good and single-minded
pursuit of brand names, the looters hold an unflattering mirror
to many other depoliticized consumers in Britain. Their small
regard for authority could only have dwindled sharply in recent
months when one British institution after another was revealed
as ethically deficient: the members of Parliament caught
charging home improvements to the taxpayer, the journalists
hacking phones, the senior politicians and police officers
prostrate before  Rupert Murdoch , and the bailed-out bankers with
their unrepentantly high bonuses.  Politicians and pundits from the left now blame the rioting
on the British government’s savage spending cuts to public
services. Their counterparts on the right point to the welfare
state and the liberal-left encouragement of single mothers.  But the mayhem this week speaks of a broader and
irreversible Americanization of British society in the last
three decades, as the imperatives of a global market economy
overtook those of society.  Britain, of course, is the original home of the free
market. As the first country to industrialize, and to have an
enormous comparative advantage, it inevitably adopted laissez-
faire policies in the mid-19th century. The harsh effect this
had on the working classes and the poor was gradually softened
by such Victorian institutions as compulsory education, trade
unions and social-service societies.  The political and economic
catastrophes of the first half of the 20th century buried the
idea of the self-regulating market; and a new national consensus
was built around the welfare state after World War II.  No Welfare State  This all changed starting in the 1980s as successive
British governments, Labour as well as Conservative, struggled
with high inflation, falling industrial productivity and
conflict. The illusion that the nation could be saved only
through immersion in a self-stabilizing market economy hardened
into a revolutionary ideology, embraced by both major parties,
that has shaped today’s Britain.  In that sense, if  Tony Blair  and  David Cameron  are “sons
of Thatcher,” as the journalist Simon Jenkins puts it, the
rioters of today are the grandchildren.  Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher , who famously proclaimed
“there is no such thing as society,” rapidly privatized state-
held assets including railways,  steel mills , airlines, coal
mines and telecommunications providers. She decimated many
public services that tended to the most disadvantaged and
vulnerable people in Britain.  More importantly, Thatcher abandoned the idea of full
employment -- a precondition of the welfare state. She did not
stop at defanging trade unions and reducing labor’s bargaining
power. With one eye on her friend and ideological ally President
 Ronald Reagan , she ushered in policies that reduced hiring costs
for employers, giving workers the dubious gift of endless
mobility and a downward race for wages.  The enduring effects of this radical socioeconomic
engineering are now visible in the U.K., not least in some of
the world’s highest levels of inequality. As more contract and
part-time work appeared, the old bourgeois ideal of a stable
career -- one still alive in European countries that have not
wholeheartedly embraced Anglo-American capitalism --disappeared.
An underclass consisting of the unemployed and unemployable grew
and grew, even as the old working class fragmented.  A Hobbesian Task  More policing and imprisonment become the easiest way to
deal with rising social problems; Britain now has  more people in
prison  per capita than any major Western country apart from the
U.S. During and after Thatcher’s years in power, state
expenditure on  law enforcement  rose exponentially.  But, as the riots revealed, the police cannot perform their
Hobbesian task of staving off the brutish state of nature if
there are not enough informal keepers of public order such as
intact families, not to mention bus conductors, park keepers and
truant officers.  British conservatives today speak a lot of the Big Society.
But they remain blind to how a culture devoted to social and
economic individualism undermines the traditional institutions
that they pay ritual obeisance to, such as marriage. The
“broken Britain” lamented by David Cameron now has more
teenage mothers, babies born outside marriage and binge drinkers
than any country in Europe.  As the political economist Karl Polanyi pointed out,
“ultimately, the control of the economic system by the market
is of overwhelming consequence to the whole organization of
society: It means no less than the running of society as an
adjunct to the market.”  Not surprisingly, even state primary and secondary schools
in Britain changed their traditional function, as one
sociological survey of the impact of Thatcherism put it, from
“pedagogically oriented social control” to “competitively
oriented -- and socially divisive -- acquisition of knowledge
and skills.” This type of education now helps weed out the no-
hopers, relegating them early to the swelling ranks of the
losers of globalization.  High public spending on welfare benefits has long disguised
the reality of stagnant wages for the squeezed middle class in
Britain. A high level of consumption enabled by cheap credit,
and a salacious entertainment culture, has also helped keep many
politically quiescent.  The days of easy borrowing are coming to a close; but the
mobs marauding through such chain stores as H&M, Orange, Foot
Locker and Tesco have found a better way of remaining part of
the consumer culture. As two female looters  told the BBC , they
have shown “the rich” and the police that “we can do what we
like.”  It would be a mistake to regard this as an empty boast;
there is more violence ahead. Certainly, the looters are only
the latest, if the most shocking, symptom of a socioeconomic
crisis much deeper and less manageable than Britain’s notorious
“winter of discontent” in 1979.  This week’s rioting was but a part of a larger social
breakdown. Over the years I have felt a sneaking sympathy for
those lower-middle-class British Muslims in long pious beards or
headscarves who resist assimilation into what they see as a
godless culture of greed and consumption. Their stern notions of
morality in public and private life are not mine. But, as the
rioters pursue the logic of laissez-faire into pure nihilism, I
know I’d feel much safer in a mosque in Kashmir than on the
streets of Tower Hamlets.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West:
How to be Modern in  India ,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra in  London  at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 