-- 
London Police Arrest 22-Year-Old Man Over Death of Pensioner During Riots

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   J o h n   S i m p s o n
-- 
2011-08-12T09:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/london-police-start-murder-investigation-as-man-assaulted-in-rioting-dies.html
Police in  London  arrested a 22-year-
old man on suspicion of murder following the death of a
pensioner assaulted on Aug. 8 during riots in the western suburb
of Ealing.  Officers dealing with unrest in the area saw Richard
Mannington Bowes, 68, being attacked, the  Metropolitan Police 
said in an e-mailed statement today. The suspect was arrested on
suspicion of murder, rioting and carrying out three burglaries,
the force said.  “This was a brutal incident that resulted in the senseless
killing of an innocent man,” Detective Chief Inspector John
McFarlane of the Homicide and Serious Crime Command said.  Outbreaks of looting and arson started on Aug. 6 in the
north London suburb of Tottenham and spread across the city the
following night. When a third evening of disorder began, Prime
Minister  David Cameron  broke off his holiday in  Italy  to return
to Britain.  Cameron convened a meeting of the government’s emergency
response committee at his Downing Street office and recalled
Parliament. Police more than doubled the number of officers on
London’s streets, preventing a fourth night of unrest.  Hugh Orde, president of the Association of Chief Police
Officers, rejected criticism of the police handling of the
riots. Cameron and London Mayor  Boris Johnson  have said officers
weren’t tough enough during the first three nights of disorder.  ‘An Irrelevance’  “The fact that politicians chose to come back is an
irrelevance in terms of the tactics that were by then
developing,” he told BBC television’s “Newsnight” program.
“The more robust policing tactics you saw were not a function
of political interference; they were a function of the numbers
being available to allow the chief constables to change their
tactics.”  Bowes is the fifth person to have been killed in the
rioting. Three men died in Birmingham when they were hit by a
car on Aug. 9. A 26-year-old man died after being shot in his
car in Croydon, south London.  A total of 1,051 people have been arrested in London in
connection with rioting in the city, police said, adding that
591 have been charged over the disorder. In Manchester,
northwest  England , 176 people have been arrested. West Midlands
Police, who cover Birmingham, the U.K.’s second-largest city,
have arrested 445 people.  A 17-year-old boy from Luton, north of London, was charged
by Bedfordshire Police with using social media networks to
encourage others to commit burglary in the form of looting.  Police in the southern port city of Southampton charged a
20-year-old man with inciting violent disorder after a probe
into postings on Facebook Inc.’s social-networking site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Simpson  in Toronto at 
 jsimpson12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 