-- 
Hong Kong Second-Quarter GDP Unexpectedly Falls 0.5% From Previous Quarter

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-08-12T09:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/hong-kong-second-quarter-gdp-unexpectedly-falls-0-5-from-previous-quarter.html
Hong Kong ’s economy shrank for the
first time since the global financial crisis after exports grew
at a slower pace.  Gross domestic product fell 0.5 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, seasonally adjusted, the
government said in a statement today. That compared with a
revised 3.1 percent expansion in the three months ended March
and economists’ median estimate of a 0.4 percent gain.  In more signs of weakness in the global recovery,  Japan  cut
its growth forecast today,  France  said its economy stalled in
the second quarter, and  Greece  reported a contraction. Hong
Kong’s benchmark stock index is down more than 20 percent from a
November high after sinking confidence triggered a worldwide
rout in equities.  “Poor consumer and business sentiment in the U.S. and
Europe will continue to drag on Hong Kong’s growth, as the trade
outlook looks grim,” said Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  The high base for comparison in the previous quarter
contributed to the decline, the government said in a statement.
It maintained a forecast for growth of 5 percent to 6 percent
for the full year, saying that Asian and emerging economies
should outperform developed nations.  Officials also maintained an inflation forecast of 5.4
percent.  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  “The fragile economic recovery and fiscal positions of the
U.S. and the lingering sovereign debt problem in the  euro zone 
remain the key sources of downside risks to the global
economy,” the government said. “The austerity measures being
implemented in the advanced economies to redress their fiscal
weakness may also weigh on their growth momentum.”  The economy grew 5.1 percent in April through June from a
year earlier, less than a median estimate of 6 percent. In the
first quarter, growth was a revised 7.5 percent.  Private consumption was the key driver of growth, rising
9.2 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the
government said. Merchandise exports gained only 0.3 percent,
down from 16.8 percent in the previous quarter. Business
investment increased 8.1 percent, today’s report showed.  Hong Kong-listed  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., reported yesterday a 15 percent decline in profit
for the first half.  ‘Not Great’  “Sentiment obviously is not great, but most of our
customers are in good shape, financially,” Chief Executive
Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  said in a interview, adding that Li &
Fung gained market share during the financial meltdown in 2008
and the year after.  In France, gross domestic product was unchanged after
 consumer spending  plunged. Japan cut its growth forecast to 0.5
percent for the year started April 1, compared with a January
forecast for a 1.5 percent expansion, the Cabinet Office said in
 Tokyo  today.  The  Greek economy  shrank 6.9 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  