-- 
Louis Kahn FDR Memorial Rises in New York River After 40 Years

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-08-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/louis-kahn-fdr-memorial-rises-in-new-york-river-after-40-years.html
New York’s East River swirls around
a roofless room, an unfinished shrine built of massive stones.
It’s the first visible part of what will be a five-acre memorial
to  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  at the southern tip of the island
renamed for him.  The Franklin D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Park was one of the
final designs of architect Louis I. Kahn, who died in 1974, a
year after beginning work on the project. For years, politics
and economics conspired to halt work. Now it is finally being
built almost exactly as Kahn designed it.  At the time it was conceived, the  Vietnam War  was ending,
an oil embargo was pushing up gasoline prices, and Kahn had just
designed or built his greatest buildings, such the vaulted
travertine galleries of the Kimbell Art Museum in  Fort Worth  and
the eerily monumental capital complex in Dhaka,  Bangladesh .  I walked the construction site in the company of Gina
Pollara, the  executive director . Though most of the site is
mounded with soil and rocks, I could see that Kahn had in mind
the monumental simplicity of the ancient architecture he
revered.  We hiked along the edge of the island, dodging equipment
and a high pile of soil. Bulldozers will smooth that pile into a
24-foot-high sloping wedge. When it’s complete, visitors will
ascend to the top on a wide stair and then gradually descend
through a tree-lined garden that narrows toward the island tip.  Stone Plaza  The garden culminates in a small stone plaza with a single
pylon holding a 1933 bust of Roosevelt by Jo Davidson, selected
by Kahn. It stands sentinel at the entrance of the roofless
square room that is the focus of the composition. The four
foundational freedoms that Roosevelt spelled out in 1941 (of
speech and worship, from fear and want) will be cut into the
back of the pylon. A low parapet will direct the viewer’s gaze
southward to the curving lower reaches of the river.  Kahn makes a contemplative space in the middle of the
city’s noise and bustle, as he did with his Salk Institute for
Biological Studies, in  La Jolla ,  California , letting the river
replace the infinite sea as the element opening the imagination.  (He may have influenced Maya Lin in her celebrated design
of the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington. They both chose
deceptively simple gestures to minimize distraction and every
hint of artifice. The September 11 Memorial that will partially
open this September will include a vast fountain plaza, a
visitor center and a museum to help us feel our grief and make
sense of senseless terror attacks.)  Ancient Temples  Kahn’s design relies entirely on the kind of awe inspired
by the stony perfection of ancient temples.  The $6 million Four Freedoms park was about ready for
construction when Governor Nelson Rockefeller, a prime mover,
went to  Washington  to become vice president to  Gerald Ford , who
had succeeded a Watergate-disgraced  Richard Nixon . Mayor John Lindsay, another Roosevelt fan, found himself presiding over a
city teetering on the edge of bankruptcy. And Kahn died of a
heart attack in a public bathroom in New York’s Pennsylvania
station.  The project stopped. Over the years, Roosevelt’s admirers
kept it alive, but “the money and the political will never
arrived at the same time,” said Pollara, as we gazed at the
massive, 36-ton gray granite stones that form the room’s walls.
Cormorants on a rock outcropping held their wings out to dry.  ‘My Architect’  William vanden Heuvel, who has represented a succession of
Roosevelt family foundations since the project’s inception, said
that the 2005 documentary film “My Architect” by Kahn’s son,
Nathaniel, helped renew public and private commitment.  The  New York  architecture firm Mitchell/Giurgola took over
the project after Kahn’s death. The park is now near its $54
million fundraising goal and will open in fall 2012.  Kahn’s design hasn’t dated, and I find myself wistful for
Roosevelt, who forcefully steered the nation through the Great
Depression and World War II. I hope visitors give both men their
due.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 