-- 
Overpriced ‘Rent’ Still Dazzles in Off-Broadway Return: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-08-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/overpriced-rent-rocks-in-dazzling-noisy-revival-off-broadway-review.html
How we gonna pay last year’s rent,
when “premium” tickets to the new  “Rent”  revival are $175?  Notwithstanding any gouging, “Rent” still rocks and
resonates 1,535,000 minutes after the original closed on
Broadway. (Some tickets can be had for $25.)  I wasn’t wowed by the muddled sound or replacement cast
when I saw the musical late in its 12-year run, which ended in
2008. But an appealing young ensemble animates this version in a
494-seat off-Broadway basement theater at  New World Stages .
Sound design, by Brian Ronan, is clear, albeit loud. (I know
it’s a rock opera -- or rock/pop/tango/R&B opera -- but some
ears are delicate.)  The 1996 show, a paean to bohemianism and acceptance amid
AIDS and gentrification, remains current. Ditto for most of the
cultural and culinary references, from  Alec Baldwin  to  Stephen Sondheim  to tofu. And  Jonathan Larson ’s score, which essentially
is the show, dazzles. (Larson died at 35 of an aortic aneurysm
hours after the last dress rehearsal at  New York  Theatre
Workshop.)  To be sure, it’s front-loaded: Some tunes in the second
act reprise what we hear in the first. And when a principal
character dies, our involvement is limited because we hardly
knew ye.  New Video  The new set by Mark Wendland features a jungle gym of
ladders and fire escapes. There’s nice use of video by Peter
Nigrini, including a montage of early 1990s images.  Matt Shingledecker is well cast as Roger, the HIV-infected
songwriter who sings of the pretty boy front man wasting
opportunity in “One Song Glory.” Annaleigh Ashford plays
Maureen, the feisty bisexual performance artist, more for laughs
than did Idina Menzel. (Menzel is among the original cast
members in the 2005 movie.)  Adam Chanler-Berat is a low-key Mark, the documentarian
narrator, who bears a slight resemblance to Larson himself.
Nicholas Christopher as Tom Collins inspires awe and empathy as
a joyful philosophy professor in love with a drag queen.  In a 1996 interview, Larson said he studied and was
inspired by Puccini’s 1886 opera “ La Boheme ,” but didn’t try
to stay true to it. Then as now, “Rent” stands alone.  At 340 W. 50th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.siteforrent.com . Rating: ***  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 