-- 
Par-Avanir, LG, Samsung, Motorola, Liz Claiborne: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-12T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/par-avanir-lg-samsung-motorola-liz-claiborne-intellectual-property.html
Par Pharmaceutical Cos. and units of
Actavis Group HF were sued in federal court in  Delaware  by
 Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVNR)  for patent infringement related to
plans to market generic versions of a drug used to control
emotional outbursts.  Avanir contends its rivals are violating two patents for
Nuedexta, a treatment for pseudobulbar affect, or uncontrolled
laughing or crying in patients with neurological disorders,
according to court papers filed Aug. 10 in Wilmington.  In dispute are patents RE38,115 and 7,659,282.  Avanir, based in Aliso Viejo,  California , “will be
substantially and irreparably damaged and harmed” if the
infringement by Par and Iceland’s Actavis isn’t stopped by a
judge, the company said in two separate complaints.  Avanir officials said in a July 1 statement it “intends to
vigorously enforce its intellectual property rights to
Nuedexta.” The most recent of the patents expires in 2026,
according to U.S. Food and Drug Administration records.  Allison Wey, a spokeswoman for Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-
based Par, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  “It is Actavis’s policy to not comment on pending patent
litigation,” Actavis spokesman Gerard Farrell said in an e-
mailed statement.  The case against Par is Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Par
Pharmaceutical Inc., 1:11-cv-00705-UNA, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington). The case against Actavis is
Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Actavis South Atlantic LLC, 1:11-
cv-00704-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  LG Accused of Infringing Taiwanese Researchers’ LCD Patents  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s second-biggest maker of
televisions, was accused of infringing a patent related to
liquid-crystal displays owned by a Taiwanese research group.  Industrial Technology Research Institute , based in Hsinchu,
 Taiwan , and supervised by the nation’s Ministry of Economic
Affairs, filed a patent-infringement complaint yesterday against
LG with the U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington ,
seeking to block imports of LG televisions and monitors.  The Taiwan group’s U.S. patent 6,883,932 covers a backlight
module used in LCDs to improve the uniformity of light so they
have the correct brightness. ITRI said it licenses the
technology to LG’s larger rival, Samsung Electronics Co.  ITRI, founded in 1973 “to strengthen the technological
competitiveness of Taiwan” through research and development of
new companies, last year filed four lawsuits against LG,
accusing it of infringing patents related to mobile phones, air
conditioners, Blu-ray disc players and LCD televisions.  LG has filed court papers seeking to have those cases
transferred from a federal court in Tyler,  Texas , to one in  New
Jersey .  The case is In the Matter of Certain Devices for Improving
Uniformity Used in a Backlight Module and Products Containing
the Same, Complaint No. 337-2839, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  Samsung Files Motion to Halt Ban on Galaxy Tablet Device  Samsung Electronics Co. filed a motion seeking to lift a
temporary court order won by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  that would bar sales of
the  Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer  in most European Union
countries. The Dusseldorf Regional Court will schedule a hearing
in the case, the tribunal’s spokeswoman Petra Gundlach said in
an interview yesterday.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Motorola Seeks ‘Kore’ Trademark for Fitness-Monitoring Device  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., maker of the Droid
smartphone, applied to register “Motorola Kore” as a
trademark, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The Libertyville, Illinois-based company said in the
application, filed Aug. 3, that it plans to use the term for an
electronic, non-medical “portable physical activity monitor and
fitness device.”  The Android Community website  reported  Aug. 5 that Motorola
acquired five Internet domain names related to the term. In
Greek mythology,  Kore  is another name for  Persephone , a deity
associated with the return of springtime and youthful beauty.  Liz Claiborne Sells ‘Curve’ Trademarks to Elizabeth Arden  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) , which produces clothing under the Kate
Spade, Liz, Juicy Couture and Crazy Horse brands, is selling its
Curve trademarks to  Elizabeth Arden Inc. (RDEN) , the company said in a
statement.  The transaction included a lowered royalty rate with some
licensed fragrance brands, including Juicy Couture and  Lucky
Brand . Claiborne, based in  New York , said Elizabeth Arden paid
$58.4 million, including pre-payment of some royalties.  ‘Redneck Olympics’ Organizer Threatened With Suit From USOC  The organizer of an athletic event that includes such games
as toilet-seat horseshoes, lawnmower races and mudpit belly
flops has run afoul of the  U.S. Olympic Committee , the
Washington Post  reported .  Harold Brooks, who organized the  Redneck Olympics  in
Hebron,  Maine , told the Washington Post he was contacted by the
USOC’s legal office and threatened with an infringement suit if
he didn’t change the name of the event.  He won’t comply, Brooks told the Post, adding that he based
the name on the Olympics of Ancient  Greece . Other than the
Special Olympics, the USOC hasn’t permitted any use of the name
other than with its own sanctioned events, the Post reported.  Czech Republic Accused of Infringing ‘Czech Point’ Trademark  The government of the Czech Republic is facing a trademark-
infringement lawsuit from the  Czech Point 101  real estate
company, the Czech Position English-language news website 
reported .  The real estate company registered “Czech Point” in the
Czech Republic in 2006, a year before the government registered
a similar mark, according to Czech Position.  The government uses the mark with its efforts to simplify
bureaucracy, Czech Position reported.  The  Office for the Harmonization for the Internal Market ,
which registered trademarks on the European Union level, has
refused to register “‘Czech Point” for the government,
according to Czech Position.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Zediva Closes Streaming-Video Site in Response to Order  Zediva, the Santa Clara, California-based company that was
targeted in a copyright-infringement lawsuit, said in a
statement it suspended  operations .  A federal judge had granted a request by movie studios to
order Zediva to quit making films available through a streaming
service on its website.  Zediva illegally streamed movies to customers without
obtaining required licenses from the movie studios, the  Motion
Picture Association of America  said in April.  The closely held company offered 14 rentals of new-release
DVDs for $2 a movie, or $1 when ordering 10 films. That undercut
what cable companies charge for on-demand and was less than the
$3 that  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  charged in a test of 24-hour rentals on
Facebook Inc.’s social media website.  In its statement, Zediva said it was “disappointed” by
the court’s ruling “and that were are not permitted to serve
you.”  The case is Warner Bros. Entertainment v. WTV Systems, 11-
2817, U.S. District Court, Central District of California ( Los
Angeles .)  UBC Joins Canadian Schools Ending Access Copyright Contract  The University of British Columbia is ending its
relationship with  Access Copyright  because of increases in fees
and the group’s demands it be permitted to monitor copyright
activities on campus, the Vancouver Sun  reported .  Access Copyright, a Canadian organization established to
help authors and publishers be compensated for use of their
work, wanted fees from UBC that would have cost $45 per student,
according to the newspaper.  Among Canada’s 15 largest universities also ending
contracts with Access Copyright are York University, Queen’s
University and the University of Alberta, the Sun Reported.  Paul Smith, a vice provost at UBC, told the Sun his school
is buying licenses directly from publishers rather than using
Access Copyright.  Copyright Alliance Names 14 Firms to Legal Advisory Board  The  Copyright Alliance , an advocacy organization of content
owners, established a legal advisory board made up of law firms
that represent its members and other rights holders, the
Washington-based group said in a  statement .  Firms named to the board are Loeb & Loeb LLP; Jenner &
Block LLP; Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP; Munger, Tolles &
Olson LLP; Covington & Burling LLP; Crowell & Moring LLP;
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP; Proskauer Rose LLP;
Kendall Brill & Klieger LLP; Arnold & Porter LLP; Drinker Biddle
& Reath LLP; Shearman & Sterling LLP; Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP; and Cowan DeBaets Abrahams & Sheppard LLP.  The firms will work with the alliance to “advance
copyright strategy,” host educational events, expand work with
law schools and young lawyers, and contribute writing and
research, the alliance said in its statement.  Members of the Alliance include advocacy groups for
content owners such as the Recording Industry Association of
America and the Motion Picture Association of America, as well
as some individual companies.  India ’s Cabinet Authorizes Changes to Copyright Law  India’s cabinet approved changes to that nation’s copyright
legislation, India’s Economic Times  reported .  Under the changes, authors and lyricists whose content is
used in films or music recordings won’t assign or waive rights
to receive royalties from the use of that content in other
media, according to the newspaper.  The changes follow recommendations from the Parliamentary
Standing Committee to the  Ministry of Human Resource
Development , Economic Times reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Gundlach Defends Against TCW Claims in Video Shown to Jury  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach , in a videotaped
deposition shown to a jury, defended himself against claims that
he used proprietary information from former employer TCW Group
Inc. when he started his new firm.  “In the things I was involved with, I don’t think TCW had
any proprietary information,” Gundlach said in the deposition
that TCW’s lawyers showed yesterday in California state court in
Los Angeles. He said it was “experience and thinking” that was
making money for clients rather than TCW’s analytical systems,
which were “just data.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, and three other ex-employees in January 2010,
a month after he was fired and more than half of TCW’s fixed-
income professionals had joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375
million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets,
including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying that TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 