-- 
PCCW Profit Rises 8% on Hong Kong Mobile, Pay-TV Earnings

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-12T11:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/pccw-profit-rises-8-on-mobile-pay-tv-profit.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) ,  Hong Kong ’s biggest
telephone company, said first-half profit rose 8 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, after earnings from its mobile-
phone and pay-television services increased.  Net income gained to HK$824 million ($106 million) from
HK$765 million a year earlier, the Hong Kong carrier said in a
statement today. The profit exceeded the HK$810 million median
of three analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  PCCW, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Richard Li ,
increased sales in its mobile-phone division as subscribers
download more content such as video and music on smartphones
such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The carrier plans to place its main
telecommunications assets in a proposed business trust, and use
the resulting proceeds to invest in faster-growing operations.  “The profitability of the mobile-phone business is
improving,” Marvin Lo, who rates PCCW “outperform” at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co. in Hong Kong, said before the
earnings. “The spinoff plan is a good idea because it will
separate PCCW’s more stable businesses from the higher-growth,
and more risky operations.”  PCCW shares rose 2.3 percent to HK$3.07 at close in Hong
Kong, before the announcement. The stock has declined 11 percent
this year, underperforming local rivals including  Hutchison
Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (215)  and SmarTone
Telecommunications Holdings Ltd.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization at PCCW’s mobile-phone division rose 43 percent to
HK$218 million, according to the statement. Earnings at its pay-
television operations increased fivefold to HK$231 million.  Spinoff  The company is on track to complete the proposed spinoff of
its telecommunications business trust in the fourth quarter,
Alex Arena, managing director of PCCW, said at a press
conference in Hong Kong today. It is working on shareholder
documentation for the reorganization, he said.  It is “premature” to assess how the recent volatility in
global financial markets will affect the plan, Arena said.  PCCW can generate more value for its assets by placing them
in the proposed business trust than through other methods of
reorganization, Chairman Li said in June. A trust would be able
to pay out a bigger proportion of its income as dividends than a
company structure, he said at that time.  The carrier plans to sell a minority stake in the trust,
which will own divisions that offer fixed-line, mobile-phone and
broadband Internet services, through the proposed listing, the
company said in June. After the spinoff, PCCW will retain
operations including divisions that offer pay-television and
computer services.  The proposed spinoff has the support of China United
Network Communications Group, the company’s second-biggest
investor, Arena said. The planned business trust will draw
interest from overseas investors, in addition to investors in
Hong Kong, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  