-- 
Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate as Global Outlook Mutes Inflation Concern

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-as-global-outlook-mutes-inflation-concern.html
Peru ’s central bank kept its
benchmark lending rate unchanged for a third month as slowing
global economic growth outweighs above-target inflation as the
biggest threat to the country’s commodity-dependent economy.  The seven-member board, led by central bank President Julio Velarde, yesterday kept the overnight rate at a two-year high of
4.25 percent, matching the estimates of 20 of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. One analyst predicted a quarter-point
increase to 4.50 percent.  “This decision takes into account the deceleration taking
place in global economic activity,” the central bank said in
the  statement  accompanying their decision. Policy makers also
noted the slower pace of “some leading and coincident activity
indicators” in Peru’s economy.  Slower global growth and a possible recession in the U.S.,
Peru’s biggest trading partner, will dent demand for
commodities, which account for three quarters of the country’s
exports. A 0.79 percent jump in consumer prices in July, the
biggest in three years, was driven by “transitory” factors
that will prove short-lived, said  Hugo Perea , chief economist at
 BBVA Banco Continental .  “The inflation scenario for next year looks quite
favorable,” Perea said in a telephone interview from Lima.
“It’s going to be hard to keep inflation in the target range
this year, but that’s not a big issue. It’s due to specific
factors that will be diluted in the coming months.”  “Future adjustments in the benchmark rate will depend o
new inflation data,” the bank’s statement said.  Confidence  The $153 billion economy expanded at the slowest pace in 15
months in May as companies scaled back spending during the
country’s presidential elections.  President  Ollanta Humala , who took office July 28, has
sought to reassure investors by naming a market-friendly
economic team led by Finance Minister  Miguel Castilla and
retaining Velarde in his post for a second five-year term.  The former army rebel pledged in his inaugural speech July
28 to maintain existing economic and monetary policies after his
pledges to enlarge state companies, revise free trade accords
and introduce a windfall mining tax clouded the outlook for the
region’s fastest growing economy.  Though business confidence has improved, it’s still below
pre-election levels and economic growth will likely remain
“sub-par” in the third quarter, Italo Lombardi, an economist
at BNP Paribas, said in a Aug. 5 report.  Regional Viewpoint  The central bank will pause while it gauges the threat
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a U.S. slowdown pose to exports and
foreign investment in  South America ’s sixth-biggest economy,
said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru.  “Central banks across the region are communicating their
deep concerns about rising global risks and deteriorating
external conditions,” BNP Paribas said.  This may lead policy makers in Brazil and  Colombia  to join
Peru and  Chile  “in the near future” and keep rates unchanged
even as domestic demand remains “robust,” the bank said.  Peru is prepared for any slowdown in demand for its exports
and will seek to spur private investment, construction activity
and trade with neighboring countries to bolster domestic growth,
Castilla told reporters in  Lima  Aug. 10. “We have the necessary
fundamentals to withstand any blow, especially in the context of
slower global growth.”  Indicators  Peru’s annual cement production fell for the first time in
two years in June as construction activity eased in the mining,
power, and retail industries, according to the  National
Statistics Institute .  Metal production contracted 10 percent from a year earlier
and fishing output declined.  Peru is the world’s biggest silver producer, ranked third
in copper and zinc, and sixth in terms of gold output. Mining
over the last decade has accounted for 7.7 percent of gross
domestic product and in 2009 contributed 27 percent of the
government’s total tax take.  The nation’s imports fell for a second month in July,
falling 1.6 percent from June to $3.08 billion, the government
said yesterday.  With last month’s jump in consumer prices, led by higher
prices for poultry and clothes and a seasonal rise in bus fares,
Peru’s annual inflation rate rose to 3.35 percent, a two-year
high, from 2.91 percent in June.  Though the annual rate breached the central bank’s 1
percent to 3 percent target range for the first time since June
2009, the rise in consumer prices was supply driven and won’t be
repeated “in the coming months,” Banco de Credito del Peru
said in an Aug. 4 report.  Neutral Rate  Still, the central bank will probably have to increase the
benchmark rate by a quarter-point to 4.50 percent before the end
of the year as it seeks to keep inflation expectations anchored,
said Perea.  “If domestic demand remains resilient and prices do not
correct in the next three months, the central bank will be
forced to hike again in the fourth quarter as the need to
control inflation will mean moving above the neutral rate,”
said Pedro Tuesta, a Washington-based Latin America economist at
4Cast Inc.  The central bank won’t raise beyond 4.50 percent this year
as it is concerned about the sol’s 2.3 percent appreciation
this year and doesn’t want to slow the pace of economic
activity, Banco de Credito said.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 has dropped 48 basis points
since the central bank’s June 9 pause in rate rises led
investors to bet rates would rise more slowly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 