-- 
Phoenix and Atlanta Will Be Best New-Home Markets in U.S., Barclays Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-08-12T20:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/phoenix-and-atlanta-will-be-best-new-home-markets-in-u-s-barclays-says.html
Phoenix, where foreclosures have
surged and prices plummeted since the U.S. housing bubble burst,
and Atlanta are the best potential markets for the sale of newly
built homes,  Barclays Capital  said in a report today.  Atlanta has the potential for 47,317 new houses a year,
followed by Phoenix with 46,485 and Dallas with 33,997, Jeff Meli, Vincent Foley, Cedric Morris and Robert Tayon, analysts
with Barclays, wrote in the study. Phoenix leads 16 metro areas
examined for potential revenue with $4.45 billion in new home
sales. It’s followed by Washington with $3.94 billion and San
Diego with $3.31 billion.  “The reality is that housing is a region-by-region
story,” Foley said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“And most of the big public homebuilders are reasonably
positioned to benefit from an upturn because they’re in the
right markets.”  The projection for revived home construction in Phoenix,
which the Barclays analysts called “surprising,” is based on
the city’s growing population and speedy absorption of
distressed real estate, according to the report. Barclays gave
no time frame for its sales forecasts, which will occur after
the cities “clear themselves of distressed inventory and excess
supply,” it said.  “Regions that have pushed foreclosures through the
pipeline quickly should see demand for new homes earlier than
those that have allowed their backlog to grow,” Meli, Foley,
Morris and Tayon wrote.  Second-Highest Foreclosures  Phoenix-area  home prices  are 56 percent below the June 2006
peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index, compared with a
32 percent decline for the 20 cities tracked by the index. The
Phoenix metropolitan area had the second-highest rate of
foreclosure filings in the first six months of this year, behind
Las Vegas, with one in 28 households receiving a notice compared
with a national average of one per 111 homes, RealtyTrac Inc.
reported July 28.  “After falling to a low of 1.1 percent in 2009, population
is expected to grow 2.6 percent annually in Phoenix for the next
five years,” according to the Barclays report. “Such renewed
inflows should support demand for new homes, leading to a
recovery in several of the top 15 largest builders that have a
presence in the region.”  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , a Scottsdale, Arizona-based builder,
has about 53 percent of its home sales in markets with the best
outlook, the most of any company, Barclays reported. It’s
followed by PulteGroup Inc. with 39 percent, D.R. Horton Inc.
and  MDC Holdings Inc. (MDC)  with 32 percent each, and  KB Home (KBH)  with 31
percent.  Beazer, Ryland  Homebuilders with the smallest share in the best markets
are M/I Homes Homes Inc. with 8 percent,  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) 
with 18 percent,  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL)  and  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  with
19 percent each, and  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  with 23 percent,
according to Barclays.  The 12-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index has fallen 26 percent this year.  “While improved operating performance may take several
quarters to materialize, the recent selloff provides a potential
entry point for some of the long risk recommendations that
follow from our analysis,” the Barclays analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 