-- 
Pimco’s Bradshaw Says France Is Not on the Verge of Default

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-08-12T10:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/pimco-s-bradshaw-says-france-is-not-on-the-verge-of-default.html
Investor concern that  France  may
renege on its debt obligations is misplaced, according to Myles Bradshaw, a  money manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co.  The country’s top credit rating “is probably under threat
but I don’t think France is on the verge of default,”
Bradshaw said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.” Asked about the nation’s rising
funding costs and record credit-default swaps on French
 government bonds , Bradshaw said, “I don’t think it’s
justified.”  France moved center-stage in the debt crisis this week as
the yield on government debt compared with German bonds rose to
a euro-era record. France’s CAC 40 Index plunged 5.5 percent on
Aug. 10, dragged down by banks including  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
which is heading for a 19 percent retreat this week. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel
will meet in Paris on Aug. 16 to discuss the crisis.  “The real issue is the way the euro system works and that
is the focus of the market,” Bradshaw said. “What we need to
see from Europe in order to stabilize markets is much greater
policy clarity on how the euro system, and particularly France
and Germany, are together going to reform the European system,
prevent vicious circles of liquidity crises.”  France’s economy unexpectedly stalled in the second
quarter, a report showed today. That may jeopardize Sarkozy’s
target of 2 percent growth for 2011, a key component in the
government’s plan to reduce its  budget deficit .  Concerns about debt and slow growth have caused default
insurance on French government bonds to double in the past
six weeks. Credit-default swaps approached a record high today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  