-- 
Pioneer Foods Targeting AVI-Led Biscuit Market in South Africa

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-08-12T08:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/pioneer-foods-targets-avi-led-biscuit-market-in-south-africa-hanekom-says.html
Pioneer Foods Ltd. (PFG) , a South African
food producer, plans to take 10 percent of the country’s biscuit
market, led by  AVI Ltd. (AVI) , as a “first step” after opening a new
plant, Managing Director Andre Hanekom said.  The company, which will drop the Kwalilty Biscuit brand it
bought in 2004 and start introducing an expanded biscuit range
from the middle of next year, will then seek to increase this
share to eventually capture at least a quarter of the market, he
said in an interview yesterday in Paarl, near  Cape Town . “We
don’t want to be smaller than that.”  South Africa’s biscuit market has annual sales of as much 3
billion rand ($412 million), he said. Pioneer, which owns the
Sasko wheat products and Bokomo breakfast brands, has spent 150
million rand on the factory in Johannesburg and will produce
sweet and savory biscuits, said Hanekom.  Pioneer is nearing the end of an investment period, which
will result in one-off costs in the next six months to a year
while boosting sales in the longer term, he said, without giving
details on the charges.  The company has spent 350 million rand on its beverages
unit to create a fruit-juice facility in Johannesburg while
extending production of PepsiCo Inc.’s Pepsi to Ceres in the
Western Cape. The investment will be offset by cost savings from
trucking water between Johannesburg and Ceres once the project
is completed by the middle of next year, Hanekom said.  The company, which is also  South Africa ’s largest producer
of pasta, owns 17 bakeries and last year bought a chicken
abattoir business, on Aug. 4 said it is talks without giving
further details. Hanekom declined to comment on the
negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Cape Town Nef at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  