-- 
Portugal on Track to Meet 2011 Deficit Target, EU-IMF Team Says

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-08-12T11:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/portugal-on-track-to-meet-2011-deficit-target-eu-imf-team-says.html
Portugal  is “on track” to meet its
2011 deficit goal, putting the nation in line to receive an 11.5
billion-euro ($16.4 billion) aid payment next month, a team of
European Union and International Monetary Fund inspectors said.  The assessment comes even after the government confirmed a
hole of around 1.9 billion euros in this year’s budget. A
“significant part” of that shortfall, which amounts to 1.1
percent of gross domestic product, will be covered by a one-time
income-tax surcharge, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said today
in Lisbon. Under the aid program, Portugal must cut its deficit
from 9.1 percent of GDP last year to 5.9 percent in 2011.  “We are confident that the deficit target of 5.9 percent
for this year will be met,”  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF
mission in Portugal, said at a press conference in Lisbon today
after the EU-IMF team concluded its first review of the 78
billion-euro rescue program. The three-year plan also stipulates
deficit goals of 4.5 percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013.  With debt and borrowing costs surging, Portugal followed
Greece and Ireland in seeking an international bailout. The
government in Lisbon should receive the 11.5 billion-euro loan
payment in September after approval by the IMF executive board
and euro-area finance ministers.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  announced on June 30
that he planned an income-tax surcharge this year to help reach
the deficit target. The government projects the move will raise
1.03 billion euros in 2011 and 2012 with the surcharge on
salaries, pensions and capital gains.  Additional Measures  The government already estimated it needed additional
measures of around 2 billion euros to meet 2011’s budget target.  Social Democrat Passos Coelho defeated the Socialist Party
of former Prime Minister Jose Socrates in June 5 elections.
Socrates, who requested the international bailout in April,
presented his resignation in March after lawmakers rejected his
proposed deficit-cutting plan.  Gaspar also said today that the government planned to move
up an increase in the value-added tax on electricity and
natural-gas services from 2012 to the last quarter of 2011. This
will bring in additional revenue of around 100 million euros, he
said.  Deficit Target  “This strategy will allow us to fulfill the deficit target
if accompanied by an extremely strict and active budget policy
to avoid the shortages seen in the first half of the year,”
Gaspar said.  The  Finance Ministry  said on July 20 that Portugal’s first-
half central government deficit narrowed 27 percent from a year
earlier to 5.05 billion euros.  The bailout program includes monthly targets, and the
financial aid is to be disbursed gradually as goals of the
program are met. The  European Central Bank  also participated in
the program review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 