-- 
Postal Service Job Cuts Would Be ‘Tough,’ Shaiken Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-08-16T19:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/postal-service-job-cut-plan-tough-to-get-done-shaiken-says.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , which
expects to run out of money next month, may have a hard time
carrying out a proposal to cut 220,000 jobs by 2015, a postal
executive and labor professor said.  The Postal Service, which this week circulated a proposal
to cut 39 percent of full-time employees, including through mass
firings, would need congressional permission and President
Barack Obama’s signature on a law to break a labor contract with
its largest union. The process would be neither quick nor easy,
Anthony Vegliante, chief human resources offices for the Postal
Service, said today in a telephone interview.  “It would be tough,”  Harley Shaiken , a professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley who has written two books
on labor issues and testified before Congress on union
organizing. “It would make the federal government the largest
contract breaker in the country.”  The Postal Service, based in  Washington , is seeking to
reduce costs and return to solvency. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said last week that, unless Congress allows the agency
to change required payments and operations, he may seek to raise
the agency’s $15 billion debt limit. The Postal Service expects
to reach that limit in September, he has said.  The job cuts would be “very damaging” politically to the
Obama administration because of the country’s high unemployment
rate, Shaiken said in a telephone interview. The U.S. jobless
rate that has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009.  “This would cause a huge uproar because it would take
place in a context where unions have been under attack by state
governments,” Shaiken said.  Little Choice  The Postal Service has few options other than to propose
the job cuts, Vegliante said. The Postal Service, which has
posted losses for the past eight quarters, needs to reorganize
its business and reduce costs, he said.  “This isn’t about just passing expenses on to the customer
or passing our problems on to someone else,” he said. “We’re
trying to fix it.”  Labor unions yesterday criticized the job-cut proposal and
a separate one to pull employees out of federal retirement and
health-benefit programs.  “The issues of lay-off protection and health benefits are
specifically covered by our contract,” National Association of
Letter Carriers President Fredric Rolando said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Congress of the  United States  does not engage
in contract negotiations with unions and we do not believe they
are about to do so.”  Starting Negotiations  The Postal Service is scheduled to begin negotiations with
the letter carriers union and the smaller National Postal Mail
Handlers Union next week. In November, it signed a 3 1/2-year
agreement with the American Postal Workers Union, which
represents the largest number of postal employees.  That agreement only allows mass firings of employees with
less than six years of experience, Vegliante said. The Postal
Service has about 560,000 full-time employees. About 20,000 have
worked less than six years for the service, Vegliante said.  The Postal Service has about 460,000 retirees, he said. The
average age of a full-time employee is 51, said Dave Partenheimer, a spokesman for the service.  Senator Thomas Carper, a Delaware Democrat who has proposed
legislation that would allow the service to cut delivery to five
days a week and more easily close post offices, said the
proposal underscores the seriousness of the “financial
predicament.”  “I am open to considering any idea that can prevent the
Postal Service from going bankrupt,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  