-- 
Postal Service Seeks Exit From Union Deal

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-08-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/postal-service-seeks-exit-from-union-deal-to-prune-220-000-jobs.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , which
predicts a loss this year of as much as $9 billion, may seek to
break union contracts so it can slash 220,000 jobs by 2015 and
withdraw from federal health-benefit and retirement programs,
according to draft proposals.  The collective bargaining agreements that prevent mass
firings are keeping the service from reducing its workforce “as
quickly as is now clearly needed,” the agency wrote in a draft
document. The Postal Service has about 560,000 full-time, non-
contract workers. Retirement and voluntary departures would only
account for 100,000 jobs, the service estimated.  The Washington-based service last week said it may be
forced to ask Congress to raise its $15 billion debt limit
unless lawmakers allow it to delay a required payment for future
retirees’ health benefits and make changes like stopping
Saturday deliveries or closing more post offices.  “Desperate times may require desperate measures,” said
Art Sackler, director of the Washington-based Coalition for a
21st Century Postal Service. “We are heartened to see the
Postal Service is determined to confront its financial crisis
aggressively.”  The group represents corporate mail customers including
Bank of America Corp. and Verizon Communications Inc.  The Postal Service needs “these additional legislative
changes to return to sound financial footing,” David Partenheimer, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  No Taxpayer Funding  Employees of the Postal Service, set up to operate like a
business, without taxpayer funding, are included in federal
employee health and pension programs. Labor accounts for about
80 percent of the Postal Service’s costs.  “The Postal Service cannot address its current economic
challenges without gaining control of its legacy costs, defining
their breadth and scope, and setting up a reasonable program to
fund them,” the service said in a draft document dated Aug. 2.
“The Fortune 500 companies provide ample precedent.”  The Postal Service’s two largest unions, the American
Postal Workers Union and National Association of Letter
Carriers, criticized the proposals.  “Crushing postal workers and slashing service will not
solve the Postal Service’s financial crisis,” APWU President
Cliff Guffey said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  