-- 
Proxy Access, Deere-FCPA, Basel Capital Rules: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-12T11:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/proxy-access-rule-deere-fcpa-basel-capital-rules-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission spent $2.5 million on a court-rejected rule aimed at
making it easier for shareholders to put board nominees on
corporate ballots, according to the agency’s top official.  The SEC used about 21,000 staff hours -- valued at $2.2
million -- writing the so-called proxy access rule and needed
$315,000 to defend it against a court challenge by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the Business Roundtable, SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said in a letter to House lawmakers dated Aug. 5,
according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News. The letter’s
contents were confirmed by  John Nester , an SEC spokesman.  Schapiro was responding to Republican Representatives Randy
Neugebauer and Jeb Hensarling of Texas and Scott Garrett of  New
Jersey , who sought an accounting after the U.S. Court of Appeals
in  Washington  decided in favor of the business groups on July
22. The lawmakers said the ruling that the SEC failed to
properly study the rule’s impact on companies raised
“fundamental questions” about the agency’s work and spending
on such efforts reflects “serious mismanagement.”  In her letter, Schapiro defended the spending, noting that
it represented less than a tenth of a percent of the agency’s
budget during that time.  “Writing rules to effectuate free and fair markets is a
time-consuming, resource-intensive effort for the SEC,” she
wrote. “The proxy access proposal was just one of more than 100
rulemakings the SEC has proposed or adopted over the past two
years.”  Compliance Action  Deere Says SEC Is Investigating Possible Violation of FCPA  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, said
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission requested documents
related to  Russia  and a possible violation of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  The request was received July 25 and Deere is cooperating,
 Ken Golden , a spokesman for the Moline, Illinois-based company,
said Aug. 10 in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.  “The SEC has informed Deere that this is a non-public
fact-finding inquiry to determine whether there have been any
violations of the federal securities laws, and that the inquiry
and document request do not mean that the SEC has concluded that
Deere has broken the law,” Golden said.  Russia is one of the countries where Deere Chief Executive
Officer  Samuel Allen  is expanding operations as part of a goal
to almost double sales to $50 billion by 2018. Deere, which
first sold products in Russia 100 years ago, has plants in
Domodedovo and Orenburg, offices in St. Petersburg and Moscow,
and several sales and service locations around the country, the
company said in a statement last year.  John Nester, an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Laura
Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The SEC request was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  SEC Says Man Abused Girlfriend’s Trust to Profit on Marvel  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued a
California man, accusing him of using inside information
obtained from a girlfriend to profit from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
acquisition of Marvel Entertainment LLC.  Toby Scammell made more than $192,000 on $5,400 worth of
call options purchased in the weeks before Disney’s Aug. 31,
2009, announcement that it would pay $50 a share for the
publisher of Spider-Man and X-Men comic books, the SEC said
yesterday in a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in
California.  Scammell, who was 24 years old at the time, learned about
Disney’s planned offer from a girlfriend who worked on the deal
during a six-month externship at Burbank, California-based
Disney, the SEC said. He never told the girlfriend about his
trades, which he financed in part using money from accounts he
controlled for his brother, who had served with the U.S. Army in
Iraq, the agency said.  “Scammell exploited his romantic relationship for a
financial windfall,” Rosalind Tyson, head of the SEC’s Los
Angeles regional office, said in a statement. “His misuse of
confidential information gave him an unfair and illegal edge
over other traders in the markets.”  Neither Scammell’s brother nor his girlfriend were accused
of wrongdoing, the SEC said. The agency wants Scammell to
disgorge ill-gotten gains and pay a fine.  Disney completed the Marvel acquisition in January 2010.  A phone call to Miles Ehrlich, an attorney for Scammell at
Ramsey & Ehrlich LLP, wasn’t immediately returned.  Compania Internacional Financiera Denies Claims in SEC Suit  Compania Internacional Financiera SA denied claims by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that the firm profited
from insider trading in  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  shares.  The SEC, in a lawsuit filed July 15 in Manhattan federal
court, said Compania Internacional Financiera and two other
firms -- Coudree Capital Gestion SA and Chartwell Asset
Management Services -- made millions of dollars by buying Arch
Chemical shares in the days before a July 11 announcement that
Basel, Switzerland-based Lonza Group Ltd. planned to buy the
specialty chemicals maker for $1.2 billion.  Compania Internacional Financiera and Coudree Capital
Gestion, in a response filed Aug. 10, admitted they bought
shares of Arch Chemical in the days leading up to the
announcement, and began selling the shares on or about that day,
making about $7.3 million in trading profits.  The companies “deny that their purchases of the securities
of Arch Chemicals Inc. were ‘suspicious,’” their lawyers said
in the filing.  Chartwell, a Geneva-based investment adviser, also denied
violating the law in a court filing.  The SEC said in the complaint that Compania Internacional
and Coudree are controlled by Yomi Rodrig, a Turkish trader
living in Geneva. The firms said in their response that Compania
Internacional is controlled and owned by Rodrig, while denying
that Coudree is.  The SEC won a temporary asset freeze in the case on the
same day it filed the suit.  The case is U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission vs.
Compania Internacional Financiera SA, 11-cv-04904, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan.)  Compliance Policy  Fed Said to Track Basel Capital Rules for Biggest U.S. Banks  Federal Reserve officials are drawing up rules for the
largest U.S. banks that won’t be more stringent than global
capital standards agreed to in Basel, Switzerland, according to
a person familiar with the discussions.  Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo cited a “goal of
congruence” between the Basel standards and the Fed’s work on
rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, which overhauls banking
regulation, in a June 3 speech. The central bank hasn’t veered
from that, according to the person, who declined to be
identified because the rules are still being drafted.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which includes
regulators from the U.S. and  Europe , set an additional capital
buffer standard for the largest international banks in June that
will range from 1 percentage point to 2.5 percentage points of
risk-weighted assets. That comes on top of a requirement of 7
percent of common equity for all banks.  “I have always thought it was very important to try to
preserve the level playing field for internationally active
banks, and those are the key terms in Basel,” said Ernest
Patrikis, partner at law firm White & Case LLC and a former
general counsel at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. “There
will be a sigh of relief” among bank executives that the Fed is
staying within the Basel framework, he said.  Regulators worldwide are trying to curb the risk the
largest banks pose to taxpayers and the financial system. The
rule-making comes as bank stocks worldwide have plunged on
forecasts for lower economic growth. Higher capital levels could
have crimped bank returns even more, posing greater risk to a
flagging U.S. recovery.  For more, click here.  France, Spain, Italy, Belgium Ban Short Sales to Halt Rout  France, Spain, Italy and Belgium imposed bans on short-
selling to stabilize markets after European banks including
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA hit their lowest level since the credit
crisis.  “While short-selling can be a valid trading strategy, when
used in combination with spreading false market rumors this is
clearly abusive,” the European Securities and Markets
Authority, which coordinates the work of national regulators in
the 27-nation European Union, said in a  statement . National
regulators will impose the bans “to restrict the benefits that
can be achieved from spreading false rumors or to achieve a
regulatory level playing field.”  The watchdogs are trying to stem a rout that sent European
bank stocks to their lowest in almost 2 1/2 years and quell
concern that European lenders may be struggling to fund
themselves. Banks’ overnight borrowings from the  European
Central Bank  jumped to the highest in three months yesterday, a
sign some lenders may have need for emergency cash. Regulators
imposed similar limits on short sales in September 2008
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Market turbulence has already led Turkey to curb short
sales and threaten “severe” penalties for manipulation,
following nations including Greece and South Korea. Britain, the
first to impose a temporary ban in September 2008, lifted its
restrictions in January 2009. The Financial Services Authority
said yesterday it has no plans to reintroduce a ban.  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  “EU policy makers don’t seem to understand the law of
unintended consequences,”  Jim Chanos , the short seller known
for predicting Enron Corp.’s collapse, said by e-mail. “The
vast majority of short-selling financial shares is by other
financial institutions, hedging their counterparty risks, not
speculators. The interbank lending market froze up completely in
October to December 2008 -- after the short-selling bans.”  For more, click here.  Lawsuits  Abu Dhabi Investment Authority Sued by Madoff Firm Trustee  The trustee for Bernard L. Madoff’s firm sued the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority, seeking to recover $300 million for
victims of Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Irving Picard said the sovereign wealth fund withdrew the
money from Fairfield Sentry, a so-called feeder fund to Madoff’s
fraud, in a complaint filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan.  Picard said he has the authority to take back the transfers
made to the Abu Dhabi authority as he works to recover money for
Madoff customers. Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in a
prison in  North Carolina .  Erik Portanger, a spokesman for Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is Picard v. Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, 11-
02493, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Validus Sues Transatlantic Seeking to Force Merger Talks  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  sued Transatlantic Holdings Inc. in a
Delaware court seeking an order to force the company to consider
its buyout offer over a deal with Allied World Assurance Company
Holdings AG.  Transatlantic directors are “arbitrarily” refusing to
enter into discussions with Validus even though its offer has a
greater market value than Allied’s, lawyers for Validus said
Aug. 10 in a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The New York-based reinsurer, which has also received an
offer from Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , failed to
conduct a good-faith investigation of Validus’s proposal, the
Bermuda-based company said.  Transatlantic said this week it would ask Berkshire’s
National Indemnity Co. to improve its $3.25 billion unsolicited
bid. The Berkshire unit submitted its offer Aug. 5 to buy
Transatlantic for $52 a share.  The Allied and Validus deals were valued at about $3.2
billion and $3.5 billion when the bids were announced.  Steve Frankel, a spokesman for Transatlantic, declined to
comment immediately on the Validus complaint.  Transatlantic sued Validus last month in federal court in
Delaware over claims it was attempting to mislead shareholders
into tendering their shares in violation of securities laws.
That case is pending.  The case is Validus Holdings Ltd. v.  Transatlantic Holdings
Inc. (TRH) , CA6776, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Sabre Resubmits Motion to Dismiss US Airways Antitrust Suit  Sabre Holdings Corp., embroiled in a dispute with airlines
over fare and flight data distributed to travel agents,
reinstated its request to dismiss an antitrust lawsuit brought
by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   The complaint fails to identify any illegal anticompetitive
acts, Sabre said in a filing yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan. It called the suit, filed in April, “US Airways’
attempt to renegotiate the three-year contract” under which
Sabre distributes the airline’s fares and schedules to travel
agents.  Sabre, based in Southlake, Texas, on June 30 asked a
Manhattan judge to dismiss the case. Sabre later withdrew the
request as part of an agreement between the parties, which
called for Sabre to resubmit it yesterday. US Airways is due to
respond to the motion today.  US Airways followed  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines in suing
Sabre, the largest U.S.-based so-called global distribution
system, as the carriers seek more control over dissemination and
sale of their products.  More than 35 percent of US Airways’ annual revenue is
booked through Sabre or Sabre-affiliated travel agents, the
Tempe, Arizona-based airline said in April. Sabre collects and
shares flight data, and owns travel website  Travelocity.com .  In its suit, US Airways claimed that Sabre “engaged in a
pattern of exclusionary conduct to shut out competition, protect
its monopoly pricing power and maintain its technologically
obsolete business model.”  The case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-
cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 