-- 
JR East to Form Rail Company to Take on Alstom, Siemens

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-12T07:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/train-operator-jr-east-to-take-on-alstom-siemens.html
East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the world’s
largest listed train operator, plans to form a company this year
to help coordinate domestic rail suppliers attempts to challenge
 Alstom SA (ALO)  and Siemens AG for train projects overseas.  “We’re setting our sights on the world,” Masaki Ogata,  JR
East ’s vice chairman for overseas affairs, said in an interview
in  Tokyo  yesterday. “The organization will pull together all of
 Japan ’s railway businesses.”  JR East aims to begin full operations of the company next
year, offering packages for overseas projects that include
trains, operations, signals and other parts, Ogata said.
Japanese rail companies have supplied high-speed trains to
Taiwan and the U.K., while companies from other countries built
the infrastructure.  The planned company will be similar to Paris-based  Systra ,
Ogata said. The French company, part-owned by rail operators
Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais and Regie Autonome
des Transports Parisiens, had sales of more than  250 million
euros  ($356 million) last year and has helped local suppliers
including Alstom win projects in more than 150 countries since
its formation in 1957.  JR East rose 0.2 percent to 4,505 yen as of the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo, compared with a 0.2 percent decline
in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The shares have dropped 15
percent this year.  $40 Billion  JR East has already allied with  Kawasaki Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7012)  and other Japanese companies to bid for parts of a
California high-speed rail project estimated to cost more than
$40 billion. The nation’s rail companies are targeting overseas
sales as a shrinking population stymies growth at home.  The Kawasaki Heavy-led group plans to bid for a contract to
build both the railway and trains for the California high-speed
line, Ogata said. The companies won’t bid on the civil-
engineering project that will precede the railway work, he said.  JR East wants to advise on setting up the new train system
in the state and may consider operating it, if asked, Ogata
said. Systra, Alstom, Siemens and China Railway Construction
Corp. are among the companies that have expressed interest in
supplying the California project, according to the state-backed
California High Speed Rail Authority’s website.  Civil engineering work on the new rail line is scheduled to
begin next year, according to the authority’s website. The line
will eventually link  Los Angeles  and  San Francisco  in 2 hours 40
minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  