-- 
ConAgra Says Ralcorp Took Less Than a Day to Reject Revised Takeover Bid

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-15T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/ralcorp-rejects-conagra-s-revised-bid-of-94-per-share-in-cash.html
ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , the maker of
Chef Boyardee pasta, said  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  took less than
24 hours to reject its $5.18 billion takeover offer and did so
without discussion between the two firms.  “We are extremely disappointed by Ralcorp’s summary
rejection of our strong proposal and its repeated refusals to
explore this opportunity for its shareholders,” ConAgra Chief
Executive Officer Gary Rodkin, 59, said yesterday in a
statement.  Ralcorp, the maker of Post cereals, last week spurned a
$94-a-share bid from Omaha, Nebraska-based ConAgra after turning
down earlier offers of $86 and $82 a share. The company said
last month that it planned to spin off its Post Foods unit to
focus on making private-label foods. St. Louis-based Ralcorp
received little interest as it sought to sell Post, people
familiar with the matter have said.  “We are firmly committed to this plan and therefore, we
have unanimously determined that we have nothing further to
discuss,” Ralcorp Chairman William Stiritz said in an Aug. 12
statement.  ConAgra’s cash proposal wasn’t “in the best interests” of
the company and shareholders, Ralcorp said in the statement.  Ralcorp rose 36 cents to $79.02 last week and climbed as
much as 10 percent in extended New York trading on Aug. 12 after
announcing that it had turned down ConAgra’s latest bid.  The rejection was a “good decision,” because the company
will be worth more than $94 a share in the near future, Alton Stump, an analyst at Independence, Ohio-based Longbow Research,
said in an Aug. 12 telephone interview. The company generated
about $3 billion in revenue last year from selling nuts, sauces
and frozen foods under retailers’ own brands.  Ralcorp said earlier this month that it agreed to buy  Sara
Lee Corp. (SLE) ’s North American refrigerated dough unit for $545
million to bolster its private-label brands with pizza and
toaster pastries.  “Ralcorp should be able to make even more acquisitions,
which should boost them considerably,” Stump said. “They’re
off to a good start.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  