-- 
Treasuries No Longer a Buy, Nomura’s George Goncalves Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-12T17:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/treasuries-no-longer-a-buy-after-gains-nomura-s-goncalves-says-tom-keene.html
Nomura Securities has pulled its
recommendation to buy Treasuries after a volatile week in the
financial markets, said George Goncalves, head of  interest-rate 
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “We’ve moved toward a neutral stance on bonds,” Goncalves
said during a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “You don’t necessarily have to sell
them, we’re not there yet where you’re worry about inflation,
but most of the gains are here. The movement and the volatility
and the speed at which rates declined, you don’t get that
sometimes in a year’s time frame.”  Volatility in Treasuries has picked up. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measure price swings in
Treasuries, touched 107.9 basis points yesterday compared with
the 89.4 average since the start of the year.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell seven basis points
to 2.27 percent in  New York  today. Two- and 10-year yields
reached record lows this week. The spread between two- and 10-
year securities has narrowed to 207 basis points after reaching
a high this year of 289. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The flattening of the yield curve signals gross domestic
product expansion of less than 2 percent as the market readjusts
its expectations for growth and inflation, according to New
York-based Goncalves.  Fed Policy  The  Federal Reserve  pledged after its Aug. 9 policy
meeting to keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low at
least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery that’s“considerably
slower” than anticipated.  “Look to Japan,” Goncalves, 35, said. “I’m not saying
that we’re going to become an exact replica of  Japan , but
Japanese 10-year rates got down to 50 basis points when things
got really ugly over there, so 2.28 percent, relative to 50
basis points, it’s a big difference.”  Policy makers in the U.S. and  Europe  are going to find that
large amounts of debt combined with an urge to deleverage are
mutually exclusive and will make a global recovery more
difficult, Goncalves said.  “You can’t shrink your way to growth,” he said. “The
Federal Reserve came back from the future and literally cut
rates in 2013. When you have policy makers resorting to time
travel, you know that things are kind of tough.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  