-- 
Treasuries Rise, Head for Weekly Gain Before Sentiment Report

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-12T11:38:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/treasuries-advance-rebounding-after-yesterday-s-biggest-drop-since-2008.html
Treasuries extended their third
weekly gain before a report that economists said will show U.S.
consumer confidence dropped this month, underscoring concern
that the economic recovery is losing pace.  Ten-year yields set a record low this week as investors
snapped up Treasuries on signs of slowing growth and a widening
debt crisis in  Europe , undeterred by  Standard & Poor’s  decision
to downgrade the U.S.  Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment
Management Co. said in a Twitter posting that investors should
“be leery” of what he called “exuberance” that sent stocks
up and bonds down yesterday. Ten-year Treasuries pared a bigger
gain as U.S. stock futures reversed earlier losses.  “There’s uncertainty about growth prospects,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “There’s a correction after yesterday’s sell-off. In
this world of uncertainty, Treasuries will continue to
benefit.”  Ten-year yields declined five basis points to 2.30 percent
as of 7:36 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. They declined as much as 10 basis points earlier. The
2.125 percent note maturing in August 2021 rose 13/32, or $4.06
per $1,000 face amount, to 98 16/32. The record low was 2.0346
percent set Aug. 9.  Thirty-year yields dropped one basis point to 3.76 percent.
Two-year yields were little changed at 0.19 percent.  Sentiment Index  Treasuries have handed investors a gain of 6.4 percent so
far this year, according to indexes complied by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Japan ’s
government bonds have gained 1 percent, while German bunds have
advanced 4.6 percent, the indexes show.  Treasury 10-year yields headed for a weekly loss of 29
basis points, the biggest drop since the five days ending Dec.
19, 2008.  “There’s a significant re-pricing in the Treasury
market,” said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. Yields are “reflecting growth
concerns.”  U.S. two-year yields slid to 0.1568 percent on Aug. 9, the
least ever. The rate is about three basis points more than for
similar maturities in Japan, the smallest spread since 1992.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index
probably dropped to 62 in August from 63.7 in July, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. The
last time the figure was so low was March 2009, when U.S. gross
domestic product was shrinking. A separate report will show
retail sales climbed in July, another survey indicates.  Short Sale  France , Spain, Italy and Belgium plan to impose bans on
short-selling today to stabilize markets. The  European Central
Bank  is buying Italian and Spanish government bonds to counter a
surge in yields.  France’s economy unexpectedly stalled in the second
quarter, data showed today. Gross domestic product was unchanged
from the first quarter, when it increased 0.9 percent.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, the median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “Data out of Europe may be having an impact on the
market,” Purps said.  The rally in Treasuries was interrupted yesterday as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged 4.6 percent.  “Not to rain on your parade but be leery” of the
“exuberance,” wrote Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond
fund for Pimco in  Newport Beach ,  California .  Paulson Stance  Former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  said he would
invest in U.S. government securities before other sovereign debt
even though the nation’s political process isn’t working at a
“AAA level.”  “Our political process, our government, hasn’t been
working at a AAA level,” Paulson, 65, said yesterday. “I would
take U.S. Treasuries over other sovereign debt, other AAA
sovereign debt, any day of the week. That’s not to say we don’t
have important issues to deal with in this country.”  The  Federal Reserve  responded to the slowdown in growth by
announcing on Aug. 9 that it plans to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low through the middle of 2013.  Bond bears say growth isn’t slowing enough to keep yields
at record lows.  “Treasuries are overbought,” said Takuya Yamamoto, a
portfolio manager in  Tokyo  at Diam Co., which handles the
equivalent of $129 billion and is a unit of Dai-Ichi Life
Insurance Co., Japan’s second-biggest life insurer. “I expect
yields to rise.”  ‘More Patience’  Investors who expect the Fed to arrange a third round of
bond purchases to support growth will probably be disappointed,
Anshul Pradhan, a debt strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in
 New York , wrote in a report yesterday. The central bank’s
announcement said it still expects the recovery to pick up,
according to Barclays, one of the 20 primary dealers authorized
to trade directly with the central bank.  “The Fed is likely to show more patience than what the
market expects,” Pradhan wrote. “We recommend positioning for
unwinds of some of the recent moves.” The 10-year yield will
rise to 3.25 by year-end, the report said.  Results of this week’s Treasury auctions show investors are
lining up for the securities.  The Treasury Department paid an average yield of 2.13
percent on the three-, 10- and 30-year securities, less than the
previous refunding auctions in May of 3 percent and below the
former record of 2.59 percent in February 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government began selling 30-year
bonds on a regular schedule in 1977 as part of its so-called
quarterly refunding.  “We’ve joined the crowd buying Treasuries,” said Wan- Chong Kung, a bond fund manager in  Minneapolis  at Nuveen Asset
Management, which oversees more than $100 billion. “We
recognize the heightened uncertainty and risk-off environment.
The growth outlook has dimmed.”  S&P cut its rating on the U.S. by one level on Aug. 5.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have affirmed their
AAA grades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 