-- 
Treasury Saves $647 Million of Interest in First Bond Sales After S&P Cut

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-08-12T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/treasury-saves-647-million-of-interest-in-first-bond-sales-after-s-p-cut.html
The U.S. auctioned $72 billion of
notes and bonds this week at the lowest average yield for a
refunding on record, saving taxpayers $647 million in interest
payments during the life of the securities less than a week
after  Standard & Poor’s  removed the nation’s AAA rating.  The Treasury Department paid an average yield of 2.13
percent on the three-, 10- and 30-year securities, less than the
previous refunding auctions in May of 3 percent and below the
former record of 2.59 percent in February 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government began selling 30-year
bonds on a regular schedule in 1977 as part of its so-called
quarterly refunding.  This week’s auction results show investors are repudiating
S&P’s decision to lower its assessment of the U.S.’s
creditworthiness to AA+, and are instead scooping up the debt on
signs the economy and inflation are slowing and the near-zero
chance the government will default. Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings have affirmed their AAA grades.  “One would be remiss to try and conclude that anyone is
worried about that one-tick downgrade,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “What is the yield differential in the market for
that one tick? Apparently it’s nothing. If anything, it’s a
bullish event for Treasuries.”  Demand Level  Demand for Treasuries is running at a level almost matching
the record set last year when the government sold $2.249
trillion of notes and bonds, the most ever. Investors bid for
2.98 times the $1.317 trillion of securities sold in 2011,
compared with 2.99 in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  For all the conflict between Congress and President Barack Obama’s administration about the debt ceiling and deficits, bond
investors say they are more influenced by  interest rates , the
economy and inflation. Because of the dollar’s pre-eminent place
as the world’s reserve currency, the U.S. enjoys a “funding
advantage,” S&P said in its Aug. 5 report.  The  Federal Reserve  boosted debt markets this week when it
pledged to keep its target rate for overnight loans between
banks at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent at least through
mid-2013 to revive growth that it described as “considerably
slower” than anticipated. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter, after expanding at a
0.4 percent pace in the prior three-month period, which was the
weakest since the recovery began in June 2009.  ‘Crowd Buying’  “We’ve joined the crowd buying Treasuries,” said Wan- Chong Kung, a bond fund manager  Minneapolis  at Nuveen Asset
Management, which oversees more than $100 billion. “We
recognize the heightened uncertainty and risk-off environment.
The growth outlook has dimmed.”  This week’s auctions kicked off Aug. 9, when the U.S. sold
$32 billion in three-year notes at a yield of 0.5 percent, the
lowest since records began in May 1981. The bid-to-cover ratio
was 3.29, exceeding the average of 3.15 in the prior 10 sales.  A day later the Treasury sold $24 billion of 10-year notes
at a record low yield of 2.14 percent, below the average
forecast of 2.199 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine of
the Fed’s 20 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio was 3.22,
versus an average of 3.11 at the previous 10 sales. Indirect
bidders, a class of investors that includes foreign central
banks, bought 47.9 percent of the issue, the most since May
2010.  ‘Huge Direct Bid’  The 10-year note sale “showed a lot of strength with the
huge direct bid,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 20 primary dealers that
are obligated to bid at Treasury auctions. “Treasuries are
still the safe haven, until we’re not.”  Yesterday’s $16 billion sale of 30-year bonds bucked the
trend, with the 3.75 percent yield being 13 basis points above
the pre-auction estimate of 3.622 percent. Demand exceeded
supply by 2.08 times, compared with the average of 2.64 at the
past 10 sales.  “People didn’t show up for this one,” said  Scott Sherman ,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group
AG, a primary dealer. “Increased worry about inflation has to
get priced into the long bond, given the Fed’s accommodative
stance. For now, there will be apprehension to buy that far out
on the curve at these yield levels.”  Fall From High  Yields on 30-year bonds have fallen from this year’s high
of 4.79 percent on Feb. 9. The securities have gained 17.7
percent this year, compared with a 7.08 percent return for
Treasuries overall, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  In February 2009, when the record low for 30-year bond
yields was set at a $14 billion offering at 3.54 percent, the
Treasury sold $21 billion of 10-year notes at 2.819 percent and
$32 billion of three-year securities at 1.419 percent.  Before the scope of the financial crisis expanded and
threatened the U.S. financial system, increasing U.S. borrowing
needs, refunding months had been the only time when the Treasury
sold 10- and 30-year securities. Those maturities are only due
in refunding months, and securities sold outside those months
are so-called re-openings of previous issues.  S&P, in lowering its rating on the U.S., said the prolonged
discussions about raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and a
resolution that was below the rating company’s target of $4
trillion in spending cuts merited the downgrade.  Debt Levels  “The primary focus remained on the current level of debt,
the trajectory of debt as a share of the economy, and the lack
of apparent willingness of elected officials as a group to deal
with the U.S. medium term fiscal outlook,” the firm said.  S&P’s decision was criticized by Obama and investors
including  Warren Buffett , who said the U.S. should be rated
“quadruple-A.” It was seized on by Republicans including
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who said the downgrade
showed lack of confidence in the president.  Congress and Obama have agreed to $2.4 trillion of budget
cuts during the next 10 years, threatening to restrain growth,
with the majority of the cutbacks to be decided through
bipartisan negotiations beginning later this year. Obama and
House Republican leaders haven’t come closer to compromising on
how to cut the federal deficit.  “Political leadership understands what’s at stake in terms
of the economy, in terms of financial market stability,” said
Kung at Nuveen Asset Management. “The road to  deficit reduction 
will continue to be difficult and noisy and disconcerting to
investors, but ultimately we can get to a benign outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  