-- 
U.S. 10-Year Yield Weekly Drop Is Most Since 2008 on Fed Slow-Growth View

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-12T22:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/treasuries-rise-after-report-shows-retail-sales-rose-as-forecast-in-july.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields down the most since 2008, as investors snapped up
Treasuries amid expectations that the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge
to keep its benchmark rate on hold signals a slow economic
recovery.  U.S. debt  extended gains after a measure of consumer
sentiment fell to the lowest since 1980 in August and  New York 
President  William Dudley  said policy makers gave a “sober
assessment” of the U.S. economy. Two- and 10-year note yields
set record lows this week as investors purchased Treasuries on
signs of a widening debt crisis in Europe and a signal by the
Fed that it will leave the benchmark rate unchanged until at
least mid-2013.  “The big picture is that price action is being driven by
the Federal Open Market Committee, who put things on hold for
some time,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA
in New York, one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. “The economic data will dictate how long we can stay at
these levels. We are going to need seriously good numbers before
the Fed changes their tone, and thus low rates for a long
time.”  Ten-year yields declined nine basis points to 2.26 percent
as of 5:02 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2.125 percent note maturing in August 2021 rose
24/32, or $7.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 27/32.  The yield fell as much as 12 basis points today and as much
as 52 basis points this week, the most since December 2008. The
record low yield was 2.0346 percent set Aug. 9.  Bond Returns  U.S. two-year yields slid to 0.1568 percent on Aug. 9, the
least ever.  “At the end of the day, the Fed is on hold for two
years,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank
of Nova Scotia in New York. “The flight-to-quality trade is
still in vogue. Fear is still everywhere and Treasuries benefit
from the fear trade.”  Treasuries have returned 6.4 percent this year, according
to indexes complied by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Japan ’s government bonds have
gained 1 percent, while German bunds have advanced 4.6 percent,
the indexes show.  The median third quarter forecast for the yield on the 10-
year note declined to 2.75 percent, according to a Bloomberg
News survey Aug. 10, down from 3.29 percent in a survey Aug. 2.
The security will end 2012 at 2.96 percent, from a previous
forecast of 3.50 percent, survey found.  Price Swings  Volatility in the Treasury market has picked up. Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s MOVE index, which measure price swings in
Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter options maturing
in two to 30 years, touched 107.9 basis points yesterday, more
than the 89.4 average since the start of the year.  The volume of Treasuries trading rose this week averaging
$469.16 billion per day. That is more than the $317 billion
daily average so far this year, according to ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest interdealer broker.  “Treasury yields are too low for all but the most
pessimistic economic environments,” Brett Rose,  interest-rate 
strategist at Citigroup Global Markets in New York, wrote in a
note to clients. “The Treasury market is pricing in a far too
pessimistic outcome for the  U.S. economy  and would expect that
10-year Treasury yields will be 50 basis point higher in the
medium term.”  Auction Yields  The Treasury Department paid an average yield of 2.13
percent on the three-, 10- and 30-year securities, less than the
previous refunding auctions in May of 3 percent and below the
former record of 2.59 percent in February 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government began selling 30-year
bonds on a regular schedule in 1977 as part of its so-called
quarterly refunding.  “We’ve joined the crowd buying Treasuries,” said Wan- Chong Kung, a bond fund manager in Minneapolis at Nuveen Asset
Management, which oversees more than $100 billion. “We
recognize the heightened uncertainty and risk-off environment.
The growth outlook has dimmed.”  The rally in Treasuries was interrupted yesterday as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged 4.6 percent. The S&P rose 0.5
percent today.  “Not to rain on your parade, but be leery” of the
“exuberance,” wrote  Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment
Management Co., who runs the world’s biggest bond fund in
 Newport Beach ,  California .  Treasury Secretary  Former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  said he would
invest in U.S. government securities before other sovereign debt
even though the nation’s political process isn’t working at a
“AAA level.”  “Our political process, our government, hasn’t been
working at a AAA level,” Paulson, 65, said yesterday. “I would
take U.S. Treasuries over other sovereign debt, other AAA
sovereign debt, any day of the week. That’s not to say we don’t
have important issues to deal with in this country.”  The Fed responded to the slowdown in growth by announcing
on Aug. 9 that it plans to keep its benchmark interest rate at a
record low through the middle of 2013.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
August index of consumer sentiment fell to 54.9 from 63.7 a
month earlier, the group reported today.  The median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a reading of 62. Estimates ranged from 59 to
66.5. The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007.  Slow Growth  “Economic growth so far in 2011 has been quite a bit slower
than we expected earlier in the year,” Dudley said in the text
of remarks given at the bank’s New York headquarters today. “In
the last few months conditions in the labor market have
deteriorated again and the  unemployment rate  edged up. Household
spending has flattened out, and the housing sector is
depressed.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this week
pledged to keep its benchmark interest rate near zero until at
least mid-2013 to revive an economic recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated. Fed officials also
“discussed the range of policy tools” available to boost
growth and are “prepared to employ those tools as
appropriate,” the FOMC said.  The 0.5 percent retail sales increase reported by the
Commerce Department in  Washington  today matched the median
forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
followed a 0.3 percent increase in June that was larger than
previously estimated. Excluding auto sales, purchases rose more
than projected.  Economic Glimmer  “The numbers were in line with expectations,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “You’re seeing some of the most recent data as
showing some optimism in the U.S. economy.”  France , Spain, Italy and Belgium plan to impose bans on
short-selling today to stabilize markets. The  European Central
Bank  is buying Italian and Spanish government bonds to counter a
surge in yields.  France’s economy unexpectedly stalled in the second
quarter, data showed today. Gross domestic product was unchanged
from the first quarter, when it increased 0.9 percent.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, the median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “Data out of  Europe  may be having an impact on the
market,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Munich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  