-- 
Relational’s Whitworth Loads Up on MetLife Shares Before Slump

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-08-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/relational-s-whitworth-buys-9-44-million-shares-of-metlife.html
Ralph Whitworth’s Relational
Investors LLC is among asset managers that added financial
stocks last quarter, raising its stake in  MetLife Inc. (MET)  before
the life insurer declined 19 percent in the past two weeks.  Relational bought 9.44 million shares of MetLife to bring
its holdings to 11.6 million shares, according to a filing
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. He
also increased positions in Assurant Inc., a provider of
insurance to foreclosed properties, and long-term disability
insurer Unum Group, the filing shows.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, led declines among
insurance stocks as the global market losses increased the
firms’ burden of equity-based guarantees within variable
annuities to clients. Kenneth Heebner of Capital Growth
Management LP and Barrow Hanley Mewhinney & Strauss LLC also
added to shares of financial companies in the three months ended
June 30, prior to the rout that started in late July.  Financial shares in the KBW Bank Index have slumped 18
percent in August as the  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of U.S.
bonds and the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  sent global stocks
tumbling. Heebner, based in  Boston , added 1.38 million shares of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 4.9 million shares of Citigroup Inc. in
the second quarter. Barrow Hanley, a Dallas-based money manager,
bought 19.9 million shares of Citigroup during the three months.  MetLife has been the worst performer since July 29 in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Life & Health Insurance index, which has
fallen 16 percent during that period. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has declined 8.8 percent in the same span.  Unum Purchase  Relational said in a July 15 regulatory filing it increased
its shares of Unum to 19.1 million, or 6.2 percent of the stock,
saying the company was undervalued. The shares have declined 7.8
percent in the past two weeks.  Whitworth and David Batchelder founded San Diego-based
Relational in 1996 with an initial allocation of $200 million
from the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
nation’s largest public pension fund. The two had previously
worked for billionaire oilman  T. Boone Pickens .  Money managers who oversee $100 million or more of equities
traded on U.S. exchanges must file a Form 13F listing the
holdings each quarter. The filing, which includes convertible
bonds as well as funds and ETFs, is due 45 days after the
quarter’s end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  