-- 
Republican White House Hopefuls on Attack Before Iowa Straw Poll

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-12T18:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/republican-presidential-hopefuls-gather-for-debate-before-iowa-straw-poll.html
Republican presidential rivals went
on the attack in a nationally televised debate yesterday,
shedding the politeness marking previous forums as they squared
off in  Iowa  before a weekend straw poll that could derail some
of their campaigns.  The two with the most at stake in tomorrow’s Iowa Straw
Poll --  Michele Bachmann  and  Tim Pawlenty  -- eagerly questioned
each other’s qualifications for the White House and exchanged
some of the toughest verbal jabs during the gathering of eight
candidates at  Iowa State University  in Ames.  Pawlenty, a former  Minnesota  governor, has invested heavily
in Iowa and needs a boost in the straw poll to gain traction for
his campaign. Bachmann, a U.S. House member from Minnesota,
needs to show that enthusiastic support she has gotten during
Iowa appearances is backed up with organizational staying power.  “She’s got a record of misstating and making false
statements,” Pawlenty, 50, said of Bachmann. “She said she’s
got a titanium spine. It’s not her spine we’re worried about;
it’s her record of results,” he said, asserting that Bachmann
hasn’t accomplished anything in Congress.  Bachmann, 55, accused Pawlenty of supporting an individual
mandate requiring insurance coverage -- a hallmark of the
health-care measure President  Barack Obama  pushed into law over
Republican opposition -- and once asserting that the era of
small government was over.  ‘Unconstitutional Measures’  “That sounds a lot more like Barack Obama, if you ask
me,” she said. “During my time in the  United States  Congress,
I have fought all of these unconstitutional measures and Barack
Obama.”  It was the first debate among the candidates in two months
and marked the start of a more aggressive phase of the campaign.
Many sought to draw distinctions between themselves and other
contenders and make their case for beating Obama amid an
uncertain  U.S. economy  and gyrating financial markets.  Mitt Romney, 64, the frontrunner in national polls and
fundraising among the Republicans, was an occasional target of
barbs. He had cruised through the last debate mostly unscathed.
And last night he focused his fire on Obama, charging the
president has done “the exact opposite of what needed to be
done” to improve the economy.  Perry Candidacy  Not on stage yet hovering over the race was Texas Governor
 Rick Perry , 61, who made headlines just hours before when the
 Associated Press  reported that he plans to make clear he will
run for president at appearances this weekend.  The two-hour debate was broadcast nationally on Fox News,
yet the most important immediate audience was Iowa Republicans
trying to decide their votes in the straw poll.  Pawlenty called a health-care law passed in  Massachusetts 
during Romney’s tenure as governor “ObamneyCare,” a phrase he
coined to deride similarities between it and the national law.
In the last debate, he declined to repeat the term when asked
about it.  “We’re going to have to take it to Barack Obama,”
Pawlenty said last night. And that means “we’re going to have
to show contrast, not similarities” with his policies, he said.  “I think I liked Tim’s answer in the last debate better,”
Romney responded.  Pawlenty also took a swipe at Romney’s wealth, built in
part as the head of private equity firm Bain Capital LLC, as he
castigated Obama for not offering detailed plans to revamp
entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare.  Lawn Mowing  “I’ll offer a prize tonight to anybody in this auditorium
or anyone watching on television, if you can find Barack Obama’s
specific plan on any of those items, I will come to your house
and cook you dinner,” Pawlenty said. “Or if you prefer, I’ll
come to your house and mow your lawn. But in case Mitt wins,
I’ll limit it to one acre.”  “That’s just fine,” Romney responded.  Romney pitched his business experience as he criticized
Obama’s handling of the debt-ceiling issue.  He also said, “I’m not going to eat Barack Obama’s dog
food,” when asked if he would have signed into law the measure
that reached the president’s desk last week that raised the debt
limit by more than $2 trillion while demanding an equal amount
in budget savings over a decade.  Defense Cuts  Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , 75, who Iowa strategists
say is positioned to do well in the straw poll, called for cuts
in military spending as part of reducing the deficit.  “You have to put the militarism on the table as well,”
said Paul, who opposes foreign intervention by the U.S.  He also broke from the pack as the candidates engaged in a
protracted back-and-forth over Iran, with several arguing that
the country sponsors terrorists and posed a major threat to
 Israel .  “As president of the United States, I will do everything
to make sure that Iran does not become a nuclear power,” said
Bachmann.  Paul disagreed with her, and argued against the need to
contemplate military action against  Iran . “They’re building up
this case like, just like we did in  Iraq  -- build up the war
propaganda,” he said. “It’s time we quit this.”  Huntsman Debut  The evening marked the first debate appearance by former
Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who has decided against actively
campaigning in Iowa, citing his opposition to subsidies for
corn-based ethanol as too much of a political hurdle in a state
with a large agriculture base.  Huntsman, who served as Obama’s ambassador to  China , touted
his record as governor, saying he cut taxes, created jobs and
grew the economy in Utah.  “When you look at me and you ask what is that guy going to
do, look at what I did as governor,” he said. “That is exactly
what I’m going to do and exactly what this country needs right
now.”  Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum attacked Paul and
Bachmann for what he said was their lack of leadership during
the debt ceiling debate in Congress.  “They’re asking them to have them lead this country and
they couldn’t lead the Congress to do something responsible in
making sure we didn’t have the fiasco that we have right now,”
he said.  Super Committee  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  slammed the
so-called super committee created by the debt measure that aims
to force Congress to cut spending, saying lawmakers should use
regular procedures to achieve that end.  “What they ought to do is scrap the committee right now,”
he said. “Get rid of this secret phony business.”  Gingrich also went on the attack against the debate’s
questioners, criticizing Chris Wallace of  Fox News  for asking a
“gotcha” question. Wallace, mentioning a mass exodus of Gingrich
aides in June, had asked him: “How do you respond to people who
say that your campaign has been a mess so far?”  After noting that other successful politicians, including
President  Ronald Reagan , had been plagued by staff turnover
during campaigns, Gingrich said: “I’d love to see the rest of
tonight’s debate asking us about what we would do to lead an
America whose president has failed to lead, instead of playing
Mickey Mouse games.”  Iowa Voters  Iowa Republican leaders say they are seeing an
unprecedented level of undecided voters in the state where
precinct caucuses are scheduled to start the nation’s nomination
process on Feb. 6.  A national unemployment rate of 9.1 percent and a volatile
stock market that has swung hundreds of points a day this week
has added to voter anxiety. While the economic turmoil makes
some Republicans feel more confident about their party’s chances
of defeating Obama next year, the field of his challengers
remains in flux.  Perry, following his reported entry into the race, will
make his first Iowa appearance roughly 24 hours after the straw
poll results. He won’t be on the straw poll ballot, although
supporters have been encouraging people to write in his name.  Former pizza chain executive Herman Cain sarcastically
welcomed Perry to the race during last night’s debate, as he
pitched his business experience.  “That’s just one more politician and that makes this
business problem-solver stand out that much more,” he said.  Paul said: “I’m very pleased he’s coming in because he
represents the status quo.”  The Republican race still could be roiled by former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, who is expected to visit the Iowa State
Fair tomorrow as part of her “One Nation Tour.”  Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate, has
said she will announce later this month or next whether she
intends to seek the White House in the 2012 campaign. She is
also scheduled to be in Iowa on Labor Day weekend to speak to a
Tea Party gathering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Ames, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Ames, Iowa, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  