-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in July

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-12T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-july-on-vehicle-purchases.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
climbed in July by the most in four months as more Americans
drove away from dealerships in new cars, economists said before
a report this week.  The projected 0.5 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.1 percent increase in June, according to the median forecast
of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may
show  consumer confidence  fell to the lowest level since March
2009, when the economy was last in a recession.  Retail purchases excluding auto dealers and gas stations
may have failed to accelerate in July, underscoring the view of
Federal Reserve policy makers that household spending has
“flattened out.” Limited job growth, stagnant wages and a more
pessimistic consumer may keep hindering an economy that barely
grew in the first half of the year.  “Car sales are inching back up from the weakness of the
second quarter,” said  Paul Ballew , chief economist at
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus,  Ohio . “You take
autos out, and we’ll probably be very slightly up. We’re not
expecting a strong bounce-back in consumer spending any time
soon.”  The Commerce Department will report the sales data at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington . Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of
0.1 percent to 1.5 percent. Sales excluding autos climbed 0.3
percent after no change the prior month, according to the median
forecast. Purchases minus gasoline and vehicles are projected to
increase 0.2 percent for a fourth straight month.  August Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of sentiment for August dropped to 62 from 63.7, according
to the median projection before the 9:55 a.m. report. The
confidence index averaged 64.2 during the 18-month recession
that ended in June 2009.  Unemployment at 9 percent or higher for the past four
months, slumping stock prices and a divisive debt-ceiling debate
that prompted a downgrade of  U.S. debt  from its top rating have
left Americans with little to cheer. Since July 22, the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 13 percent. The gauge dropped in
11 of the past 14 days.  “Although the economy has clearly lost some momentum, we
do believe that it will continue to recover, but more gradually
than we had originally anticipated as we move through the second
half of the year,”  Don Johnson , General Motors Co.’s vice
president of U.S. sales, said on an Aug. 2 conference call.
Moderating gas prices have “provided some needed relief to
consumers.”  Vehicle Purchases  Cars and light trucks sold at a seasonally adjusted pace of
12.2 million in July, up from 11.4 million in June yet trailing
the 12.5 million average pace through the first half, Autodata
Corp. said on Aug. 2. Deliveries at Detroit-based GM climbed 7.6
percent from the same month in 2010.  Retailers, including Macy’s Inc. and Limited Brands Inc.,
reported July same-store sales that exceeded analysts’
estimates. Purchases at Macy’s rose 5 percent, surpassing the
4.4 percent average projection compiled by Retail Metrics Inc.
Limited, operator of the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted a gain
of 6 percent from a year earlier.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, less than forecast, after growing at a 0.4
percent pace in the first three months of the year, Commerce
Department figures showed last month. Household spending rose at
0.1 percent pace last quarter, the weakest since the same period
in 2009.  Fed policy makers on Aug. 9 said economic growth this year
had been “considerably slower” than expected. What’s more,
“temporary factors,” including  Japan ’s disaster and high fuel
costs, likely accounted for “only some of the recent weakness
in economic activity,” they said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  