-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Climb Most in Four Months Even as Confidence Declines

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-12T20:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/retail-sales-in-u-s-climbed-in-july-by-the-most-in-four-months.html
Retail sales in the U.S. climbed in
July by the most in four months, showing consumers were holding
up at the start of the third quarter.  The 0.5 percent increase reported by the Commerce
Department in  Washington  today followed a 0.3 percent gain in
June that was larger than previously estimated. Another report
showed that sentiment plunged this month amid stock-market
declines and the threat of a default on the national debt.  Shares of consumer discretionary companies that are most
sensitive to economic swings, like auto dealers, restaurants and
hotels, advanced as the report eased concern the two-year
recovery was faltering. Further gains in household spending may
be restrained by lack of job growth and uncertainty over the
outlook for the economy.  “The consumer is incredibly resilient and continues to
struggle to maintain at least a minimum level of consumption,”
said  Lindsey Piegza , an economist at FTN Financial in  New York .
“Lingering weakness in the labor market as well as the recent
turmoil in equity markets will put additional pressure on
consumers in August.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,178.81 at the 4 p.m. close in New York, capping a week of
record swings. The S&P Consumer Discretionary Index, which
includes companies like Ford Motor Co. and Walt Disney Co.,
advanced 1.2 percent.  Treasury securities  also climbed, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.24 percent
from 2.34 percent late yesterday.  The increase in sales matched the median forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates for the ranged
from 0.1 percent to 1.5 percent.  Sentiment Plunges  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for August slumped to 54.9, the
lowest reading since May 1980, from 63.7 the prior month. The
gauge was projected to decline to 62, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The biggest one-week slump in stocks since 2008 and the
threat of default on the nation’s debt may have exacerbated
consumers’ concerns as unemployment hovers above 9 percent and
companies are hesitant to hire.  “The mood is very depressed,” said  Chris Christopher , an
economist at IHS Global Insight Inc. in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “Consumers are very fatigued and very uncertain.
In the short term, people are going to pull back on spending.”  The sentiment index in August was down almost 16 points
from the average over the prior 12 months. Such declines are a
“strong -- although not foolproof -- signal for a downturn in
the  U.S. economy ,”  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities
USA Inc. in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  ‘Recession Watch’  Since 1986, a drop of 15 points or more only registered one
false signal, in 2005 when  Hurricane Katrina  ravaged  New
Orleans . “The recession watch is definitely on,” Wang said.  Nine of 13 major retail categories showed a gain in sales
last month, led by electronics stores, furniture retailers, auto
dealers and service stations, the report from the Commerce
Department showed.  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate GDP, sales rose 0.3 percent after
a 0.4 percent gain the prior month.  Auto sales showed a 0.4 percent increase. Cars and light
trucks sold at a seasonally adjusted pace of 12.2 million in
July, up from 11.4 million in June yet trailing the 12.5 million
average pace through the first half, Autodata Corp. data earlier
this month showed. Deliveries at Detroit-based  General Motors
Co. (GM)  climbed 7.6 percent from the same month in 2010.  Gradual Recovery  “Although the economy has clearly lost some momentum, we
do believe that it will continue to recover, but more gradually
than we had originally anticipated as we move through the second
half of the year,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S.
sales, said on an Aug. 2 conference call. Moderating gasoline
prices have “provided some needed relief to consumers.”  Retailers, including  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and Limited Brands Inc.,
reported July sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Purchases
at Macy’s rose 5 percent, surpassing the 4.4 percent average
projection compiled by Retail Metrics Inc. Limited, operator of
the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted a gain of 6 percent from a
year earlier.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter of 2011, less than forecast, from a 0.4 percent
pace in the first three months of the year, Commerce Department
figures showed last month. Household spending rose at 0.1
percent pace in the second quarter, the weakest since the same
period in 2009.  Fed Action  Fed policy makers on Aug. 9 said economic growth this year
had been “considerably slower” than expected. What’s more,
“temporary factors,” including  Japan ’s disaster and high fuel
costs, likely accounted for “only some of the recent weakness
in economic activity,” they said.  They announced that they would hold their benchmark lending
rate near zero at least through mid-2013 to spur the economy.  William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , said today he has lowered his outlook for economic
growth in the second half of the year. “Household spending has
flattened out, and the housing sector is depressed,” Dudley
said in a speech in New York.  The labor market is struggling. The economy added 117,000
jobs in July, bringing the average gain in payrolls over the
past three months to 111,000, a Labor Department report showed
Aug. 5. That was about half the 204,000 increase on average in
the first four months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  