-- 
Rory McIlroy’s Putter Rather Than Injured Wrist Fails Him PGA’s Round 2

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-12T18:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/rory-mcilroy-s-putter-rather-than-injured-wrist-fails-him-pga-s-round-2.html
Rory McIlroy had more problems with
his putter than his injured wrist during the second round of the
U.S.  PGA Championship .  The U.S. Open winner had three-putted three times in a
round of 3-over-par 73, and left himself in danger of missing
the 36-hole cut in golf’s final major tournament of the season.  With his right wrist and forearm heavily taped to protect
an injured tendon, the 22-year-old Northern Irishman showed no
visible signs of pain as he struck his driver and irons on shots
around the  Atlanta Athletic Club . The most painful part of his
day was his inability to make birdie putts.  “I just don’t feel that comfortable on these greens,”
McIlroy told reporters. “Probably the only thing I can do this
afternoon is hit some putts and hopefully improve a little bit
for tomorrow.”  Midway through the second round, the projected cut to reach
the weekend rounds is 3-over. The top 70 players, and ties, will
advance.  McIlroy shot a par-70 yesterday while playing most of the
round with his wrist taped. He was hurt when he jammed his club
into a tree root in front of his ball on the third hole. After a
brief hospital visit last night, McIlroy said he felt well
enough to play. He gauged his level of health at about 75
percent.  “It definitely doesn’t hurt as much as it did yesterday,”
he said. “If it wasn’t a major, I probably would have stopped
yesterday. It’s more uncomfortable instead of painful.”  Bogey Start  After beginning the round with a three-putt bogey on the
par-4 10th hole, McIlroy birdied the 12th before his round began
to slip away. He missed early chances to make birdies on the
14th and 15th, failing to hole putts from inside 10 feet.  When he finally did energize the large gallery following
him with a 45-foot birdie putt on the par-4 16th hole, McIlroy
was unable to carry the momentum to the next tee.  Uncertain about which club to hit on the 211-yard par-3,
McIlroy’s 6-iron shot splashed in the water short of the green,
leaving him and caddie J.P. Fitzgerald looking at each other
puzzled. McIlroy’s problems got worse when he then missed his
25-foot bogey putt and sent the come-back attempt from about 5
feet past the hole. A triple-bogey 6 dropped him to 2-over.  “It just got up in the air on me, and the wind affected it
a little more than I wanted it to,” McIlroy said of the tee
shot. “If it was on line with the pin, it probably would have
pitched on the green, but it was a few yards left and it just
didn’t make it over the water.”  Birdie Miss  As McIlroy continued to search for his touch on the greens,
he three-putted the fifth hole, missing his birdie attempt from
about 8 feet. When he finally got a 10-foot birdie putt to drop
on the sixth hole, McIlroy showed his satisfaction by thrusting
his taped right arm in a muted fist pump.  He ended the day with a par on the ninth after making his
third bogey of the round on the eighth, where he hit his tee
shot and approach shot into bunkers.  While McIlroy wasn’t wincing or dropping his club in pain
after almost every shot as he did a day earlier, he said he felt
some pain in his wrist on shots out of the rough and bunkers.
Withdrawing from the tournament isn’t in his plans.  “If I didn’t think I could contend, I probably wouldn’t be
playing,” he said. “I feel as if there’s a decent score out
there tomorrow, a 66 or a 65, and maybe shoot something similar
on Sunday and see where that leaves me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  