-- 
Rupee Completes Worst Week in 8 Months on Global Slowdown Signs

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-08-12T12:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/rupee-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-8-months-on-slowdown-signs.html
India ’s rupee completed its biggest
weekly drop in almost eight months as foreign investors sold
emerging-market assets on concern the global economic recovery
is stalling.  Overseas funds cut holdings of the nation’s equities by
$1.2 billion this month through Aug. 10, exchange data show. The
cost of insuring  France ’s government debt from default rose to a
record this week on speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis will spread
to some of its larger economies. Weak economic data from the
U.S. and  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of its top credit rating
have deterred risk taking, with the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
stocks losing more than 10 percent in the past two weeks.  “Some Asian currencies had very difficult sessions due to
the risk-off trading,” said Masashi Murata, a Tokyo-based
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  The rupee dropped 1.35 percent this week to 45.3450 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest weekly decline since Jan. 7.
The currency advanced 0.1 percent today.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has boosted borrowing costs by
3.25 percentage points since the start of 2010 to damp inflation
that has held above 8 percent for 18 months.  It’s too early to predict the impact of recent global
events on the Indian economy, the Reserve Bank of India’s Deputy
Governor Subir Gokarn said in  New Delhi  today. India’s
industrial output rose 8.8 percent in June from a year earlier,
the quickest pace in three months, according to government data
released today. The median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 5.5 percent advance.  Offshore forwards indicate India’s currency will trade at
45.72 to the dollar in three months, compared with expectations
for a rate of 45.69 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or
sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts
are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  