-- 
Rupiah Records Weekly Gain as Faster Economic Growth Lure Funds

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-08-12T09:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/rupiah-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-early-july-on-growth.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah posted a weekly
gain, rebounding from last week’s decline, on optimism the
nation’s economic growth and relatively high yields will attract
capital inflows.  The currency advanced today as the Jakarta Composite Index
rose after data showed U.S. job claims unexpectedly fell to a
four-month low. Gross domestic product will increase 6.6 percent
this year after gaining 6.1 percent in 2010,  Bank Indonesia 
forecast Aug. 9. Policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 6.75 percent this week after inflation eased for a
sixth month in July. That compares with near-zero levels in the
U.S., which the  Federal Reserve  has pledged to maintain through
mid-2013.  “The country’s economic fundamentals are strong,
attracting foreign funds and helping the rupiah strengthen,”
said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth
in Jakarta. “Indonesian inflation is low and bond yields are
attractive.”  The rupiah appreciated 0.3 percent this week to 8,543 per
dollar as of 4:03 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency advanced 0.2 percent today. The Jakarta
Composite Index of stocks gained 0.6 percent today, paring
losses for the week to 0.8 percent.  Capital Inflows  Overseas ownership  of  government bonds  rose 24 percent to
243.12 trillion rupiah ($28.4 billion) this year through
yesterday, according to the debt management office. Global funds
have bought $2.2 billion more Indonesian stocks than they sold
in 2011, exchange data show.  Capital inflows into Indonesia will continue following the
Fed’s decision to keep interest near zero,  Bank Indonesia 
Governor Darmin Nasution said on Aug. 10. The central bank is
preparing measures to “guard” against rupiah volatility and
has a crisis-management protocol to anticipate market turmoil,
he said.  Ten-year benchmark bonds fell this week. The yield on the
8.25 percent note due July 2021 climbed 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, this week, according to closing prices from
the Inter-Dealer Market Association. The rate fell two basis
points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 