-- 
Russia Offers Agricultural Land for Southeast Asian Farmers to Grow Crops

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-08-12T16:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/russia-offers-land-for-southeast-asian-farmers-to-make-food-1-.html
Russia  is offering agricultural land
to Southeast Asian nations to grow crops and help secure
reliable food supplies, part of wider efforts to foster trade
and investment ties in new markets.  “We suggested today to companies in the region to enter
the Russian market given its large scale and to establish
themselves to produce food for your own supply,” Deputy Economy
Minister Andrei Slepnyov said yesterday in an interview in
Manado,  Indonesia , where he is attending a meeting of the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  trade ministers.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  is turning to Asia to
boost exports as his country’s economy struggles to grow at the
pace it did before a 2009 recession. Russia is targeting grain
buyers in Southeast  Asia  to regain its share of the world market
after lifting an export ban in July, the Moscow-based Institute
for Agricultural Market Studies said Aug. 1.  “Many Asian governments are exploring alternatives to
secure food supplies over the long term given that the
demographic and environmental pressures in Asia could lead to
structural food shortages in the years to come,” said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC Holdings Plc
in  Hong Kong . “In fact, it’s already showing up in greater
inflation pressures in the agricultural sectors in the region.”  Stable Supplies  Asian nations are seeking stable food supplies after data
compiled by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
showed global prices surged to a record this year.  India ’s food
inflation accelerated to a three-month high, a report showed
yesterday.  Indonesia, the world’s third-largest rice consumer, may
seek to negotiate an agreement with India and  Pakistan  to secure
rice supplies, the Southeast Asian nation’s Trade Minister Mari Pangestu said in a separate interview yesterday.  Russian farmers are leaving about a quarter of the nation’s
165.9 million hectares (409.9 million acres) of agricultural
land unused,  Federal State Statistics Service  data show. A
further 20.7 million hectares of land lies fallow, Alexander Korbut, vice president of the Grain Union, said by phone today.  Russia has about 24 million hectares of undistributed
arable land that should be sold at below-market prices to people
already working there as the government seeks to boost
production, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said in March.  The government plans to annul ownership rights to farmland
that has been left uncultivated for at least three years.  Japan ,  South Korea   Japan, the world’s largest grain importer, said in April it
will help local companies invest in purchases and leasing of
farmlands overseas to ensure stable food supply as the country
lacks arable land. South Korea, the world’s third-biggest corn
buyer, plans to acquire a total of 380,000 hectares of overseas
farmland by 2018 to grow crops.  Food prices will remain higher in the next decade than in
the past 10 years as agricultural production slows and demand
increases, the OECD and the  United Nations  said in a joint
report in June.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is exploring
possible investments with Southeast Asian nations in power
generation, alternative energy and natural-resources exploration
as it seeks to boost demand for the commodities it produces,
Slepnev said.  “The center of world development is shifting to the Asian
region,” he said. “Of course, the region will become an even
bigger energy consumer.”  Russia’s economy, which grew at an average of 7 percent
annually from 2000 to 2008, expanded 3.4 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, missing economists’ forecasts, a
report showed yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 