-- 
Russia Stocks Rise on Oil, Pare Worst Weekly Loss in a Year

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-12T15:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/russia-stocks-rise-on-oil-pare-worst-weekly-loss-in-a-year.html
Russian stocks advanced, paring
their worst weekly loss in more than a year, as oil rose after
an increase in U.S. retail sales tempered concern the global
economy is slowing.  The 30-stock Micex Index advanced 2.2 percent to 1,470.56
by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, its biggest gain in almost
four months. That pared its weekly loss to 7.3 percent, the
worst since May 2010. OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil
producer, jumped 4.2 percent. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the
country’s biggest miner, climbed 4 percent after Citigroup Inc.
said the stock was “oversold.” OAO Rostelecom, Russia’s
dominant fixed-line telephone operator, surged 15 percent. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index rallied 3.2 percent to 1,594.68.  Oil, Russia’s main export revenue earner, added 0.5 percent
to $86.18 a barrel in  New York . Russian stocks extended gains
after the U.S. Commerce Department said retail spending
increased 0.5 percent, following a gain in June that was larger
than previously estimated.  “As the dust settles on a tumultuous week, it’s clear that
some of the hysteria is abating and that redemptions are
relenting slightly,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares
at CF Global Trading, said in e-mailed comments.  Markets have tumbled globally since July 26 after  Standard
& Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating for the first time
and  Europe ’s debt crisis spread.  Investors withdrew $412 million from Russia-focused equity
funds in the week to August 10, according to UralSib Financial
Corp., citing data from EPFR Global a Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based researcher.  “This is the biggest outflow Russian funds have seen since
May 2006,”  Brad Durham , an EPFR managing director, said in a
telephone interview today. “The U.S. downgrade combined with
investor skittishness and the falling oil price depressed
investor sentiment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  