-- 
S. Korea Boosts Rare-Earth Stockpile Target as Prices Gain

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-12T04:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/s-korea-to-boost-rare-earth-stockpiles-explore-local-deposits.html
South Korea , which meets all its
rare-earth demand through imports, has expanded and accelerated
a plan to stockpile the raw materials and may develop local and
overseas deposits, intensifying a global race for supplies.  The government aims to raise reserves to 1,500 metric tons
by 2014, compared with an earlier plan to hold 1,200 tons by
2016, the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement
today. South Korea, which currently doesn’t mine any rare earths
on its territory, will continue to look for investments in other
countries including Australia and Mongolia, the statement said.  South Korea joins  Japan  and other countries in stepping up
efforts to get supplies of the 17 chemically similar metals that
are used in products including Apple Inc. iPods, Boeing Co.
helicopter blades and Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars as prices
surge.  China , which controls over 90 percent of global supply,
began cutting exports in 2009 to conserve resources.  “We will see a significant investment in rare earths
outside of the China area,” David Lennox, a resource analyst at
Fat Prophets, said from Sydney today, forecasting higher prices.
“Those projects will take some time to come to production
status and obviously through that time China itself is taking
measures to diminish production through environmental control.”  China will prevent rare-earth mining companies from
expanding capacity and raise the industry’s entry standards, the
Ministry of Land and Resources said on Aug. 5. Rare-earth
shipments from China are set at 30,184 tons this year, little
changed from 30,258 tons in 2010, government figures show.  ‘Supply Shortage’  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the Greenwood Village, Colorado-based owner
of the largest rare-earth deposit outside of China, said
yesterday that there’s a “very significant supply shortage
right now,” according to Chief Executive Officer Mark Smith.  The South Korean government will conduct a feasibility
study by 2013 for the possible development of local deposits in
Hongcheon and Chungju, where it found rare-earth elements in a
year-long initial exploration through June, it said.  State-run Korea Resources Corp. and  Frontier Rare Earths
Ltd. (FRO)  signed an initial agreement to develop Frontier’s
Zandkopsdrift project in  South Africa , the Luxembourg-based
explorer said on July 13.  South Korea expects to secure about 6,000 tons of output a
year from the South African project if production begins in 2014,
the ministry’s statement said. That’s almost a double the
nation’s annual rare-earth requirements.  “Rare earths are a critical raw material needed to support
 Korea ’s high technology industry and future economic growth,”
Korea Resources Chief Executive Officer Kim Shin Jong said in
Frontier’s July statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  