-- 
S&P Puts Cyprus on Creditwatch Negative Amid Fiscal Concern

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-08-12T16:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/s-p-puts-cyprus-on-creditwatch-negative-amid-fiscal-concern-1-.html
Standard & Poor’s  put Cyprus’s
rating on “creditwatch negative,” citing a weakened fiscal
position and uncertainty about the government’s ability to push
through austerity measures.  “We believe the fiscal position of the Cypriot government
is no longer sustainable,” S&P, which cut its rating on the
nation last month, said in a statement today. “Due to the
departure of the junior coalition party, DIKO, the Cypriot
government is, in our opinion, in a weaker position to pass
emergency budgetary measures through parliament.”  Cyprus, struggling to avoid becoming the next victim of
 Europe ’s debt crisis, is preparing to raise taxes to plug a
budget gap that will be wider than estimated this year after a
power-plant blast knocked out more than half the island’s
electricity. The deficit will be 6.5 percent of gross domestic
product instead of the previous target of 4.5 percent, Finance
Minister Kikis Kazamias said on Aug. 10.  Cyprus has had its  credit rating  cut by all three major
rating companies in the past three weeks, with S&P lowering it
to BBB+ from A- on July 29.  Fitch Ratings  lowered the nation to
BBB from A- on Aug. 10, citing concerns the nation will have
difficulty raising funds. That followed a downgrade last month
by Moody’s Investors Service.  S&P said today that while it expects the government to
introduce a budget and economic package on Aug. 25, it is
“uncertain as to the extent and efficacy of these measures.”  “In particular we question whether, without more extensive
expenditure cuts including to public-sector payrolls, the
government can meet next year’s ambitious” deficit target of
2.5 percent of gross domestic product, it said. In addition,
“uncertainties remain over the timing and participation rate of
the private sector in the planned bond exchange of Greek
sovereign debt, which make it difficult to assess the size of
contingent liabilities to the Cypriot government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  