-- 
Sainsbury Shoppers in U.K. Purchase Fewer Items as Inflation Saps Spending

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-08-12T13:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/sainsbury-shoppers-buy-fewer-items-as-rising-inflation-saps-spending-power.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  customers are buying
fewer items and shopping more frequently as rising inflation
saps their spending power, according to  John Rogers , chief
financial officer of the third-largest U.K. grocery chain.  “The key trend has been customers buying one less item on
average per basket, and this is true across all customer
segments, single people, families,” Rogers said in an interview
in London. “They’re managing more carefully what they buy.”  Britons are seeing their finances squeezed at the fastest
pace since the 1970s as inflation outpaces wage growth and the
government implements budget cuts and an increased sales tax. To
tempt customers to spend more, Sainsbury is offering discounts
such as a reduction of 10 pence (16 cents) per liter on fuel
when shoppers spend 60 pounds or more in its stores.  Shoppers may be seeking to overcome inflation by buying
fewer items, rather than spending more to get the same number.
Prices at the London-based retailer are 3.5 percent higher than
a year ago, compared with 3 percent in the first quarter.  “Headline food inflation is about 4.5 percent to 5
percent, but once you reflect customers switching into buying
different, cheaper products, the net inflation is more like 3.5
percent,” the executive said.  Consumers are also wasting less produce and making more
frequent visits to stores so that they only buy what they need.  Convenience Opportunity  Sainsbury’s convenience stores, which account for 3 percent
of the market, are a growth opportunity, Rogers said. The
retailer is opening two outlets a week, and adding new 30,000
square-foot (2,787 square-meter) stores in areas where it lacks
a strong presence. It’s also extending some existing stores to
add more non-food items such as its Tu home and clothing range.  Sainsbury’s  Basics  range of own-label products, the
cheapest of its three own-brand offers, is recording the fastest
growth, according to Rogers, who was promoted to chief financial
officer last year from property director.  The retailer is targeting holders of its  Nectar  loyalty
card with offers such as money off beer and wine when they
purchase single-portion ready-meals, Rogers said.  “The tough economic climate will continue for another 12
months if not longer,” he said. “There’s no question the next
12 months will be challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 