-- 
Samsung Brief Didn’t Prevent Apple Winning Tablet Injunction in Germany

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-08-12T09:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/samsung-brief-didn-t-prevent-apple-winning-tablet-injunction.html
Samsung Electronics Co. failed to
convince a German court to hear oral arguments before issuing an
injunction in favor of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  banning sales of the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 tablet computer in most European Union countries.  Samsung on July 29 filed a so-called “protective brief”
as part of the dispute it has with Apple over the design of its
device, the Dusseldorf Regional court said in an e-mailed
statement today. On Aug. 4, Apple filed a 44-page motion seeking
the injunction. While judges took Samsung’s arguments into
account, they ruled for Apple, the court said.  “It’s rather unusual that the court didn’t schedule a
hearing before issuing an injunction even though it had received
the protective brief asking for that,” said Timo Ehmann, an
intellectual property lawyer in Munich. “It probably means the
judges saw a case of extreme urgency and not too many factual
issues in dispute.”  Apple won the injunction Aug. 9 banning sales of Samsung’s
tablet in all European countries except the Netherlands.
Cupertino, California-based Apple contends Samsung’s Galaxy
phones and tablet computer “slavishly copy” the iPhone and
iPad. Apple is also seeking a court order to block sales in the
U.S. until a trial can be held on patent-infringement claims
there. In  Australia , Samsung has agreed not to introduce a
version of the Galaxy tablet computer until a lawsuit Apple
filed there is resolved.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , yesterday filed a
motion to lift the EU ban and the court scheduled a hearing in
the case for Aug. 25. Samsung said it will make further
arguments in the case, the court said.  In the July 29 brief, Samsung had argued the case can’t be
heard under fast-track proceeding rules as Apple can’t show that
it’s an emergency situation. Samsung also said it will ask the
European authorities to invalidate the design rights Apple has
filed for the iPad.  The German case is: LG Duesseldorf, 14c O 194/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 