-- 
SEC Reviews S&P Math, Possible Leak of Rating

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-12T21:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/sec-reviews-s-p-math-possible-leak-of-rating.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission is reviewing the method  Standard & Poor’s  used to cut
the U.S.’s credit rating and whether the firm properly protected
the confidential decision, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  SEC inspectors are examining S&P’s policies for conducting
such analyses and whether those procedures were followed when
the New York-based firm downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating Aug.
5, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
inquiry isn’t public.  U.S. officials have said the downgrade was based on a
flawed analysis which overstated  U.S. debt  by about $2 trillion.  S&P lowered the nation’s AAA grade to AA+ after warning on
July 14 that it would reduce the ranking in the absence of a
credible plan to lower deficits even if the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt limit were lifted.  In addition to the analysis, SEC staff are also looking
into whether certain market participants learned of the
downgrade before its announcement. The inquiry, which is in
preliminary stages, may not result in a referral to the SEC’s
enforcement division, the person said.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said the firm doesn’t discuss
specific interactions it has with regulators.  “S&P takes its confidential information and securities
trading policies, and the related securities regulation, very
seriously,” Sweeney said in a statement. “Our policies
prohibit analysts or rating committee members from trading and
holding securities or options of the companies or governments
they rate.”  Sweeney said the firm has “long-standing policies and
procedures in place” to protect confidential information.
Sweeney also said the firm had previously indicated in a July
statement that there was a chance of a downgrade.  S&P “published several reports and broadly communicated
our views regarding the potential impact on other fixed-income
securities,” the statement said.  The inquiry was reported earlier today by the Financial 
Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  