-- 
SMA Solar Rises Most in Three Years on Earnings, Second-Half Outlook

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-12T15:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/sma-solar-rises-most-in-year-on-earnings-second-half-outlook.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) , Germany’s
biggest solar company by market value, rose the most in three
years in Frankfurt trading on earnings that topped analyst
estimates. SMA said demand will surge in the second half,
stabilizing costs.  The shares climbed 18 percent to 73.10 euros by the 5:30
p.m. close after SMA reported first-half results and confirmed
full-year forecasts. Earnings before interest and tax were 103.7
million euros ($148 million) compared with the 83 million-euro
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  SMA, the largest maker of solar inverters, said the
fundamentals of the photovoltaic industry improved over the last
few months after a slow start of the year. The Niestetal-based
company says it has a 45 percent share in the market for
inverters, devices that convert electricity generated in solar
panels for the grid.  “I expect a notable increase in global demand after the
summer months,” Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Pascal Urbon
said today by phone. Global solar installations may be 17 to 20
gigawatts this year, with  Germany , the world’s biggest market,
adding 5 gigawatts and Italy 3 gigawatts, he said.  Prices for modules and inverters are stabilizing and the
reduced costs will drive growth, Urbon said in the interview.
Increasing global competition may make many small inverter
makers go out of business in the next year, he said. SMA
generated more than 56 percent of its sales abroad, with strong
growth in the U.S., Urbon said.  ‘Even Better’  “The second half will even get better for SMA,” Lars Dannenberg, an analyst with Berenberg Bank in  London , said.
“Germany will be kicking and the U.S. keeps performing. The
stock is a safe harbor for clean-tech investors.”  The company sold 3.1 gigawatts of inverters in the first
half, the same as for the equivalent period of 2010, a record
year for the industry. New solar capacity doubled last year to
18.1 gigawatts, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  The prices for inverters have fallen about 10 percent this
year, and only account for as much as 10 percent of the cost of
a solar project, according to Dannenberg. Modules, which account
for about 80 percent of total costs, have dropped 35 percent
this year, he said.  SMA also plans to move into  Japan , which may add 5
gigawatts of capacity until 2013, as the country accelerates a
push into renewable energy generation after the Fukushima
nuclear accident, Urbon said. The company seeks to introduce
products tailored to the Japanese market in March, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  