-- 
Sneijder’s Wage Demands Scupper Move to Manchester United: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-12T07:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/sneijder-s-wage-demands-scupper-move-to-manchester-united-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wages Scupper Sneijder  Manchester United  gave up on its bid to make  Wesley Sneijder  its final signing of the off-season after the
Netherlands midfielder priced himself out of a move to the
English champion, the  Daily Mail   reported .  United manager Alex Ferguson and Chief Executive Officer
David Gill have decided not to sign a player who was demanding
more than 200,000 pounds ($324,220) a week in wages, the Mail
said. United would only rekindle its interest if Sneijder drops
his financial demands, the Mail added.  Arsenal Replacements  Arsenal is preparing a combined bid of 30 million pounds
for Brazil midfielder Jadson and Spain winger Juan Mata as
potential replacements for Cesc Fabregas and Samir Nasri, the
 Daily Telegraph   reported .  Valencia midfielder Mata has been a target throughout the
off-season and Arsenal is trying to complete a deal for about 20
million pounds, the Telegraph said. Jadson would cost about 10
million pounds from  Shakhtar Donetsk , the newspaper added.  Advanced Role  Jadson will cost Arsenal 12 million pounds, the Independent
 reported , giving Ukrainian champion Shakhtar a 9 million-pound
profit on the 27-year-old. Jadson could be used an advanced
midfield role in front of  Jack Wilshere  and  Alex Song , the
newspaper said.  “If everything goes to plan, I’ll have some news for
everyone at the start of next week,” the Independent cited
Jadson as saying. “Hope it works out.”  Stoke Swoop  Stoke City is closing in on the signings of Joey Barton and
Nicklas Bendtner as manager  Tony Pulis  seeks additions in
midfield and attack, the Sun  reported .  Arsenal striker Bendtner, 23, would cost about 8 million
pounds, while the 28-year-old Barton is available on a free
transfer after falling out with officials at Newcastle, the Sun
said.  Hargreaves Offer  West Bromwich Albion e-mailed former Manchester United
midfielder Owen Hargreaves a contract offer and is awaiting a
response after meeting the player earlier this week, the
Independent  reported .  The team’s medical staff carried out tests on the 30-year-
old, who has suffered from chronic knee tendinitis over the last
three years, and West Brom manager  Roy Hodgson  is convinced that
Hargreaves represents a good investment, the newspaper added.  Hodgson for  England   Hodgson said he would like to manage England when Fabio Capello steps down after next year’s European Championship,
though he would first need to have the backing of supporters and
the media, the Guardian  reported .  “I would rather hope that, if I was ever going to be
offered the England job, it would be with the backing of the
important people,” the Guardian cited Hodgson as saying.
“Otherwise, it’s very difficult for anyone who takes the job
because, even if you’ve got the competence and you are maybe the
right person, you need to be perceived as the right person.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  