-- 
South African Bonds Fall a Second Day on Concern Health Plan to Raise Debt

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-12T13:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/south-africa-bonds-fall-a-second-day-on-concern-health-plan-to-raise-debt.html
South African  government bonds 
declined for a second day, driving 10-year yields to the highest
in almost two weeks, on concern a proposed national health-
insurance plan will lead to higher state borrowing.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 slipped 26 cents to
91.23 rand, boosting the yield four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8.075 percent, the highest on a closing
basis since Aug. 2, by 3:26 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The government yesterday released plans for a medical-
insurance program which may cost as much as 255.8 billion rand
($35 billion) a year by 2025. The government expects to
introduce the plan in April next year, starting with a pilot
operation in 10 districts that will be rolled out across the
country over 14 years, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said.  “The most likely scenario is that there will be a
combination of increased taxation and  government borrowing  to
foot the bill,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.
“Fixed income players will keep an eye on whether this impacts
issuance going forward.”  Funding for the NHI, which will come from a combination of
taxes, individual and employer contributions, will add to cost
pressures in the economy, Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led
by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan wrote in a research note.  “While the government has committed itself to reducing the
budget deficit over the next three years, the program could
imply an additional tax for individuals and the need for
increased funding from local capital markets,” the Standard
Bank analysts wrote.  Budget Deficit  The Feb. 24 budget, which didn’t take account of the NHI
proposals, provided for a budget deficit of 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year through March 2012,
unchanged from the previous year, and for the gap to narrow to
4.8 percent and 3.8 percent over the following two years.  Foreign investors sold a net 474 million rand of South
African bonds yesterday after buying 4.87 billion of bonds in
the first two trading days of the week, according to JSE Ltd.
data. Aug. 9 was a public holiday in  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  