-- 
South Africa’s Plan on Road Tolls to Boost Business Costs, Angering Unions

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-12T12:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/south-african-road-toll-plan-to-boost-costs-angering-unions.html
South Africa ’s plan to charge tolls
on highways in Gauteng, the country’s richest province, may
boost business costs, adding pressure to inflation and angering
labor unions.  Passenger cars will pay a toll of 40 cents ($0.06) a
kilometer, medium-sized vehicles, such as minivans, will be
charged 1 rand, while trucks will pay 2 rand, the Cabinet said
in a statement in the capital, Pretoria, yesterday. The fee
system will start in about five months, Deputy Transport
Minister Jeremy Cronin said in a phone interview today.  Road tolls will “introduce significant administrative and
cost complexity for business that will be felt right across the
spectrum, by the  tourism industry , by manufacturers and by small
business,”  Business Unity South Africa , one of the country’s
main business lobby groups, said in a statement on its website
today. “The cost impact on fast-moving  consumer goods ,
particularly basic foodstuffs, will be felt most significantly”
by the poor.  The fees will add to business costs as wage settlements and
power prices surge. Workers in the mining, steel and energy
industries won increases of as much as double the 5 percent
inflation rate last month, while state power utility Eskom
Holdings Ltd. increased its tariffs by about 26 percent this
year.  Consumer prices  “It will definitely feed through to higher inflation,”
Tony Twine, an economist at Johannesburg-based research and
advisory service Econometrix, said in a telephone interview
today. “It’s fairly clear that producer prices are pulling
consumer prices upward. Government policy is most certainly
contributing to higher business costs.”  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year while
warning that rising prices will push inflation outside the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range.  “The tolls will impose a huge additional burden on road
users,” the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the
country’s largest labor grouping, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “They will lead to big price increases. We shall be
planning marches, demonstrations, pickets and stay-aways and
taking  strike action  if the tolls are not scrapped.”  The government says it needs to raise additional revenue to
help the South African National Roads Agency pay for the upgrade
and extension of a 560-kilometer highway network that services
the country’s business hub. The toll system will be levied on
the main highways linking Johannesburg and  Pretoria , covering
about 160 kilometers of roads, Cronin said. There are no plans
to extend it further at this stage, he said.  “Freeways aren’t free,” Cronin said. “They come with a
price tag.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  