-- 
South America Financial Stability Fund Gets Backing From Brazil, Argentina

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-12T22:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/south-america-financial-stability-fund-gets-backing-from-brazil-argentina.html
Finance ministers from  South America 
agreed to keep working to strengthen regional institutions and
funds aimed at warding off the effects of a global financial
crisis, without reaching an accord on the creation of a new
stability fund.  Leaders from the Unasur political bloc discussed ways to
boost regional trade and create a new fund or strengthen an
existing mechanism, known as the Fondo Latinoamericano de
Reservas, according to a statement published after the meeting
ended today in Buenos Aires. The $4 billion FLAR pools foreign
currency reserves from seven Latin American nations to help
address balance of payment problems.  South American nations are “better prepared to face the
current adverse international conditions” than in previous
years, the statement said, adding that recommendations on
specific actions will be presented at a meeting of heads of
state in  Paraguay  in two months time.  Officials from  Colombia  to Argentina stressed the need to
coordinate policies to protect their economies in the wake of a
financial crisis set off by debt problems in Europe and the
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating last week by  Standard &
Poor’s .  Colombia Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said he’s
“very worried” that Latin American currencies will appreciate
further if the U.S. Federal Reserve starts a third program of
asset buying, known as QE3, to boost growth.  Peso Performance  Colombia’s peso has gained 6.8 percent this year, the
third-best performance among 25 emerging market economies
tracked by Bloomberg, after the Czech koruna and the Hungarian
forint. The Brazilian real has climbed 3.1 percent and  Peru ’s
sol is up 2.3 percent over the same period.  “There’s been talk of various mechanisms for building a
regional monetary system that would consist of a basket of
currencies for intra-regional trade, now that the dollar is in
crisis and threatens the region’s countries,” Venezuelan
Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro said.  Regional finance ministers last met Aug. 5 in Lima at the
urging of Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  to discuss ways
to protect their economies and the value of their record $700
billion in foreign currency reserves from a deteriorating U.S.
and European economic outlook.  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said last night
that South America’s two biggest economies want to increase
funding to the Bogota-based FLAR.  Ready to Help  “ Brazil  and  Argentina  are ready to add to FLAR,” Mantega
said at a dinner with Argentine Economy Minister  Amado Boudou 
last night. “This could complement the  International Monetary
Fund . Since it’s already there we can strengthen it and think
about creating something more comprehensive.”  No decision about creating a $10 billion to $20 billion
emergency fund to assist nations that experience capital flight
should the crisis deepen was reached.  Mantega said today that the focus on regional institutions
will come at the expense of the Washington-based Inter-American
Development Bank, which he said has “lost legitimacy over
time” due to the influence of the U.S. over the lender.  Among the other measures being considered today, the Unasur
bloc discussed coordination of policies on international
reserves, Argentine Deputy Economy Minister Roberto Feletti said
in comments posted on the government’s  website  before the
meeting ended.  Rapid Response  “We’ll try to coordinate the reserves that our central
banks have so that they can count on a rapid contingency credit
line to strengthen their ability to respond to speculative
attacks,” Feletti said.  Reserve levels in South America’s five biggest economies
climbed 29 percent over the past year, to $501 billion, as
investors spurred by near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S.,  Japan 
and  Europe  looked for higher-yielding assets in emerging
markets. To stem the inflows that are putting pressure on the
region’s currencies, policy makers from Brazil, Chile and
Colombia have stepped up dollar purchases in the spot market.
Most of the greenbacks are reinvested in U.S. Treasuries.  “The central bank has a bigger volume of compulsory
deposits from banks today, of more than 400 billion reais ($248
billion), which could be employed if necessary,” Mantega said
in a video shown at an event in Sao Paulo last night. “We have
successful experience from the crisis of 2008, and all the
instruments created are at the disposal of the government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio De Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  