-- 
Stockpiles at U.S. Companies Show Smallest Gain in Over a Year

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-12T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/stockpiles-at-u-s-companies-show-smallest-gain-in-over-a-year.html
Inventories at U.S. companies rose
less than forecast in June, indicating companies kept a tight
rein on supply as  consumer spending  cooled.  The 0.3 percent increase in stockpiles was the smallest
since May 2010 and followed a revised 0.9 percent gain in May
that was less than initially estimated, the Commerce Department
said today in  Washington . The median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.5 percent rise. Sales climbed 0.4
percent.  Slower stockpile accumulation indicates companies are being
prudent in the amount of goods they keep on shelves, indicating
the economy isn’t suffering from excess supply. Another report
today showed retail sales picked up in July, a sign companies
will need to place more orders to replenish inventories.  “We don’t have a big buildup in inventories like we did
prior to the last recession and that’s good news,”  Kurt Karl ,
chief U.S. economist at Swiss RE in  New York , said before the
report. “That implies a shallow downturn if we have one.”  Stockpiles in May were revised from a previously reported 1
percent gain.  Retail sales climbed in July by the most in four months,
showing consumers are holding up even as employment slows,
another report from the Commerce Department showed today. The 0.5
percent increase in purchases matched the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 0.3 percent
gain in June that was larger than previously estimated.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s stockpile
report not previously released, rose 0.2 in June as sales
increased 0.3 percent.  Inventory Breakdown  Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of
total stockpiles, grew 0.2 percent in June, the Commerce
Department said Aug. 3. Another 30 percent of inventories, held
by wholesalers, grew 0.6 percent during the month, figures showed
Aug. 10.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.28 months in June, the same as in May, according
to today’s figures.  After helping drive the early stages of the economic
recovery, inventory rebuilding slowed in the second quarter of
2011. Stockpiles contributed 0.2 percentage point to gross
domestic product from April to June, according to Commerce
Department data. That contribution may be even smaller than first
estimated after taking into account today’s data.  Nonetheless, tight inventory control last quarter signals
companies will need to keep restocking, giving third-quarter
growth a boost.  Slower Growth  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate
during that quarter, raising concerns of a prolonged slowdown.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers said in
June that they expected growth to pick up as supply chain
disruptions related to  Japan ’s earthquake eased and commodity
costs moderated. This week, they offered a dimmer view.  “Economic growth so far this year has been considerably
slower than the committee had expected,” policy makers said
after announcing they would hold the benchmark  interest rate  near
zero until at least mid-2013. The Fed also said it expects a
“somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming quarters,” adding
that “downside risks to the economic outlook have increased.”  Concerns about “consumer demand have led to a more cautious
inventory replenishment strategy with inventories remaining at
historically low levels relative to sales even as the retailers
posted so much stronger sales year over year,” John Koraleski,
executive vice president of marketing and sales for  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP) , said on a July 21 conference call with analysts.  Spending among consumers rose at 0.1 percent pace in the
second quarter, the weakest since the April-June period of 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  