-- 
Strasburg’s Minor-League Rehab Has Nationals’ Farm Teams Counting Windfall

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-13T04:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/strasburg-s-minor-league-rehab-has-nationals-farm-teams-counting-windfall.html
Stephen Strasburg ’s pitching
appearance with one of the Washington Nationals’ minor-league
teams last night lit up the bottom line almost as much as Fourth
of July fireworks.  A sellout crowd of 8,619 paid $8 to $14 for tickets to
watch Strasburg pitch three scoreless innings for the Potomac
Nationals, who beat the Myrtle Beach Pelicans 1-0 at Pfitzner
Stadium in the Washington suburb of Woodbridge, Virginia. A
record 10,789 viewed last year’s postgame July 4th pyrotechnics.  Strasburg threw 33 pitches, including 26 strikes, to 12
batters and gave up two hits, no runs and no walks, while
striking out five and tallying four groundouts.  “I tried to treat it more like a normal game,” Strasburg
told reporters. “I threw pitches I wanted to throw depending on
the count.”  Strasburg threw a combination of curveballs, changeups and
fastballs. Some of his pitches were clocked as fast as 99 miles
per hour.  “When you throw 98 or 99, it’s easy to catch,” Potomac
catcher Sandy Leon told reporters. “He puts the ball where he
wants it. His changeups and breaking balls were nasty.”  Strasburg, 23, who is trying to return to the Major League
Baseball roster in September, is on a rehabilitation schedule to
pitch every five days as he recovers from September 2010 elbow
surgery. He signed a record $15 million, four-year contract
after being the No. 1 pick in the 2009 baseball draft, then
struck out 14 in his first big-league game last year.  If Strasburg is pronounced healthy, he would be scheduled
to pitch Aug. 17 at the home game of a minor-league affiliate.
The Potomac Nationals (Single-A) as well as the Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , Senators (Double-A) are on the road. The
Hagerstown,  Maryland , Suns (Single-A) and Syracuse,  New York ,
Chiefs (Triple-A) are playing before home crowds that day.  The final decision for where Strasburg will pitch rests
with Nationals General Manager Mike Rizzo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  