-- 
Dufner Leads Bradley by Two Shots in Final Round of U.S. PGA Championship

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-14T21:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/stricker-leads-in-second-round-of-pga-championship-mcilroy-injures-wrist.html
Jason Dufner  leads Keegan Bradley by
two shots in the final round at the U.S. PGA Championship, where
the host nation is seeking to end its longest run without a
major golf title.  Dufner, who’s winless on the U.S. PGA Tour, is 11-under par
with five holes to play in the season’s final major tournament.
Bradley, appearing in his first major, is 9-under after an eagle
on the par-5 12th hole at Atlanta Athletic Club.  Robert Karlsson, who’s seeking to become the first Swede to
win one of the sport’s Grand Slam titles, is 8-under, one shot
better than Anders Hansen, who’s trying to become Denmark’s only
major title winner.  David Toms, who won the 2001  PGA Championship  at the same
course in Johns Creek, Georgia, is tied with Scott Verplank at
6-under. Fellow American Brendan Steele is 5-under par.  Toms is the only player among the top 12 on the leaderboard
to have won one of the sport’s four Grand Slam titles. Golf has
had six consecutive first-time major winners dating back to
Graeme McDowell’s victory at the 2010 U.S. Open.  Phil Mickelson 
won his third Masters Tournament title in April of last year,
the last American to claim a major.  England ’s Luke Donald and  Lee Westwood , the top two players
in the Official World Golf Ranking, finished 3-under par.
Mickelson shot even-par over 72 holes.  Mike Small, the lone PGA club professional to make the cut
for weekend play, finished 12-over par for the tournament, ahead
of former PGA Championship winners  Davis Love III  and Shaun Micheel. Rory McIlroy, the U.S. Open winner and pre-tournament
favorite, finished 11-over after straining a tendon in his wrist
during the opening round.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Atlanta at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  