-- 
Sun of Mauritius Second-Quarter Loss Widens on EU Crisis

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-08-12T08:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/sun-resorts-of-mauritius-says-loss-widened-in-second-quarter-through-june.html
Sun Resorts Ltd., Mauritius’s
second-biggest leisure operator, said its loss widened in the
second quarter as the low tourism season was exacerbated by a
debt crisis in  Europe , the country’s main source of visitors.  The loss was 96.8 million rupees ($3 million) in the three
months through June compared with 86 million rupees a year
earlier, the company said in a  statement  published on the Port
Louis-based Stock Exchange of Mauritius’s website today. The
stock fell for a second day, losing 1.8 percent to 55 rupees.  Mauritius, an Indian Ocean island nation, has its low
tourism season from April to September, coinciding with the
winter period. Europe, led by  France , accounts for almost two-
third of visitors, according to Mauritius Tourism Promotion
Authority data. The cost of insuring France’s government debt
from default rose to a record this week on speculation Europe’s
debt crisis will spread to some of its larger economies.  “The trading environment has been very difficult as the
industry was faced with negative factors affecting the
traditional markets,” the Ebene-based group said. “Tourist
arrivals from Europe were under pressure and the continuing
price war in this low season impacted results negatively.”  Tourist arrivals for the first half of 2011 increased 5.8
percent, missing the tourism agency’s estimate of a 7 percent
advance. Tourism, with textiles, is the main source of foreign-
currency income, with revenue expected to reach 42.5 billion
rupees, according to the  Central Statistics Office .  Trading Conditions  Sun, which owns and manages five resorts in Mauritius and
Maldives, said profit dropped 28 percent to 56.5 million rupees
for the six months through June. Revenue increased 9.4 percent
to 1.75 billion rupees compared to a year earlier, it said,
following opening and sales of room of its Long Beach resort.  “Trading conditions will still be very tough during the
course of the third quarter as the negative factors encountered
in the second quarter are expected to prevail,” it said.
“However with the completion of further sales in respect of the
Long Beach Invest Hotel Scheme, the group expects to finish the
year with positive results.”  The company had its recommendation reduced to “hold” from
“accumulate” at Cim Stockbrokers Ltd., analysts Kishen
Nadassen and Madhvi Bhylagee wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  