-- 
SVG Capital Says Value of Assets Climbed 25% in First-Half

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-12T08:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/svg-capital-says-value-of-assets-climbed-25-in-first-half.html
SVG Capital Plc (SVI) , the biggest backer
of private equity firm Permira Advisers LLP, said the value of
its assets increased 25 percent in the second quarter, boosted
by stock price gains for investments including  Hugo Boss  AG and
 Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)   Net asset value rose to 393.9 pence a share at the end of
June, SVG said in a statement today. The company marked up the
value of its stakes in Hugo Boss and Valentino Fashion Group by
57 percent to 258.4 million pounds ($418.7 million). The value
of SVG Capital’s holding in casino operator Galaxy Entertainment
increased 83 percent to 204.1 million pounds.  Fashion retailer Hugo Boss is increasing earnings, boosted
by store growth in  China  and the U.S., while Hong Kong-based
Galaxy Entertainment’s share price surged 89 percent during the
first six months of the year. SVG Capital, which invests in the
companies through Permira, has seen no signs that this month’s
selloff in global stock markets is hurting profits.  “We are not yet hearing anything from Permira that would
make us concerned about the momentum we have seen in the
earnings,” SVG Capital Chief Executive Officer Lynn Fordham
told reporters on a conference call. Share prices for Galaxy
Entertainment and other holdings haven’t “taken a steep fall.”  SVG Capital rose 3.8 percent to 251 pence at 8:49 a.m. in
London trading. The stock has climbed 19 percent this year.  ‘Good Figures’  SVG Capital’s increase in net asset value exceeded JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst Christopher Brown’s estimate by 5 percent.  “These were very good figures,” Brown, who has an
“overweight” rating on SVG Capital, wrote in a note to clients
today. “It was encouraging to see further strong performance
from” investments in Permira’s fourth fund, which had been
“written down heavily in the downturn.”  SVG Capital said it may repurchase shares if its stock
continues to trade at a “significant discount” to net asset
value, according to the statement. The company also said it
plans to announce a “long-term” strategy for its business
before the end of the year. Fordham said the company remains
committed to private-equity investments.  More than 80 percent of SVG Capital’s investment portfolio
is allocated to Permira. SVG Capital said most of the 130
percent increase in its net asset value since June 2009 is tied
to investments in the London-based private equity firm.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  