-- 
Syria’s Security Forces Have Killed 56 in Past Three Days, Activists Say

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-12T15:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/syria-s-security-forces-have-killed-46-in-past-three-days-activists-say.html
Syrian security forces have killed
at least 56 anti-government protesters in the past three days,
activists said, as regional and international pressure mounted
on President Bashar al-Assad to halt a crackdown on dissent.  The deaths took place in the eastern town of Deir al-Zour,
the central province of Homs, the northern governorate of Idlib
and in the southern part of Daraa, where the uprising began in
March, said Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights in  Syria . At least 17 protesters died today in Homs,
Idlib, the Hama governorate, the city of Aleppo, Deir al-Zour
and suburbs of the capital, Damascus, as thousands marched, said
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking in an
interview with  CBS News  yesterday, urged  Europe , India and  China 
to step up pressure on Assad to leave and to impose sanctions on
Syria’s oil and gas industry.  The Obama administration may soon call on Assad to step
down, said a U.S. official who asked not to be identified
because the administration is still discussing the issue and
considering the timing of any announcement. While the U.S. is
concerned about the possibility of civil war in Syria, it’s more
focused on the prospect of sectarian violence promoted by the
government and the chance that the Syrian situation will spark
instability in the  Middle East , the official said yesterday.  Ramadan Violence  At least two members of the security forces were killed by
gunmen in the Damascus suburb of Douma, the state-run  SANA news
agency  reported today. More than 500 members of the forces have
died since the start of the unrest, according to the government.  More than 300 protesters have been killed since July 31,
the eve of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, according to Qurabi
and Merhi. Demonstrators across Syria, including the Damascus
suburbs, took to the streets late yesterday after breaking the
daily Ramadan fast and completing evening prayers, Merhi said by
phone today.  Merhi and Qurabi, who compile the names of the dead, say
Assad’s forces have killed more than 2,400 protesters and
detained thousands since the revolt began.  Another activist, Abdul-Karim Rihawi, head of the Syrian
Human Rights League, was arrested yesterday at a cafe in central
Damascus, Merhi and Qurabi said.  Momentum may be building for bolder steps to stop Assad
after  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain recalled their
ambassadors from Damascus this week and  Turkey  said its neighbor
is entering a “critical” period.  Army Defections  “Defections in the army are increasing, we are in the
hundreds now and will be in the thousands shortly,” Hussein
Harmoush, a lieutenant colonel who split from the military in
June and is the spokesman for the Free Arab Syrian Army, said in
a phone interview today from Syria, near the border with Turkey.  Harmoush, 39, who served in the army since 1991, said he
and other defectors left the forces when their mission “changed
from protecting the state and preserving order to killing
innocent people.” He said the defector forces don’t actively
engage government troops in battle and are present at protests
in a “protective capacity to defend protesters.”  European Push  European nations renewed a push for a United Nations
resolution against the bloodshed and the U.S. imposed new
financial sanctions on Syrian banks and telecommunications.
 Russia  has indicated it isn’t convinced that a UN resolution is
needed.  “We are considering how we might broaden the range of
sanctions that we have against Syria,” EU spokesman Michael Mann told reporters today in Brussels. “We are working on
various options and in doing that we are in constant touch with
our partners, including the U.S.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  spoke by telephone yesterday
with Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  about the
situation in Syria. They agreed on “the need for an immediate
halt of all violence and bloodshed” and “to closely monitor
the actions the Syrian government is taking” in response to
anti-government protests, according to a White House statement.  “Being a leader that shapes evolution instead of being
blown around by the winds of change will place Assad in a
historical position,” Turkish President Abdullah Gul said in a
letter delivered Aug. 9 to the Syrian leader by Foreign Minister
 Ahmet Davutoglu , according to the state-run Turkish news service
Anatolia. “I wouldn’t want you to one day look back and regret
that you’re actions were too late and too little.”  Assad’s ‘Mistakes’  Assad this week responded to growing criticism about the
crackdown by admitting “some mistakes” were made by his
security forces in the “initial stages” of unrest. Diplomats
representing  Brazil ,  India  and  South Africa  -- a bloc in the UN
Security Council reluctant to punish Assad -- said they met in
Damascus with the Syrian leader, who told them “efforts were
under way to prevent” the mistakes from recurring.  The U.S. will “continue to ratchet up the pressure” on
Assad, White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
traveling with Obama to  Michigan  yesterday.  As the U.S. vows to increase Assad’s isolation, what’s
important to consider is whether statements from regional powers
Saudi Arabia and Turkey are “proactive or reactive,” said
Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
 London .  “Have they stepped up the rhetoric because they want to
influence the process or because they want to cover their own
backs?” Phillips said. “And has a decision been made to
prepare a contingency for post-Assad Syria, to make sure it’s
shaped in a way that suits them or is it an active attempt to
hasten the departure of Assad?”  Phillips said, “There is no answer to that at the moment
from the Saudis, and I think we will see that in the next couple
of weeks if they develop or evolve their policy beyond
rhetoric.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 