-- 
U.K. Stocks Rally as U.S. Retail Sales Top Forecast; Banks Climb

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-12T16:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/u-k-stocks-advance-before-u-s-economic-data-as-banks-rally.html
U.K. stocks climbed, extending the
biggest two-day advance since 2008, led by a rebound in banks
and mining companies as U.S. retail sales data eased concern
about the strength of the world’s largest economy.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rallied as
Societe Generale SA said British lenders are “well placed”
amid a difficult funding market. Mining companies gained for a
second day, led by  Kazakhmys Plc. (KAZ)   Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  rose 5.9
percent as UBS AG recommended the shares.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  jumped 3 percent to 5,320.03 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, after earlier falling as much as 1.2
percent. The gauge has climbed 1.4 percent this week, its first
advance in three. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 3 percent today
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased 2.9 percent.  The retail sales data “satisfied investors and we saw
shares see higher demand on the back of it,” said  Giles Watts ,
head of equities at City Index in  London . “The gains seen today
was enough for the FTSE 100 to finish the week positively in
what otherwise had been one of the most choppy weeks for trading
for some time.”  The FTSE 100 has tumbled 11 percent from the beginning of
July, wiping about $500 billion from the value of U.K. shares,
amid concern the global economic recovery may be at risk as
Europe struggles to contain its debt crisis.  Stocks extended gains today after U.S. retail sales climbed
in July by the most in four months, showing consumers are
holding up even as employment slows. The 0.5 percent increase
reported by the Commerce Department matched the median economist
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and followed a 0.3 percent
increase in June.  Europe Economy  In Europe, U.K. house prices fell to the lowest level in
more than 1 1/2 years last month, according to Acadametrics Ltd.
and LSL Property Services Plc. France’s economy unexpectedly
stalled in the second quarter as  consumer spending  plunged.  Barclays rallied 5.3 percent to 187.2 pence, Lloyds
advanced 5 percent to 33.82 pence and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  increased 4.8 percent to 26.49 pence.  Analysts at Societe Generale reiterated their
“overweight” recommendation for the industry, saying British
lenders offer “considerable upside.”  “Since 2008 U.K. banks have made great strides in cleaning
up their balance sheets,” London-based analysts Alan Webborn
and Philip Richards wrote in a report to clients. “A stormy
macro environment has pushed valuations down to just half
tangible book value for Barclays, Lloyds and RBS, which is far
too low.”  Short-Selling Ban  A gauge of U.K. banks has slumped 18 percent since the
start of July amid concern more lenders may have to raise
capital as Europe struggles to contain its debt crisis. The rout
in European banks prompted France, Spain, Italy and Belgium to
impose bans on short-selling today to help stabilize markets.  Kazakhmys, which was today upgraded to “strong buy” from
“buy’ at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd., jumped 6.3 percent to 1,015
pence.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  increased 3.5 percent to 1,403
pence and Rio Tinto Group climbed 4.5 percent to 3,688.5 pence.  Kingfisher also advanced after UBS added Europe’s largest
home-improvement retailer to its European “key calls” list.
The shares gained 5.9 percent to 236.2 pence.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  climbed for a fourth day, rallying 6.5
percent to 1,907 pence. The stock was added to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s “directors of research” focus list.  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  surged 9.7 percent to 441 pence, the best
performer on the FTSE 100. Citigroup Inc. yesterday recommended
the satellite services provider, saying the shares may double.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  