-- 
U.S. Stocks Post Biggest Two-Day Gain Since 2009 on Retail Data

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-12T20:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/u-s-stock-futures-drop-on-report-tipped-to-show-consumer-confidence-fell.html
U.S. stocks rose, capping the
biggest two-day advance for benchmark indexes since March 2009,
as the largest increase in American retail sales in four months
tempered concern economic growth is slowing.  A gauge of retailers in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 1.5 percent, as 26 of its 30 stocks advanced, after the
Commerce Department reported a 0.5 percent increase in retail
sales.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  added at
least 2.9 percent, pacing gains among companies most-tied to the
economy.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  advanced 4.1 percent after
Jefferies Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the shares.
Stocks pared earlier gains as financial companies declined.  The S&P 500 added 0.5 percent to 1,178.81 at 4 p.m. in New
York, rising 5.2 percent in two days. The benchmark gauge fell
for a third week, dropping 1.7 percent since Aug. 5. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  added 125.71 points, or 1.1 percent, to
11,269.02 today. About 9 billion shares changed hands at 4:18
p.m. on U.S. exchanges, 42 percent below the average of the
previous four days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The retail sales report was good,” Barry Knapp, the New
York-based head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Plc, said in
a telephone interview. “The first step is a stabilization of
the macro outlook in the U.S. Once you remove the uncertainties,
it allows for capital market stabilization. Stocks are
exceptionally cheap and this is a buying opportunity.”  S&P 500 ’s Decline  The S&P 500 is down 14 percent from a three-year high at
the end of April, after plunging as much as 18 percent through
Aug. 8. About $2.3 trillion was erased from U.S. equity values
in the last three weeks as  Europe ’s debt crisis, signs the
economy is slowing and S&P’s downgrade of the government’s AAA
credit rating left the benchmark gauge for U.S. shares within 11
points of a bear market.  The swings in U.S. equities this week are unprecedented in
the history of the American stock market, according to data
compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg and  Howard
Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P.  The S&P 500 plunged 6.7 percent on Aug. 8, its biggest
slump since December 2008, in the first trading session after
the U.S. was stripped of its AAA credit rating at S&P. The index
rebounded 4.7 percent the next day after the  Federal Reserve 
said it will leave its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
through at least the middle of 2013. The gauge then fell 4.4
percent on Aug. 10 and rebounded 4.6 percent yesterday. Never
before has the index reversed moves that large each day over
four sessions, the data showed.  Bear Market   Both European shares and the Russell 2000 Index of small
U.S. companies entered a bear market this week, falling at least
20 percent from their previous highs.  Stock futures extended gains before the open of regular
trading as retail sales figures matched the median forecast of
81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 0.3
percent increase in June that was larger than previously
estimated. Excluding auto sales, purchases rose more than
projected.  “That’s a very positive sign on retail sales,” Darrell Cronk, the New York-based regional chief investment officer at
Wells Fargo Private Bank, which oversees $210 billion. “Growth
is slowing, but we cannot see it heading into a recession.”  Global stocks rose, extending the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s
rally from a two-year low, as  France ,  Spain , Italy and Belgium
imposed short-selling bans. Regulators imposed bans to stabilize
markets after Societe Generale SA dropped to its lowest price
since March 2009 on Aug. 10. A gauge of European banks increased
4.5 percent, for its second day of gains.  Positive Reaction  “It may generate a positive short-term reaction in the
stock market as they are clearly targeting the short-selling of
the banks,”  Michael Holland , chairman and founder of New York-
based Holland & Co., said in a telephone interview. His firm
oversees more than $4 billion.  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index of companies whose
earnings are most-dependent on economic growth rallied 1.6
percent. Caterpillar rose 2.9 percent to $89.81. United
Technologies increased 3.9 percent to $72.45.  Hewlett-Packard gained 4.1 percent to $32.32. The biggest
personal-computer maker was raised to “buy” from “hold” at
Jefferies. The 12-month share-price estimate is $40.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  rose 7.2 percent to $13.48. The
largest U.S. tiremaker won $1.50 million in federal funding to
develop fuel efficient tires, Senator  Sherrod Brown  said in a
statement.  Nordstrom Rallies    Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  rose 4.6 percent to $44.28. The U.S.
department store chain posted second-quarter earnings that beat
the average analyst estimate, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Financial stocks had the biggest decline in the S&P 500
within 10 industries, falling 1.2 percent after gaining 2.9
percent earlier. Morgan Stanley retreated 7.3 percent to $16.89,
reversing a gain of as much as 3.7 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
decreased 2.1 percent to $35.91.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sank 0.8
percent to $7.19 today, losing 12 percent for the week.  Stocks briefly erased gains as a report showed that
confidence among U.S. consumers plunged in August to the lowest
level since May 1980. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment slumped to 54.9 from
63.7 the prior month. The gauge was projected to decline to 62,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The stock market’s fastest electronic firms boosted trading
threefold during the rout in U.S. equities, stepping up
strategies that profit from volatility, according to one of
their biggest brokers.  High-Frequency Traders  The increase from Aug. 1 to Aug. 10 over their 2011 average
surpassed the 80 percent rise in U.S. equity volume, showing
that high-frequency traders made up more of the market during
the plunge, Gary Wedbush, executive vice president and head of
capital markets at Wedbush Securities, said in a telephone
interview. Wedbush is the largest broker supplying bids and
offers on the Nasdaq Stock Market, according to exchange  data .  “We’re seeing a tremendous amount of high-frequency
trading,” said Wedbush, whose company is one of the biggest
execution and clearing brokers catering to high-speed firms.
“Their business is a trading business, and volatility creates
far more opportunities. Some of their algorithms and automated
systems are trading two, three or five times as many shares as
they would have in a more normalized volatility environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  