-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold and Wheat Drop, Coffee Gains

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-12T11:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-and-wheat-drop-coffee-gains.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  BlackRock Sees Buying Chances in Energy, Picks Schlumberger (1)  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, says the
global market rout may be a chance to pick up energy stocks as a
shortfall in global crude production underpins oil prices.  Norilsk May Cancel Treasury Shares After Buy Back, Chairman Said  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest producer of the
metal, may cancel treasury shares after a plan for a buyback
announced this week, the chairman said.  Yields Above  Brazil  Signal Oil Threat to Budget: Russia Credit  Russia faces higher borrowing costs than Brazil for the
first time in more than eight months as concern grows that
falling oil prices and increased spending will push Prime
Minister Vladimir Putin’s budget into deficit.  Greentech Studies Purchase of Scan Energy to Expand Out of Italy  Greentech Energy Systems A/S, a Danish renewable-power
developer, is studying an acquisition of domestic competitor
Scan Energy A/S as it seeks to add assets outside Italy, where
it gets most of its sales.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Fall as Slowing World Growth Threatens to Sap Demand  Copper, on course for a second weekly drop in  London , may
fall as an unexpected stall by  France ’s economy and higher
Chinese inventories of the metal add to concern demand may slow
as world growth weakens.  ThyssenKrupp Earnings Miss Estimates as Steel Demand Slides (2)  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, posted
fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analyst estimates as
European demand weakened.  Tata Bonds Beat Steel Companies on Rating Upgrade: India Credit  Tata Steel Ltd. bonds are rallying the most since May 2010,
beating competitors’ debt on speculation a rating upgrade will
help India’s most-indebted company reduce funding costs.  Shanghai Copper Stockpiles Rise Fifth Week; Aluminum Drops (1)  Copper stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange rose for a fifth week, while aluminum inventories
declined to a 28-month low.  MINING:  S. Korea Boosts Rare-Earth Stockpile Target as Prices Gain (1)  South Korea , which meets all its rare-earth demand through
imports, has expanded and accelerated a plan to stockpile the
raw materials and may develop local and overseas deposits,
intensifying a global race for supplies.  GMR Energy to Acquire 30% Stake in  Indonesia ’s PT Golden Energy  GMR Energy Ltd., a unit of India’s GMR Infrastructure Ltd.,
agreed to buy a 30 percent stake in Indonesia’s PT Golden Energy
Mines for as much as $550 million in cash to help secure
supplies of coal.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls in London as Rally to Record Spurs Investor Sales  Gold declined in London as some investors sold the metal
after debt and slowdown speculation boosted prices to a record.  India’s Diamond Exports May Gain as Prices Fail to Damp Demand  Gem and jewelry exports from India, the world’s biggest
shipper, may increase as much as 20 percent this year, as a
surge in prices and fears of a slowdown in the U.S. fail to
deter buyers, an exporters’ group said.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat Falls, Paring Weekly Gain, as U.S. Raises Supply Outlook  Wheat fell in  Chicago , paring a third weekly climb, after
the U.S. government raised its outlook for global supplies on
higher-than-expected production in  Europe  and  Russia .  Coffee Rises as European Stockpiles Decline Again; Sugar Falls  Coffee rose in London, on course for the biggest weekly
climb since June 2010, as European stockpiles tracked by the
NYSE Liffe exchange fell for a second time. Sugar slid.  German, Polish Wheat Quality at Risk as Rains Hobble Harvest  Wheat crops in Germany and  Poland , which account for about
a quarter of European Union production, risk a slide in quality
as rain delays the harvest and causes sprouting damage to grain
still in the field.  Japan  Food Self-Sufficiency Rate May Drop to Record Low (1)  Japan’s food self-sufficiency rate may fall below a record
low reached in 1994 as domestic output drops following abnormal
crop weather and concerns over radiation contamination, a senior
industry executive said.  Rubber Posts Second Weekly Drop in  Tokyo  as Stocks, Oil Slump  Rubber posted a second weekly loss in Tokyo as stocks and
oil declined, dampening the demand outlook for commodities, and
investors cashed in the previous two days’ gains before a
holiday in Japan.  Japan Seeks to Buy 82,000 Tons of Food Wheat in Tender Aug. 26  Japan is seeking to buy 82,000 metric tons of food wheat in
a tender on Aug. 26, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries said today.  SHIPPING:  Supertanker Prices Are Set to Fall as Much as 20%, Arctic Says  Prices of secondhand supertankers probably are set to drop
as much as 20 percent, Arctic Securities ASA said.  ECONOMIES:  India  Industrial Output Growth Unexpectedly Quickens to 8.8% (1)  India’s industrial production grew at the quickest pace in
three months in June, weathering the fastest interest-rate
increases among  Asia ’s major economies.  China  Said to Tell Banks to Tighten Curbs on Property Loans (1)  Chinese regulators have told banks to tighten lending for
real estate on concern credit risks will increase as the impact
of government curbs deepens in the next three to five months, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Surging Yuan May Signal China Demand to Aid Global Recovery (1)  The yuan’s strongest gain in more than three years may
herald a new stimulus for a flagging global recovery as Chinese
importers get more firepower to buy up goods from slowing
economies in the U.S. and Europe.  Oil Reliance on China Rises as Growth Falters: Energy Markets  Oil investors betting on a rebound in prices are counting
more than ever on demand from China, just as economic growth in
the world’s second-biggest consumer of crude shows signs of
slowing.  Italy  May Pass Deficit-Cutting Measures to Quell Debt Crisis (1)  Silvio Berlusconi’s government is preparing to pass
measures to balance Italy’s budget in 2013 as part of an effort
to convince investors it can tame the region’s second-biggest
debt.  OTHER MARKETS:  European Stocks, U.S. Futures Fluctuate as Swiss Franc Weakens  European stocks climbed, extending the Stoxx Europe 600
Index’s rally from a two-year low, while U.S. stock-index
futures erased declines. The Swiss franc weakened for a second
day.  Euro Heads for Second Weekly Drop Versus Dollar; Franc Declines  The euro was set for a second straight weekly decline
against the dollar as a report showed industrial production in
the region fell in June.  Asian Currencies Gain on Economic Data; Yuan Surges on Surplus  The  Singapore dollar  and the Chinese yuan gained among
Asian currencies this week on signs the region’s economic
recovery is intact even as global financial markets turn
volatile.  Oil Set for Third Weekly Drop on Signs Economy Curbing Demand  Oil fell in  New York , heading for a third weekly decline,
on signs that the global recovery is slowing down and demand for
fuels will be reduced.  SPORTS:  Mealamu to Lead All Blacks Squad as McCaw, Carter Get Rest (1)  New Zealand rugby selectors rested nine senior players
including captain Richie McCaw and playmaker Dan Carter for next
week’s Tri-Nations match in  South Africa .  Sneijder’s Wage Demands Scupper Move to United: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  PGA’s 15th Hole Proves More Difficult a Decade After Toms’s Ace  Tiger Woods  had a much different experience on the Atlanta
Athletic Club’s par-3 15th hole during the first round of the
U.S. PGA Championship than David Toms did a decade ago. Woods
wasn’t alone.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  