-- 
Largest U.S. Money Funds Shun Italian, Spanish Banks, Favor Swiss Assets

-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h
-- 
2011-08-12T11:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/u-s-money-funds-shun-italian-spanish-banks-for-swiss-assets.html
The six largest U.S. money market
funds have eliminated their lending to Italian and Spanish
banks, reduced investments in French banks and are favoring
Swiss securities for their $511 billion of assets.  Holdings of European bank certificates of deposit,
repurchase agreements and commercial paper reported by the six
largest funds managed by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Fidelity
Investments ,  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) ,  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  and the
 Vanguard Group  Inc. show they are shunning euro-region banks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European bank shares tumbled to the lowest since March 2009
on Aug. 10, led by Paris-based Societe Generale SA, amid concern
that France’s creditworthiness was in doubt. U.S. prime money
funds have reduced European debt holdings by $38 billion to $340
billion in July, according to an Aug. 9 report by JPMorgan.  “The serious risk here is a sudden loss of confidence,”
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts including Stefan Stalmann wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “No bank can
exist when counterparties lose confidence and withdraw their
funding -- even if the loss of confidence is triggered for the
wrong reasons.”  The six U.S. funds had completely exited positions in the
two largest Spanish and Italian banks at the end of July and had
cut back their lending to French banks, according to the survey
to be published in today’s Bloomberg Risk newsletter. The funds
included were: the JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund, Vanguard
Prime Money Market Fund,  Fidelity Cash Reserves (FDRXX)  Fund, Fidelity
Prime Money Market Portfolio Fund, BlackRock TempFund, and the
Federated Prime Obligations Fund.  Swiss Holdings  The moves are a leading indicator of risk appetite among
the world’s most liquid money market funds, which have been
suffering investor outflows because of their exposure to
European banks. Money market funds in the U.S. had a net outflow
of $37.7 billion in the four weeks ended July 20, according to a
report from analysts at Societe Generale.  Swiss bank holdings jumped 208 percent to $18.7 billion in
the period, according to the sample, which surveyed exposure to
the 10 largest banks in continental  Europe  by market value.  The
Fidelity Cash Reserves Fund boosted its exposure to Credit
Suisse Group AG, the second-biggest Swiss bank, by 1,851 percent
to $4.8 billion. Holdings in  Spain  and  Italy ’s largest banks
dropped to zero from $20 billion in the same period.  Deposits and instruments in French banks climbed 14 percent
in the second quarter, before reversing in July, when holdings
fell by 10.2 percent on the year-earlier period, filings show.  French Banks  “Despite the fact that the banks are money good and
there’s no credit risk, within the money-fund world we are
susceptible to headline risk,” said Kevin Kennedy, a portfolio
manager at  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s bond unit Western Asset Management.
“France has been identified as the big risk going forward should
the dominoes start to fall.”  Western Asset’s money funds held about $1.4 billion of
commercial paper from French banks at the end of July, according
to data from JPMorgan.  Federated still uses French banks,  Deborah Cunningham ,
chief investment officer for money markets for Pittsburgh-based
Federated, said in an e-mail. “Federated continues to be
comfortable with the European banks that we own and believe they
offer money-market funds a high-quality investment that
represents minimal credit risk,” she wrote.  Vanguard, the  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based mutual-fund
manager, got out of most debt issued by European banks in 2010
when sovereign debt issues first surfaced, said David Glocke,
head of taxable  money market funds  at Vanguard Group.  Move to ‘Sidelines’  “We thought it was best to move to the sidelines rather
than stay in the game,” Glocke said. Vanguard had $165 billion
in money market funds at the end of July, according to Crane
Data LLC.  Fidelity Investments, the biggest U.S. manager of money-
market funds, said its cash funds don’t have “direct exposure”
to banks based in  Greece , Ireland, Portugal, Spain or Italy.  The firm only invests in 50 or so of Europe’s “strongest
financial institutions,” Adam Banker, a spokesman for Boston-
based Fidelity, said in an e-mail. Fidelity had $411 billion in
money market funds as of July 31, according to research firm
Crane Data. Officials at JPMorgan and Blackrock declined to
comment.  Financial markets are overreacting to concerns that French
banks might suffer from exposure to their nation’s sovereign
debt, Institute of International Finance managing director
 Charles Dallara  said yesterday. After plunging 15 percent on
Aug. 10,  Societe Generale (GLE)  rose 3.7 percent yesterday.  Societe Generale  French banks may have 4 billion euros ($5.7 billion) to 5
billion euros less funding available than a “couple” of months
ago after U.S. prime money funds declined since the end of May,
the RBS analysts said. French banks may be able to use
alternative sources of dollar funding, reduce dollar-denominated
trading assets, tap into their liquidity reserves or raise funds
in euros and swap them into dollars, the analysts said.  Officials at Societe Generale couldn’t immediately comment.
A spokeswoman for  BNP Paribas (BNP)  referred to the bank’s Aug. 2
earnings, in which the lender said it has access to diversified
funding sources and had seen “significant extension of the
average maturity of short-term funding since the crisis.”  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s biggest
banks, said in their second-quarters earnings that their year-
on-year growth in deposits showed the resilience of their
capital base. Officials at Intesa declined to comment further,
while a spokesman for UniCredit didn’t immediately respond.  “We could even do without the wholesale market for the
rest of the year and for 2012, even though this is not our
intention,” Intesa said in its earnings presentation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ted Merz in New York at   tmerz@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  