-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Drops to Three-Decade Low Amid Economic Headwinds

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-12T14:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/u-s-consumer-sentiment-falls-more-than-expected-to-54-9-in-michigan-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
plunged in August to the lowest level since May 1980, adding to
concern that weak employment gains and volatility in the stock
market will prompt households to retrench.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment slumped to 54.9 from 63.7 the prior
month. The gauge was projected to decline to 62, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The biggest one-week slump in stocks since 2008 and the
threat of default on the nation’s debt may have exacerbated
consumers’ concerns as unemployment hovers above 9 percent and
companies are hesitant to hire. Rising pessimism poses a risk
household spending will cool further, hindering a recovery that
 Federal Reserve  policy makers said this week was already
advancing “considerably slower” than projected.  “The mood is very depressed,” said  Chris Christopher , an
economist at IHS Global Insight Inc. in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “Consumers are very fatigued and very uncertain.
In the short term, people are going to pull back on spending.”  Estimates of 69 economists for the confidence measure
ranged from 59 to 66.5, according to the Bloomberg survey. The
index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession
that began in December 2007.  Stocks, which initially pared gains after the report,
climbed as higher-than-estimated earnings tempered concern the
economy is slowing. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8
percent to 1,182.45 at 10:37 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries
increased, pushing down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
to 2.24 percent from 2.34 percent late yesterday.  Retail Sales  A report from the Commerce Department today showed sales at
U.S. retailers climbed 0.5 percent in July, the most in four
months, indicating consumers are holding up even as employment
slows. Purchases excluding automobiles rose more than forecast.  Today’s confidence figures parallel the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, which fell to minus 49.1 in the period to Aug. 7,
its lowest level since mid-May.  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
fell to 69.3 from 75.8 the prior month.  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
decreased to 45.7 from 56 the prior month.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.4 percent over the next 12 months matching
July as the lowest since February.  Inflation Expectations  Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of inflation over the
next five years, the figures tracked by Federal Reserve policy
makers, the same as the prior month.  Limited employment gains are a headwind for consumers. U.S.
employers added 117,000 jobs in July as the  unemployment rate 
fell to 9.1 percent. The cost of gas, which reached $3.70
earlier this month, could also be eating into Americans’
wallets.  Consumer spending dropped in June for the first time in
almost two years as savings climbed, the Commerce Department
reported earlier this month. The economy grew at a 1.3 percent
annual rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter
that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed.  Federal Reserve  The Fed’s Open Market Committee said it may keep the
benchmark  interest rate  close to zero through mid-2013 to
bolster the recovery. Central bankers said they are “prepared
to employ” additional tools to bolster an economy hobbled by
weak hiring and anemic household spending.  The announcement came after the biggest one-week plunge in
stocks since November 2008 followed by the first-ever downgrade
of the nation’s top credit rating.  S&P’s credit downgrade came after lawmakers agreed on Aug.
2 to raise the nation’s debt ceiling and put in place a plan to
enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions over the next 10
years, less than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings kept their top
rankings on  U.S. debt .  Limited jobs gains and elevated gas prices are heightening
the risk for slow growth in the second half of the year, said
Donnie Smith, chief executive officer of  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)   “Unemployment’s still over 9 percent, gas prices continue
to take a bigger piece of disposable income with the average
price of unleaded peaking at almost $4 a gallon in May,” Smith
said on an Aug. 8 conference call with analysts. “These
macroeconomic factors have, of course, affected consumer
behavior in both the foodservice and the retail channels.”  Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson, the biggest U.S. meat
producer, said it will lose money in the chicken business this
quarter as a weak economy eroded demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  