-- 
Ukraine Court Declines to Hear Appeal Against Tymoshenko Arrest

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-08-12T09:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/ukraine-court-declines-to-hear-appeal-against-tymoshenko-arrest.html
A Ukrainian court declined to hear
former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s appeal challenging her
arrest as her lawyer said the defense team will take the case to
the Supreme Court and the  European Court  of Human Rights.  Kiev Court of Appeals Judge Olha Yefimova ruled the
detention isn’t subject to an appeal because preventive measures
can’t be challenged under criminal law, Tymoshenko’s spokeswoman
Natalia Lysova said by phone.  The former premier was arrested a week ago after the
District Court in Kiev ruled she had violated court procedure
and sought to obstruct a trial in which prosecutors allege she
abused her power and agreed to pay too much to buy Russian
natural gas in 2009. The case, which sparked local protests and
criticism from the U.S. and the European Union, started in June.  “No doubt it’s an absurd decision,” Tymoshenko’s lawyer
Yuriy Sukhov said in a statement on her official website.
“Obviously we will appeal to the  Supreme Court , though the
result will probably be the same because there’s no justice in
Ukraine.” The defense team also plans an appeal to the European
Court of Human Rights, he said.  Tymoshenko, 50, says President  Viktor Yanukovych  devised
the case to silence his opposition before elections next year.
The two leaders have been at odds since 2004, when she helped
lead the Orange Revolution that overturned Yanukovych’s victory
in the presidential ballot.  Tymoshenko lost to Yanukovych in last year’s February
presidential vote. She was ordered not to leave Ukraine in
December during a separate investigation into the sale of
emissions permits to  Japan  in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  