-- 
Lundin Loses 42% Rejecting Takeovers Now Needing a 71% Premium: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-08-12T15:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/lundin-loses-42-spurning-bids-needing-71-premium-real-m-a.html
Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , which lost
almost half its value after spurning two takeover bids, now
needs an acquirer willing to pay the biggest premium for a
diversified minerals deal to make shareholders whole again.  The copper producer’s market capitalization has plunged
C$2.2 billion ($2.2 billion), or 42 percent, in about four
months since rejecting a C$4.8 billion bid from Equinox Minerals
Ltd. and abandoning plans to sell itself after deeming offers to
be inadequate. To recover the losses, Lundin would now have to
find a buyer willing to pay a 71 percent takeover premium,
making it the most expensive diversified-minerals deal greater
than $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While bidders may still be lured by Lundin’s stake in a
copper mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo and a valuation
cheaper than 97 percent of the Toronto-based company’s rivals,
Chairman Lukas Lundin may insist on a price exceeding Equinox’s
prior offer, according to Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Potential
suitors now must weigh a 17 percent slump in copper prices and
increasing signs the U.S. may fall back into a recession as
stocks suffer the worst slump since the financial crisis.  “It was a complete debacle when they rejected the Equinox
bid and failed to find any alternative bids,”  George Topping , a
Toronto-based analyst at Stifel, said in a phone interview.
“With the hindsight of the current market and current share
prices, they should’ve done that one and moved on.”  Sophia Shane, a spokeswoman for Lundin, declined to comment
on takeover speculation and said company executives were not
available.  Inmet vs. Equinox  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN) ’s all-stock agreement in January valued
Lundin’s equity at C$4.2 billion, or a 2.2 percent premium,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Equinox, the owner of
 Africa ’s largest copper mine, countered a month later with an
unsolicited cash-or-stock offer of C$8.10 a share, a 14 percent
premium, the data show.  In March, Lundin rejected Equinox’s bid, later saying the
Perth, Australia-based company’s offer was “low ball,”
“risky” and required too much debt financing. Lundin then
mutually terminated its deal with Toronto-based Inmet and
adopted a poison pill to thwart hostile bids while it considered
options.  “Lundin actually decided to put itself for sale and
explore strategic alternatives to fight off the Equinox bid,”
Yemi Oshodi, a managing director of M&A and special situations
trading at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a
phone interview. “That higher bid obviously never materialized.
Lundin was left with nothing. They have cost shareholders a
decent amount of money.”  Destroying  Shareholder Value   Equinox withdrew its bid April 25 when it agreed to be
bought by Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  Lundin abandoned sale
plans in May after offers came in too low.  Before today, Lundin had plunged 42 percent since April,
wiping out C$2.24 billion in market value. The stock reached
C$9.26, or a market capitalization of C$5.39 billion, April 29
as traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions bet on a
higher offer.  The copper and zinc producer traded at a 6 percent discount
to its book value as of yesterday. Only two of 34 diversified-
minerals companies greater than $1 billion are valued below
their assets minus liabilities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While copper was trading near a record when Inmet and
Equinox made their bids, the metal has since retreated as
America’s economy expanded less than economists estimated in the
second quarter. Copper for delivery in three months on the
London Metal Exchange closed yesterday at $8,881 a ton after
dropping as much as 17 percent from its Feb. 15 intraday peak.  Copper Prices  The metal used in electric wire, roofing and plumbing will
average $9,918 next year before dropping to $8,762 in 2013, the
median of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunged 14 percent through
yesterday from its 2011 high as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened,
S&P downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the first time
and reports on manufacturing and consumer spending showed the
world’s largest economy is slowing.  Given the decline in global equity valuations, it would be
“tough” for Lundin management to turn down a bid around C$8 a
share, WallachBeth’s Oshodi said. Lundin may be interested in
about C$8.50 a share, Normand Lamarche, a  fund manager  at Front
Street Capital in Toronto, said in a phone interview. The firm
has $3 billion under management and owned more than 600,000
shares of Lundin as of May 31.  Record Premium  “People had a lot of faith in Lukas Lundin, that he was a
deal guy,”  John Stephenson , a portfolio manager at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto, which has $2.5 billion
under management and owns Lundin shares, said in a phone
interview. “The end result was he didn’t get the price he
thought it was worth. I would hope that if he got an offer for
C$9 at this point he’d take it and run.”  To reach the April high of C$9.26, Lundin would have to be
purchased at a 71 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price
of C$5.40. The highest announced premium ever offered in the
diversified minerals industry for takeovers greater than $500
million was 64 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Matching Equinox’s C$8.10-a-share bid would mean a 50 percent
premium to yesterday’s close.  Lundin rose 3.9 percent to C$5.61 at 11:21 a.m. today in
Toronto, giving it a market value of about C$3.25 billion.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, and
 Nyrstar (NYR)  NV failed to reach an agreement on a joint bid for
Lundin, and talks ended last week, two people familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
weren’t public, said this week.  Tenke Copper Mine  While Nyrstar, the world’s largest refined zinc producer,
is still interested in some of Lundin’s assets, it can’t afford
to buy the company on its own, one of the people said. Geert
Lambrechts, a spokesman for Balen, Belgium-based Nyrstar,
declined to comment on takeover speculation regarding Lundin.  Lundin owns  24 percent  of Tenke Fungurume, a copper and
cobalt mine in the south of the Congo.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. (FCX)  holds a 56 percent stake in the $2 billion project,
and Gecamines, Congo’s state-owned mining company, owns the
remaining 20 percent. Lundin also owns the zinc mines of
Zinkgruvan in Sweden and Galmoy in Ireland and the  Neves-Corvo 
copper and zinc mine in  Portugal .  The company’s copper mines, which accounted for 66 percent
of revenue last year, and zinc production that contributed 13
percent of sales may attract separate buyers, said Stifel’s
Topping.  HudBay Merger  Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded copper
producer, may bid for Lundin’s copper assets to consolidate its
ownership in the Tenke mine, WallachBeth’s Oshodi said.  Eric Kinneberg , a spokesman for Phoenix-based Freeport, didn’t
respond to a voicemail or e-mail requesting comment.  A merger with HudBay Minerals Inc., a Canadian zinc and
copper miner, may also be an option for Lundin, said Topping. In
2009, HudBay scrapped a bid to acquire the 80 percent of Lundin
that it didn’t already own for about C$684 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’re not looking to do large-scale M&A,” said John Vincic, a spokesman for Toronto-based HudBay. “Our focus is on
earlier stage assets at this point. Our hands are full with two
large-scale construction projects.”  “With regards to a specific acquisition of Lundin, we
never comment on market speculation,” he said in a phone
interview.  The possibility that economic growth will slow further as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis worsens means Lundin may have
missed the chance to sell itself at the best price, First
Asset’s Stephenson said in a phone interview.  “The sentiment is overwhelmingly negative, and there’s
very much a feeling in the market that these guys missed it,”
Stephenson said. “They should’ve sold when there was some
interest in the name.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 