-- 
Luxury Retail at Risk as Stock Market Drop Rattles Wealthy U.S. Consumers

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-08-12T14:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/luxury-retail-at-risk-as-stock-market-drop-rattles-u-s-shoppers.html
The stock market’s 13 percent plunge
since July 22 may mean lower sales for high-end retailers such
as  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and Neiman Marcus Group Inc.  The shopping habits of Americans who make more than
$100,000 a year are tied to the positive wealth effect of rising
shares, so the decline in recent weeks likely will hurt high-
income consumers and the U.S. expansion, according to Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Bank and formerly of PNC Bank.  Their spending “has been a driving force for the economy
in this recovery and the recent sell-off of equities is a
fundamental threat to that,” said Dye, who is based in  Dallas .  The top 20 percent of households account for about 40
percent of  consumer spending , according to  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York and a former
 Federal Reserve  economist. “Since consumer spending represents
70 percent of U.S. gross domestic product, any pull-back in
consumption by upper-income households would present a challenge
for overall GDP growth,” Feroli said.  Consumer spending unexpectedly contracted in June for the
first time in almost two years, falling 0.2 percent after a 0.1
percent gain the prior month, according to the Commerce
Department. That has contributed to a recovery that’s already
“considerably slower” than expected, according to the Federal
Reserve.  ‘Flattened Out’  “Household spending has flattened out,” Fed policy makers
said in a statement after their Aug. 9 meeting, predicting “a
somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming quarters.” The Fed
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero, a record
low, at least through mid-2013 to encourage a rebound.  Shares of luxury retailers including  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  have already begun to underperform the broader
market and this may continue, potentially echoing the steep
losses of three years ago, according to  Peter Cook , chief
investment officer at Performance Trust Investment Advisors in
 Chicago , which had more than $350 million assets under
management as of July 31.  “We saw this in 2008, when high volatility and stock-
market declines scared investors who are affluent,” Cook said.
“They don’t spend as much money in that environment, which
affects high-end retailers disproportionately.”  New York-based Saks and Seattle-based Nordstrom, the two
companies that make up the Bloomberg Index of U.S. High-End
Department Stores, have underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index by 12 percent since July 19. These stocks declined 83
percent from Dec. 31, 2007, through Nov. 21, 2008, while the  S&P
500  fell 46 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Unexpected Decline  Other companies that appeal to high-income households could
be susceptible to underperformance if their sales unexpectedly
decline, according to  David Strasser , a New York-based analyst
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  Affluent consumers already have cut back on discretionary
spending, based on data from Unity Marketing Inc., which tracks
luxury retailing. These Americans spent 18 percent less on
expensive goods in the quarter ending June 30 compared with a
year ago. The average was $25,833 across 22 categories, the
lowest since the third quarter of 2009.  Confidence among high-income Americans fell to negative 21
for the week ended Aug. 7, according to the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index. This was their most pessimistic outlook about the
economy, buying climate and personal finances since November
2009; in the prior week, their confidence declined the most of
any income group.  ‘Totally Discretionary’  “Luxury goods are totally discretionary and nobody needs
any of it, so it’s the easiest thing to cut back on,” said Pam Danziger, president of Unity Marketing in Stevens,  Pennsylvania .  The recent stock-market turmoil will have a “direct
impact” on future spending patterns because these consumers are
already in a tenuous place, she said. As the value of their
homes and investment portfolios rose before the 18-month
recession that began in December 2007, high-income consumers
were spending their perceived wealth rather than their real
income, according to Danziger.  Even amid the economic and political uncertainty of the
past several months, high-end department retailers reported
strong sales. Same-store comparable sales increased 15.5 percent
for the three-month period through July 30 for Saks, the biggest
increase in at least four years, the company said Aug. 4. Same-
store sales at  Neiman Marcus  and Nordstrom rose 11 percent and
7.3 percent, respectively, in the same period.  Rising Sales  Retail sales in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent in July, the most
in four months, according to data released by the Commerce
Department in  Washington  today.  A rebound in the stock market would temper some of the
scare of the past few weeks, supporting continued purchases by
high-income consumers, Dye said. Even so, the volatility is
likely to have “a lingering negative impact,” he said.  The recession that ended in June 2009 also remains fresh in
many peoples’ minds, particularly given the sluggish economic
recovery since then, according to Strasser. As a result, their
propensity to spend on purely discretionary items may be
hampered by the market’s turbulence.  “It’s hard to find a new demand driver for the high-end
segment now that the stock market gains have diminished,”
Strasser said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  