-- 
Voters Question Tea Party-Backed Lawmaker Following Debt Deal

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-08-12T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/voters-question-tea-party-backed-lawmaker-after-vote-on-u-s-debt-accord.html
First-term Representative Sean Duffy
leveraged voter backlash over expanded government into an
election win last year. His support last week for the U.S. debt-
reduction deal is leaving the Republican vulnerable to a
potential revolt of his own.  In Duffy’s northwest Wisconsin district, the stock market’s
volatility following  Standard & Poor’s  lowering of the nation’s
credit rating has some voters angered with a deal they say
didn’t do enough to prevent a downgrade. Others say they’re fed
up with an ongoing debt debate that diverts attention from ways
to jump-start a slow-moving economy.  After benefiting from an anti-Washington mood to take
office, Duffy now confronts voters who -- while they may not
offer specifics -- view the government as dysfunctional, and see
the financial markets validating that view.  Charles Walker, a retiree from Haugen, Wisconsin, said his
investments lost about $30,000 in value in the Aug. 8 drop. He
said he’s prepared to vote against Duffy and other office-
holders next year because they’re not doing enough to address
the  budget deficit  and the economy.  “Incumbents should be taken out as far as I’m concerned,
because they’re not doing what we elected them to do,” said
Walker, a long-time Republican who has voted Democratic in
recent elections.  How Duffy and the 86 other freshman  House Republicans 
handle such discontent is key to whether the party keeps control
of the chamber in 2012. Democrats need 24 seats to retake the
House and Duffy, elected with the support of Tea Party activists
rallying against the reach of big government, is a top target.  Default Concern  In voting earlier this month for a compromise raising the
nation’s debt ceiling by more than $2 trillion and demanding an
equal amount in budget savings over a decade, Duffy, 39, made a
choice avoided by many House members facing close races next
year. He said he felt compelled to help avoid a default on the
nation’s financial obligations, given that the measure makes
more than $900 billion in initial cuts.  While the compromise may have angered some, he said, swing
voters should appreciate his willingness to advance the debate
as leaders seek more budget cuts in the months ahead.  “Some don’t like it, some like it, but it’s the
independents who drive these election cycles,” Duffy, a former
county prosecutor, said in an interview before circulating with
veterans at the Superior job fair. “They want responsibility
out of government, they want accountability out of government.”  Political Test  The compromise will challenge his political skills,
positioning Duffy to navigate between Republicans who support
deep spending cuts and Democrats and some independent voters who
want to shield retirement and other programs and believe some
taxes are needed to close the budget gap.  “From the get-go, Duffy is going to be a target for
Democrats,” said  Nathan Gonzales , political director of the
nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political Report . “The bill is
controversial enough that he could draw even more criticism from
the left” while he parries “criticism from the right now.”  Duffy has shown a willingness to part ways with Republican
leaders that could help him, said  Charles Franklin , a  University
of Wisconsin  political science professor. That includes voting
for funding for public radio -- which is popular in his district
-- when most Republicans voted to cut off those funds this year.  “It’s not a district that has for the last 40 years
embraced doctrinaire conservatives at any level,” Franklin
said. “Some moderation on his part is a wise strategy for a
Republican with intentions to hold the seat for a long time.”  Speed-Pole Climbing  Duffy, the 10th of 11 children raised in Hayward,  Wisconsin ,
has won world lumberjacking titles for speed-pole climbing -- a
good fit in a timberland-rich district. He also had a brush with
celebrity-hood as a cast member in 1997 on  MTV ’s “The Real
World:  Boston ,” a show designed to spark confrontation among
young people from different backgrounds.  Still, he was a surprising victor last year. The district,
sprawling across almost a quarter of the state and including
small towns nestled along Lake Superior, was represented for
more than 40 years by Democrat David Obey. District voters have
backed Democratic presidential nominees since 1988.  Political analysts ranked Duffy an underdog when he
announced in 2009 he would challenge Obey, the then-chairman of
the House Appropriations Committee. Obey, though, decided in
mid-2010 not to seek re-election, and Duffy in November defeated
a Democratic state senator with 52 percent of the vote.  Palin Support  His candidacy caught the eye of Tea Party stalwart Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor and 2008 Republican nominee
for vice president who urged donors to support Duffy.  As he seeks re-election next year, political headwinds he
likely will encounter include generic ill-will toward
Washington. A record 82 percent of Americans disapprove of the
way Congress is doing its job, according to a New York Times-CBS
News survey conducted Aug 2-3.  Don Kozlowski, an independent voter in Merrill, Wisconsin,
who supported Duffy in 2010, says he’s dismayed Republicans in
the debt talks dismissed tax increases for the wealthy to help
revamp the government’s finances. He said both parties need to
accept a broader deficit-cutting plan, and quickly, to restore
investor confidence and turn the debate to  job creation .  “We’re suffering, look at what the stock market’s doing,”
Kozlowski, a welder, said Aug. 8 after the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  dropped almost 635 points. “They should have worked
this out a long time ago, not put it off and put it off.”  ‘Stop Arguing’  “He’s lost sight of what’s going on,” said William
Wiseman, a Republican who met Duffy at an Aug. 10 job fair for
military veterans in Superior, Wisconsin, where Wiseman was
looking for a better-paying job than his at a railroad transport
firm. “He needs to do his job. Stop arguing, fix it and let’s
get back to doing the government’s work.”  Others defend Duffy. Chris Durst, a retired social worker
in Wausau, Wisconsin, said Duffy’s vote for the debt deal could
hurt him with the Republican base, but shows he can take more-
moderate moves that fit the district.  “In his case, it will probably help him in a presidential
election year, because he can come off as a moderate as opposed
to a more conservative Republican,” Durst said. “And I think
most thoughtful people realize it will take a year or two to
straighten out the deficit.”  Duffy, who is married and the father of six children, also
must contend with political tumult in Wisconsin, where voters in
both parties have been stirred this year by Republican Governor
 Scott Walker ’s successful drive for a law curbing union
bargaining rights.  So far, Duffy faces no Republican primary challenger. Among
Democrats, former state senator Patrick Kreitlow has announced
his candidacy.  Boosting Duffy’s chances is the 2010 Census-mandated
redistricting that brought more Republican voters into his
district. He also has a significant fundraising advantage,
collecting $612,000 through June 30 to Kreitlow’s $90,000. House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, will hold two
fundraisers for Duffy in the district on Aug. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  