-- 
Hedge Funds Vulpes, BIA, Riley Paterson Profit From Rout With Bearish Bets

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-08-12T02:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/vulpes-bia-riley-paterson-hedge-funds-profit-from-rout-with-bearish-bets.html
Asian hedge funds run by Vulpes
Investment Management, Ballingal Investment Advisors Ltd. and
Riley Paterson Investment Management rose this month as managers
profited from the worst rout in equity markets since 2008.  Vulpes’s long Asian volatility and arbitrage fund, LAVA,
advanced 5 percent in the month through Aug. 10, said Stephen Diggle, the firm’s founder. Ballingal’s BIA Pacific Macro Fund
rose about 4 percent, said two people briefed on the return who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
The Riley Paterson Asian Opportunities Fund gained 2 percent in
the same period and the Iridium Alpha Fund advanced more than 6
percent, according to their managers.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 11 percent this month
to yesterday as  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit
rating and a slump in Italian and Spanish debt intensified
threats to the global economy. Last week’s drop was the biggest
weekly decline for the gauge since October 2008, when credit
markets froze after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “The consequences for Asia of a return to recession in
 Europe  and the U.S.A. would be significant, both in terms of
real economic activity and in capital flows,” Daren Riley and
Stewart Paterson, the Singapore-based founders of Riley Paterson,
said in a newsletter sent to investors on Aug. 10. “We will
endeavor to capitalize on the current market turmoil.”  ‘Lack of Policy’  More of Riley Paterson’s portfolio wagered on falling,
rather than rising, shares during the first week of August, the
managers said. Long-short managers buy stocks they expect to
rise and hedge those bets with sales of borrowed shares they
hope to buy back at a cheaper price.  “The American debt downgrade, while not unexpected and not
necessarily an ‘event’ in itself, has focused the market’s
attention on the lack of policy options open to the U.S.
government,” said the managers, who analyze macroeconomic
cycles before betting on the market.  Sovereign and bank credit-default swaps surged after the
 Federal Reserve ’s pledge to hold borrowing costs close to zero
for two years added to concern of a double-dip recession. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 9 the central bank would
hold its target rate for overnight loans between banks at a
record-low of zero to 0.25 percent in an effort to revive a
slowing U.S. economy and aid global growth. The  European Central
Bank  stepped in to stall the crisis by buying Spanish and
Italian sovereign debt this week.  Increased Volatility  “With several supposedly ‘core’ European economies having
economic fundamentals more akin to the ‘periphery,’ the
potential for a third world style debt trap to develop is
becoming increasingly evident even to the most fanatical euro
enthusiasts,” Riley Paterson said. “While global markets might
have been willing to turn a blind eye to events in  Greece ,
 Portugal  and even Spain, Italy and  France  are of a completely
different scale.”  The VIX, a measure of market volatility known as Wall
Street’s “fear gauge,” soared 50 percent to 48 on Aug. 8, the
biggest gain since February 2007.  Vulpes’s volatility fund, which uses options to bet on
fluctuations in the price of securities, profited from the price
swings and disparities in the price of Asian stocks, said Diggle,
who is based in Singapore. It also made money from wagers on
sovereign debt in Europe, the U.K. and  Australia  as well as
European bank credit-default swaps. The fund maintains its bets
that gold and oil prices will rise with “inflationary pressures
building,” he said.  Yuan Gain  “Three years ago the selling was driven by deleveraging or
margin calls, whereas this past week it has been more reflexive
as investors sell in fear of a repeat of 2008,” Diggle said.
“The simple truth is, this time around, it is different; now
it’s governments who look most likely to fail.”  The Dymon  Asia  Macro Fund gained about 0.5 percent this
month through Aug. 11, bringing its return to more than 15
percent this year, said Danny Yong, chief executive officer of
Singapore-based Dymon Asia Capital, which manages almost $1.3
billion.  The fund, which is betting on stronger Asian currencies,
profited from the yuan’s advance. The yuan strengthened beyond
6.4 per dollar yesterday for the first time in 17 years.  “Given what happened in equities in the past week, in the
coming weeks and months investors will be focused on the
preservation of capital as well as a better store of wealth,”
said Yong. “Everyone is convinced they don’t want the dollar
and Europe is still sorting out its own issues.”  Iridium, Ballingal  Iridium, an equity hedge fund focusing on commodities-
related industries, made money from bets that “centered around
the derating of container shipping, agricultural and selective
mining companies with poor cost management,” said Jason Wang,
chief executive officer of Singapore-based Iridium Asset
Management.  Ballingal’s fund, which seeks to profit from broad economic
trends, rose 1.3 percent this week through Aug. 10, adding to
last week’s 2.8 percent gain, the people said. Hong Kong-based
Chief Investment Officer Andrew Ballingal declined to comment.  Azentus Capital Management Ltd., the $2 billion Hong Kong-
based hedge fund led by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
proprietary trader Morgan Sze, lost 0.26 percent between July 29
and Aug. 5, said a person with knowledge of the matter. The fund,
which has stopped taking new money from investors, has recovered
the loss this week and generated a positive return for the month
as of yesterday, the person said. Sze declined to comment.  Capital Preservation  Janchor Partners Pan Asian Fund, with assets of about $1
billion and run by John Ho, former Asia head of the Children’s
Investment Fund Management UK LLP, fell less than 1 percent last
week after returning 9.2 percent after fees in the first seven
months of the year, said a person familiar with the fund, asking
not to be identified because the information is private. Ho, who
is based in  Hong Kong , declined to comment.  Canning Park Capital’s CCP Asian Opportunities Fund, which
trades the equities of large-capitalization companies in Asia,
fell 0.3 percent this month through Aug. 10, said Jason Rich,
the firm’s Sydney-based chief investment officer. The fund has
gained 4.2 percent this year.  “It’s more difficult and volatile than I’ve ever seen
before,” Rich said. “Right now capital preservation is key.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  