-- 
Wal-Mart Shakes Up E-Commerce, Execs Leave

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-08-12T21:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/wal-mart-shakes-up-e-commerce-execs-leave.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is transferring management of its e-commerce
business to heads of stores in developed countries and said two
online executives are leaving the company.  E-commerce leaders in markets such as the U.S., Canada and
the U.K., will now report directly to the heads of stores in
those countries instead of global e-commerce executive Eduardo Castro-Wright, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said today
in an internal memo provided to Bloomberg News.  Raul Vazquez, who leads the developed markets group in
global e-commerce, and Steve Nave, head of Walmart.com in the
U.S., are leaving the company, Wal-Mart said. The reorganization
comes a year after Castro-Wright took charge at the online unit
to boost  Internet sales  and fend off competition from Web
retailers such  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  by expanding in sales of goods
including groceries.  “Wal-Mart has been lagging in e-commerce, and the loss of
two executives won’t help where the company’s going,”  Craig Johnson , president of Customer Growth Partners LLC, a  New
Canaan , Connecticut-based consulting firm, said in an interview.
“It will be challenging for them to build the momentum they
need.”  As more shoppers migrate to the Web and sales at U.S.
stores decline, Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke has focused on
improving the company’s Internet unit by buying Kosmix, a
Silicon Valley e-commerce startup, testing home delivery of
fresh groceries ordered online and creating @WalmartLabs to
speed up innovation.  Amazon Competition  Wal-Mart doesn’t disclose its online sales. Analysts at
Wells Fargo Securities LLC estimate that Walmart.com has revenue
of about $6 billion a year, less than 2 percent of total sales.
Amazon.com, the world’s largest Internet retailer, increased
sales 40 percent to $34.2 billion in 2010.  “Wal-Mart has certainly been facing more competition from
Amazon and their domestic business has been challenged in
stores,” said  Sucharita Mulpuru , a retail analyst at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  “This was an
intentional shake-up.”  Dave Tovar, a spokesman, said the two online executives are
leaving for personal reasons and declined to comment further.
Nave joined Wal-Mart in 2000 and Vazquez in 2002, Tovar said.
Joel Anderson will to replace Nave, and will report to  Bill Simon , the president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart
U.S.  Wal-Mart rose 2 cents to $49.75 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 7.8
percent this year.  Reuters earlier reported on the shakeup at the e-commerce
unit.  With assistance from Ashley Lutz in New York. Editors: James
Callan, Robin Ajello  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  