-- 
Wall Street Traders’ Bonuses to Drop as Much as 30%, Study Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-12T21:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/wall-street-traders-bonuses-to-drop-as-much-as-30-this-year-study-says.html
Wall Street  will cut year-end
bonuses for fixed-income and equities employees by as much as 30
percent from last year, according to revised estimates from
 Johnson Associates Inc.   Bonuses for fixed-income and trading department are
expected to drop 20 percent to 30 percent, a reversal from a May
 estimate  that they would rise 10 percent to 15 percent,
according to the New York-based compensation consulting firm.
Senior managers will probably receive bonuses that are unchanged
to 30 percent lower, the firm said.  The new estimates are driven by a “lack of economic
recovery” as well as regulations and the “ongoing uncertainty
in world markets,” according to the e-mailed report.  Lower-than-expected U.S. economic growth in the first half,
a simmering debt crisis in  Europe , and the downgrade of the U.S.
government’s rating by  Standard & Poor’s  have contributed to a
20 percent drop in the  S&P 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  this year.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank , reported
on July 19 that fixed-income trading revenue plunged 63 percent
from the first quarter.  Wall Street firms set aside a portion of revenue to pay
year-end bonuses. Goldman Sachs cut its compensation pool 9
percent in the first half from the same period last year.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank kept its first-half
compensation expense unchanged, while  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said on
July 21 that it set aside 10 percent more to pay bankers and
traders.  Johnson said bonuses for equity traders will be flat to
down 15 percent, while employees in the prime brokerage
divisions that service hedge funds may still get as much as 5
percent more in bonuses.  Investment bankers, both merger advisers and employees in
underwriting departments, will probably get 5 percent to 10
percent more this year, the firm said. Employees in stock funds,
private equity and hedge fund workers and people who advise high
net worth individuals will probably get bonuses that are flat to
5 percent higher, Johnson said. Fixed-income asset managers may
get up to 10 percent more, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 