-- 
Wall Street Trading Results a Mystery to Analysts as Global Markets Gyrate

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-08-12T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/wall-street-trading-results-a-mystery-to-analysts-as-global-markets-gyrate.html
Volatile moves in the equity and
fixed-income markets have analysts wondering whether this
month’s trading will lead to profits or pain for Wall Street’s
biggest banks.  Volume and volatility may help third-quarter results in a
seasonally weak period, Barclays analysts led by  Roger Freeman 
said in a note this week, cautioning that bank trading positions
will determine the overall result.  Glenn Schorr , a Nomura
Holdings Inc. analyst, wrote that the sell-off is likely to
cause “market-making pain” and lower investors’ risk
appetites.  The five largest U.S. investment banks have reported
trading revenue for the first six months of 2011 that fell 13
percent from a year earlier. The firms are trying to turn around
trading results as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  posted more
than 400-point moves for four straight days, the first time
that’s ever occurred.  “It’s awfully hard to know how firms have positioned
themselves throughout this and what impact that will have,”
said Matthew Burnell, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  “Equities
trading, just by the nature of the business, tends to have less
positioning risk, whereas fixed-income trading tends to have
more.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rebounded yesterday after
plunging 17 percent from July 22 through Aug. 10 amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a political battle over the U.S. debt ceiling
that prompted S&P to cut the country’s credit rating. Both
European shares and the Russell 2000 Index of small American
companies entered a  bear market  this week, falling at least 20
percent from their previous highs.  Trading Results  Moves in equity and Treasury markets raised questions about
trading results at the five largest U.S. investment banks --
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc., and Morgan Stanley. The firms posted
their fifth-straight year-over-year quarterly decline in the
second quarter, and July was “unseasonably slow,” Freeman said
in an Aug. 8 note. Spokesmen for the banks declined to comment.  Trading equities and fixed-income products accounted for 23
percent of total revenue at the five banks last year, ranging
from 56 percent at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to 16 percent at
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, filings show.  The firms are likely to benefit from higher equity volumes.
Average daily volume on major U.S. exchanges has climbed to
about 9 billion shares so far this quarter, Bloomberg data show.
That compares with 7.14 billion in the second quarter and 7.66
billion in the third quarter of 2010.  Market Gyrations  The volume has brought increased volatility. The  S&P 500 
has moved in an average range of 2.65 percentage points between
intraday highs and lows in the past month, the biggest gyrations
since the 20-minute “flash crash” on May 6, 2010, erased $862
billion from the value of U.S. shares before prices rebounded.  That pushed the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index, or VIX, up 50 percent to 48 on Aug. 8, the biggest surge
since February 2007, then down 27 percent the next day for the
second-largest drop in its 21-year history.  Debt volume levels often don’t accurately indicate fixed-
income trading revenue, Schorr wrote in an Aug. 10 note. The two
most predictive factors in Schorr’s analysis were the volume of
debt underwriting and the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate.  The 10-year rate dropped to 2.34 percent yesterday from
3.16 percent at the end of June and 2.68 percent a year earlier,
and fell as low as 2.03 percent on Aug. 9. Companies have issued
$147.7 billion in U.S. bonds this quarter, down from $243
billion in the same period of 2010. Both trends may point to a
drop in fixed-income revenue, Schorr wrote.  Bond Markets  The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds
worldwide instead of similar-maturity government debt increased
to 2.10 percentage points yesterday, the highest level since
October 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Prices have fallen 5.5
percent this month for bonds in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch High Yield Master II index.  Banks may benefit from the market fluctuations depending on
the success of their principal bets and whether clients continue
to stay active in the markets or pull back.  Goldman Sachs said a bet against equity volatility led to
losses in the second quarter of 2010, when the VIX rose after
the May 6 crash.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  lost at least tens of millions
of dollars last quarter on a wager on inflation expectations,
three people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Less Risk  Some banks eased risk-taking in the second quarter amid
political and economic fears. Goldman Sachs cut its value-at-
risk, or VaR, the maximum amount the company estimates it could
lose from trading on 95 percent of days, to $101 million. The
figure was the lowest since the third quarter of 2006.  “We saw firms taking down positioning risk in the second
quarter, and we haven’t seen anything since then that would
argue that trading shops are putting on more risk,” Burnell
said. “Particularly given the volatility we’ve seen, I would
expect that it would be difficult to ask risk managers to allow
most trading desks to take on materially higher levels of
risk.”  Some analysts agree that the turmoil has been a positive
for U.S. exchanges. While those companies have been expanding to
include derivatives and technology services, trading fuels
revenue from transaction fees.  U.S. options volume has increased 73 percent in August from
the year-to-date average to 28.5 million contracts a day,
according to a note yesterday from Goldman Sachs analysts led by
 Richard Ramsden .  Outlook for Exchanges  Goldman Sachs placed  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  and  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-biggest operator of U.S. stock
exchanges, on its “conviction” buy list, and upgraded
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  to “buy” from “neutral.” Chris Kotowski, an Oppenheimer & Co. analyst, reiterated his
“outperform” rating on  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  because it is likely
to benefit from the recent volatility.  “Our exchange names have seen a positive impact on third-
quarter earnings from the recent instability in the market,”
Freeman wrote in an Aug. 10 note. “While clearly we do not
expect volumes to run at recent levels through the remainder of
the quarter, we do believe that the recent volatility and
subsequent uptick in volumes provide a boost to what is normally
a seasonally weak quarter of the year for the exchanges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  