-- 
Wall Street Traders Stand Against Autism in Paddling Race Around Manhattan

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/wall-street-traders-stand-against-autism-in-paddling-race-around-manhattan.html
Dan Jones wasn’t planning to wear a
tie to work today. Instead, the managing director of mortgage
sales and trading at Gleacher & Co. Securities was going to wear
shorts and paddle around  Manhattan  standing up on an oversized
surfboard.  Jones, who works with Descap, Gleacher’s mortgage and
structured products division, will join about 200 other
competitors, professional and amateur, in the  O’Neill SEA Paddle
NYC , a 26.5-mile stand-up paddle charity race.  “Paddling through skyscrapers has a surreal feel to it,”
Jones, who also competed in the race in 2009, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re also going through parts of
Manhattan that most New Yorkers never see.”  The race originated in 2007 with fewer than 40 participants
and has grown along with the sport, which retailers, rental
sites and participants say is expanding. At  New York Kayak Co. 
on Pier 40 along Manhattan’s West Side, where today’s race
starts, stand-up paddle sales have quintupled in 12 months, and
Jones, 43, said he has at least 10 colleagues in his office who
are practicing or shopping for paddleboards.  Every participant in the race is required to raise at least
$1,000 to be split between the  Surfers’ Environmental Alliance 
and eight autism charities. Last year the event raised more than
$400,000, according to race co-founder and SEA executive
director Andrew Mencinsky.  Foundations like  Surfers Healing  that use the sport to
enrich the lives of children with autism are what drew him to
the idea five years ago, Mencinsky said.  ‘Wow’ Factor  “There’s a saying, ‘Only a surfer knows the feeling,’” he
said. “But when you are able to stand on a beach as a non-
surfer and you see surfers taking out kids who normally wouldn’t
be doing anything like this, you see the joy and the therapy
that it brings them, you automatically say wow, this is pretty
relevant.”  Samantha Cerone, a hedge-fund analyst who specializes in
distressed assets, has trained for the race by getting in the
water four times a week, in  New Jersey  on weekends and in
Manhattan during the week.  “As soon as my portfolio manager would leave I would get
out of the office immediately, head downtown and try to be in
the water by 7 o’clock,” Cerone, 27, said in a telephone
interview.  Cerone, who left Schultze Asset Management LLC last month
to pursue a business degree at  Columbia University , started
stand-up paddling two years ago and competed in the race last
year. Struggling to finish in the East River, she witnessed
seaplanes landing to her right as she passed the United Nations
building.  ‘Immensely Surreal’  “That was immensely surreal,” she said. “You still have
this feeling that you’re not really supposed to be there. That
really appeals to me.”  Jones, who has been training mostly on weekends in Spring
Lake, New Jersey, was the race’s top fundraiser in 2009,
donating more than $30,000 by auctioning off the right for
friends and colleagues to choose his outfit and board
decorations. The result was a neon green mankini, a fake
mustache, a yarmulke and flags of  Texas  and  Puerto Rico .  This year he sent out the same list of opportunities, and
after discounting the prices, raised around $2,000.  “A lot of guys I know that would have normally
participated or attended dropped out because of the market and
economy,” Jones said in an e-mail.  Top Racers  The race has a general category and an elite category,
which will feature about 35 of the sport’s top racers, including
Rob Rojas and defending-champion Thomas Maximus Shahinian, who
finished in 3 hours, 56 minutes last year. Participants have
come from as far away as  Hawaii ,  New Zealand  and  Cabo San Lucas ,
 Mexico , Mencinsky said.  New York Kayak Co.’s stand-up paddle sales are now between
15 percent and 20 percent of the company’s business, according
to owner Randall Henriksen, who is planning larger involvement
with the sport. He declined to give specific figures.  O’Neill 
spokesman Brian Kilpatrick said in a telephone interview that
the clothing company’s stand-up paddle appointments at  Outdoor
Retailer , a four-day outdoor trade show with about 1,300
exhibitors, quadrupled this year from 2010.  Expanding Sport  The sport has expanded to cover surfing, racing, recreation
and white-water events. Kilpatrick said its popularity has grown
because it’s easy to learn and isn’t geographically limiting.  “We see it as a huge growth category for us,” Kilpatrick
said. “Surfing is a bi-coastal sport, but with stand-up paddle,
it is accessible to everyone in all the fly-over states.”  Paddlers start up the  Hudson River , enter the Harlem River
at the top of Manhattan and come down the  East River , finishing
under the 128-year-old Brooklyn Bridge. The men’s winner gets
$1,500; the women’s winner gets $1,000.  Less than a week after two fatalities in the swimming
portion of the  New York City Triathalon  in the Hudson, the SEA
has coordinated with local fire departments, the Coast Guard and
support boats to provide rescue and medical staff.  “Ferries and commercial traffic will be on the water as
well,” said Mencinsky, 44. “There are challenges, so you have
to be smart.”  For Cerone, stand-up paddle is a way to escape from her
working life. She said the sport is “like an obsession.”  “When you get on the water, you’re focused on one thing,
and that’s rare, not only for my generation, but today with
information overload coming at you from different resources,
news feeds and e-mails,” she said. “Especially during a busy
work stretch, I have to get out there at least once or twice a
week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 