-- 
Waterlogic to Boost Acquisition Pace After London Share Sale

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-12T09:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/waterlogic-to-boost-acquisition-pace-after-london-share-sale.html
Waterlogic Plc, a maker of water
purification products, plans to “increase the pace” of
acquisitions after raising 41 million pounds ($67 million) last
month in a London share sale.  The listing on London’s Alternative Investment Market, or
AIM, will enable the Basingstroke, U.K.-based company to buy
dealers that sell Waterlogic products and open a new factory
next year, Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Ben-David said in a
phone interview from  Tel Aviv .  “We were looking at 13 dealers at the start of this year
and we’ve acquired three so far,” Ben-David said on Aug. 9.
“Part of the strategy is to build up our direct relationship
with the end client, and one of the ways of doing that is by
buying up our dealers.”  Ben-David, who co-founded the company in 1992, said it will
also use the funds to expand production capacity at its factory
in  China  by the end of this year, and is looking to open another
manufacturing plant in 2012.  Waterlogic has developed a point-of-use water dispenser
that purifies water as it passes through the tap instead of
inside the tank. This “firewall” technology eliminates the
risk of contamination from bacteria entering the tank via the
tap, Ben-David said.  In 2009, the point-of-use sector in the U.S. and  Europe  was
valued at about $2 billion, the company said. The water
dispenser industry in the U.S. and Europe is dominated by
bottled water coolers that account for 80 percent of the market,
which Ben-David said is a “huge growth opportunity.”  Yachts, Trailers  The company said it also plans to expand its technology
into other markets, including refrigerators and transport.  “Caravans, yachts, wherever water is stored and you want
to purify it, you can have a purifying tap,” he said.  The share sale last month also raised an additional 7.5
million pounds for what the company termed “certain selling
shareholders.” In total, 48.5 million pounds was raised,
according to a July 11 statement.  The company’s market value is now about 127 million pounds,
up from 112.5 million pounds at placement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in  London  at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  