-- 
Yield Curve Flattest Since ‘08 on Rate Outlook: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-12T06:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/yield-curve-flattest-since-08-on-rate-outlook-china-credit.html
Five interest-rate increases since
September are driving the spread between yields on  China ’s
short-term debt and long-term bonds to the least since 2008,
amid speculation inflation will slow from a three-year high.  The difference between yields on two- and 10-year
government notes shrank in June and July as the latest rate rise
took effect and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios were
increased for the sixth time this year. Ping An Securities Co.
and Aberdeen Asset Management Plc predict the gap will widen
again as a U.S. economic slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis deter
the central bank from more increases, bolstering demand for the
shortest term debt.  “Given that the central bank is not going to hike in the
next six months, it’s logical to participate in the short-end
rather than the 10-year,” said Ee Leen Yueh, a Singapore-based
 money manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees $298
billion globally. “The curve will steepen from here.”  The yield on China’s two-year government bonds has dropped
seven basis points this week to 3.62 percent yesterday, 31 basis
points, or 0.31 percentage point, less than the yield for 10-
year debt, which has fallen 11 to 3.93 percent in the same
period, Chinabond figures show. That’s the smallest gap since
October 2008 and compares with 141 in November, the biggest
difference in the past year.  The spread for U.S. Treasuries with similar maturities was
209 basis points, up from a two-year low of 193 on Aug. 10.
China’s two-year bond yield peaked at 3.73 percent on Aug. 3,
when the 10-year yield hit 4.12 percent, both the highest levels
since 2008.  Credit Crunch Eases  Aberdeen’s Yueh said China’s banks can buy two-year debt
with funds obtained in the local money market, where the seven-
day repurchase rate fell one basis point to 3.09 percent today,
according to a daily fixing published by the National Interbank
Funding Center. The repo rate, a gauge of the availability of
interbank funding, reached 9.11 percent on June 23, the highest
level since 2007, as the last increase in banks’ reserve ratios
deepened a credit crunch.  Yields on debt maturing in one to three years are likely to
drop 20 basis points in the next six months, Yueh said, adding
that the 10-year rate is likely to stay around 4 percent since
that is the official inflation target for the next five years.
Consumer prices increased 6.5 percent from a year earlier in
July, the most since June 2008, the statistics bureau reported
this week.  Steepening Curve  “A steepening yield curve is the trend for the third
quarter,” said Shi Lei, head of fixed-income research at Ping
An Securities, a unit of the nation’s second-biggest insurance
company. “As people correct their expectations about China’s
growth in September, the downward pressure on long-term yields
will ease.”  The People’s Bank of China probably won’t increase  interest
rates  or reserve ratios by the end of September and the 10-year
yield is likely to stay between 3.9 percent and 4 percent, he
said. The yield on one-year bonds is likely to drop at least 30
basis points this quarter, he predicted.  Twelve-month government debt yielded 3.55 percent yesterday,
12 basis points less than at the start of the week, Chinabond
figures show. The yield reached 3.82 percent on July 22, the
highest level in data going back to September 2007.  The yield curve, a gauge of investors’ expectations on
inflation and economic growth, flattened this month as  Standard
& Poor’s  downgrading the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt
crisis sparked a global stocks rout. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
shares tumbled 10 percent and the Shanghai Composite Index fell
4 percent as of 2:39 p.m. local time.  Rates Survey  The People’s Bank of China will leave borrowing costs
unchanged for the rest of this year, according to eight of 10
analysts surveyed on Aug. 9. The Fed said this week it would
maintain its record-low policy rate of zero to 0.25 percent at
least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery it described as
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  UBS AG, Societe Generale SA, Nomura Holdings Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Citigroup Inc., Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Ltd. and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.
expect no rate increases in China this year, while Royal Bank of
 Canada  and  Barclays Capital  still expect them to move.  “We don’t think they’re ready to cut rates, or unwind the
tightening stance,” said Ju Wang, a fixed-income strategist for
Asian emerging markets at Barclays Capital in  Singapore .
“Incrementally, the tightening will be less aggressive than
before because liquidity in the system is still relatively tight
and global conditions are very much uncertain.”  Stronger Yuan  Accelerating yuan gains suggest policy makers will favor a
stronger currency to tackle inflation, she said. China’s central
bank boosted its  reference rate  versus the dollar by 0.27
percent yesterday, the biggest jump since November.  The currency strengthened 0.7 percent to 6.3954 per dollar
this week in  Shanghai , breaching the 6.40 level for the first
time since 1993, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 1.8 percent
to 6.2735 in  Hong Kong , the biggest gain since February 2009,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium to the onshore
 exchange rate  widened to 1.9 percent from a two-year low of 0.4
percent on Aug. 9.  Five-year credit-default swaps for Chinese government debt
were at 116 basis points yesterday, 18 basis points higher than
at the end of last week, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Cooling Inflation  China’s inflation has peaked and “food prices are already
correcting,” said  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based economist for UBS
AG who previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  The cost of pork, a Chinese staple, remained stable in the
week ended Aug. 7 from the previous week, the Ministry of
Commerce said in a statement on Aug. 9, after prices soared 57
percent in July from a year earlier. Vegetable wholesale prices
fell 2.8 percent from the previous week, the statement said.  In a sign that moderating economic growth is helping to
limit price pressures, industrial production grew at a slower-
than-estimated 14 percent in July. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodity futures has dropped 7.9 percent this month.  China may adopt “targeted easing” in the second half to
support financing for agriculture, small and medium-sized
enterprises and social housing, the China Securities Journal
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  No ‘ Hard Landing ’  The economy is unlikely to see a “hard landing,” said Pan
Jiancheng, deputy director-general of the China Economic
Monitoring and Analysis Center of the National Bureau of
Statistics, according to the People’s Daily.  Gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter, compared with average growth of 10
percent in the past five years, official figures show. Growth in
industrial output moderated to 14 percent in July from 15
percent the previous month, while retail sales increased 17
percent and exports 20 percent, according to government data
released this week.  “We expect a soft landing rather than a hard landing,”
which means the yield curve is unlikely to flatten further, said
 Frances Cheung , senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong
Kong. “When markets stabilize and investors realize that growth
is better than they had expected, then the curve will steepen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  