-- 
ThyssenKrupp Says Turmoil Hasn’t Affected Divestment Plan

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-08-12T16:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-12/thyssenkrupp-says-turmoil-hasn-t-affected-divestment-plan-1-.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, said turmoil in the capital markets hasn’t disrupted
plans to sell businesses, while it expects to meet full-year
profit and revenue targets.  ThyssenKrupp today affirmed full-year forecasts for a 10
percent to 15 percent increase in sales and adjusted earnings
before interest and tax of about 2 billion euros ($2.85 billion)
after reporting nine-month Ebit of 1.34 billion. The goals are
“ambitious but achievable,” Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger said today on a conference call.  The steelmaker, which is divesting assets that contribute
about a quarter of its annual revenue including the stainless-
steel business, said that “turbulence” in capital markets
wasn’t having an impact on the sale process. The Essen-based
company is selling businesses to cut debt and fund growth.  The shares rose 6.4 percent to 24.71 euros by the 5:30 p.m.
close in  Frankfurt  trading, reversing an earlier drop of as much
as 5.1 percent.  ThyssenKrupp today posted fiscal third-quarter earnings
that missed analyst estimates as European demand weakened.
Adjusted Ebit, the profit gauge used by ThyssenKrupp to forecast
future results, was 566 million euros in the three months
through June, the company said in a statement. That missed the
590.9 million-euro average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Raw-Material Costs  Steelmakers are battling rising raw-material costs even as
consumption of the alloy deteriorates. ThyssenKrupp said global
demand slowed after a “strong” prior quarter, and European
consumption dropped “sharply.” Hot-rolled steel coil, a
benchmark product used in cars and buildings, fell 4.3 percent
to 573.85 euros a metric ton in the period.  Gains in raw-material costs have hobbled producers’ efforts
to emerge from the industry’s worst slump in 60 years following
a collapse in demand during the world financial crisis.  Iron
ore , a steelmaking ingredient, may average $160 a ton this year,
up from $122 last year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  Revenue in the third quarter rose 10 percent to 12.9
billion euros as orders climbed 29 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajiv Sekhri in Frankfurt at 
 rsekhri1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 