-- Abe Says Japan, Canada Agree to Cooperate on Natural Gas
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-09-25T01:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/abe-says-japan-canada-agree-to-cooperate-on-natural-gas.html
 Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said
Japan and  Canada  have agreed to cooperate more closely on
shipments of  natural gas  as the country seeks new energy
supplies after the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Abe, speaking yesterday to reporters in Ottawa at a joint
press conference with Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , said Canada
is a stable source of energy and can provide gas at competitive
prices. Abe said the two countries will hold “ministerial level
consultations,” without providing details.  “The importation volume of natural gas is increasing and
the prices remain high,” Abe said. “Canada, endowed with rich
energy resources including natural gas, has a very high
potential in the context of energy cooperation.”  Japan, which relied on nuclear power for about a quarter of
its energy needs before the Fukushima disaster, is without
atomic power again after the nation’s last operating reactor
shut on Sept. 15 for regular maintenance. To compensate, the
nation’s utilities have increased purchases of traditional
fossil fuels.  Japan   paid  an average price of $15.74 per million British
thermal units for liquefied natural gas in July, according to
data from LNG Japan Corp. That compares with an average of about
$3.64 for U.S. natural gas futures traded in  New York .  Japan, the world’s biggest LNG buyer, imports almost all
its energy. Canada is the world’s fifth largest producer of
natural gas, the country’s Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver
said this month.  Largest Importer  “While there are many areas for increased growth in our
trade and investment relationship, the one that came up most
frequently is obviously energy,” Harper said. “We have special
assets to offer there and obviously Japan is the largest single
importer of energy products.”  Harper said the two sides have also made progress in free
trade negotiations. Japan and Canada additionally agreed in
principle on a treaty governing logistics support between the
two countries’ armed forces, which will be effective anywhere in
the world, Harper’s office said in a press statement.  Abe was scheduled to travel to New York late yesterday,
where he was due to meet French President Francois Hollande. He
will meet United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon later
today.  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest energy company by
market value, asked Canada in June for permission to export 30
million metric tons of LNG a year from the nation’s westernmost
province of British Columbia.  Gas Pipelines  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA)  Plc, Chevron Corp., BG Group Plc and
Cnooc Ltd. are among the other international energy companies
proposing or considering LNG export projects in western Canada,
including pipelines across British Columbia’s mountains to link
gas supplies in shale formations to Pacific Coast facilities.  Four proposed terminals are targeted to start operations
before 2020, including three for which the Canadian government
has already awarded export licenses.  Canada will probably only see one terminal built by 2020
and another two by 2025, according to Calgary-based investment
bank Peters & Co. Challenges include labor shortages, the
“significant capital” needed, the stores of gas required to
support terminals as well as the difficulty in securing
government approvals and maintaining positive relationships with
native communities in the area.  Global LNG demand is poised to rise 67 percent from 2012 to
400 million tons a year by 2020, analysts at Peters & Co. said
in a Sept. 4 research note.  The British Columbia government has also pledged to raise
as much as C$260 billion ($253 billion) in tax revenues from the
industry to reduce debt at a rate and structure that Premier
Christy Clark has yet to publicly outline.  Japanese companies involved in potential Canadian LNG
export projects include Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. or
 Japex (1662) , Mitsubishi Corp., Inpex Corp. and Idemitsu Kosan Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  