-- Labour Pledge Energy Price Cap and Break-Up of Big Six
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y ,   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-24T16:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/labour-pledge-energy-price-cap-and-break-up-of-big-six.html
A Labour government would cap
British gas and electricity prices until the start of 2017 if it
wins the 2015 election, party leader  Ed Miliband  said.  The limit would allow time to set up a new energy regulator
with powers to cut prices, Miliband said today at Labour’s
annual conference in Brighton, southern  England , as he sought to
position his party as the champion of people struggling with the
increased cost of living. The proposal would cost energy
companies 4.5 billion pounds ($7.2 billion), the Labour leader’s
office said.  “The next Labour government will freeze gas and
electricity prices until the start of 2017,” Miliband told
delegates. “The companies won’t like it because it will cost
them more. But they have been overcharging people for too long
because the market doesn’t work. It’s time to reset the
market.”  The proposal threatens Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
effort to lure 110 billion pounds by 2020 to replace aging power
plants, a policy regulators have said is essential for Britain
to avoid blackouts toward the end of the decade.  “The proposed energy price freeze will deter much-needed
investment and is at odds with Labour’s pledge to decarbonize
the economy and create a million green jobs,”  John Cridland ,
director-general of the  Confederation of British Industry , said
today in an e-mail.  Nuclear Closures  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  is in talks with the government
about building the first nuclear power station in two decades in
the U.K., where all except one of the existing atomic plants are
due to close by 2023. The House of Lords, the upper chamber of
Parliament, is considering energy legislation proposed by
Cameron’s Conservative-led administration and until now backed
by Labour, including measures that would spur nuclear power.  The Labour proposal would save the average family 120
pounds a year and an average business 1,800 pounds a year,
Miliband’s office said, without saying how it had made the
calculations.  Instead of freezing tariffs, the government should recoup
the cost of promoting  energy efficiency  and renewables through
general taxation rather than by adding them to household energy
bills, Brian Lironi, head of media for  SSE (SSE)  Plc, said today in an
e-mail. “This would wipe 110 pounds off the average persons’
bill and shift the cost away from those who can’t afford to pay
and on to those who can.”  EDF and Centrica declined to comment when contacted.  Big Six  Consumers are paying 3.9 billion pounds more for their
energy each year by not being on the best deals, the consumer
campaign group Which? said in a  report  yesterday.  The party’s energy spokeswoman,  Caroline Flint , told
delegates earlier today that a Labour government would split up
Britain’s six largest gas and electricity companies and force
them to trade all their power on the open market to drive down
prices.  “We will break up the big six; the power stations will be
separated from the companies that send you your bill,” Flint
said. “Just as the banks will have to separate their investment
and trading arms from the high-street branches, so we will make
the energy companies separate their production from the
companies that supply your home.”  More Transparent  The six largest energy companies --  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EDF
Energy Plc, EON SE, SSE, Scottish Power Ltd., a unit of
 Iberdrola SA (IBE) , and  RWE AG (RWE) ’s nPower unit have different units
generating, trading and supplying energy. In a July 29 report,
Parliament’s cross-party Energy and Climate Change Committee
said energy regulator Ofgem should act to make company profits
more transparent.  “I promise with a Labour government the most radical,
comprehensive reforms since energy privatization,” Flint said.
“No more price setting in secret. The energy companies will be
forced to open their books and do all their electricity trading
on the open market, in a pool.”  Labour has been using its annual conference to spell out a
range of new policies with 20 months to go to the election, as
the party’s lead over Cameron’s Conservatives has narrowed. Both
Miliband and his Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , have said they
have no problem calling themselves “socialists.”  While Labour was right to commit itself to a “dynamic
market economy” in the 1990s, the government should intervene
when necessary, Miliband told delegates.  ‘Powerful Interests’  “When competition fails, government must be prepared to
take action,” he said. “Some people want to blame the
companies, but the blame lies with government for not having
done anything about it, for not having called time on the
powerful interests, for not having the strength to stand up to
the strong.”  The new regulator would enforce a single standing charge,
similar to the line rental on a phone line, with a cost per unit
for energy used, similar to call charges, Miliband’s office
said.  The legislation creating the new regulator would also set
up an energy security board to draw up strategy for meeting
Britain’s energy needs and give additional powers to the Green
Investment Bank to meet a 2030 decarbonization target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in Brighton, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Brighton, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  