-- Abu Dhabi Energy Producer Taqa Said to Plan Morocco Unit IPO
-- B y   S o u h a i l   K a r a m   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-09-24T13:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/abu-dhabi-energy-producer-taqa-said-to-plan-morocco-unit-ipo-1-.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the
state-controlled producer, is planning an initial public
offering of its Moroccan power unit as it expands output in the
country, according to five people with knowledge of the matter.  The energy producer met with Attijariwafa Bank, Banque
Centrale Populaire and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  on the potential 1.7
billion dirham ($205 million) listing last month, two of the
people said, asking not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. The company also spoke to Moroccan regulators on
its plans for the IPO of the Jorf Lasfar Energy Co. unit,
without giving a time frame for the sale, the people said.  A spokesman for  Abu Dhabi  National Energy Co., known as
Taqa, declined to comment. Nora el-Boraqadi, a spokeswoman for
Societe Generale Marocaine des Banques, also declined to
comment, as did an official at Banque Centrale Populaire. Ismail Douiri, co-chief executive officer of Attijariwafa, didn’t
respond to e-mails from Bloomberg.  The listing would be the largest on the Casablanca stock
exchange since property developer Alliances Development
Immobilier raised 2 billion dirhams in July 2008. It comes as
Gulf companies from  Qatar Petroleum  to Abu Dhabi industrial
holding company Senaat consider share sales.  Taqa Shareholders  Taqa’s board and shareholders have yet to approve the plan,
one of the people said, and the timing will depend on conditions
at the Casablanca exchange, two of the people said. SocGen and
Banque Populaire were among lenders hired to raise $1.4 billion
this year for Jorf Lasfar to help finance a 700 megawatt
expansion of a coal-fired power complex to 2,056 megawatts.  Jorf Lasfar is the largest coal-fired power plant in the
 Middle East  and North Africa and the first independent power
producer in  Morocco , supplying 40 percent of the Kingdom’s
electricity output, according to Taqa. Construction work on the
expansion began in September 2010 and two new units are
scheduled to be commissioned in December and next April.  Qatar Petroleum, the emirate’s state-run energy producer,
plans to raise 3.2 billion riyals ($879 million) in an IPO of a
newly created petrochemicals unit, three people with knowledge
of the matter said yesterday. Abu Dhabi industrial holding group
Senaat hired HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase for a share
sale this year, two people with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this week.  Taqa gained 0.8 percent to 1.28 dirhams at the close in Abu
Dhabi today and has declined 6 percent this year. The ADX
General Index has gained 45 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Souhail Karam in  Egypt  at 
 skaram5@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  