-- Activist Investors Backed by Large Funds Take on Big Targets
-- B y   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-09-24T19:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/activist-investors-backed-by-large-funds-take-on-bigger-targets.html
The world’s biggest fund managers
are giving shareholder activists the muscle to take on larger
companies from  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   “They’re able to go after big companies because they are
very effectively communicating with large institutional
stockholders,” said Scott A. Barshay, a partner at the  law firm 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at the annual Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit in New York today. “That’s a very new phenomena.”  Activist investors, who typically take small stakes in
companies and lobby for higher dividends, stock buybacks or
management changes, have also recently targeted Apple Inc.,
Yahoo! Inc. and Chesapeake Energy Corp. with their campaigns.
The activist funds are increasing in size, and large mutual
funds have shown an increased willingness to back shareholder
proposals.  Companies with a market capitalization of more than $10
billion rose to 5.7 percent of targets this year, from 2.6
percent in 2010, according to researcher Activist Insight. A
study of 25 large mutual funds, including BlackRock Inc. and
Dodge & Cox show they increased support of shareholder proposals
by 33 percent from 2004 through 2012, according to  Fund Votes ,
which tracks their voting habits.  “Probably the most effective activists today are the
institutions themselves,” said  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Kenneth Jacobs , who spoke on the same panel as
Barshay. “What’s really happened in the market today is that
what we call ‘activists’ have become a voice for those
institutions.”  Activist Funds  Steve Ballmer , CEO of Microsoft said he would retire --
four months after activist fund manager ValueAct Capital
Partners LP’s Jeffrey Ubben disclosed a $1.9 billion stake in
the software maker.  Carl Icahn  has invested about $1 billion in
Apple and said in August he wants the technology company to
increase its buyback program to boost the share price.  The investors have also extracted higher prices from buyers
by raising objections to large takeovers this year. The
resistance comes amid a general rise in activism, with assets
managed by activist funds more than doubling over the past five
years, to about $73 billion as of the first quarter, from about
$32 billion in 2008, according to data compiled by Hedge Fund
Research.  Deal Rebound  Dell Inc. founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management
LLC had to raise their offer to take the personal computer maker
private, after facing objections from Icahn and other
institutional shareholders, before the $24.9 billion deal could
be approved. Dell won that approval this month. In April,
MetroPCS Communications Inc.’s shareholders approved a sweetened
deal to merge with Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA after
Deutsche Telekom bowed to the demands of investors including
Paulson & Co.  Lazard’s Jacobs has found himself under activist pressure
recently. Last year, billionaire  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund
Management LP took a more than 5 percent stake in the company
and criticized its cost structure and executive pay. Trian is
still Lazard’s fourth largest shareholder with a 5.2 percent
stake, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A pickup in deal making globally will only follow a
recovery in confidence among buyers, Jacobs said.  “We’ve had two factors in place for several years now:
financing and valuation,” he said.  “The challenge has been
confidence,” which will return when “we start to get the real
seeds of an economic recovery.”  Riskless Deals  While buyers have announced 1.64 trillion in purchases this
year, up from 1.46 trillion last year, that’s still less than
half the value of deals announced in the same period in 2007,
before the global financial crisis.  “Because of the effect of the downturn you’ve got
acquirers, or would be acquirers out there, who just want so
little risk in deals” said Barshay.  Lazard has served as an adviser on 132 acquisitions this
year, with a total value of $138 billion -- including the $23
billion takeover of Heinz Inc. by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G
Capital Inc., and Amgen Inc.’s $10.4 billion purchase of Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cravath, Swaine & Moore was a legal adviser on Amgen’s
deal, as well as Liberty Global Plc’s $16 billion takeover of
Virgin Media Inc. this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  