-- Pakistan Earthquake That Created New Island Kills 271 People
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-09-25T12:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/magnitude-7-4-quake-strikes-western-pakistan-10-deaths-reported.html
Pakistan’s army is leading a rescue
operation in the nation’s most underdeveloped area after a
magnitude 7.7 earthquake yesterday killed 271 people and created
a new island in the Arabian Sea.  “Casualties have been reported from a vast area so our
first priority is saving lives and then we’ll aim to provide
shelter and food to survivors,” Muhammad Saeed Aleem, chairman
of the National Disaster Management Authority, told reporters in
Quetta. As many as 50,000 homes have been damaged and 446 people
were injured, he said.  The quake struck 41 miles (66 kilometers) north-northeast
of Awaran in Balochistan province bordering Afghanistan and
 Iran , the U.S. Geological Survey  said  on its website. An island
measuring 100 meters (328 feet) in length and about 35 feet in
height emerged off the Gwadar coast after the quake, Moazzam Jah
Ansari, the district police chief, said by phone today.  Sixty army vehicles carrying 600 troops, including doctors
and paramedics, left Karachi today with equipment to set up
field hospitals, food, life-saving drugs and tents, Major Waheed
Akhtar Bukhari, a spokesman for the military, said by phone.
They will join 500 personnel already working in the area.  “There are mostly mud houses in the locality, and most of
the deaths have been due to roof collapse,”  Syed Wajid Raza ,
the chief of staff at the nation’s Earthquake Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Authority, said by phone from Islamabad
yesterday.  Land Area  Balochistan province is Pakistan’s largest in size and
smallest in population. It covers almost 44 percent of the
country’s land area, with a population of about 8 million
people, according to the Provincial Disaster Management
Authority.  The nation’s army and security agencies have pushed to curb
a nationalist insurgency in the province since 2006, when tribal
leader Akbar Bugti was killed in a military strike.  No major destruction was reported in Quetta, Balochistan’s
capital, Geo TV reported, citing unidentified rescue officials.
Television images showed people standing outside their homes and
offices in the commercial capital of Karachi, about 580
kilometers away. Other affected cities included Hyderabad,
Sukkur, Larkana, Thatta and Nawabshah, Geo TV reported.  Earthquakes hit  Pakistan  frequently. More than 300 people
were killed when a magnitude 6.4 earthquake struck the Ziarat
and Pishin districts of Balochistan in 2008. At least 86,000
people were killed and more than 69,000 injured when a magnitude
7.6 quake hit northern Pakistan in October 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  