-- Taiwan-China Air Links Face Shortage of Slots at Mainland Cities
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-09-24T05:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/taiwan-china-air-links-face-shortage-of-slots-at-mainland-cities.html
Taiwan ’s development of air links
with China is now limited more by practical constraints on the
mainland, including a shortage of slots at airports, than by
political concerns, the island’s civil-aviation chief said.  Taiwan’s airlines are interested in adding capacity to
major cities including Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and
Shenzhen, rather than to secondary centers such as Xi’an and
Chengdu,  Civil Aeronautics Administration  Director-General Jean
Shen said in an interview in  Montreal  yesterday.  For the most popular destinations, “there are no slots,
capacity is full and it’s very difficult to increase flights,”
said Shen, a 64-year-old former air-traffic controller who is
leading the guest delegation to the International Civil Aviation
Organization Assembly.  China ’s reluctance to open secondary
airports to cross-strait traffic and airspace controls also
limit capacity, she said. The number of direct flights on each
side will rise to 670 a week by the end of the year, she said.  The nation’s air force controls airspace and allots only 20
percent to civil aviation, according to the Civil Aviation
Administration of China. With China’s three biggest airlines
planning to add at least 273 planes in the next three years,
traffic congestion that already delays 25 percent of flights is
set to worsen, the agency said in May.  Taiwan and China started regular direct flights in 2008,
almost six decades after Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang party fled
to Taiwan during a civil war with Mao Zedong’s Communists and
barred all direct contact with the mainland. Carriers including
Taiwan’s  China Airlines Ltd. (2610)  and  Eva Airways Corp. (2618)  and the
mainland’s  Air China Ltd. (601111) , China Eastern Airlines Corp. and
China Southern Airlines Co. provide cross-strait flights.  Smooth Talks  Shen said proposed increases in flights have faced no
opposition at twice-yearly mainland-Taiwan meetings on air
service rights. The two sides haven’t yet started talks for an
open skies agreement, she said.  In addition to allowing for direct air links, the
improvement in relations with the mainland in the past five
years has allowed Taiwan to participate, as a guest, in the ICAO
assembly for the first time since it lost its seat in the United
Nations aviation agency in 1971. The two-week meeting starts in
Montreal today.  The delegation has no plans for a formal meeting with its
mainland counterparts in Montreal, Shen said.  Taiwan’s envoys to the meeting will meet with other
nations’ representatives, Shen said. The island, which adheres
to ICAO standards for civil aviation, would eventually like to
improve its access to the group’s documents and data, she said.  Cross-strait ties improved after President Ma Ying-jeou
took office in 2008 and abandoned the pro-independence stance of
his predecessor. China deems Taiwan a renegade province and has
threatened reunification by force if the island declares
independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  