-- Manila Water Disputes Tariff Cut at International Chamber
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-09-24T11:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/manila-water-disputes-tariff-cut-at-international-chamber.html
Manila Water Co. (MWC) , the largest
publicly traded water company in the  Philippines , filed a
dispute notice with the International Chamber of Commerce
questioning a regulatory order to cut tariffs.  The notice starts the arbitration process with the
Metropolitan Waterworks & Sewerage System to resolve
disagreements under their concession agreement, the company that
provides half of Manila’s water supplies said today in a stock
exchange filing.  “Until the appeals panel arrives at a final decision on
the tariff determination, existing water rates shall remain in
effect,” the  Ayala Corp. (AC)  unit said.  The regulator ordered  Manila Water  on Sept. 12 to cut its
basic water charge by 29 percent after some lawmakers pledged to
investigate about 15 billion pesos ($345 million) in income
taxes and expenses that water utilities passed on to consumers.
The order will “severely compromise and impair” Manila Water’s
ability to serve customers, the utility said today.  Manila Water closed down 0.5 percent to 27.90 pesos today,
bringing the stock’s decline this year to almost 13 percent.  A panel will be appointed and conduct proceedings according
to arbitration rules of the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law, the company said. Manila Water and the
regulator will appoint one member each to the panel that will be
headed by an appointee of the  International Chamber of Commerce 
president.  The water regulator had also ordered the other
concessionaire, Maynilad Water Services Inc., to cut its tariff
4.8 percent. The water companies said raising tariffs will help
fund as much as 1.1 trillion pesos in investments until 2037.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  