-- Hapag-Lloyd Picks Maersk Unit Head to Follow Behrendt as CEO
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-09-24T16:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/hapag-lloyd-picks-damco-head-to-succeed-michael-behrendt-at-helm.html
Hapag-Lloyd AG,  Germany ’s biggest
container shipping line, chose the head of  A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S (MAERSKB) ’s freight-forwarding arm to succeed Chief Executive Officer
Michael Behrendt next year as the company attempts to steer its
way out of an industry crisis.  Rolf Habben-Jansen, 47, will join the executive board from
April 1 before taking the helm in July, Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd said in a statement. Behrendt will step down as planned
after more than 12 years at the company.  “Habben-Jansen is a manager who will successfully confront
the major challenges in international liner shipping,” Behrendt
said in the statement.  The shipping industry is grappling with an overcapacity of
vessels and low freight rates. Hapag-Lloyd,  Europe ’s fourth-largest shipping line, posted a profit of 20.9 million euros
($28 million) in the second quarter, compared with a 7.3
million-euro loss a year earlier, helped by reduced costs and
fuel prices.  HSH Nordbank AG, the world’s biggest shipping lender, said
on August 30 it doesn’t see a recovery before 2015.  Habben-Jansen also faces questions about a possible initial
public offering of the company, as major shareholders including
 TUI AG (TUI1)  seek an exit route. Europe’s largest tour operator, which
holds 22 percent of Hapag-Lloyd, wants to divest its stake
through an IPO or sale once industry conditions improve,
Friedrich Joussen, TUI’s CEO, said on Aug. 8.  IPO Conditions  “At first sight Hapag-Lloyd seems to have hired Mr Habben-Jansen because he is an expert of the freight industry and not
because he is familiar with  capital markets  or listed
companies,” said  Jochen Rothenbacher , an analyst at Equinet
Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “So to say he was hired to steer the
company to an IPO is jumping to conclusions.”  Habben-Jansen worked at Deutsche Post’s DHL unit and Royal
Nedlloyd Group before becoming CEO of The-Hague-based Damco NV
in 2009. Damco is also one of Hapag-Lloyd’s clients, as freight
forwarders typically work with all major container carriers to
manage door-to-door transport.  Damco ranks number six in the list of the world’s biggest
sea-freight forwarders, according to data compiled by industry
leader Kuehne & Nagel International AG.  Hapag-Lloyd’s biggest stakeholder is the city-state of
Hamburg. It holds 37 percent of the shares through the Albert
Ballin consortium, which also includes Hamburg-born billionaire
investor Klaus-Michael Kuehne.  Hamburg Sued  Kuehne, who owns a 28.2 percent holding in Hapag-Lloyd, in
June demanded a debate about strategy at the shipping company
after a merger with local peer Hamburg Sued failed. Oetker
Group, the family-owned German holding company that owns Hamburg
Sued, asked for merger talks to be halted in March after the
parties were unable to agree on terms.  Hapag-Lloyd also announced today that executive board
member Ulrich Kranich, 63, who is responsible for the global
shipping business, will leave the company on June 30 next year.
He will be succeeded by Anthony Firmin, who has been at the
company for 18 years and currently runs yield management.  Behrendt, who was appointed to the executive board in 1999
and has been CEO since 2002, extended his contract by a year at
the request of shareholders to allow for more time to find a
successor. Hamburg, which as the largest shareholder in Hapag-Lloyd has the right to nominate managers for the supervisory
board,  last year said  that Behrendt was ready to succeed former
Lufthansa AG CEO Juergen Weber as head of the board in the
middle of 2015.  “Nothing has changed in that respect,” Daniel Stricker,
spokesman for the Hamburg finance ministry, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  