-- AQR’s Asness Says Pensions Will Struggle to Return 7 Percent
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-09-24T21:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/aqr-s-asness-says-pensions-will-struggle-to-return-7-percent.html
AQR Capital Management co-founder
Cliff Asness said the average public pension fund will have a
“very hard time” achieving average annual returns of 7 percent
to 7.5 percent.  A portfolio constructed of 60 percent stocks and 40 percent
bonds will probably return 2.5 percent above inflation, compared
with 5 percent historically, Asness said today at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit in  New York . Most public pensions assume rates
of return between 7 percent and 8 percent.  “It’s still going to be hard in a world where markets give
you 5 percent to make 7,” said Asness. “For the next 10
through 20 years, I think the average pension fund is going to
have a very hard time hitting that bogey.”  State public pensions had an $833 billion gap in fiscal
2011 between what they’ve promised retirees and assets, 10
percent wider than the previous year, according to a July report
from  Standard & Poor’s . Losses from the financial crisis,
increased longevity for beneficiaries and a failure by
governments to adequately fund  retirement plans  contributed to
the gap.  Both stocks and bonds are overpriced, said Asness, whose
Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund oversaw $78.9 billion as
of March 31. AQR’s clients include the Teachers’ Retirement
System of  Illinois  and  Ohio ’s Public Employees Retirement
System.  The median U.S. public pension returned 12.4 percent for
the fiscal year ending June 30, according to  Santa Monica ,
California-based Wilshire Associates.  New York City chief investment officer Larry Schloss, who
oversees $145 billion in assets for the city’s five public
pension funds, disagreed with Asness.  New York’s pensions, which returned 12.3 percent for fiscal
2013, benefited by increasing their stock holdings and lowering
the allocation to bonds.  “Unconstrained, I think you can make it,” said Schloss.
New York has increased its investments in higher-yielding bonds,
Schloss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  