-- L&T Said to Plan Biggest Road IPO in Singapore: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-09-25T11:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/larsen-toubro-said-to-plan-singapore-listing-for-toll-roads.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) ,  India ’s
largest engineering company, is considering a Singapore listing
for its toll-road projects that could raise about $700 million,
said two people with knowledge of the process.  Larsen may sell units in a business trust backed by assets
from L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Ltd.’s road network
next year, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified as the details are private. The company runs 13
expressways and has five more under construction, Morgan Stanley
analyst Akshay Soni said in a report yesterday.  The proceeds will help Larsen’s unit, which is also
developing a metro rail project, raise equity without seeking
funds from the parent whose  debt  jumped 31 percent in the year
ended March 31. The sale, the biggest initial public offering in
 Singapore  by an expressway operator, will help Mumbai-based
Larsen conserve cash amid the slowest pace of economic growth in
India in a decade and rising borrowing costs.  Larsen is “choosing not to fund the company as they don’t
want their balance sheet to go for a toss,” said Nitin Bhasin,
an analyst with Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai. External funding
will help Larsen improve its return on equity, he said.  IDPL forecasts it will need 82 billion rupees ($1.3
billion) of equity funding in the five years to 2018, Morgan
Stanley’s Soni wrote in the report. Securitization such as the
one planned in Singapore will help the company raise 60 percent
of the funds, according to Soni.  Debt Surge  Larsen’s total group  debt  surged to 624.6 billion rupees in
the year ended March 31 from 476 billion rupees a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company reported
sales of 745 billion rupees, while interest expense almost
doubled in the period, data show.  The company’s  shares , which have dropped 22 percent this
year, rose 0.6 percent to 831.35 rupees in Mumbai. The benchmark
S&P BSE Sensex index fell 0.3 percent.  Larsen is working with Nomura Holdings Inc. and Standard
Chartered Plc to help with the IPO, the people said.  “We are evaluating various options for our capital raising
exercise,” R. Shankar Raman, chief financial officer for Larsen
& Toubro, said in a phone interview yesterday, adding that it
was premature to comment on the company’s Singapore listing
plan. “We’ll have to see where there is a pool of investors and
sufficient capital that can be tapped.”  Indian IPOs  Indian companies including Infrastructure Leasing &
Financial Services Ltd. and Mytrah Energy Ltd. are planning to
sell shares in Singapore as initial public offerings in India
plunge.  Religare Health Trust (RHT) , backed by the assets of India’s
second-biggest hospital company,  Fortis Healthcare Ltd. (FORH) , raised
S$511 million ($407.9 million) in Singapore in October.  IPOs in India have raised 14.7 billion rupees so far this
year, compared with 62.28 billion in all of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The volatility in the rupee may affect the timing of the
issue, one of the people said. The currency’s 12 percent fall
this year and change in regulations in India may deter investors
from Larsen’s offering, said  Alan Richardson , a Hong Kong-based
money manager at Samsung Asset Management, which oversees more
than $100 billion globally.  “Investors who buy into trusts or REITs look for secure or
consistent cash flows,” said Richardson. Investors don’t find
it comforting to see “volatility especially if the aim is to
have a consistent stream of dividends. The companies would have
to offer a significantly higher dividend yield to attract
investors -- 8 percent or 9 percent would be what investors
would be expecting from these kind of Indian REITs.”  Behind Target  Larsen would look to reduce its stake in IDPL as the unit
is known, Raman said in May. The road portfolio of the company
is valued at 220 billion rupees, according to the  company
website . Traffic on toll roads fell short of its target last
year, according to Morgan Stanley’s Soni.  Larsen, founded by two Danish engineers in 1938, is working
toward raising its return on equity to 20 percent by 2017 by
reining in debt, boosting revenue and cutting stakes in some
units, Raman said in an interview in May. The measure fell to
16.5 percent in the year ended March 31, the lowest reading in a
decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asia ’s second-largest engineering and construction firm by
market value is also trying to reduce its stake in IDPL to 80
percent from 98 percent, Raman said this year. Private equity
fund Old Lane LP owns 2 percent on the unit.  IDPL is building the 141.3 billion-rupee mass transit
railway in Hyderabad and owns half of Dhamra Port Co. in the
eastern state of Odisha, according to its website.  “Monetization is key to strategy,” said Morgan Stanley’s
Soni. “L&T management is of the view that further growth at
IDPL should preferably come through internal generation, or
through asset divestment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  