-- Asian Coal Producers Have Increased Default Risk, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-09-24T05:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/asian-coal-producers-have-increased-default-risk-moody-s-says.html
Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd. (1733) 
and  Hidili Industry International Development Ltd. (1393)  are among
Asian coal producers at an increased risk of default on the
outlook for prices, Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said.  Weak coal prices will “pressure the credit quality and
liquidity of most coal producers in the Asia Pacific region in
the next 12 to 18 months,” Simon Wong, a vice president at
Moody’s, said in a report today. The rating services company is
“particularly concerned” about Winsway, a Chinese coking coal
importer, which has a liquidity buffer of less than three
months, Wong said.  Global coal supply will continue to outpace demand as low-cost producers are likely to increase output to maximize cash
flow, Moody’s said. Rising exports from the world’s biggest
producers have created a coal surplus of as much as 20 million
metric tons, or about 2.5 percent of global trade last year,
according to UBS AG.  “The market conditions are a reality,” Laura Shi, an
investor relations director at Winsway, said from Beijing,
adding the company is taking measures to improve its cash
position. An e-mail seeking comment from Hidili’s investor
relations department wasn’t immediately answered.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  and  Mongolian Mining Corp. (975)  also face
significant credit risks over the next 12 months, Moody’s Wong
said. Mongolian Mining’s Chief Executive Officer Battsengel
Gotov told reporters last month the company is talking to
lenders to extend debt maturities.  Price Estimate  Moody’s lowered its 2013 price estimate for Newcastle
thermal coal to $80 to $85 a ton, and Queensland hard coking
coal, used to make steel, to $150 a ton.  Newcastle thermal coal has dropped 15 percent this year to
$78.25 a ton on Sept. 20, the most recent data available.
Queensland coking coal is down 7.3 percent to $150.25 a ton on
Sept. 13, data from Energy Publishing Inc. and compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Winsway, which imports coking coal from Mongolia to  China ,
is buying back as much as $460.5 million of debt at less than a
third of its original value, according to a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange last month. The buyback offer “is
expected to provide a better recovery rate for the holders than
in liquidation,” Winsway said in a document to bondholders
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The company’s noteholders have so far tendered about 36
percent of outstanding bonds, Winsway said in a Sept. 9
statement. The offer was extended to Sept. 23,  New York  time,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  