-- Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Climbs, Credit-Default Swap Prices Show
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-09-24T02:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/asia-pacific-bond-risk-climbs-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds in the Asia-Pacific region against non-payment
climbed, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  Series 20 of the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  rose 2 basis points to 149.5 basis
points as of 8:37 a.m. in Hong Kong, Westpac Banking Corp.
prices show. The new series is in its second day of trading,
having closed 26 basis points wider than the previous series
yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index series 20 added 1 basis
point to 119 as of 10:31 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The new benchmark series also rose
yesterday, CMA data show, having begun trading on Sept. 20.  The latest version of the Markit iTraxx Japan index
increased 1.5 basis points to 90.25 basis points as of 9:51 a.m.
in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices. Markets in Japan
were closed yesterday and series 20 of the CDS benchmark began
trading there on Sept. 20.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  Fresh versions of the CDS benchmarks are created every six
months when companies are added or dropped depending on their
ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  