-- Astroturfers Settle, SAC Explores Settling: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/astroturfers-settle-sac-explores-settling-compliance.html
More than a dozen firms that
produce fake online reviews of businesses agreed to stop the
practice under a settlement with New York Attorney General Eric
T. Schneiderman, who called the scam “Astroturfing.”  The attorney general’s office said yesterday that 19
companies involved in producing bogus reviews will also pay
$350,000 in penalties. An undercover probe dubbed “Operation
Clean Turf” turned up evidence that the companies were paid by
local businesses to flood the Internet with comments on websites
including Yelp, Google Local and CitySearch, the office said.  “‘Astroturfing’ is the 21st century’s version of false
advertising, and prosecutors have many tools at their disposal
to put an end to it,” Schneiderman said in a statement.  The companies were also accused of violating state laws
against deceptive business practices. Online reviews can have a
dramatic effect on local businesses, University of California,
Berkeley economists found in a 2011 study.  The companies subject to yesterday’s settlement offered to
provide fake reviews by freelance writers from places including
the  Philippines ,  Bangladesh  and Eastern Europe, the office said.  Compliance Action  Somalia Asks Barclays to Review Closing Money-Transfer Account  Somali Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon Saaid asked
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to reconsider its decision to close the accounts of
the nation’s money-transfer services.  Shirdon wrote in the letter to Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  yesterday that the decision will affect
millions of Somalis for whom the remittances from overseas are
“absolutely vital” to sustain their families.  Barclays said in May it would close the account Dahabshiil
Holdings Ltd. uses to send money back to Somalia, citing the
lack of “strong anti-laundering governance structures.” That
date was moved from July 10 to Aug. 12 and then to Sept. 30,
after British lawmakers lobbied the London-based lender.  The Central Bank of Somalia estimates that remittances
account for 60 percent of the Horn of Africa nation’s foreign-exchange earnings. The appeal by Shirdon comes as at least 69
people were killed in a shopping mall in the Kenyan capital
Nairobi by al-Qaeda-linked gunmen from Al-Shabaab, the Somali
Islamist militant group. While acknowledging Barclays’s
“legitimate concerns” over money-laundering and terrorism,
Shirdon said the bank’s decision will exacerbate the situation
“by damaging Somali economic activity and forcing unemployed
youth” into consorting with al-Qaeda-linked groups.  Barclays said it has been engaging with the British
government and the remittance industry over its provision of
banking services and has provided customers with additional time
to find alternatives.  “As a global bank, we must comply with the rules and
regulations in all the jurisdictions in which we operate,”
Barclays said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We remain
happy to serve companies who, in our opinion, have sufficiently
strong anti-financial crime controls and who meet our amended
eligibility criteria.”  Barclays said of the four remittance companies for Somalia
it had asked to find another bank, at least one had already done
so.  Automakers’ Lending Practices Probed by U.S. Agencies for Bias  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Department
of Justice are examining the lending operations of major auto
manufacturers for possible discrimination in lending, according
to regulatory filings and three people briefed on the inquiry.  Toyota Motor Credit Corp., a financing arm of  Japan ’s
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , said in a Sept. 13 regulatory filing that
the CFPB and Justice sought information from it “and other auto
finance providers” about pricing practices for loans that the
company funds for auto dealers.  If the agencies find that Toyota violated the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, a 1974 law barring discrimination in lending,
the company could face unspecified legal action, it said.  American Honda Finance Corp., a unit of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) 
Ltd, reported the same request, and added that enforcement
action is possible. “Although neither the CFPB nor the U.S.
Department of Justice has alleged any wrongdoing on our part, we
cannot predict the outcome of the inquiry,” Honda said in an
Aug. 19 regulatory filing.  As many as five other auto lenders affiliated with
manufacturers have received similar requests for data that may
be related to the borrowers’ racial background, according to the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Sam Gilford, a spokesman for the CFPB, and Dena Iverson, a
spokeswoman for Justice, declined to comment.  In March, the consumer bureau cautioned banks under its
supervision that they face enforcement action if they fund
discriminatory vehicle loans made by dealers. The warning drew
extensive criticism from auto dealers, who were explicitly
carved out of the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that created CFPB.  GM Agrees to Buy Back $3.2 Billion of Trust Preferred Shares  General Motors Co. (GM)  agreed to purchase almost half of the
United Auto Workers retiree health care trust’s preferred shares
in the automaker for $3.2 billion while Moody’s Investors
service raised GM to investment grade.  The UAW trust deal is contingent upon GM closing an
offering of senior unsecured notes that it was expected to start
yesterday, the Detroit-based automaker said in a statement. The
preferred shares deal, along with U.S. and Canadian governments’
efforts to reduce their stakes in the automaker, marks the
latest step in unwinding ownerships stakes that resulted from
the 2009 bailout of GM.  The trust currently holds 260 million of the shares. The
Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association, known as VEBA,
acquired the shares as part of the 2009 bailout.  The U.S. Treasury Department has reduced its stake in the
automaker to 7.3 percent as part of a program to sell all of its
shares as soon as this year. The Treasury’s stake is down from
32 percent in December. The U.S. said  last week  in a report it
had recovered $35.4 billion of $51 billion invested in GM. With
the remaining stake worth about $3.8 billion, the U.S. would
probably lose about $11.8 billion.  Canada is also looking to exit its ownership in GM.  For more, click here.  Courts  SAC Said to Seek Settlement of U.S. Insider-Trading Cases  Lawyers for hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP reached out
to prosecutors in New York last week to say that founder Steven
Cohen is interested in settling the civil case against him and
criminal charges against his company, according to people
familiar with the matter.  The settlement of the criminal case against the firm would
probably involve a substantial fine, the people said, and the
current number being discussed is close to $1 billion. One of
the factors being considered in determining financial penalties
is the desire to punish Cohen personally without damaging other
parties, such as his investors, one of the people said.  Cohen, 57, has denied the charges and said he and his firm
behaved appropriately. Through a spokesman, Cohen declined to
comment for this story.  The SEC has also filed a civil administrative proceeding
against Cohen, accusing him of failing to supervise two senior
SAC employees who engaged in insider trading. One of the
potential remedies in that case, which has been put on hold
pending the criminal proceedings, is a bar from the securities
industry.  The SEC previously reached a settlement with SAC for more
than $600 million over some of the trades.  Two related criminal cases of SAC portfolio manager Michael
Steinberg portfolio manager Mathew Martoma are scheduled to
begin, separately, in November.  TD Bank Agrees to Pay $52.5 Million Over Ponzi Scheme Accounts  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s U.S. unit will pay $52.5 million to
settle regulatory claims related to accounts held by a Florida
man who is serving a 50-year prison sentence for running a Ponzi
scheme.  TD Bank, a subsidiary of  Canada ’s second-biggest lender by
assets, will pay the Securities and Exchange Commission $15
million and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency $37.5
million to resolve complaints stemming from its ties to Scott
Rothstein’s fraud, according to statements from the two agencies
yesterday.  Frank Spinosa, a former TD Bank regional vice president who
was sued by the SEC, falsely represented to investors in 2009
that the lender had restricted the movement of funds in accounts
held by Rothstein, whose fraud unraveled later that year,
regulators said.  Samuel Rabin Jr., an attorney for Spinosa, declined
immediate comment. A phone call to Ali Duncan Martin, a
spokeswoman for the bank, wasn’t immediately returned.  Comings and Goings  New York Life Fires Private-Equity Loan CEO, Promotes Wade  New York Life Insurance Co., the largest U.S. life insurer
owned by policyholders, fired Trevor Clark, the chief executive
officer of the Madison Capital Funding LLC unit, for violating
policies tied to personal investments.  Hugh Wade, 52, a co-founder of Madison Capital, was named
acting CEO, the New York-based insurer said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. New York Life also fired Christopher Williams,
a senior managing director at the unit, the insurer said.  The dismissals, effective yesterday, were for “violating
company policies pertaining to personal investments and personal
business activities,” William Werfelman, a New York Life
spokesman, said in the statement. “Our company’s rules are
strict with regard to these disclosures and activities so we can
continue to maintain the highest integrity and performance.”  Clark and Williams had been suspended amid a company probe,
a person familiar with the matter said last week. Attempts to
reach the men weren’t immediately successful through phone
numbers and e-mails obtained in a public-records search.  The men in 2001 helped found Chicago-based Madison Capital,
which provides financing to private-equity firms, according to
New York Life’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  