-- AT&T Seeks to Keep Al Jazeera Contract Terms Confidential
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-09-24T18:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/at-t-argues-al-jazeera-accord-terms-should-remain-confide.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  should be able to keep
private information about its dispute with  Al Jazeera  over a
decision to drop the Qatar-based broadcaster’s new U.S. channel,
a lawyer for the top seller of broadband Web service said.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock reserved his
decision on the matter today after  Robert Walters , representing
AT&T, said terms of an agreement for Al Jazeera’s access to
AT&T’s  U-verse pay-TV service  are proprietary and shouldn’t be
made public so competitors can access them.  Releasing the information “could cost the carrier a lot of
money,” Walters said at a hearing in Dover.  Glasscock took the sealing issue under advisement and told
Al Jazeera lawyers to reconsider their redactions. Glasscock
said he “struggled to see” how some of the blacked out
material should be shielded from the public’s view.  “It’s interesting that the parties came to a public court
to address issues they say are too sensitive to be revealed,”
he said.  Bloomberg News , the  Associated Press  and other media
outlets have challenged AT&T’s decision to black out contract
information in court filings tied to Al Jazeera’s lawsuit.  Andrew Deutsch, a lawyer for Al Jazeera, agreed with AT&T
that key terms such as pricing shouldn’t be made public, telling
Glasscock that, “A network carrier doesn’t want other carriers
to know” proprietary contract terms.  U-Verse Dispute  AT&T’s  U-verse pay-TV service  said Aug. 19 it wouldn’t
carry Al Jazeera America because of disputes over the agreement
between the two broadcasters. U-verse began in 2006 and has
5 million video customers in states such as Texas and
California. The network, controlled by the Qatari royal family,
paid $500 million for  Al Gore ’s money-losing Current TV in
January and rebranded it.  AT&T’s push to keep all information about the agreement’s
terms confidential is excessive and improperly bars public
access to court filings, Andre Bouchard, a lawyer for Bloomberg
News, told Glasscock today.  He said the companies engaged in “gross over-redactions”
of non-sensitive material in their court filings, and have made
it impossible for the public to fathom “the real grist of the
dispute.”  Current TV  Buying Current TV gave Al Jazeera America access to about
43 million U.S. homes, less than half of the nation’s pay-TV
homes. The Qatari company also has deals with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,
 DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  for BeIN Sport, a group of
channels it owns in France, the U.S. and  Canada  that have rights
to European soccer leagues.  U-verse is the second TV provider to drop Al Jazeera’s
channel since it acquired Current TV.  Time Warner Cable (TWC) , which
has 12 million customers, dropped the channel from its lineup in
January.  Al Jazeera officials contend they were in “full
compliance” with the agreement covering AT&T’s broadcasting of
the Current TV channel and “AT&T’s excuse for terminating is a
bad-faith pretext,” according to court filings.  AT&T contends in court papers that it has “unique”
contracts with networks on U-verse that contain competitive
information related to pricing and termination rights.  The case is Al Jazeera LLC v. AT&T Services Inc., 8823,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  