-- Atlantic Season With No Major Storm Humbling Forecasters
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-25T15:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/atlantic-season-with-no-major-storm-humbling-forecasters.html
The  2013 Atlantic hurricane season 
is humbling forecasters by shaping up as the first in almost two
decades without a major storm, confounding predictions that it
would be more active than normal.  It’s been two weeks since the season’s statistical peak and
just days are left in its busiest month. With the Atlantic full
of dry air and storm-killing winds, there isn’t anything in
sight that poses a threat to the U.S. or to oil and gas
production areas in the Gulf of  Mexico .  Except for  Tropical Storm Andrea , which formed in the Gulf
of Mexico in June and crossed  Florida  to New England,
contributing to the deaths of four people, the U.S. has been
spared a hit. Last year, four tropical systems struck, including
hurricanes Isaac and Sandy, which together caused more than $52
billion in damage and killed at least 179 people.  “The season looks to be a huge bust,” said Phil Klotzbach, lead author of Colorado State University’s annual
storm forecast. “That’s one of the fun things about being in
the weather business. It definitely keeps you humble.”  Colorado State, which pioneered seasonal hurricane
outlooks, in August predicted an above-average 18 storms, eight
of them hurricanes and three of them major systems.  The National
Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration  said there was a 70 percent
chance for 13 to 19 storms, six to nine of them hurricanes and
three to five of them major.  Making Predictions  The predictions were based on warmer sea temperatures, a
strong West African monsoon and the lack of a Pacific El Nino, a
phenomenon that can create Atlantic wind shear.  The shear, winds that blow at different speeds or
directions at varying altitudes, ripping storms apart, “has
been relentless out there” despite the absence of an El Nino,
said Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  Mid-level relative humidity across the tropical Atlantic,
typically about 30 percent, has been down to 20 to 25 percent
this year, Klotzbach said.  “It’s been dry out there, and when I say dry, I mean
dry,” Klotzbach said. ‘I’m still not quite sure why it’s been
as dry as it has.’’  Warmer waters and the African monsoon haven’t been enough
to counter the shear and dryness.  If no major hurricane, one with winds of 111 mph or more,
forms in the Atlantic this year, “it will be the first time
since 1994,” Rogers said.  Last Year  Nineteen named storms grew in the Atlantic in 2012, for the
third year in a row. Nine have developed this year, two of which
became low-level Category 1 hurricanes, according to the
 National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  Nine is above normal for late September, said  Dennis Feltgen , spokesman and meteorologist at the center. Mexico was
battered this month on both coasts by storms that killed at
least 130 people and left dozens missing.  The 30-year average for the six-month season is 12 storms
with winds of 39 miles (63 kilometers) per hour or higher.  This year’s first hurricane, Humberto, was born at 5 a.m.
New York time on Sept. 11, just missing the record for the
latest such a storm formed since satellites began watching the
entire Atlantic in 1967, Feltgen said. In 2002, Hurricane Gustav
developed at 8 a.m. that day.  Humberto disintegrated in the central Atlantic.  Storms
Chantal, Dorian, Erin and Gabrielle  all dissipated when they ran
into the wind shear and dry air, Feltgen said. Several potential
storms, called tropical waves, never got a chance to develop.  Bay Storms  “One of the few areas that have been marginally favorable
for development is the Bay of Campeche and southwest Gulf of
Mexico,” Feltgen said.  Andrea formed there, as did Barry, Fernand and Hurricane
Ingrid, all of which hit Mexico.  The calmer weather has offered a reprieve for U.S. property
insurers. The companies are also benefiting from rate increases
they pushed through as claims costs rose and low interest rates
reduced income from bond portfolios that back policyholder
liabilities.  Travelers Cos. Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman said
this month that his company bought back $633 million of its
stock since June 30 amid lower natural disaster losses. That’s
the highest amount for the insurer in a third quarter since it
was formed by the 2004 merger of Travelers Property Casualty
Corp. and St. Paul Cos.  “The third quarter, as everyone knows, has been benign and
quiet from a windstorm perspective,” Fishman said Sept. 11 at
an investor conference in New York hosted by Barclays Plc.  Season’s End  Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in
State College, Pennsylvania, said wind patterns are setting up
that will prevent any storms from developing close to or
threatening the U.S.  “We have never seen a storm make landfall on the  Texas 
coast past the middle of October,” Kottlowski said. Weather
fronts begin sweeping across Texas and push storms away from
that state as autumn takes hold in the Northern Hemisphere, he
said.  It also becomes harder for a storm to strike the main oil
and gas production areas in the Gulf, Rogers said. The  waterway 
is home to about 23 percent of U.S. crude production, 5.6
percent of gas output, and more than 45 percent of petroleum
refining capacity, according to Energy Department data.  “After the first week of October, it’s very hard to get a
system into the production area of any significance,” Rogers
said.  Still Time  Feltgen cautioned against writing off the season, which
officially ends Nov. 30.  “Many past seasons with similar climate factors have
produced four or more named storms and four or more hurricanes
after mid-September, which would bring the 2013 season totals in
line with the ranges in NOAA’s outlook,” Feltgen said.  Last year,  Hurricane Sandy  was born on Oct. 22.  “I always say,‘never say never’ in the tropics, but I
think the odds are diminishing pretty rapidly for the season,”
Rogers said.  Klotzbach said conditions across the Atlantic are only
going to become worse for storms in the next few weeks.  “I really don’t see any comeback, and we’ve really only
got three or four weeks before the season really starts winding
down,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  