-- Aussie, Kiwi Fall Versus Peers as Stock Drop Spurs Risk Aversion
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-09-24T07:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/aussie-kiwi-drop-versus-peers-as-stock-drop-spurs-risk-aversion.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell against most major peers as declines in global
stocks reduced investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie weakened for a third day in four against the
 U.S. dollar  after reaching a three-month high last week. New
Zealand’s dollar headed for its biggest drop this month against
the greenback after touching the highest level in four months
last week. The kiwi retreated from near a five-year high versus
its Australian counterpart as traders adjusted bets on a
divergence in interest rates at the nations’ central banks.  “The equity markets opened on a softer foot, and we’re
seeing a bit of weakness in the Aussie dollar as some risk comes
off the table,” said Jim Vrondas, the Sydney-based chief
currency and payment strategist at OzForex Ltd. “I don’t expect
it to have a long-lasting effect.”  The Australian dollar slid 0.2 percent to 94.13 U.S. cents
as of 5 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it rose 0.4 percent.
 New Zealand ’s dollar dropped 0.5 percent to 83.29 U.S. cents.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 0.6 percent,
following a 0.5 percent drop in the Standard and Poor’s 500
Index yesterday.  The Aussie has climbed 2.4 percent in the past month, the
best performance after the New Zealand dollar’s 5.2 percent
appreciation among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Best Performers  Australia ’s dollar touched 95.29 U.S. cents on Sept. 18, a
level unseen since June 19. New Zealand’s dollar reached 84.36
U.S. cents on Sept. 19, the highest level since May 9.  The Australian currency may rise to 97 U.S. cents,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG technical analysts David Sneddon and Christopher Hine. An initial move above 94.59 is
“key” to testing the 38 percent retracement of the decline
between April and August at about 95.11, they wrote in a
research note to clients dated today.  The kiwi retreated from the strongest level in almost five
years against Australia’s currency as traders adjusted bets for
central bank  interest rates .  Traders see an 80 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand will raise borrowing costs from a record-low 2.5 percent
by April next year, down from 96 percent odds yesterday,
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show. They see a
49 percent probability the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will reduce
its cash target rate from a record low of 2.5 percent in the
same period.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to NZ$1.1301 per
Aussie dollar, after touching NZ$1.12 on Aug. 1, the strongest
since October 2008.  “Diverging expectations has helped the cross come up to
these levels,” said Alex Sinton, the director for institutional
foreign exchange in Auckland at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “The NZ$1.12 zone in recent times has presented some
difficulty, and we really need some new news to break that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  