-- Australia to Review Fiber Network With Rollout 50% Behind Target
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-24T05:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/australia-to-review-fiber-network-with-rollout-50-behind-target.html
Australia  will review its national
fiber network as the rollout falls 50 percent behind targets and
the new Communications Minister sought resignations from all
directors of the government-backed company building the project.  NBN Co.’s target for the number of buildings with fiber
broadband connections by the end of June 2014 has been revised
down by half, Communications Minister  Malcolm Turnbull  told
reporters in Sydney today. About 1.3 million premises would have
had access to the network by that date, according to the
company’s most recent  corporate plan .  Turnbull has previously criticized the project, estimated
to cost about A$44 billion ($41 billion) by the previous
government, for missed targets and cost overruns. About  33,600
homes and businesses  were using the fiber network at the end of
June, with 207,500 premises connected to the cables, compared to
a target of more than 2 million connections in NBN Co.’s earlier
 2011 corporate plan .  “The NBN rollout has to date repeatedly missed its
targets,” he said. The government wants to “get the best
result for taxpayers and consumers as soon as possible.”  Turnbull said all but one of the  seven-person board  had
tendered their resignations.  The move “should not be regarded as any criticism of any
of the directors”, Turnbull said, and was intended to give the
government flexibility in remaking the board given its different
policy for the network.  Cheaper Plan  The strategic review won’t start until the new board is in
place, he said.  Turnbull and Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  have promised to
connect all households to high-speed Internet by 2016 for A$30
billion, saving money by running the fiber only as far as
junction boxes as much as a kilometer from homes and covering
the remaining distance using existing copper wires.  The previous government’s plan would have run fiber direct
to almost every home and workplace in the country.  Construction work on the network will continue while a
planned 60-day review of the project is carried out, and
companies building the infrastructure will continue work “well
into 2014”, Turnbull said.  The revised target, which will give less than 1 million
homes and businesses access to the network in June 2014,
compares to a 2.7 million forecast in NBN Co.’s 2011  corporate
plan . The original plan called for 12 million fiber connections
by the project’s completion in 2021.  The network now being proposed would give every household
download speeds of 25 megabits per second by 2016, according to
the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  