-- Avenue’s Lasry Says Getting Massively Overpaid for Loans
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-09-24T18:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/avenue-s-lasry-says-getting-massively-overpaid-for-lending-risk.html
Marc Lasry , co-founder of
investment firm Avenue Capital Group LLC, said hedge funds are
getting “massively” overpaid for lending to lower-rated
companies as banks scale back risky loans.  Banks are lending less because of tighter capital rules,
and regulatory changes forcing them to exit proprietary trading
have created opportunities for hedge funds, Lasry said in a
panel discussion at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York
today.  “We’re the only game in town” for borrowers that aren’t
considered investment grade, said Lasry, whose New York-based
firm managed about $12.2 billion as of the end of June.  Under a set of rules known as Basel III, banks are required
to raise the amount of capital relative to risky assets,
prompting them to reduce less-sound loans and sell holdings. The
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision setting the rules
estimates that 75 of the world’s biggest banks collectively will
need to find an additional $300 billion in core capital to meet
the new requirements.  In that environment, Lasry said he wouldn’t want to run a
bank. While there are still talented people at banks, they
haven’t left because they have “lock-ups” in their employment
contracts, said Lasry.  European Banks  In Europe, “bank after bank” is coming to Avenue to offer
assets for sale to meet the new requirements, Lasry said during
the discussion.  Bruce Richards, who runs New York-based Marathon Asset
Management LP, said on the same panel that asset sales by
European banks are accelerating this year as the region emerges
from its sovereign-debt crisis and companies realize losses on
their holdings.  Glenn Dubin , co-founder of New York-based Highbridge
Capital Management LLC, said rules limiting proprietary trading
by banks have also provided opportunities for hedge funds,
though competition among hedge funds has made starting a new
firm more challenging.  Hedge funds on average have underperformed U.S. stocks in
the last five years. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  returned  an
average annual 7.3 percent in the period ended Aug. 31, compared
with 6.3 percent a year for hedge funds, according to the
Bloomberg Active Indices for Funds.  Asked if funds are coming under pressure to lower their
fees because of the performance, Dubin called it an “odd
issue” and said negotiating the charges is a “ridiculous”
discussion. Investors should only look at returns after fees to
decide if they want to commit money to a manager, Lasry said.  Richards said he offers discounted fees to clients who
commit large amounts or are willing to have capital locked up
for longer periods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  