-- B2Gold Chief Sees Good Chance of Deal in Next 12 Months
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-24T14:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/b2gold-chief-sees-good-chance-of-deal-in-the-next-12-months.html
(Corrects spelling of Philippines in fifth paragraph.)  B2Gold Corp. (BTO) , the Canadian gold
producer with assets in  Latin America ,  Africa  and  Asia , said
there’s a “good chance” it may make an acquisition in the next
12 months as smaller companies seek buyers after prices fell.  While B2Gold will be careful assessing potential purchases,
there are some projects and mines that look attractive and the
managements and boards of potential targets are increasingly
interested in talks, Chief Executive Officer Clive Johnson said
yesterday in an interview in Denver, where he’s attending the
Denver Gold Forum.  B2Gold is looking for cheap acquisitions as larger rivals
sell assets, and development and exploration companies struggle
to access funds to develop projects. The Vancouver-based company
will focus on assets that can produce at least about 150,000
ounces a year of gold, Johnson said.  “We’re looking at a couple of ideas where there’s a very
good reserve, a large reserve of millions of ounces in some
cases and the company is stuck,” Johnson said. “There’s a good
chance we’ll do a deal in the next 12 months.”  B2Gold had $95.7 million of  cash  at the end of the second
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and sold $259
million of convertible bonds in August. The company operates two
 gold mines  in Nicaragua and one in the Philippines. It’s also
studying projects in Colombia and Uruguay.  The company sold the bonds to bolster its cash position and
to take advantage of good terms, rather than to fund a
transaction, Johnson said.  B2Gold’s existing growth plans, including at its Otjikoto
mine in  Namibia  that is scheduled to start up late next year,
mean it’s not under pressure to complete a transaction, Johnson
said. Producers including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the largest gold
miner, are selling less profitable assets after gold’s decline.  B2Gold was founded in 2007 by the former management team of
Bema Gold Corp., which was sold that year to Kinross Gold Corp.
for C$3.67 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  