-- Bahrain’s Investcorp Plans New Fund After Investing $1 Billion
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-24T11:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/bahrain-s-investcorp-plans-new-fund-after-investing-1-billion.html
Investcorp Bank BSC, the Bahrain-based alternative investment firm managing $10.5 billion, is
planning a new buyout fund for the  Middle East  after almost
completing investments in its $1 billion Gulf Opportunity Fund.  The new fund “could be a similar size” or smaller than
the existing fund, Mohammed Al-Shroogi, president for Gulf
business, said in a phone interview from Manama, Bahrain today.
The Gulf Opportunity Fund has cash for one small deal, he said.  Investcorp said today it had bought a 30 percent stake in
Saudi Arabia’s Theeb Rent A Car, the Kingdom’s second-biggest
car rental company. The investment in Theeb, whose revenue and
profit rose more than 17 percent annually over the past three
years, is the fund’s fourth investment in Saudi Arabia and the
tenth in the region.  Countries in the Persian Gulf region, including  Saudi
Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar, are spending
hundreds of billions of dollars from their oil wealth to
diversify their economies. Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab
economy, plans to invest more than $500 billion to build
industries, roads and housing to help create jobs and boost
growth after popular uprisings toppled regional leaders.  Investcorp will also look at selling some businesses in the
region over the next 12 to 15 months, Al-Shroogi said.  The company earlier today also said it acquired Chicago-based stationery and greeting-card retailer Paper Source Inc.
for an undisclosed amount from Los Angeles-based buyout firm
Brentwood Associates Inc. Paper Source, which operates 73 stores
across 23 states, designs and produces fine and artisanal
papers.  Investcorp said in July it planned to double its dividend
after full-year profit climbed 56 percent to $104.9 million. The
firm, which invests in private equity, funds of  hedge funds  and
real estate, completed eight deals in the fiscal year including
buying a controlling stake in oil and gas services provider
Hydrasun Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  