-- Bank World’s Ikea Born in Sweden Challenging Deposit Giants
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-09-25T12:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/banking-world-s-ikea-born-in-sweden-challenging-deposit-giants.html
Sweden ’s state-backed mortgage
lender wants to take retail customers from the nation’s biggest
banks as it targets as much as $14 billion in deposits.  SBAB plans to more than double its share of Sweden’s
savings market to as much as 6 percent in the coming years, from
today’s 2 percent, Chief Executive Officer Carl-Viggo Oestlund
said yesterday in an interview at the bank’s headquarters in
Stockholm. Oestlund predicts the bank’s deposit base will rise
as high as 90 billion kronor in coming years ($14 billion).  SBAB will offer higher savings rates as part of a plan to
challenge the dominance of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken
AB (SHBA) , SEB AB and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , Oestlund said. SBAB estimates
households in the largest Nordic economy have lost 10 billion
kronor this year because Sweden’s biggest banks paid too little
on their deposits. SBAB’s expansion in retail banking will
include bank cards, salary accounts and other transaction
services, a transformation the bank estimates will take 12
months.  “We will think as normal retailers,” Oestlund said. A
bank should be able to “become a much-appreciated company” in
people’s perceptions, in the same way Ikea is, he said. “There
is a systematic fault in Sweden’s banking system that we will
attack, and that starts with the customer.”  SBAB is offering 2.45 percent on savings for clients that
already have their mortgages with the lender. Customers without
mortgage contracts at the bank will get 2.2 percent.  Rates Competition  SEB, Sweden’s fourth-biggest bank by market value, offers
no interest on regular private accounts, 0.55 percent on  savings
accounts  and 1.8 percent on savings that are tied up for three
months, according to its website. Nordea, Scandinavia’s biggest
bank, offers customers 1.86 percent on three-month accounts and
2.25 percent if they tie their savings up for two years. At
Handelsbanken, rates vary from 0.1 percent to 1.45 percent.  While SBAB plans to use higher rates to win market share,
the lender also needs deposit funding to protect its  credit
rating .  Standard & Poor’s  on July 19 placed SBAB’s A long-term
and A-1 short-term credit ratings on review for a possible
downgrade citing concerns over the bank’s reliance on short-term
funding.  Funding Pressure  The bank’s retail ambitions will help drive its deposit-to-loan ratio as high as 30 percent, from 13 percent today, and
make it less reliant on wholesale markets, Oestlund said. S&P
today removed SBAB from CreditWatch negative, and affirmed the
lender’s ratings.  “We now believe the bank has a more conservative and
credible plan to reduce its reliance on short-term funding and
to strengthen its liquid reserves,” S&P said today. The rating
company also said “the adjustment process will be
challenging.”  SBAB is targeting growth as Financial Markets Minister
Peter Norman commits to the government’s long-term goal of
selling the bank. Sweden today sold its remaining 7 percent
stake in Nordea for 21.6 billion kronor ($3.4 billion) to lower
national debt, saying that the state’s role is not to own banks
but to regulate them.  “We’ve been very clear from the government when it comes
to SBAB,” Norman told reporters today. “We intend to try to
sell SBAB. We don’t currently have a majority in parliament and
it then becomes our responsibility as the owner of SBAB to
develop the bank as well as possible, to make it more attractive
to sell when we perhaps get a majority in parliament.”  Banks Fall  Prime MinisterFredrik Reinfeldt’s government earmarked
SBAB for divestment after coming to power in 2006, as part of a
broader strategy to sell state assets and reduce debt.  Swedish bank stocks fell today, with Nordea losing 2.9
percent as of 2:02 p.m. local time. Swedbank declined 2.7
percent, SEB dropped 1 percent and Handelsbanken lost 2.3
percent. The 44-member Bloomberg index of European banks slipped
0.3 percent.  Oestlund’s goal of becoming Sweden’s banking Ikea sets the
bar high. The furniture retailer was among the nation’s four
most-respected companies in 2013, together with Google Inc.,
according to a survey of 15,000 people by Nordic Brand Academy.  Among Sweden’s four biggest banks, Handelsbanken has the
most satisfied customers, with a score of 75.2 out of 100 in
Svenskt Kvalitetsindex’s ranking for 2012.  Though SBAB plans to offer higher deposit rates than
Sweden’s biggest banks, Oestlund said there’s more to winning
market share than pricing.  “Prices won’t be our way to get into the market and
neither will distribution channels or marketing,” he said.
“Where we can make a real difference is on the customer
experience; that’s what we will add to the market and that’s
where there is a big gap that we can fill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  