-- Barrick Gold in Talks to Sell More Assets in Australia
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-24T20:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/barrick-gold-in-talks-to-sell-more-assets-in-australia.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
largest producer of the metal by sales, is in talks to sell more
assets as it seeks to reduce operating costs and focus on its
most efficient mines.  The company, which last month agreed to sell three
Australian mines, is in talks about selling additional assets in
the country, Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky said
yesterday in an interview at the Denver Gold Forum. The Toronto-based company is mulling the sale of other assets around the
world and would consider a joint venture with U.S. competitor
 Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  in  Nevada  to reduce costs.  Sokalsky is leading efforts to improve Barrick’s
performance and restoring profitability following gold’s
steepest quarterly slump in more than nine decades. The company
said in August it will either sell, close or reduce output at 12
of its 27 mines that are located across five continents.  “It’s no secret that some of the Australian assets fit the
kind of description that I’ve talked about in terms of being
non-core and assets that are higher-cost and I think don’t fit
well long term with our portfolio,” he said. “We are talking
to some people about those assets, and then various assets
around the world which I wouldn’t want to name.”  South Africa ’s Gold Fields Ltd. said last month it will pay
$300 million for Barrick’s interests in the Granny Smith,
Lawlers and Darlot gold mines in  Western Australia . Barrick also
has five other Australian operations, according to its  website .  Newmont Talks  Barrick is getting unsolicited expressions of interest in
some of its operations from private-equity firms and smaller
mining companies, Sokalsky said. In regards to the possibility
of a joint venture with Newmont, both companies have had talks
on the idea, which could be revived, he said.  “There are a number of different things we could do that
maybe you would characterize somewhat as financial
engineering,” Sokalsky said. “We’re getting approached by
people on this too.”  Barrick has declined 45 percent this year in Toronto,
outpacing the 21 percent drop in the price of gold. The company
took $8.7 billion of writedowns in the second quarter, and cut
its dividend to improve its liquidity.  Canada’s biggest pension funds are asking Barrick to
appoint new independent board members and have said the miner
should consider replacing directors who have been there longer
than 20 years and are close to Co-Chairman and founder  Peter Munk , two investors briefed on the matter said last week. The
company said Sept. 17 it will add new directors and strengthen
its executive pay policies after investors criticized
governance. Sokalsky said yesterday that the selection process
continues.  “The board really wants to go through a thoughtful process
to make sure that any type of transition is done in the best way
possible,” he said. “They’ve had those discussions with
shareholders and it is definitely a discussion that the board is
taking very seriously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  