-- Belo Said to Have 70% Shareholder Support for Gannett Offer
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-09-24T20:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/belo-said-to-have-70-shareholder-support-for-gannett-s-offer.html
Belo Corp. (BLC) , the TV station owner
that is the target of a $1.5 billion takeover bid by Gannett
Co., has support from more than 70 percent of its shareholders
for the deal, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Belo hasn’t received any superior offers and can’t accept a
new bid once the Gannett deal is approved, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the process is private. The
official vote, set to take place tomorrow morning, requires at
least two-thirds of shareholders to accept the acquisition,
company filings show.  Gannett, the owner of  USA Today , is acquiring Belo to gain
TV stations and regional cable news channels, reducing its
dependence on a shrinking newspaper business. The deal will make
Gannett the fourth-largest owner of major network affiliates,
almost doubling the McLean, Virginia-based company’s broadcast
portfolio to 43 stations from 23.  Gannett declined to comment on the preliminary vote tally,
according to Jeremy Gaines, a spokesman for the company. A
spokesmen for Dallas-based Belo didn’t respond to a request for
comment on the preliminary results.  Gannett agreed to buy Belo in June for $13.75 a share, a 28
percent premium to Belo’s closing price the day before the deal
was announced, and the assumption of $715 million in debt,
according to a statement at the time.  Belo closed at $13.80 today in  New York , giving the company
a market capitalization of more than $1.4 billion. Gannett rose
less than 1 percent to $25.75, for a market value of $5.9
billion. The shares have climbed almost 43 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  