-- Bernanke Taper Delay Clouds Kuroda Inflation Fight: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-09-24T00:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/bernanke-taper-delay-clouds-kuroda-inflation-fight-japan-credit.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s surprise
decision to delay tapering stimulus as inflation remains subdued
suggests  Bank of Japan  Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda  faces an uphill
battle to stoke price increases with quantitative easing.  Japan’s implied forward yield, which indicates bond
investor expectations of the two-year note rate in 2015, has
fallen to the lowest since April 4 when Kuroda began
unprecedented stimulus, at 0.24 percent last week. That suggests
the market doesn’t expect inflation pressure to push up yields
for at least two years. The equivalent rate in the U.S. declined
to a month low of 1.8 percent on Sept. 18.  While Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food rose 0.7
percent from a year earlier in July, the fastest increase since
2008, a bond market gauge is signaling inflation of 1.36 percent
over the next five years, falling short of the BOJ’s 2 percent
target by 2015. BOJ board member Takahide Kiuchi said on Sept.
19 it’s “highly uncertain” whether the goal can be met in two
years and that the inaction of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
board shows how hard it is to end unconventional policy.  “There are fewer and fewer investors who expect the BOJ to
achieve the inflation target,” said Toru Suehiro, a market
economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., one of the 23
primary dealers obliged to bid at Japanese government bond
sales. “Most people anticipate additional easing, so shorter-term yields are more likely to fall as the clock keeps ticking”
toward its two-year deadline, he said.  Policy Speculation  The implied forward rate slid to a record 0.095 percent on
March 8, about a week before Kuroda was appointed to governor,
amid speculation the BOJ would expand monetary stimulus to end
15 years of deflation that’s weighed on  consumer spending .  Five months after Kuroda’s board doubled monthly JGB
purchases to more than 7 trillion yen ($70.8 billion), inflation
levels remain far from the BOJ’s goal.  Japan’s  core consumer prices  probably rose 0.7 percent from
a year earlier in August, the same pace as July, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
before the release of the data on Sept. 27.  That inflation gauge will climb 1.3 percent in the year
starting April 2014 and 1.9 percent in fiscal 2015, BOJ board
members  forecast  in July, excluding the effects of a planned
sales-tax increase to 8 percent from 5 percent in April.  U.S. Inflation  In the U.S., the  price index  for personal-consumption
expenditure rose 1.4 percent in July from a year earlier,
compared with the Fed’s long-term target of 2 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  unexpectedly kept its $85
billion pace of monthly debt purchases on Sept. 18. It said
price growth “persistently” below its objective could pose
risks to the economy.  “The Fed’s decision not to taper implies that it’s
extremely difficult to envision the BOJ’s 2 percent target being
achieved in two years,” said Akio Kato, the team leader of
Japanese debt in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management Co., which
manages the equivalent of $38 billion. “The BOJ is highly
likely to add monetary stimulus should we see any softness in
the economy after the sales-tax increase.”  Japan’s growth is expected to slow as higher taxes may
depress consumer spending. Gross domestic product is estimated
by economists to expand 1.55 percent in 2014, after adjusting
for inflation, down from 1.9 percent this year.  Sovereign Yield  The  yield  on  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year note slid to as low
as 0.665 percent last week, a level unseen since May 10. It was
at 0.685 percent today. The five-year  break-even rate , an
indicator of inflation expectations that shows the difference
between nominal bond yields and those on inflation-linked debt,
has fallen from an all-time high of 1.89 percent on May 23.  The yen’s 12 percent depreciation against the dollar this
year, the worst performance among 10 major currencies, has
supported Japan’s efforts to boost consumer prices. A weaker
currency tends to increase import costs.  Local exporters’ competitiveness has also been bolstered by
the weak yen, aiding Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic
stimulus policy, known as Abenomics. A government report showed
on Sept. 19 that overseas shipments climbed 14.7 percent in
August from a year earlier, the most in three years.  “Abenomics will continue to boost Japan’s economic
expansion steadily,” Mitsumaru Kumagai, the chief economist at
Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., told reporters on Sept. 20 in
Tokyo. “The tax hike will improve government finances in the
long run, and postponing the step could ruin the positive impact
we’ve seen so far,” he said.  Linker Resumption  Bond investors’ confidence in Kuroda’s ability to stoke
consumer-prices increases will be tested on Oct. 8, when the
Ministry of Finance plans to resume offering inflation-linked
notes. Deflation prompted the ministry to suspend their issuance
in August 2008.  Increasing inflation expectations is “ by no means easy ”
and the BOJ will continue to take appropriate action, Kuroda
said on Sept. 20. BOJ Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata said he’s
confident the 2 percent inflation target will be met as the
central bank’s stimulus spurs household spending, in a letter to
the Sankei newspaper published today.  Bernanke may have refrained from tapering in part because
he’s aware of the history of Japan’s monetary policy, according
to Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in Tokyo at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co.  The BOJ  ended  its first round of quantitative easing in
March 2006 after five years, declaring that it had fulfilled its
commitment to maintain the program until  core inflation  was
stably above zero. Core consumer prices rose 0.1 percent that
month. The central bank had to resume buying assets as a
stimulus step in October 2010 after living costs tumbled 1
percent or more in the months preceding the decision.  Had the BOJ delayed an end to quantitative easing in 2006,
the limits of the policy could have been better understood, said
Murata. The premature withdrawal of the program “resulted in
excessive expectations of QE and dependence on it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  