-- Blackstone to Buy 16 Hotels From Hersha for $217 Million
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-24T14:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/blackstone-to-buy-16-hotels-from-hersha-for-217-million.html
A Blackstone Group LP affiliate
agreed to buy 16 hotels from  Hersha Hospitality Trust (HT)  for $217
million, adding properties in the U.S. Northeast.  The transaction includes hotels in New York’s Long Island,
suburban Philadelphia,  Connecticut  and Rhode Island, according
to a statement today from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania-based Hersha.
The company will record a gain of about $30 million.  The deal is timed to “capitalize on private-equity
interest in stabilized, select-service assets in suburban
markets,” Jay H. Shah, chief executive officer of the real
estate investment trust, said in the statement.  Blackstone, the world’s largest alternative-asset firm, is
buying hotel properties as the U.S. lodging market recovers,
while also taking advantage of the rebound to sell shares of
older investments. The New York-based company is preparing
initial public offerings of Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. and
 Extended Stay America Inc. (0859941D) , and is exploring a stock sale of La
Quinta Inns & Suites.  Recent Blackstone purchases include the acquisition of the
Motel 6 and Studio 6 budget chains for $1.9 billion last year,
and a $1.3 billion deal for Apple REIT Six Inc., a hotel owner,
that was completed in May.  The Hersha transaction, expected to close in the first
quarter, includes hotels operating as Courtyard by Marriott,
Residence Inn and Hampton Inn, according to a presentation on
the REIT’s  website .  Including this deal, Hersha has sold 46 hotels for proceeds
of about $460 million since 2008. The company is selling hotels
that it considers to be outside its main business, while seeking
to expand in Miami and on the West Coast.  Hersha  shares  gained 3.6 percent to $5.71 at 10:06 a.m. in
New York. They have increased 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  