-- Black Enrollment Falls as Michigan Rejects Affirmative Action
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/black-enrollment-falls-as-michigan-rejects-affirmative-action.html
A decade ago, the University of
 Michigan  waged a successful U.S. Supreme Court fight to save
affirmative action. Now Michigan is learning to live without it.  Three years after the court allowed race-based admissions,
Michigan voters blocked them at state schools through a ballot
initiative. The result is fewer black students crisscrossing the
Diag, the wide space that cuts through the heart of the
university’s Ann Arbor campus. Black enrollment is down about 30
percent at the undergraduate and law schools.  The constitutionality of that 2006 ballot initiative is now
before the U.S. Supreme Court, which holds arguments next month.
With even affirmative action supporters predicting the court
will uphold the measure, a university that has long prided
itself on its racial diversity may have to achieve what it can
through less direct means.  “I don’t think anybody accepts the numbers,” Mark
Bernstein, one of eight elected regents who govern the
university, said at Cafe Zola, a half mile from campus. “We
are, as a campus, as a university, committed to diversity, and
we’ll just have to soldier on using less-effective tools.”  The Michigan dispute is one of the Supreme Court’s top
cases for the nine-month term that starts next month. The
justices are set to hear clashes over campaign finance, recess
appointments, housing discrimination and legislative prayer.
They may also take up a new case over President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law, on whether for-profit corporations can claim a
religious exemption from the requirement that employer-provided
insurance plans include contraceptive coverage.  Alternative Measures  Michigan was also the Supreme Court’s focus in cases over
the university’s law school and undergraduate admissions
policies in 2003. The court ruled that admissions officers could
use race to foster campus diversity as long as they did so as
part of a holistic review of an applicant’s file. The decision
didn’t preclude states from barring racial preferences through
their own laws.  In recent years, the effectiveness of alternatives to
traditional affirmative action have come under increasing
scrutiny from courts, policy makers and voters. Michigan is one
of 10 states where race-conscious admissions are barred as a
matter of law.  In most of those states, top universities have maintained
their racial diversity, said Richard Kahlenberg, a senior fellow
at the Washington-based Century Foundation. Some states have
increased socioeconomic affirmative action, which Kahlenberg
favors. Others base some admissions solely on class rank, giving
slots to top students at predominantly minority high schools.  Enrollment Drops  In Michigan, by contrast, minority  enrollment  dropped after
the ballot initiative, Proposal 2, was enacted. In 2006, the
last full year in which race could be directly considered in
admissions, blacks accounted for 6.4 percent of the freshman
class, a number that excludes foreign students. Last year, black
enrollment was 4.6 percent. Hispanic enrollment fell from 5.3
percent in 2006 to 3.9 percent in 2012.  At Michigan State University in East Lansing, black
enrollment was already falling when Proposal 2 kicked in. Blacks
represented 10.5 percent of the entering class in 1999, 8.8
percent in 2006 and 6.2 percent in 2012. Preliminary numbers for
2013 show blacks constitute 7.5 percent of freshmen.  The University of Michigan Law School enrolled 25 black
students, or 6.8 percent of its first-year class, in 2006. The
number was 14 black students, or 3.9 percent, in 2008, and the
school hasn’t topped 18 since then. Hispanic enrollment is about
the same as it was in 2006.  Disappointing Results  Michigan Law School’s admissions director,  Sarah Zearfoss ,
sighs when asked in her office what steps she has taken to bring
in more black students in the aftermath of Proposal 2.  “So many things, so many things, and -- spoiler alert --
none of it really has helped,” Zearfoss said.  She pointed to a list of efforts to recruit more black
applicants and persuade more admitted students to enroll. The
school has enlisted black students, professors and alumni to
help -- all to no avail.  Part of the problem is that virtually every accepted black
student also has offers from a half-dozen or more other top-flight law schools, guaranteeing that Michigan will enroll only
a fraction of them.  “These are all people who anyone would want to admit,”
Zearfoss said. Unable to consider race, she said she can no
longer bolster minority enrollment with “hidden gems” who
escaped the attention of other schools.  Family Wealth  Michigan Law School also considers family educational
background, engaging in a form of socioeconomic affirmative
action. One thing the school doesn’t do is directly weigh family
wealth, a consideration that Kahlenberg says could make an
impact because it is highly correlated with race.  “If you’re looking for a way that is really going to boost
African-American and Latino enrollment, then  wealth  is an
important factor to consider,” Kahlenberg said.  Michigan also has eschewed the percentage plans adopted by
Texas, California and  Florida , which guarantee university slots
to students finishing near the top of their high school classes.  In its last nine-month term, the Supreme Court considered
whether the University of Texas could supplement its “top 10
percent” rule with race-based admissions. The justices reached
a compromise, telling a lower court to scrutinize the policy
more closely.  Vowing Resistance  Proposal 2 was spearheaded by Jennifer Gratz, whose
reverse-discrimination lawsuit against Michigan became one of
the two 2003 Supreme Court cases. Michigan voters approved
Proposal 2, a constitutional amendment, 58 percent to 42
percent.  The day after the vote, University of Michigan President
Mary Sue Coleman vowed to resist and delivered a defiant speech,
telling a cheering crowd on the Diag that “we will fight for
what we believe in.”  Gratz, who has been tussling with Michigan for 16 years,
says the speech showed how far university officials would go to
continue using racial preferences.  “Even if the Supreme Court ruled tomorrow that race
preferences are unconstitutional and could not be used in
college admissions at all, universities would still be trying to
find ways around the law,” Gratz said.  Carl Cohen , a University of Michigan philosophy professor
opposed to racial preferences, says the ban on them freed
minority students from suspicion that they gained admissions by
reason of race, rather than merit.  Less Resentment  “When you don’t have preferences, the atmosphere is
healthier,” said Cohen, whose Freedom of Information Act
requests in the 1990s forced the university to reveal it
considered race in admissions. “You just don’t hear any
expressions of resentment that you did hear from time to time in
the old days.”  Kevin Gaines, a Michigan professor who specializes in U.S.
and African-American history, questioned that assessment, saying
the fight against affirmative action “poisoned” the climate on
campus.  Gaines said he noticed the impact of Proposal 2 in his own
classrooms. Shortly after the initiative passed, his 15-student
freshman seminar on the Civil Rights movement had only two black
students out of 15 in the class -- not enough to sustain a
productive dialogue, he said.  Such low numbers leave black students feeling as though
they have to serve as representatives of their race, he said.
“You really need a group of five or even a half-dozen African-American students,” Gaines said.  Political Disadvantage  Proposal 2 bars preferences the basis of gender or race in
public education, contracting and employment. The university
admissions aspect of the law is the only part that is before the
Supreme Court.  A federal appeals court, voting 8-7, said the measure put
racial minorities at a political disadvantage compared with
other groups. The lower court pointed to decades-old Supreme
Court decisions barring government actions that restructure the
political process along racial lines.  The Supreme Court has grown more skeptical of affirmative
action since upholding it in 2003. That’s largely because of
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s 2006 retirement and the
appointment of Justice Samuel Alito to fill her seat.  Bernstein, a lawyer and a former member of the Michigan
Civil Rights Commission, says he expects the court will uphold
the ballot initiative.  “I’m not very optimistic,” he said. “The writing is on
the wall there.”  The case is Schuette v. Coalition to Defend, 12-682.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  