-- BofA Told to Pay $2.2 Million in Race Bias Case Spanning Decades
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-09-24T00:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/bofa-told-to-pay-2-2-million-in-race-bias-case-spanning-decades.html
Bank of America Corp.  was ordered
to pay $2.2 million to black job applicants who were unfairly
rejected for teller and clerical positions in a case spanning
almost two decades, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.  An administrative judge told the bank to pay $964,000 to
more than 1,000 applicants from 1993 and $1.22 million to 113
people who were rejected in 2002 to 2005, the regulator said
today in a statement. The lender also was ordered to make job
offers to 10 people. The firm settled separate claims of racial
and gender bias at its Merrill Lynch unit in the past month.  The Labor Department complaint stems from a routine review
of hiring practices at an office in the firm’s hometown of
 Charlotte , North Carolina, according to the statement. After
talks broke down, the government filed an administrative
complaint in 1997, asserting the federally insured bank was
subject to laws covering U.S. contractors, the agency said. The
firm challenged that authority, according to the statement.  “This case demonstrates that the department will not be
deterred in our pursuit of justice for job seekers,” Solicitor
of Labor M. Patricia Smith said in the statement.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
said it’s examining the recommended decision and order.  “Diversity and inclusion are part of our culture and core
company values,” said Christopher Feeney, a company spokesman.
“We actively promote an environment where all employees have
the opportunity to succeed.”  Bank of America agreed last month to pay $160 million to
settle a lawsuit filed by black financial advisers who said its
Merrill Lynch unit didn’t give them the same business
opportunities as it did white financial advisers.  Earlier this month, the company agreed to pay $39 million
to resolve a lawsuit brought on behalf of women financial
advisers and licensed trainees who said Merrill Lynch
discriminated in opportunities and compensation. Bank of America
agreed to buy Merrill Lynch in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  