-- Borrowers With Worst Ratings Fewest in Six Months, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-09-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/borrowers-with-worst-ratings-fewest-in-six-months-moody-s-says.html
The number of U.S. companies with
the worst ratings fell to the lowest level in six months as
borrowers benefit from years of almost zero short-term  interest
rates  and policies that have supported market liquidity and
economic growth, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Issuers with a corporate-credit rating of B3 or below and a
negative outlook dropped to 148 from 160 in June, and below the
high of 290 in April 2009, Moody’s said in a report. Fifteen
companies were added to the list and 27 were removed, four due
to bankruptcy filings, in the three months ending in September.  The decline completes “the reversal of a move higher that
began in March and peaked in June, shortly after the first
indication that the U.S. Federal Reserve could begin to unwind
its $85 billion a month bond-buying program,” analysts led by
David Keisman, a senior vice president at Moody’s, wrote in the
report.  Wilton Brands LLC,  Dex Media Inc. (DXM)  and AM General LLC were
among the 15 companies added to the list this quarter, according
to Moody’s. Cengage Learning Acquisitions Inc. and  Exide
Technologies (XIDEQ) , both of which filed for bankruptcy, were among the
companies removed.  An increase in ratings cuts in recent months could lead to
an influx of companies onto the list if credit conditions
deteriorate, the analysts wrote. Downgrades have exceeded
upgrades of speculative-grade company ratings for the past six
months, and did so in 11 of the last 12 months through July. The
number of borrowers on review for a ratings reduction has also
been larger than those on review for an increase every month
since April 2012, according to the report.  Credit Crisis  “More companies are moving closer to this lower-rated
territory,” Keisman wrote.  When credit conditions weaken “materially,” the list can
increase “quickly,” as seen during the credit crisis when 73
companies were added during the first quarter of 2009 and 63
during the next three months of that year, according to the
report.  Companies are added to the list when their  credit rating 
falls to B3 negative or below. They are taken off the list after
an upgrade to B3 stable or higher, through a default or a rating
withdrawal.  Obligations rated B are considered speculative and are
subject to high credit risk.  -- Editors: Chapin Wright, Faris Khan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  