-- Brazil World Cup Stadium Could Be Used for Prisoners, Judge Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-24T18:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/brazil-world-cup-stadium-could-be-used-for-prisoners-judge-says.html
A judge has suggested a novel use
for one of the new stadiums that organizers of soccer’s  World
Cup  in Brazil are most concerned about: as a prisoner processing
center.  Judge Sabino Marques, in the city of Manaus, the capital of
the Amazonas region, said the $275 million, 44,000-seat Amazonia
Arena could be used to ease the burden on the overcrowded public
jail. The stadium is one of 12 Brazil is building or
refurbishing at a cost of at least 7 billion reais ($3.2
billion).  The future use of the Manaus stadium has come under
scrutiny from politicians and the public. The city has no soccer
team in Brazil’s first or second divisions, or a tradition for
the sport. During June’s Confederations Cup, a test event for
next year’s World Cup, Brazilians took to the streets in record
numbers to protest against  government spending , and specifically
targeted the World Cup.  “I see no other better place, even temporarily, to receive
detainees in Manaus,” Marques, president of the watchdog group
tasked with monitoring the prison system in the Amazon region,
told reporters. He also suggested prisoners be processed at a
venue used to celebrate the annual carnival. “Until the state
can solve the problem by building new prisons then these two
empty spaces should be used,” he said, in remarks confirmed by
court officials.  Amazon state officials declined to comment, saying that a
formal proposal hadn’t been made.  Four Games  Manaus will host four group games during the World Cup.
It’s not the only arena that’s causing concern in  Brazil . A
group set up by public prosecutors to monitor World Cup spending
has also raised concerns over stadia in Cuiaba and the capital,
Brasilia.  Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo has frequently had to tackle
questions about a legacy of so-called “white elephant”
stadiums being left behind following the World Cup. He’s also
said the facilities could be used for more than sports, for
example for trade fairs, concerts and conferences.  “There is no chance these stadiums will become white
elephants,” Rebelo said earlier this year. “They will be much
more than football fields. They will be multipurpose spaces that
the cities have lacked before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  