-- Brazil Soccer Players Revolt Over Packed 2014 Playing Schedule
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-24T17:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/brazil-soccer-players-revolt-over-packed-2014-playing-schedule.html
A group of 75 players from  Brazil ’s
top two soccer leagues are complaining that their health is at
risk because their clubs’ schedules next season will be
compressed to accommodate the  World Cup .  The group, which includes well-known players including
Alexandre Pato of Corinthians, Vasco da Gama’s Juninho
Pernambucano and  Luis Fabiano  of  Sao Paulo , wrote to the sport’s
governing body following the publication of a schedule that will
have fewer rest days for Brazilian teams.  “We believe that taking this first step means moving
toward professionalism, transparency and the pursuit of
excellence in soccer,” the players said in their letter,
according to daily newspaper  O Globo . “We have the support of
other athletes and invite all professional football and those
passionate about the sport to join us.”  A spokesman for Brazil’s soccer body  Confederacao
Brasileira de Futebol , or CBF, said the organization had yet to
receive the letter.  The Brazilian teams play more matches than clubs from most
countries, a schedule that brings criticism from players and
supporters alike.  As well as the national league, Brazilian clubs take part
in state championships, the domestic cup and South American
regional competitions such as the Copa Libertadores. Some
players will have just a week to get ready for the start of
state championships in January.  “The first main goal is the health of every athlete and
concern for Brazilian football,” Flamengo defender Leo Moura
 told O Globo . “With this marathon of games it’s impossible for
a human being to maintain the level of excellence and quality to
play good football.”  Under proposals drawn up by the group, players shouldn’t
compete in more than seven games a month, according to Folha de
S.Paulo. The newspaper also said players would like to harmonize
the Brazilian calendar with that of European leagues, which
typically have seasons that run from August through May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  