-- Brazil Real Falls on Concern U.S. Fiscal Dispute Will Sap Demand
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-09-24T14:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/brazil-real-falls-on-concern-u-s-fiscal-dispute-will-sap-demand.html
Brazil ’s real dropped as concern
U.S. government budget wrangling will curb the global economic
recovery cut into demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency slid 0.4 percent to 2.2079 per dollar at 11:39
a.m. in Sao Paulo. Swap rates due January 2015 fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 10.04 percent.  Slowing foreign investment in developing nations threatens
to cut into the dollar flows that Brazil needs to cover a
widening current-account deficit. Banco Santander SA analysts
projected today that the current-account gap, the broadest
measure of a country’s trade in goods and services, widened
further in August after reaching a decade high. The central bank
is scheduled to release the figures at 2:30 p.m. Sao Paulo time.  “The market is beginning to put U.S. fiscal concern on the
radar,” Mauricio Junqueira, who oversees 700 million reais at
Tese Gestao de Investimentos, said in a phone interview from  Rio
de Janeiro . “Lawmakers should arrive at an accord, but until
then, the markets will be nervous, which generates flight to
quality and hurts  emerging markets .”  U.S.  House Republicans  are considering alternatives to deny
funding for the health-care law that could extend the spending
debate past a Sept. 30 deadline and raise the risk of a federal
government shutdown.  Brazil’s current-account  deficit  expanded to 3.5 percent of
annual gross domestic product in the 12 months through August,
Banco Santander analysts Fernanda Consorte, Tatiana Pinheiro and
Adriana Dupita said in a research note today. The deficit was
3.39 percent in the prior month, the widest since 2002.  “The current account could remain very weak for several
months, in our view, with the full effect of the real’s
depreciation not being felt by some more sensitive items, such
as remittances of profits and dividends and international
travel,” the Santander analysts wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  