-- Brazil Wireless Stocks Slump on Anatel’s Tim Stance
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-09-25T22:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/brazil-phone-watchdog-said-to-prefer-tim-sale-to-breakup.html
Brazilian telecommunications shares
fell on speculation that regulator Anatel will seek to maintain
competitive pressure in the industry by opposing a breakup of
second-largest carrier  Tim Participacoes SA. (TIMP3)   Anatel would prefer an outright sale of Tim to a breakup,
which would spread the operator’s assets among its three major
competitors, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.
To keep four providers battling in the market, the
telecommunications watchdog would welcome a foreign company such
as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  or  AT&T Inc. (T)  to acquire Tim, controlled by
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , said the person, asking not to be identified
because the discussions are confidential.  Telecom Italia’s biggest shareholder,  Telefonica SA (TEF) , agreed
yesterday to boost its stake in an 861-million euro ($1.2
billion) cash-and-stock deal as part of a plan to push the
indebted Italian carrier to sell its stake in Tim. Telefonica
Brasil SA, which sells services under the Vivo brand, is the
country’s biggest wireless operator.  “We see an increased possibility that Tim Brasil will be
sold, but reiterate that the buyer will probably be a player not
yet operating in  Brazil ,” said Susana Salaru, an analyst at
Banco Itau BBA, in a note to clients today. “The process could
take some time to be completed, given the expected difficulty in
finding an eligible acquirer.”  Tim fell 5.1 percent to 10.51 reais at the close of trading
in  Sao Paulo , retreating from yesterday’s 9.6 percent gain.
Telefonica Brasil SA, the Spanish company’s local unit, dropped
2.4 percent to 50.28 reais, while Rio de Janeiro-based Oi SA
slumped 8.7 percent to 4.70 reais.  America Movil  SAB climbed 1.3
percent to 13.35 pesos in Mexico City, where it’s based.  Circumventing Hurdles  By increasing its indirect holding in Telecom Italia
incrementally, Telefonica aims to circumvent any regulatory
hurdles in the event of a sale or a breakup of Tim Brazil,
another person familiar with the matter has said.  Anatel has yet to examine Telefonica’s stake increase in
Telecom Italia, the person with direct knowledge of the matter
said yesterday.  Argentina ’s government will also examine the deal, since
Telecom Italia and Telefonica together have about two-thirds of
the South American country’s wireless subscribers. Planning
Minister Julio de Vido asked the National Communications
Commission and the antitrust agency to investigate whether the
deal violates promises made by the two companies with the
Argentine government in 2010 to maintain competition in the
local market, according to a statement yesterday.  International Profile  Telecom Italia Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe
reiterated today that he’s against a sale of Latin American
assets. Speaking at a parliamentary hearing in  Rome , he said a
disposal of Telecom Italia’s Brazilian or Argentine businesses
would hurt the company’s international profile and cannot take
place in the near term. The two countries  accounted  for almost
40 percent of Telecom Italia’s 2012 revenue.  He also said a capital increase is an option since “market
conditions are favorable.”  Telecom Italia fell 4.7 percent to 57.2 euro cents in
Milan. Telefonica rose 0.4 percent to 11.34 euros in  Madrid .  Telefonica will increase its holding in Telco SpA, the
investment vehicle that owns 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia, in
two steps to 70 percent from 46 percent. Telefonica would then
be able to completely buy out partners  Assicurazioni Generali
SpA (G) , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  over time, pending
the approval of regulators, including those in Brazil.  Anatel hasn’t received an official request from either of
the companies involved and won’t comment on deals that haven’t
yet been submitted for review, a press officer said by
telephone.  Antitrust Hurdle  Telefonica doesn’t need to ask Anatel for permission
immediately because, under the terms of its agreement with other
investors, it will still only hold a minority of voting shares,
its Brazilian unit said yesterday in a statement. The Spanish
company will need to get Anatel’s clearance to exercise an
option later to acquire full control of Telco, it said.  Brazilian law doesn’t allow one company to control more
than 50 percent of the market or more than one operating license
from Anatel, Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told
reporters in Brasilia. Telefonica and three other mobile-phone
companies -- Oi, America Movil and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  -- aren’t
eligible to own Tim and their own Brazilian businesses at the
same time, he said.  If Telefonica gained control of Telecom Italia and thus its
Brazilian assets, it would have as long as a year to sell either
Tim or Vivo, Bernardo said.  “Our objective is that one company cannot control another
because we can’t have this kind of market concentration,”
Bernardo said. “There would be one less competitor in the
market, and for us this would be very negative.”  Spectrum Limits  Brazil’s government imposes limits on the amount of
spectrum -- the public airwaves used for mobile communications -
- each wireless company can use. Even if Tim were split between
its three largest competitors, the companies would exceed their
spectrum caps and would have to return airwaves to the
government, Itau’s Salaru said, citing a conversation with
Carlos Baigorri, Anatel’s executive superintendent of
competition.  The remaining wireless carriers would also have to shift
Tim’s users to the spectrum the companies are licensed to use,
which could cause service disruptions, Salaru said. Anatel
doesn’t intend to increase the cap on spectrum holdings, she
said.  “The most likely scenario appears to be the sale of TIM
Brasil to a foreign player, thereby eliminating any market-concentration concerns as well as other issues related to
Anatel’s current regulation,” Salaru said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  