-- Brazil Feud With U.S. on Spying Adds to Challenges at UN
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n ,   A n n a   E d g e r t o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-24T15:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/brazil-feud-with-u-s-on-spying-adds-to-challenges-at-un.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
used her role as the first speaker at the  United Nations General
Assembly  to call alleged U.S. spying on her government and
citizens an “affront” to  Brazil ’s sovereignty.  “Never can the sovereignty of one country suffer under the
sovereignty of another country,” Rousseff, 65, said today.
“Never can the rights to security of the citizens of one
country be guaranteed by violating the fundamental human rights
of the citizens of another country.”  Rousseff spoke immediately before U.S. President  Barack Obama  and one week after she called off a state visit to
 Washington  -- which would have been the first for a Brazilian
head of state since 1995. The cancellation stemmed from
espionage allegations based on documents from former National
Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden.  Revelations about NSA surveillance against both Brazil and
Mexico,  Latin America ’s biggest economies, have chilled
relations and may prompt a U.S. response, said Carl Meacham,
director of the Americas program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington policy group.  “These are obviously countries that are influential,”
Meacham said in a telephone interview. Obama could speak
personally with Rousseff, or have Secretary of State  John Kerry 
meet with his Brazilian counterpart, Meacham said.  ‘New Battlefield’  Rousseff said she was awaiting an explanation, apology and
guarantee from the U.S. that the spying program would not
continue. Calling the Internet a tool for democracy, she said it
was the responsibility of the international community to
guarantee the freedom of electronic expression.  “The problem goes beyond a bilateral relationship, it
affects the international community itself and demands a
response from it,” Rousseff said. “Technology and
telecommunications can not be the new battlefield between
states.”  In his speech immediately following Rousseff, Obama
mentioned the dispute without singling out Brazil or Mexico.  “We’ve begun to review the way that we gather intelligence
so that we properly balance the legitimate security concerns of
our citizens and allies with the privacy concerns that all
people share,” Obama said.  In another reference to Latin America, Obama said the U.S.
continues to try to transfer detainees from the military base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to other countries so that the prison
there can be shuttered.  Iranian Meeting  As the possibility of a greeting between Obama and Iranian
President Hassan Rohani dominates news before the opening of the
General Assembly session, tensions with Brazil over alleged NSA
spying were among a host of issues including Syria confronting
Obama and the U.S.  “There’s this huge question of Syria and the murder of
120,000 people,” said  David Schenker , the director of the
program on Arab politics at the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy. “That’s been overshadowed by the Rohani love
fest.”  The U.S. also has yet to say whether it will grant a visa
for travel to the UN gathering by Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir. The  International Criminal Court  is seeking Bashir’s
arrest and trial on charges of  war crimes  in Darfur.  Syria Talks  Beyond negotiations with Russia on plans to destroy Syria’s
chemical weapons and convene peace talks, progress on resolving
the Syrian civil war, at this point, requires addressing
discontent by Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf allies that
back the opposition to Bashar al-Assad’s regime, Schenker said.  “The Gulf is apoplectic with the U.S. policy on  Syria ,”
he said. “I don’t know how much of it we’re going to see, but
there will be side meetings.”  Stumbling blocks with Russia persist over whether a UN
resolution should include a provision allowing the use of force
to ensure resolutions are followed, said a U.S. State Department
official who asked to not be identified citing policy.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Kerry are
scheduled to meet today and U.S. officials said they will wait
to see what gaps remain after their discussion. Later this week,
Kerry is to meet again with Lavrov, UN special envoy to Syria
Lakhdar Brahimi, and representatives of other countries that
support the Syrian opposition.  Russia, China  The absence of Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and Chinese
President Xi Jinping in  New York  means there will be “fewer
opportunities for leaders to put pressure on Russia and  China 
over their behavior over Syria,”  Richard Gowan , associate
director of New York University’s Center on International
Cooperation, said yesterday by e-mail.  More than 100,000 people have died since the turmoil in
Syria broke out in March 2011, with millions displaced
internally and spilling into neighboring Iraq, Lebanon, Turkey
and Jordan, threatening their economic stability, according to
UN data. UN organizations have appealed for more financial
support, saying they have received only 40 percent of the $4.4
billion they need to help the Syrian people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  