-- Buono Labors in Booker’s Shadow in Campaign to Unseat Christie
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-09-24T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/buono-labors-in-booker-s-shadow-in-campaign-to-unseat-christie.html
Barbara Buono mingled at a senior
citizen’s picnic in northern  New Jersey  last week, introducing
herself as Governor  Chris Christie ’s Democratic challenger while
people eating boxed lunches listened quietly.  When Christie arrived at the park in Paramus two hours
later, rows of tables emptied as the crowd surrounded him.
Seniors pushed to get an autograph or a photo with the
Republican and urged him to run for president in 2016.  The scene showed how Buono, outraised by $11 million and
trailing by 20 percentage points in polls, has struggled to
overcome the incumbent’s celebrity status. With six weeks until
the election, more than half of voters still don’t know Buono, a
state lawmaker since 1994.  Buono, a 60-year-old lawyer from Metuchen, emerged as the
Democratic candidate this year after more popular party members,
including  Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker , opted not to challenge
Christie. Booker instead chose to run for the  U.S. Senate  in a
special election scheduled for Oct. 16.  “This race is going to be won in the last three weeks; it
just is,” Buono said. “Because of the Senate race, we’re just
going to have to refocus people on this election.”  While she’s managed to narrow Christie’s edge by winning
back some Democrats, she’s been unable to connect with the
unaffiliated voters who support him.  Not Close  “Barbara Buono doesn’t have a snowball’s chance in Hades
of making this a close race,” said  Patrick Murray , director of
the Monmouth University polling center in  West Long Branch .
“Part of it has been Chris Christie, but part of it is that
Barbara Buono never hooked into a message that could attract
money or independent voters. She’s just preaching to her base.”  Buono was elected to the Senate in 2001 after serving three
terms in the Assembly and on the town council. She rose to
Senate Majority leader before losing the post two years ago amid
Democratic infighting that followed passage of a bill pushed by
Christie that overhauled pensions and health benefits for public
workers.  Christie, 51, was the first Republican elected New Jersey
governor since 1997. He ousted  Jon Corzine  in 2009 as voters
rejected the one-term Democrat’s handling of the recession.
Christie is seeking a second term in a state where Democrats
outnumber Republicans by about 700,000 registered voters.  Sandy Boost  In mid-October of 2012, Christie held a lead of 4
percentage points in a theoretical matchup with Booker by
pollsters at  Quinnipiac University . Two weeks later,  Hurricane
Sandy  devastated the state’s 127-mile coastline, damaging
365,000 homes and plunging much of the state into darkness.  Christie presided over televised briefings on storm
responses and embraced President  Barack Obama  when he visited
New Jersey to survey the damage. Within a month, the governor’s
approval ratings soared and a Quinnipiac poll showed him leading
Booker by 18 percentage points.  Booker, 44, a rising star in his party, announced his
Senate bid. Other Democrats, including state Senate President
Stephen Sweeney and former Acting Governor Richard Codey, also
abandoned potential runs for the Trenton statehouse as the
chance of victory appeared remote.  Christie led Buono, 55 percent to 35 percent, in a Sept. 16
Rutgers-Eagleton poll of likely voters. More than two-thirds of
independents, and 43 percent of Democrats, had a favorable view
of Christie, the poll found. Fifty-one percent of voters had no
opinion of Buono, an improvement of 3 percentage points since
June.  Fundraising Gap  “I give her a great deal of credit: She’s not only a
fighter, but she’s courageous,” state Senator Nellie Pou said
after appearing with Buono last week in Paterson. “She wanted
to run for governor and knew there were other people within our
party that expressed interest, but she was the only one that
really stuck to it from the beginning to the very end.”  Christie, a prospective presidential candidate in 2016, is
the only incumbent U.S. governor on the ballot this year. He has
so far raised $12.5 million for his re-election, including $8.01
million in public matching funds. Buono has garnered $1.31
million, with $654,711 in matching funds, according to state
Election Law Enforcement Commission figures.  “His biggest advantage, and the most difficult one to get
over, is the financial one,” said Assemblyman John McKeon, a
Democrat from  West Orange .  Christie Democrats  Christie has cut a campaign swath through the state’s urban
core, in places such as Newark, where he got little support in
2009. He’s spent more than $1.5 million on television ads. He
has called Buono a “Corzine Democrat” who espouses costly
programs that would lead to higher taxes or increased borrowing.  Almost 50 elected Democrats have endorsed Christie, and
he’s been backed by party leaders including Essex County
Executive Joseph DiVincenzo.  “We are very comfortable with our position,” said  Kevin
Roberts , a spokesman for Christie’s campaign. “Any Republican
running statewide is going to be swimming upstream. We
understand and recognize that. It’s why we’ve been running such
an aggressive campaign.”  Buono’s fundraising woes have limited her campaign ads
largely to the Internet. As governor, Christie also had the
advantage of starring in a $25 million, federally funded TV
commercial aimed at helping the  Jersey Shore  recover from Sandy.
Democrats have said those ads were used to bolster his re-election campaign, which Christie denies.  Booker’s Lead  Buono said she is waiting until after next month’s special
Senate election to make a big campaign push. Christie scheduled
the Senate contest three weeks before his own. Democratic
politicians said the move was designed to keep Booker off the
ballot, which could have helped Buono.  Booker holds a 35 percentage-point edge over Republican
Steve Lonegan in the race to fill the seat held by Democrat
 Frank Lautenberg , who died in June at age 89. That race is
diverting attention from the gubernatorial contest, Buono said.  After Oct. 16, Buono said, her campaign will have TV ad
blitz and try to capture more voters dissatisfied with the
state’s economy, taxes and joblessness. New Jersey has 8.5
percent unemployment, 1.2 percentage points above the U.S. rate.  In a state that backed Obama in 2008 and 2012, Buono has
said that Christie is too conservative. She has attacked his
opposition to same-sex marriage and his cuts to women’s health-care funding. She’s accused him of catering to the Republican
base ahead of a presidential run.  “I think people are finally getting to know the real Chris
Christie and that veneer is starting to crack,” she said.
“It’s clear his own interests come first.”  ‘Personal Attachment’  Masood Khatamee, 78, who attended the senior picnic in
Paramus to see Christie, said he was unaware of Buono’s
positions, even though he spoke to her briefly. A registered
Republican from Alpine, Khatamee said he often crosses party
lines to vote.  Khatamee, a clinical professor at the  New York  University
School of Medicine, said he disagrees with Christie’s opposition
to abortion rights, an area where the governor has diverged from
even most Republicans in New Jersey. Even so, his “personable”
nature papers over a lot of those ideological gaps, Khatamee
said.  “This is a guy I feel like I have a personal attachment to
and I like him,” said Khatamee. “I think he listens to people
and I’m hoping he’ll go higher up to the presidency.”  Uphill Battle  Buono has struggled to boost her name recognition, as her
opponent enjoys the benefits of incumbency, appearing at the
opening of  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s new North American headquarters in
Newark, strolling boardwalks rebuilt after Sandy and taking
funny questions from students while visiting schools.  Melissa Finn, a 25-year-old health-care worker from
Ringwood, said Buono would have a fighting chance if she could
hammer home that Christie’s economic policies have favored the
wealthy and that gains haven’t filtered down to all citizens.  Christie’s Sandy response has overshadowed policies such as
education and health-care cuts that have harmed many in the
state, said Finn, a registered Democrat who is voting for Buono.  “He’s helped with the shore situation and he’s done a good
job supporting them and helping those citizens get back,” Finn
said after speaking with Buono at the senior day. “That’s why
he’s gained so much support and maybe that’s the reason why
everything else he’s done has gotten so much support?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  