-- Burger King Seeking Healthier Image With Low-Fat Fries
-- B y   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-09-24T14:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/burger-king-bids-to-increase-health-image-with-new-low-fat-fries.html
Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) , the
world’s second-largest hamburger chain, is adding reduced-fat,
reduced-calorie French fries to its menu as it tries to lose its
junk-food image.  The new crinkle-cut fries, to be called Satisfries, will
contain 190 calories, 8 grams of fat and 210 milligrams of
sodium for a “value-size” serving, the Miami-based company
said today in a statement.  “One out of every two Burger King guests orders our
classic French fries and we know our guests are hungry for
options that are better for them,” Alex Macedo, Burger King’s
North American president, said in the statement.  Fast food chains have come under fire from health groups
for contributing to an obesity problem in the U.S. by selling
high-fat content food. About two-thirds of adults in the country
are overweight and one-third are obese, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention said in a report published in May. Rising
obesity leads to higher medical costs and risks of diseases such
as diabetes and heart-disease.  Other popular fast food chains have also been trying to get
rid of their junk-food tag, with McDonald’s offering an
under-400-calories menu, while  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) 
introduced a DD Smart menu.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s KFC is also
trying to make kids’ meals healthier offering grilled chicken,
applesauce and green beans.  Burger King, home of the Whopper, said the difference
between Satisfries and its classic French fries is that less oil
is absorbed in the cooking process.  Burger King rose 0.2 percent to $19.83 at 9:37 a.m. in New
York. The shares climbed 20 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Minsi Chung in New York at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  