-- Strongest California Economy Drives University Bond
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/california-sells-2-6-billion-debt-as-napolitano-arrives.html
The University of California plans
its biggest tax-free borrowing since 2006 as the 238,000-student
system benefits from the  state economy ’s record strength and a
rally in education debt that’s outpacing the municipal market.  The offer totals $2.6 billion when including taxable and
variable-rate debt. It comes the week before former Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  takes over as president of
the 10-campus system with an operating budget of $24 billion.
Governor  Jerry Brown , a UC Berkeley graduate, pushed lawmakers
to boost funding 5 percent, after five years of deficits.  “It looks like we have stable and predictable funding from
the state, and that isn’t something we’ve had in a couple of
decades,” Nathan Brostrom, executive vice president of business
operations, told the board of regents last week.  Muni yields are at a two-month low following the Federal
Reserve’s decision to hold off on curbing its monthly bond
purchases, and education debt has fared even better. Its 2.2
percent gain for the past month compares with 1.9 percent for
all city and state bonds,  Standard & Poor’s  data show.  The extra yield buyers demand on some  University of
California  obligations is the slimmest since April, benefiting
from an improving fiscal outlook for the most-populous U.S.
state.  Refinancing Rally  The system joins issuers such as Denver and Western
Michigan University refinancing higher-cost debt this week. The
university projects the move will save about $80 million for
each of the next 10 years. State Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s office
is handling the sale.  The offer includes $1.3 billion of tax-exempt bonds, the
most from the system in a long-term, fixed-rate issue since one
of similar size in 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The university issued bonds in February, including tax-free
debt maturing in May 2025 that traded this month with a yield
spread of 0.43 percentage point more than  top-rated  bonds, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It was the smallest gap since April
for trades of at least $1 million.  In the 2006 offer, 12-year debt that had bond insurance
priced to yield 3.86 percent, or about even with yields on
benchmark debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Comfort Zone  The school “is a well-known, big issuer and people are
comfortable with it,” said Dan Solender, director of munis at
Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , which oversees
$16.5 billion of local debt.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the tax-exempt bonds Aa1,
second-highest, with a negative outlook. Annual expense growth
has outpaced revenue, producing five consecutive annual
operating deficits, the company said.  The regents have raised tuition 84 percent since 2007 to
make up for declining state appropriations. The system declared
in 2011 that it could no longer guarantee admission to the top
12.5 percent of the state’s high-school seniors.  Brown, 75, persuaded voters last year to pass the highest
statewide  sales tax  in the U.S., at 7.5 percent, and to boost
levies on annual income of $250,000 or more to avert cuts to
schools. He promised to freeze in-state  tuition  in the UC and
 California  State University systems this year.  The state budget for the year that began July 1 provides a
5 percent funding increase to the University of California and
$125 million for a tuition freeze. The budget projects funding
will rise 5 percent next year and 4 percent in each of the two
following years.  Tax Buoy  Brown’s income-tax increase helped boost California’s
credit rating and demand for its tax-exempt bonds.  Fitch Ratings  raised California’s grade to A, sixth
highest, last month after lawmakers passed a $96.3 billion
budget in June that incorporated the Democratic governor’s more
conservative revenue forecasts and set aside a $1.1 billion
reserve. Standard & Poor’s raised it to the same level in
January, the first boost since 2006. Moody’s grades the state
A1, four steps below the top. It hasn’t been higher since 2001.  “The credit of the state is improving, taxes are up at the
state level, and all that brings in more demand that helps,”
Solender said.  A  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia  index  tracking
California’s economy, equivalent to the world’s ninth-largest,
is the highest since at least 1979.  Campus Spread  In addition to 10 campuses, the University of California
operates five medical schools and medical centers and four law
schools. The university is also involved in running nuclear-weapons laboratories and other research facilities for the U.S.
Energy Department.  Localities nationwide are issuing $3.5 billion of long-term
munis this week, down from $4.2 billion last week,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show. They’re selling as AAA 10-year munis  yield 
2.82 percent, the lowest since July 23. That compares with 2.7
percent on Treasuries with a similar maturity.  The ratio of the yields suggests munis are relatively
cheap, as local bonds historically yield less than their federal
counterparts given their tax-exemption. Following is a pending
sale:  Connecticut  plans to sell $575 million in general-obligation debt this week to finance a general-fund deficit that
arose as the state changed procedures to conform with generally
accepted accounting principles starting in July. The debt
matures from October 2015 to October 2027. Fitch grades the
state’s general-obligation securities AA, its third-highest
level, while Moody’s gives it a fourth-best Aa3. Ramirez & Co.
is managing the negotiated deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  