-- Canadian Dollar Follows Oil Down on Ebbing of Mideast Tensions
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-09-24T21:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/canadian-dollar-gains-versus-major-peers-as-retail-sales-climb.html
The Canadian dollar fell as an
easing of tensions in the  Middle East  triggered a decline in the
price of oil, the nation’s biggest export.  Speculation U.S.-Iranian relations are thawing pushed West
Texas Intermediate crude to the lowest in more than six weeks
before a possible meeting between President  Barack Obama  and
 Iran ’s Hassan Rohani at the United Nations General Assembly
today. The currency earlier approached a three-month high
following a rebound in July retail sales.  The Canadian currency is following oil lower as
developments in the Middle East imply more abundant oil supplies
and “the  risk premium  comes off in the pricing of crude oil,”
 Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National
Bank of Canada (NA) , said by phone from Toronto. “It’s no big
surprise to see the dip buying mentality that exists in dollar-Canadian dollar still holds true today.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, closed 0.2 percent lower at
C$1.03 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained as much
as 0.1 percent earlier and reached C$1.0182 per U.S. dollar
Sept. 19, the highest since June. One loonie buys 97.09 U.S.
cents.  Retail Sales  Retail sales  rose to C$40.3 billion ($39.1 billion)
following a 0.6 percent decline in June,  Statistics Canada  said
in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast a 0.5
percent increase, based on the median of 22 projections. The
sales gain followed improvements in the nation’s wholesale and
manufacturing sales during the same period, and slower  inflation 
for the first time in four months in August.  “It’s summer retail sales -- you’d expect it to pick up,”
 John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer, said by phone from Toronto.
“The overall picture for  Canada  will be tied to the U.S. We’ll
have mediocre to decent growth. It’s going to take quite some
time.”  Sales in July were led by a 3.2 percent gain at gasoline
stations. Clothing and accessory stores posted a 1.9 percent
gain and home furnishing retailers boosted receipts by 1.6
percent. Sales rose in eight of 11 categories making up 52
percent of total receipts.  Statistics Canada will report monthly  gross domestic
product data  on Sept. 30.  “Retail sales is typically pretty important for Canada, we
might be able to see some more strength in the Canadian
dollar,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto before the report.  Iranian Encounter  WTI crude for November delivery declined 24 cents to
$103.35 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange while
Western Canada Select dropped C$1.74 to C$72.48. The gap of $30
is the widest since February, as supply expectations weighs on
demand for the heavier bitumen crude produced in Canada’s oil
sands.  Iran, which has the world’s fourth-largest proven  oil
reserves , is a key player in Syria’s civil war, nuclear
proliferation and Middle East peace. Any presidential encounter
would mark the first exchange between leaders of the two nations
since the 1979 Islamic revolution, during which the U.S. embassy
in Tehran was stormed and 52 Americans inside were held hostage
for 444 days.  The loonie has lost 1.4 percent so far this year, declining
along with the currencies of fellow commodity exporters
Australia and Norway, according to Bloomberg’s Correlation-Weighted Currency Index. The  U.S. dollar  has gained 2.78
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  