-- Canada July Retail-Sales Rebound Boosts Recovery Argument
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-24T14:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/canada-july-retail-sales-offset-prior-decline-as-gasoline-jumps.html
Canada retailers boosted  sales  in
July, reversing a drop a month earlier and adding to evidence
the nation’s economy has rebounded from a slowdown.  Sales rose 0.6 percent to C$40.3 billion ($39.1 billion),
following a similar decline in June,  Statistics Canada  said
today in Ottawa. Today’s figure follows July gains of 1.5
percent for wholesale sales, 1.7 percent for manufacturers and a
20.7 percent surge in building permits.  Canada suffered its biggest monthly contraction since the
recession in June when the economy shrank 0.5 percent, due in
part to the impact of flooding in  Alberta  and a construction
strike in  Quebec . The nation’s output is poised to accelerate at
a 2.1 percent pace from July to September, after slowing to 1.7
percent in the second quarter, according to Bloomberg economist
surveys.  “That weakness in June even outside of the temporary
disruptions was overstated,” said Nathan Janzen, an economist
at Royal Bank of Canada, by telephone from Toronto. “The
bounceback implies activity is on a stronger path than what was
implied by the June data alone.”  Growth will expand 0.7 percent in July and an annualized
3.4 percent pace in the third quarter, Janzen predicts.  Today’s data is the last major release before July’s
 economic growth  report on Sept. 30, and indicates GDP expanded
0.5 percent that month,  Robert Kavcic , senior economist in
Toronto at Bank of Montreal, said in a note to clients.  Tipping Point  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 22
economists was for a 0.5 percent gain in retail sales. From a
year earlier, sales were up 3.0 percent.  Canada’s economy has been relying on consumers to drive
growth, as the nation waits for faster global demand to fuel
exports and business investment. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said last week growing confidence about global demand has
brought the economy to a “tipping point.”  Sales in July were led by a 3.2 percent increase at
gasoline stations. Clothing and accessory stores posted a 1.9
percent gain and home furnishing retailers boosted receipts by
1.6 percent. Sales rose in eight of 11  categories  making up 52
percent of total receipts.  Motor vehicle and parts sales fell for the first time in
seven months, posting a 0.6 percent drop in July. Purchases
 excluding  the motor vehicle and parts category rose 1.0 percent.
Economists had forecast a 0.6 percent gain in ex-auto sales.  The  volume  of sales, which excludes price changes and more
closely reflects the industry’s contribution to growth, rose 0.5
percent in July.  Retailers in Ontario, the country’s largest province, led
gains with a 1.5 percent increase in July, followed by Quebec’s
1.3 percent rise. Manitoba, which raised its provincial  sales
tax  on July 1, recorded a 4.1 percent decline.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Theophilos Argitis at   targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  