-- Carlyle and Seven Sweeten A$1.75 Billion Coates Loan Agreements
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-09-24T03:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/carlyle-and-seven-sweeten-a-1-75-billion-coates-loan-agreements.html
Australia ’s Coates Hire Ltd.,
controlled by The Carlyle Group LP and  Seven Group Holdings
Ltd. (SVW) , has agreed more favorable terms on a A$1.75 billion ($1.65
billion) loan with existing lenders rather than borrow new debt
in the U.S. high-yield market to repay them.  The equipment hire company is completing a so-called
“amend and extend” deal that stretches the loan’s maturity to
2017 and allows its owners to pay themselves dividends in the
future, Matthew Hunter, Sydney-based managing director of
Carlyle Group said in a telephone interview. The deal has lower
upfront fees than a U.S. raising, and won’t incur currency-hedging costs, he said.  Coates agreed the revised debt package as lenders in
Australia increasingly offer easier terms to compete with the $2
trillion U.S. high-yield debt market. Private equity firms have
this year arranged more than $5 billion in loans against
Australian companies to help pay themselves dividends, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This deal was very strongly supported by the bank
syndicate and I think that reflects the quality of the
business,” Hunter said. “The option we went with has a much
more cost-efficient structure.”  Borrowers in the so-called Term Loan B market in the U.S.
are able to raise debt with virtually no financial checks
attached. Even so, the 128 year-old equipment-hire firm was able
to agree flexible loan agreements locally with about 31 banks at
a lower cost than in the U.S., said Hunter.  Dividend Payments  The new agreement allows the company to pay its owners
ordinary dividends, provided that senior debt isn’t more than 
three times its earnings, Hunter said. Interest payments are 
priced according to debt levels and the loan margins remain at 
about 325 basis points more than benchmark rates, he said.  Carlyle and Seven, which each own about 45 percent of the
company, completed a strategic review of Coates this year and
decided to retain their ownership, according to Seven Group’s
annual report. The company had revenue of A$1.2 billion and
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of
A$533.7 million for the year to June 30.  Coates was acquired by a consortium that included the
 Carlyle Group  and Seven-owned National Hire in 2008, according
to its  website . It also operates in the U.K. and  Indonesia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  