-- Carnival Forecasts Possible Quarterly Loss as Bookings Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-24T20:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/carnival-forecasts-fourth-quarter-results-trailing-estimates.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s largest
cruise-ship operator, forecast fourth-quarter results that
trailed analysts’ estimates amid a decline in advance bookings
and higher fuel prices. The shares slumped.  Fourth-quarter results excluding some items will range from
a loss of 3 cents a share to profit of 3 cents, the Miami-based
company said in a statement. Analysts had forecast profit of 9
cents on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carnival has been beset by mishaps at sea, underscored in
news clips this month when salvage crews off the coast of  Italy 
righted the company’s Costa Concordia 18 months after a
shipwreck that killed 32 people. An engine room fire in February
crippled the Triumph. Bookings at Carnival Cruise lines for the
rest of 2013 and the first half of 2014 are behind 2012’s, with
prices at last year’s levels, the company said.  “When these issues happen like the Triumph or whatever,
the real pressure is on the new to cruise,” Chief Executive
Officer Arnold W. Donald said on a conference call with
analysts. “Most of those people who have cruised extensively,
they continue to cruise.”  Carnival, which operates 10 cruise brands, has estimated
salvage costs at about 600 million euros ($810 million) and has
said that most of it, as well as past and future claims, will be
covered by insurance. The Costa Concordia removal was completed
last week and the company plans take the ship to the scrap yard
next spring, the company said today.  Marketing Push  Carnival, which said it plans to increase its marketing
spending to boost brand perception, forecast full-year profit of
$1.51 to $1.57 a share, compared with a prior view of $1.45 to
$1.65. Analysts had estimated $1.55 a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Although Carnival Cruise Line’s pricing is lower than we
would like, with the new national advertising campaign and the
increase in marketing spend this fall and winter we do expect to
see a recovery of pricing as we cycle into the second half of
2014,” Howard Frank, chief operating officer, said on the call.  The shares fell 7.7 percent to $34.54 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest one-day decline since Jan. 17, 2012, the
first trading day after the Costa Concordia accident. The stock
is down 6.1 percent this year, compared with a 19 percent
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Relatively soft first-half booking commentary and
evidence of sustained booking pressure on its Carnival-branded
ships will not be well received by investors,” Steven Wieczynski, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a note
to investors. He recommends buying the shares.  Cruise Mishaps  In June, Chairman  Micky Arison , the company’s largest
shareholder, relinquished the role of chief executive officer,
handing the duties to Donald, a director for 12 years.  Arison stepped aside after the incidents at sea led to
worldwide publicity and forced the company to cut prices to fill
berths. An engine-room fire on the Triumph in February left
3,100 passengers stranded at sea for days with limited food and
toilet service. Separate mishaps forced at least two other
Carnival ships to cancel voyages and refund fares.  The company runs about 100 ships and its brands include
Princess, Holland America, Costa and Cunard, according to its
 website .  Carnival is taking steps to improve its service, safety and
environmental record. Those include plans to spend $180 million
to reduce ship emissions, as much as $700 million to improve
fire protection and backup systems on ships, and an expanded
refund pledge for its flagship Carnival line.  Third Quarter  Third-quarter profit excluding certain items was $1.38 a
share, compared with $1.53 a year earlier, the company said.
Analysts were forecasting $1.29 a share, the average of 15
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 0.9 percent to $4.7 billion in the quarter ended
Aug. 31, the cruise operator said, matching the $4.7 billion
average of estimates. In June, Carnival predicted third-quarter
profit of $1.25 to $1.33 a share.  Fuel prices increased 2.3 percent to $674 per metric ton in
the third quarter, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  