-- McClatchy to Shut Down Retirees’ Health-Care Plan by End of 2014
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-24T15:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/mcclatchy-to-shut-down-retirees-health-care-plan-by-end-of-2014.html
McClatchy Co. (MNI) , owner of 30 daily
U.S. newspapers, plans to end its health-care plan for retirees
at the end of next year, joining a wave of companies reassessing
their coverage as the new  Affordable Care Act  goes into effect.  As the company’s coverage ends, retirees will have to
choose between purchasing insurance from exchanges, which are
being set up as part of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
legislation, or pay a $95 tax penalty for failing to buy a
health plan.  While McClatchy will continue offering its insurance
program until Dec. 31, 2014, the coverage doesn’t meet the
requirements of the new legislation, according to a Sept. 10
letter obtained by  Bloomberg News . That means retirees won’t be
able to use it as their main health plan. The move will affect
51 people, McClatchy said in a separate statement.  “Like other employers across the country we are re-examining all of our health-care plans, including our retiree
plans, and making adjustments given the new health-care reform
law,” said Ryan Kimball, assistant treasury for the Sacramento,
California-based company.  McClatchy joins some of the largest U.S. companies in
reassessing health-care plans for former workers. General
Electric Co., International Business Machines Corp. and Time
Warner Inc. are all steering retirees toward insurance
exchanges. While these moves aren’t dictated by the 2010
Affordable Care Act, they’re happening as the law’s public
online insurance marketplaces begin Oct. 1.  For McClatchy and other newspaper publishers, the changes
come as the industry copes with a print-advertising slump.
Marketers are increasingly shifting their budgets to digital
venues, where ad rates are typically cheaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  