-- McDonald’s Luring Starbucks Crowd With Pumpkin Lattes
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-09-24T20:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/mcdonald-s-luring-starbucks-crowd-with-pumpkin-lattes.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  is adding pumpkin-spice lattes to lure the Starbucks crowd and boost traffic.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, has been
introducing pricier items such as chicken wings, McWraps and
steak breakfast sandwiches to maintain profitability in the face
of higher labor, occupancy and operating costs. At the same
time, the company is expanding its value menu to draw bargain-seeking diners.  “They’re trying to further refine the so-called barbell”
strategy of selling low-priced, value items along with more
expensive fare, John Gordon, principal at San Diego-based
Pacific Management Consulting Group and adviser to restaurant
franchisees, said in an interview. They are trying to sell the
higher-price food because “they need the margin.”  The McCafe pumpkin latte -- a mix of espresso, milk and
flavored syrup -- come in three sizes and are available with
whole or non-fat milk, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company
said. A 16-ounce latte with whole milk has 340 calories and
costs $2.89. A regular coffee is $1. The lattes are being
introduced this month and will sell through mid-November.  The  shares  rose 0.5 percent to $97.78 at the close in New
York. McDonald’s has advanced 11 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index has gained 19 percent.
Starbucks has added 43 percent.  Starbucks Lattes  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  has sold 200 million pumpkin spice lattes
in the nine years since it introduced them, said Alisa Martinez,
a company spokeswoman. The drink has the same number of calories
as McDonald’s offering and a 16-ounce one sells for $4.55, on
average. The Seattle-based company, which has about 11,200 U.S.
cafes, also sells salted-caramel mochas, hazelnut lattes and is
introducing new bakery items nationwide.  McDonald’s may be able to steal some Starbucks customers
because Americans are focused on finding deals now and pumpkin
has become such a popular flavor during the fall season in the
U.S., Gordon said.  “Everybody is doing pumpkin this fall,” Gordon said.  In addition to Starbucks’s lattes and pumpkin bread,
 Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) ’s Dunkin’ Donuts chain has a pumpkin
mocha, Orograin Bakeries Products Inc.’s Thomas’ sells pumpkin-spice bagels and Pinnacle, owned by  Beam Inc. (BEAM) , has introduced
pumpkin-pie flavored vodka.  Paper Cups  McDonald’s also will begin serving hot beverages in paper
cups, instead of polystyrene foam containers, bowing to
customers’ preference for a recyclable option, Ofelia Casillas,
a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Changing all 14,100 U.S.
locations to paper will be a “multi-year” process, she said.  The new paper cups put McDonald’s ahead of Dunkin’ Donuts,
which sells its drinks in foam cups. The Canton, Massachusetts-based chain is testing a cup recycling program and looking for
alternatives to foam as customers become more concerned that the
containers are bad for the environment, according to Dunkin’s
latest corporate responsibility report. Dunkin’ also sells a
pumpkin latte.  McDonald’s has recently struggled in the U.S., where it is
facing a tough consumer environment. In August, sales at stores
open at least 13 months rose 0.2 percent domestically, falling
short of the 0.8 percent gain projected by analysts. Earnings
have trailed estimates for the past two  quarters .  The operating margin at McDonald’s U.S. company-owned
restaurants narrowed to 18.7 percent in the quarter ended June
30 from 19.8 percent a year earlier.  The fast-food company’s new Dollar Menu, which it’s testing
in five markets in the U.S., includes items that sell for as
much as $5. McDonald’s Dollar Menu was introduced in 2002 and it
rolled out the McCafe lineup of lattes, cappuccinos and mochas
to the U.S. in 2009.  McDonald’s is  scheduled  to report third-quarter results
Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  