-- China Money Rate Drops Most in Month as PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-24T08:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/china-money-rate-drops-most-in-month-as-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
dropped by the most in a month as the central bank stepped up
cash injections into the banking system to meet quarter-end and
pre-holiday demand for funds.  The People’s Bank of China added 88 billion  yuan  ($14.4
billion) using six-day reverse-repurchase contracts priced to
yield 3.9 percent, according to a statement on its website. That
was the highest  amount  since 410 billion yuan of 14-day
agreements were auctioned on Feb. 7, before the weeklong Lunar
New Year break, and compares with 8 billion yuan of seven-day
contracts a week ago. Six-day reverse repos were used today as
financial markets in China will be shut Oct. 1-7 for the
National Day holiday.  The  overnight repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined 23 basis points, or
0.23 percentage point, to 3.64 percent as of 4:12 p.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That was the biggest drop
since Aug. 21. The seven-day  repo rate  rose 12 basis points to
4.52 percent following a 39 basis point jump yesterday that was
the biggest since July.  “The biggest reverse-repo sales in more than half a year
means the PBOC wants the money-market rates to stabilize before
the holidays,” said Liu Wenbo, a Shanghai-based analyst at
 Shanghai  Cifco Futures Co. “However, we should also note that
the maturity of six days means it only aims to ensure quarter-end cash supply, not a signal of loosening.”  Bill Sales  China’s central bank will sell bills in the coming quarter
for the first time since June to contain inflation as cash pours
in from abroad, HSBC Holdings Plc and Guotai Junan Securities Co.
forecast. The People’s Bank of China halted issuance three
months ago to avoid exacerbating a cash crunch as it clamped
down on speculative financing. The overnight repo rate climbed
to a record 13.91 percent on June 20.  The cost of one-year interest rate swaps, the fixed payment
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, declined for the
first time in five days, slipping three basis points to 4.05
percent.  “It’s very possible that the PBOC will return to a
tightening stance in open-market operations, starting with repo
and bill sales in the fourth quarter,” Pin Ru Tan, an interest-rate strategist at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said
in a Sept. 18 interview. “However, it’s hard to determine the
timing as it will be dependent on how the liquidity situation
pans out following the holidays and quarter-end accounting.”  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 advanced one basis point to 4.06 percent, according to
prices from the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  