-- China Says Ban on Some North Korea Exports Upholds UN Commitment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-24T10:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/china-says-ban-on-some-north-korea-exports-upholds-un-commitment.html
China  decided to publish a list of
items it has banned for export to  North Korea  to comply with
 United Nations  sanctions and Chinese law, a foreign ministry
spokesman said today.  The UN sanctions against North Korea over its atomic
weapons program are “meant to push forward denuclearization on
the Korean peninsula,” Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei told
reporters in Beijing today. He said publishing the list
“demonstrates China’s seriousness” in complying with the
sanctions.  Hong spoke a day after China’s Commerce Ministry published
a 236-page document  listing  items banned for export to North
Korea, including items that could be used for nuclear,
biological or chemical weapons programs as well as for ballistic
missiles. A February nuclear test prompted the United Nations to
tighten sanctions against the country.  The U.S.-Korea Institute at  Johns Hopkins University  said
earlier this month that the North may have restarted a nuclear
reactor capable of producing enough plutonium to make one atomic
bomb every year. In April, North Korea said it would restart the
facility at Yongbyon, including a reactor mothballed under an
international agreement in 2007.  China is North Korea’s biggest trading partner and ally.
Six-nation talks meant to remove nuclear weapons from the
peninsula were abandoned in 2009 when North Korea launched a
missile and detonated a nuclear device, triggering new UN
sanctions backed by China.  At the same time, the two Koreas agreed in August to reopen
the jointly run Gaeseong industrial park. Tensions in Korea
peninsula region have been “easing” lately, Hong said.  Glyn Davies , the U.S. special representative for North
Korea, on Sept. 10 ruled out a quick resumption of the talks
unless the North first showed signs of reversing its nuclear
program.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  