-- Chinese Cities Hooked on Land Revenue Fuel Housing Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-25T03:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/chinese-cities-hooked-on-land-revenue-fuel-housing-costs.html
Chinese cities, addicted to the
money they raise by selling land to developers, are undermining
the government’s multiyear campaign to contain housing costs.  Municipal residential land deals, measured by area, rose 26
percent in the first eight months of the year from the same
period in 2012, according to  China  Investment Securities Co. The
average price per square meter jumped 43 percent, pushing
proceeds up 80 percent to 816.5 billion yuan ($133 billion).  Local officials rely on revenue from the sales to repay
debt, especially as  economic growth slows . Developers bid up
prices because demand from homebuyers remains strong. The cycle
is driving property costs higher, complicating Premier  Li Keqiang ’s task of preventing social unrest over the lack of
affordable housing amid a massive urbanization program.  “If the momentum in the land market can’t be cooled down
rather quickly, it’s actually a fairly dangerous signal,” Bei Fu, Standard & Poor’s Hong Kong-based property credit analyst,
said in a phone interview. “Should it keep heating up, we’re
worried there might be further policy tightening, and there
could be consequences for the entire market that are
unpredictable at this point.”  The government has been trying to cool the housing market
since April 2010, following a 14 percent jump in new home prices
the previous year. The most-recent curbs, introduced in March by
Li’s predecessor,  Wen Jiabao , included higher down-payment
requirements and  interest rates  for second-home mortgages in
cities with “excessively fast” price gains. Thirty-five
provincial cities set price-control targets, mostly capping
increases at the growth rate of local disposable incomes.  Li’s Hesitation  Li hasn’t taken additional steps as he seeks to rein in
prices without hurting economic growth, which has slowed to less
than 8 percent for five consecutive quarters. At the same time
he has championed urbanization as a “huge engine” of China’s
future economy, a campaign that requires affordable housing for
the millions of Chinese moving from rural areas to cities.  His job is made harder as Chinese, disillusioned by
financial markets, keep buying property. The benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is down 58 percent since the end of 2007. New
home prices in China’s four major cities rose the most since
January 2011 last month from a year earlier, led by a 19 percent
jump in  Guangzhou , the National Bureau of Statistics said Sept.
18. They jumped 15 percent in Beijing and  Shanghai .  The central government’s efforts had a “limited
restrictive effect” as local officials took “different
attitudes” in implementing the requirements, according to a
quarterly report on the Ministry of Land and Resources website
July 16.  Land Banks  Builders have been buying more land to keep up with demand.
 China Vanke Co. (000002) , the largest developer by sales, bought 3.4
million square meters (37 million square feet) of land in the
first half of 2013, almost five times its purchases a year
earlier, according to company filings. The average cost of land
for new projects jumped 23 percent.  China Vanke has a “prudent” land purchase strategy and
won’t assume large home-price gains in estimating profitability
of projects, the company said in an e-mailed statement in reply
to questions. Projects under planning as of June 30 remained at
a “reasonable” level.  Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918) , a Tianjin-based developer part-owned by buyout firm Bain Capital LLC, bought residential land
in Beijing on Sept. 4 at 73,099 yuan a square meter of floor
area, a record high for the country, according to Haitong
International Securities Co. The price was “within our
expectations,” Sunac Chairman Sun Hongbin said in a blog post
on the day of the purchase.  Debt Pressures  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the Hong Kong-based developer
that is the world’s biggest by market value, bought a site in
Shanghai the following day for what S&P’s Fu said was a
“shocking” 21.8 billion yuan. That was the most spent for a
single parcel of land in China this year, according to Centaline
Group, parent of the nation’s biggest real estate agency.  Moody’s Investors Service expects the 19 developers it
tracks to “remain active in acquisitions in the coming 3-6
months, as they replenish their land banks to support their
long-term growth plans,” Hong Kong-based senior analyst Kaven Tsang wrote in an Aug. 29 e-mailed statement.  That’s soothing news for city officials. An audit by the
National Audit Office of 36 local governments, including
Shanghai and Guangzhou in the south, found that some regions
faced “growing pressures to repay debt.”  Four provinces and 17 provincial capitals borrowed 774.7
billion yuan as of Dec. 31, pledging repayment with land-sale
proceeds, up 18 percent from 2010, according to the audit
office’s report released June 10.  ‘The Determiners’  Chinese local government financing vehicles’ reliance on
land sales and rising land prices to repay debt creates “many
problems,” People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote
in a commentary published on the central bank’s website Sept. 9.  Average starting prices in residential-land auctions, set
by local governments after consulting with companies evaluating
sites, jumped 16 percent from a year earlier to 1,301 yuan per
square meter in the first eight months of this year, according
to SouFun Holdings Ltd., which monitors sales in 300 cities.
That compares to an 8 percent increase for industrial land.  “Local governments are not just pushing the waves” behind
the record prices, said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “They’re the determiners.”  Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638) , a Shenzhen-based developer,
bought a site sold by Shanghai city government in June of last
year for 6,990  yuan  per square meter, compared to the 4,500 yuan
starting price, according to Shanghai Hanyu Property Consulting
Co. The project will feature two-bedroom, 80-square-meter
apartments and three-bedroom units of 100 square meters, Kaisa
said at the time.  Starting Prices  A developer affiliated with the government of eastern Anhui
province bought a nearby site in July for 12,600 yuan a square
meter, more than double the 6,000 yuan starting price.  A fax to Shanghai’s land bureau requesting an interview and
phone calls to the districts where the parcels are located went
unanswered.  The 8,804 yuan a square meter starting price in an Aug. 14
residential land auction in Beijing’s Daxing district that Sunac
won was about 20 percent higher than that of a plot the
developer purchased in September last year in the same area,
according to data compiled by SouFun.  A study of six residential land auctions in Shanghai’s
Pudong district showed that starting prices almost tripled in
April from December 2009, according to Shanghai Hanyu.  “What we can see is that local governments are typically
not very enthusiastic about supplying land when the market is
weak, and tend to put more high-quality plots up for auction
when the market heats up, like this year,” said Luo Yu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at advisory CEBM Group.  Capping Prices  New residential sites available for sale in 300 Chinese
cities rose 17 percent by area last month from a year earlier,
according to SouFun. They sold for 43 percent higher than a year
earlier and exceeded starting prices by 25 percent on average.  The land ministry in May 2011 required all counties and
cities to report land sales where the selling price is more than
50 percent higher than the starting price. Regions reported 115
such “abnormal” transactions in the second quarter, 51 percent
more than the previous three months, according to the land
ministry. Those parcels were sold at an average 142 percent
above the starting prices, it said.  Some cities, including Beijing and Hangzhou, have been
capping prices at 50 percent above the starting price this year,
though once the ceiling is reached, bidders can compete for the
land by offering to build affordable housing or other projects
for the government.  Lost Credibility  While such measures can lower land prices statistically,
the additional costs for developers will be added to the final
price of the commercial homes, according to SWS Research Co.  “The government has lost its credibility” with regard to
the curbs, SWS Research’s Shanghai-based analyst Kris Li said.
“In the past 10 years everybody feels that every time I believe
home prices will fall, they end up going even higher.”  Sunac agreed to build a hospital for the government for
free after paying 2.1 billion yuan on Sept. 4 for the site near
Beijing’s National Agriculture Exhibition Center. With the
hospital estimated to cost 2.2 billion yuan, that would push the
total land cost above the average existing-home price of 60,000
yuan to 70,000 yuan per square meter in the area, according to
Haitong International Securities.  Property Tax  It’s “not impossible” for Sunac to price homes at the
project at 130,000 yuan per square meter or higher to earn a
typical profit margin, assuming it would cost 40,000 yuan to
develop the land, the brokerage’s Hong Kong-based analysts, led
by Hugo Hou, wrote in a Sept. 5 report. Final pricing faces
“very big unpredictability,” they said, citing pressures local
officials face from central authorities to keep home prices in
check.  A fax sent to the land ministry’s press office seeking
comment was not answered. The press office of Beijing’s land
bureau couldn’t immediately comment.  The government is considering expanding trials of property
taxes as part of efforts to diversify sources of local revenues,
though such reforms take time and can’t quench cities’ near-term
funding thirst, said S&P’s Fu.  “The fastest short-term solution is still to get a few
billion, or tens of billions of yuan out of the assets in your
hand first,” she said.  ‘Main’ Driver  Local governments’ land-sale proceeds totaled 2.67 trillion
yuan last year, equivalent to more than half of their total  tax
revenue , according to data from the Ministry of Finance. Higher
tax receipts from the real estate industry were the “main”
force driving a 12.8 percent jump in local fiscal income in the
first eight months of this year, the ministry said in a
statement on its website Sept. 12.  The more than three-year effort to curb property prices
also has included restricting home purchases in about 40 cities
and imposing a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and
Chongqing.  Some cities are struggling to meet price-control targets.
Zhengzhou, the capital of  Henan province , this month banned
single residents younger than 20 years old from buying property
to ensure “zero increase” in home prices on a month-on-month
basis, Centaline Group said in a Sept. 9 report. Some Chinese
parents have been buying properties in their young children’s
name as prices surge and the government limits purchases.  The city’s new-home prices jumped 12 percent in August from
a year earlier, compared with the 8.6 percent pace in urban
disposable income in the first half, official data show.  “Land price today is home price next year -- that’s easy
to understand,” Shanghai Hanyu’s research head Fu Wei said,
citing the time needed to build the homes. “While on the
surface the government keeps telling developers to be rational
when buying land, what they actually do is a different story.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  