-- China Stocks Drop as Financial Companies Fall Most in Two Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-24T08:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-after-biggest-gain-in-two-weeks.html
China’s stocks  fell, led by the
biggest retreat in financial companies in two months, amid
concern the government may encourage more competition among
banks and expand property taxes.  Ping An Bank Co. (000001)  paced declines among lenders as a gauge of
financial shares sank 2.8 percent.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real
Estate Group Co. dropped at least 3 percent after the China
Securities Journal reported the government may accelerate a
property-tax trial. Apple Inc. suppliers, including  GoerTek
Inc. (002241) , jumped after a record number of iPhones were sold in the
weekend debut.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.6 percent to
2,207.53 at the close. Kingfa Scientific & Technological Co.
said in a stock exchange statement it plans to set up a bank in
Guangzhou city, while the 21st Century Business Herald reported
yesterday that Chinese authorities may approve a new non-state
lender before March.  “The entry of private sectors into the banking industry
means more competition,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund
manager  at Dragon Life Insurance Co., which oversees $3.3
billion. “Smaller banks will bear the brunt of the
deregulation.”  Trading volumes in the Shanghai measure were 13 percent
higher than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index is  valued  at 8.8 times projected earnings
for the next 12 months, compared with the five-year average of
12.6 times.  Banks Fall  The  CSI 300 (SHSZ300)  Index fell 1.2 percent, while the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies in  Hong Kong 
retreated 1.1 percent.  A group of financial stocks in the CSI 300 slumped the most
among the 10 industry groups. Ping An Bank tumbled 4.7 percent
to 12.27 yuan. Industrial Bank Co., part-owned by a unit of HSBC
Holdings Plc, fell 3.5 percent to 11.45 yuan. Kingfa surged by
the 10 percent daily limit.  China may place priority on financial reform after the
Communist Party plenum in November, according to a front page
commentary in the China Securities Journal. Premier  Li Keqiang 
said China has chosen not to loosen or tighten monetary policy,
according to a statement dated yesterday on the central
government’s website.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, fell
3 percent and Poly Real Estate, the second largest, lost 3.1
percent. China will start a second round of property training
for people working in the taxation system next month, signaling
an acceleration of tax trials, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing unidentified people.  “The news of the property tax is pressuring the market and
that will cause some investors to take short-term profit,” said
Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in
Shanghai.  GoerTek surged 3.2 percent, extending a 6.2 percent gain
yesterday. Sales of iPhones almost doubled from the previous
record even amid supply constraints,  Apple (AAPL)  said in a statement.
The results led Apple to say that quarterly revenue and gross
margin will be at the top end of a prior  forecast .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  