-- Christie’s Says Shanghai Free Zone to Make Art Import Easier
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-24T10:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/christie-s-says-shanghai-free-zone-to-make-art-import-easier.html
Christie’s International, which
this week holds its first mainland  China  auction, said
 Shanghai ’s free-trade zone will allow it to import more works of
art for sale into the country.  “We are working with the free-trade zone in any way they
see fit and we are hopeful that when the free trade zone becomes
more open we are there to benefit from that,”  Steven Murphy ,
chief executive officer for the auction house told reporters in
Shanghai today.  China’s State Council said July 3 it  approved  a pilot
program to set up the country’s first free-trade zone in
Shanghai. Sales of art and antiques in China raised 10.6 billion
euros ($14.3 billion) in 2012, making it the world’s second-biggest market, according to a report published in March by the
European Fine Art Foundation.  “With the presence of the free trade zone, it will be very
much easier now for us to import works of art for sale in
Shanghai,” Francois Curiel, president of Christie’s Asia said
today. “The difference at the moment is no other than the fact
that there are high importation taxes in China and not in  Hong
Kong , which is a free port.”  The government is studying deregulation to allow foreign
auction companies to conduct auctions of cultural relics in the
free-trade zone, according to a draft plan seen by  Bloomberg
News . The nation will suspend some laws on foreign companies in
the free trade zone starting Oct. 1, the commerce ministry said.
No official announcement on the opening of the Shanghai zone has
been made.  “We are happy to operate here without the freedom to sell
those cultural relics,” said Murphy. “The fact that it is not
open now is not preventing us from moving ahead, because there
is a great deal of art to sell and people to be in touch with.”  Works by  Pablo Picasso  and  Andy Warhol  will go on sale on 
Sept. 26 in the first mainland China auction by an international house.  The auction house said on April 9 it was granted a license
to operate independently in China, making it the first
international auction house to hold its own branded events on
the mainland.  The family of French billionaire  Francois Pinault , who owns
the auction house, in April donated to the country two Chinese
bronze animal heads that were the subject of a $40 million
disputed sale at Christie’s in 2009.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  