-- Climate Uncertainty Is a Sign of Good Science
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-09-24T14:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/climate-uncertainty-is-a-sign-of-good-science.html
Scientists can’t say for sure that
humans are the cause of global  climate change . They’re still a
little uncertain, and that’s a good thing. It means the science
is working the way it should.  A well-educated friend of mine, a climate-change skeptic,
once told me that he didn’t believe anything coming out of the
big computer models that scientists use to reason about the
complex nonlinear feedbacks driving the Earth’s climate system.
He has a point: Researchers are doing the best they can in the
midst of great complication and uncertainty.  My surprise came a few minutes later, when my friend
announced that it is, in any event, obvious that recent global
warming couldn’t possibly be caused by humans. Somehow, the
forbidding complexity of climate physics didn’t prevent his
intuition from finding its way to rock-solid conclusions,
without the aid of any models at all.  I recalled my friend’s odd logic amid the reaction to the
most recent  report  from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change. The report -- its contents were leaked in June, and it
will be officially released this week --  concludes  that it’s now
95 percent certain that human activity lies behind at least half
the warming seen in the past half-century. Skeptics savaged the
report for revising slightly downward earlier estimates of the
warming likely to be seen in the next two decades -- as if
trying to be accurate was an offense.  The scientists behind the IPCC report actually deserve
credit for acknowledging their uncertainty. We all have some
lessons to learn about how poor a guide intuition can be in
understanding the workings of the climate system.  Take the matter of sea-level rise. Intuitively, there are
two factors that should affect it. Warmer weather causes water
to expand, making the sea surface rise. And rising temperatures
can also melt glaciers, increasing the amount of water in the
oceans. Measure how much temperatures have changed, and how much
glaciers have melted, and what you find should tell you how much
the seas have risen.  No so fast. About five years ago, scientists  estimated  that
this physics-based model could account for only about one-fourth
of the observed rise in the  sea level . So other researchers
tried a mathematical approach: They correlated historical
records of sea-level rise and global temperatures and found they
could explain recent trends quite accurately.  The result was highly controversial: When extrapolated into
the future, the mathematical method predicted twice as much sea-level rise over the next century. In the worst case, flooding
would swamp 200 million homes globally.  It now appears that the physics-based model suffered from a
failure of intuition. It overlooked factors such as geophysical
sources of heat entering the oceans and human groundwater use,
which adds to the outflow of rivers into the oceans. Taking
these factors into account, recent studies point again to the
more extreme estimates of the mathematical model.  Still, everything about climate science remains messy. If
sea levels are rising, how can it be that scientists have
observed water levels in some parts of  Alaska  falling by more
than an inch a year? More evidence of a climate hoax? Nope: On
further study, it turns out that the land in the area, which had
been weighed down by immense glacial sheets, is now rebounding
upward, making the sea appear to fall.  Aside from weird land movements, you would at least expect
sea levels to rise equally around the world, right? After all,
water spreads out. No again. The local rate of sea-level rise
actually fluctuates by a factor of about 10 around the planet.
Winds and ocean currents can make water pile up in some places
more than others. Since 1950, for example, waters off the coast
of Cape Hatteras in  North Carolina  have risen about three to
four times faster than the global average, in part because the
Gulf Stream and other ocean currents that used to push those
waters up against the coast have weakened. They no longer push
as hard as they did.  This is the kind of complexity we have to live with.
Unfortunately, too many people see uncertainty as evidence of
bad science or worse. In reality, scientists are at their best
when they acknowledge it.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“Forecast: What Physics, Meteorology and the Natural Sciences
Can Teach Us About Economics,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Mark Buchanan  at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 