-- Clovis Is Said to Get No Interest After Seeking Buyers
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-09-24T20:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/clovis-is-said-to-get-no-interest-after-seeking-buyers.html
Clovis Oncology Inc. (CLVS) , the developer
of cancer treatments that was considering a sale, hasn’t
received any interest from buyers, said a person with knowledge
of the matter.  The company, which was working with Credit Suisse Group AG
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to explore its options, contacted some
potential suitors, though no sale negotiations took place, the
person said, asking not to be identified as the information is
private. Boulder, Colorado-based Clovis is no longer soliciting
bids and is considering its alternatives, the person said.  Clovis fell to $66.47 in after-market trading, down 9.5
percent from a close of $73.52 today.  Clovis sought the offers after its stock more than
quadrupled this year amid takeover speculation and optimism
about its lung and ovarian cancer drugs. The $2.2 billion
company’s oncology treatments are in early stages of clinical
trials and they could still fail, making it difficult to find a
buyer at the current share price, said Brian Klein, a New York-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp.  “If you are the management of this company and your
valuation seems a little bit exuberant, then it behooves you to
explore a potential sale,” Klein said in a phone interview
yesterday. “I’m not sure if it necessarily makes sense from an
acquirer’s perspective.”  There needs to be “a better characterization of the two
clinical assets before a potential acquirer is going to feel
comfortable enough to bite the bullet,” he said.  No Revenue  Clovis spokeswoman Breanna Burkart declined to comment on
the sale process.  Clovis currently has no revenue and analysts don’t project
it to have sales until 2015. On June 3, the company’s shares
more than doubled in one day after it reported positive early
results in trials of its cancer medicines. One, CO-1686, treats
non-small cell lung cancer patients who have a mutation that
makes the disease resistant to current drugs. The other,
rucaparib, is an experimental ovarian cancer medicine.  Even without a premium, an acquisition of Clovis would be
the largest takeover of a biotechnology company with no revenue
since at least 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There have been larger takeovers of biotechnology companies
without products and only minimal revenue. In 2011, Gilead
Sciences Inc. agreed to buy Pharmasset Inc., which had $900,000
in sales that year, for more than $10 billion. Pharmasset’s lead
product was in the final stage of testing at the time the deal
was announced.  When Gilead bought Pharmasset, “the expectation was things
were going to come up in short order as far as the sales were
concerned and delivery of the product,” Sachin Shah, a special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at New York-based
Albert Fried & Co., said in a phone interview yesterday. With
Clovis, “there’s a lot of unknowns. For somebody to make an
acquisition of this, they really have to convince their
shareholders what the deal is and they have to do a lot more due
diligence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  