-- Colombian Peso Rally Seen Over on Dollar Buying: Market Reversal
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-09-24T20:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/colombian-peso-rally-seen-over-on-dollar-buying-market-reversal.html
The Colombian peso’s best monthly
rally this year is showing signs of fatigue as policy makers
consider whether to extend a record $5.9 billion of foreign-currency purchases to weaken the  exchange rate .  The peso’s 2.3 percent gain in September, the biggest
advance since December, pushed the currency through its 20-day
Bollinger band, suggesting it may be poised to decline. The
commodity channel index, the most profitable technical indicator
over the past year, also signals the currency is overbought,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While President  Juan Manuel Santos  urged the central bank
to let its daily dollar-purchase program expire this month,
strategists at Bank of America Corp. and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc say policy makers may opt to buy more dollars to build
up foreign reserves and stem the peso’s advance. Even without
the intervention, the largest current-account deficit since 1999
and the lowest interest rate among seven Latin American nations
tracked by Bloomberg may be enough to weaken the peso, says RBS.  “The central bank will want a weaker peso,” Ezequiel Aguirre, a strategist at Bank of America in New York, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We certainly expect the peso to
underperform other emerging-market currencies.”  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent today to 1,890.18 per
dollar, heading for its biggest monthly advance since it jumped
2.7 percent in December. The currency reached a one-month high
of 1,880.72 on Sept. 19, a day after the  Federal Reserve ’s
surprise decision to maintain its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, which have created demand for higher-yielding,
emerging-market currencies.  Dollar Purchases  Colombia ’s peso was the second- best performer among seven
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg this quarter,
gaining 1.7 percent against the dollar.  Chile ’s peso posted the
biggest gain, at 2.1 percent.  Dollar purchases by Colombia’s Banco de la Republica this
year have already surpassed the $4.8 billion it bought in 2012
as policy makers seek to stem the peso’s 19 percent rally since
the end of 2008. A more expensive peso undermines Colombia’s
coffee and flower exporters. Central bankers are scheduled to
decide whether to continue with the intervention program at a
policy meeting on Sept. 27.  Mario Castro and Benito Berber, strategists at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York, recommended Sept. 23 that their
clients exit a bet that the peso will rise further, saying the
central bank may extend its dollar purchases through December.  Foreign Reserves  “The central bank probably will want to continue
accumulating international reserves, which are a bit low
relative to other countries,” said Castro, who expects the peso
to weaken 3.7 percent to 1,960 per dollar by year-end.  Officials in the central bank’s press office declined to
comment on its dollar purchases.  At $39 billion, Colombia’s foreign reserves represent about
10 percent of its gross domestic product, the lowest proportion
in  Latin America  after Argentina and  Venezuela , according to
data compiled by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. That compares with 16
percent in  Brazil  and 19 percent in  Mexico .  This month’s rally pared the peso’s loss this year to 6.5
percent. The central bank’s intervention has helped weaken the
currency, which reached a 17-month high of 1,750.50 on Jan. 2,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Quicker Growth  Santos said in a Sept. 16 interview that the central bank
should stop buying dollars as the peso slides toward a level the
Andean nation “can live with.” He specified an acceptable rate
as “between what we have right now and 2,000 or something.”  A government report three days later showed that  Colombia’s
economic expansion  quickened to an annual 4.2 percent in the
second quarter, the most in a year and up from 2.7 percent in
the prior three months.  The peso breached the lower limit of its 20-day Bollinger
band on Sept. 20 and remained above that level today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bollinger bands, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory. The limits represent two standard
deviations from the 20-day moving average, implying that the
likelihood of a currency moving outside the band is rare.  The peso’s commodity channel index has stayed below minus
100 since Sept. 10, which technical analysts interpret as
meaning it’s overbought, Bloomberg data show. The gauge has
fallen to 109 from as high as 138 on Sept. 13, suggesting the
peso rally is losing momentum.  Best Strategy  Investors who followed the index to trade the peso would
have returned 10 percent over the past year, making it the most
profitable of 23 technical indicators followed by Bloomberg.  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at RBS, said
Colombia’s deteriorating current-account deficit and low
 interest rates  are weighing on the peso.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, widened to 3.5 percent of GDP as of March, the most
since 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That leaves
the country more reliant on foreign capital to fuel its growth.  Colombia’s central bank has kept its benchmark interest
rate at a two-year low of  3.25 percent  since March, making it
less profitable to hold peso-denominated assets and helping
weaken the currency. The rate compares with 9 percent in Brazil
and 5 percent in Chile, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You have lower interest rates and a currency policy that
is effectively weakening the peso,” Cattan-Naslausky said in a
phone interview yesterday from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “I would
be inclined to sell the peso to buy other Latin American
currencies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  