-- Common-Sense Cuts to Avert a Government Shutdown
-- B y   H e n r y   I .   M i l l e r
-- 2013-09-24T16:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/common-sense-cuts-to-avert-a-government-shutdown.html
Even before the mandatory across-the-board cuts in federal spending known as sequestration took
effect March 1, President  Barack Obama ’s administration resorted
to the Washington Monument Strategy, warning of reductions in
the most popular and visible governmental services.  The term refers to the likelihood that in the face of any
government shutdown or budget cuts, the National Park Service
would shut the Washington Monument. The idea is to induce
outraged would-be tourists to deluge their representatives and
senators with complaints.  This time, with $1.1 trillion in automatic spending
reductions through 2021 on the line, similar alarms were raised
by the Defense Department, which threatened significant
furloughs for its 700,000 civilian employees, and by Secretary
of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, who warned of the removal of
inspectors from U.S. meat plants, an interruption of food aid to
needy infants, and the closing of forest campgrounds and picnic
sites. The Department of  Homeland Security  predicted longer
lines at airport security checkpoints.  It doesn’t have to be this way. The disingenuousness of the
Washington Monument Strategy has been regularly exposed by
Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , who has  identified 
ways to rein in runaway spending without disrupting vital
services and programs, impairing essential functions or harming
the poor and vulnerable.  First Targets  He offers some common-sense examples:  -- Start with low-priority  spending  at the Department of
the Interior, such as “drones programs, sheep studies and
beaver conferences.”  -- At the  Federal Aviation Administration , the furloughs
should be applied disproportionately to the more than two-thirds
of agency employees who aren’t air-traffic controllers and are,
therefore, less essential.  -- In the federal judiciary, “prevent furloughs, hearing
cancellations, and case dismissals by halting non-essential
conferences and excessive construction projects.”  -- At all federal agencies, “avoid critical furloughs by
first eliminating employees” who “do not show up for work, who
are not performing official work, or are simply not working at
all.”  Here is my contribution to the target list:  -- The  National Science Foundation ’s Directorate for
Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences funds a range of
frivolous, trivial and  poorly designed research , such as how to
ride a bike, trends in naming babies and when dogs became man’s
best friend.  The research performed by this unit is systematically less
essential and relevant to the nation’s needs than those of the
other directorates, such as engineering, geosciences, and
mathematical and physical sciences. The SBES Directorate’s
budget should be cut, and its grant review and funding apparatus
moved elsewhere.  -- The  National Center for Complementary and Alternative
Medicine  at the  National Institutes of Health  is plagued by a
flawed mandate and the breakdown of effective peer review. Its
mission is “to define, through rigorous scientific
investigation, the usefulness and safety of complementary and
alternative medicine interventions and their roles in improving
health and health care.”  But as Paul Offit, chief of infectious diseases at
Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, has written, “There is no
such thing as alternative medicine. There’s only medicine that
works and medicine that doesn’t.”  NIH Funding  The center’s $130 million annual budget should be
redistributed throughout the rest of NIH to soften the impact of
the sequestration on more deserving research and on furloughs.  -- Most day-to-day evaluations and approvals of drugs,
medical devices and food products are performed quite
autonomously within the  Food and Drug Administration ’s
decentralized units. Yet the FDA contains huge, largely
unnecessary and constantly expanding bureaucracies that serve
the commissioner and a horde of deputy commissioners, associate
commissioners and assistant commissioners, with their attendant
hangers-on.  These should be trimmed drastically, and in the short-term,
these bureaucrats should be furloughed instead of the scientists
who review product applications.  -- The FDA convenes many unnecessary meetings of its
advisory committees, which are made up of nongovernmental
experts in various disciplines. At one time, these gatherings
were used appropriately and sparingly to offer advice about
arcane or controversial policy issues or about decisions on
individual products. They have evolved into a way for FDA
officials to shift blame in case a decision backfires.  Although it has become something of a cliche, there is
significant waste and abuse in federal agencies. With or without
the sequestration cuts, ill-conceived and counterproductive
programs can be trimmed revised or eliminated. That would free
up resources for essential functions, improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of regulation, reduce the costs of research and
development performed by the private sector, stimulate
innovation, and create jobs.  There isn’t a single federal agency that couldn’t do more
with less, if there were the will to do so. But bureaucrats’
self-interest is served not by frugality and efficiency but by
expanding their responsibilities, commanding larger budgets and
carving out grander empires. And the Obama administration is
committed not to cutting  spending , but to increasing it. Hoping
for anything else in the short term is, to quote the economist
 Milton Friedman , like trying to design a cat that barks.  (Henry I. Miller, a doctor and molecular biologist, is the
Robert Wesson fellow in scientific philosophy and public policy
at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution. He was the founding
director of the  Food and Drug Administration ’s Office of
Biotechnology.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Henry I. Miller at  henry.miller@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 