-- Confidence Falls on Concern Over U.S. Job Outlook: Economy
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-09-24T20:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/consumer-confidence-index-in-u-s-decreased-to-79-7-in-september.html
Growing concern over the outlook
for hiring and wages shook U.S. consumer sentiment this month,
raising the risk spending will contribute less to growth.  The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence   index  declined
to 79.7, the weakest since May, from 81.8 a month earlier, the
New York-based private research group said today. Another report
today showed home prices appreciated in the 12 months through
July by the most in more than seven years.  Uneven employment growth and limited pay increases may hold
back  consumer purchases , which make up about 70 percent of the
world’s largest economy. While some households are benefiting
from rising home and stock values, building tensions in the
 Middle East  and budget infighting in Washington may prevent
sentiment from rebounding over the next month.  “The employment situation does seem to be improving, but
at a frustratingly slow pace,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist with Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
the second-best confidence forecaster over the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “It’s not a terrible
situation, but actual spending has been tepid this year.”  Stocks dropped for a fourth day amid concerns over budget
talks as investors weighed prospects for easing tensions in the
Middle East. The  S&P 500  fell 0.3 percent to 1,697.42 at the
close in  New York .  Sentiment is improving overseas. German business confidence
rose in September for a fifth month to reach the highest level
in more than a year, the Ifo institute reported today. The
reading of 107.7 was lower than the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Survey Results  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey projected U.S.
consumer confidence would decrease this month to 79.9. Estimates
among the 78 economists ranged from 76 to 83. The measure
averaged 53.7 in the recession that ended in June 2009.  The barometer of  consumer expectations  for the next six
months fell to 84.1 after 89 a month earlier. A gauge of  present
conditions  improved to 73.2 in September from 70.9 a month
earlier.  The fewest respondents since March projected their incomes
will rise. The share dropped to 15.4 percent in September from
17.5 percent a month earlier. The proportion of Americans who
said jobs would become more plentiful in the next six months
fell to 16.9 percent from 17.5 percent.  At the same time, the gap between those who said work
opportunities are currently scarce, and those who said they’re
easy to get, shrank to the lowest since September 2008.  Home Values  A report from S&P/Case-Shiller showed  property values  in 20
cities increased 12.4 percent in July from the same month in
2012, the biggest advance since February 2006. The gain matched
the median projection of economists surveyed and followed a 12.1
percent increase a month earlier.  The cutoff date for the Conference Board’s confidence
survey was Sept. 13, around the time the Obama administration
was considering a military strike on  Syria .  “The consumer is in a cautious, wait-and-see mode, with
geopolitical uncertainties in the news lately, as well as the
looming budget battle,” Stanley said.  Improvements in the labor market have been mixed. Employers
created 169,000 jobs in August, and the prior two months’ gains
were revised down, Labor Department figures showed this month.
The  unemployment rate  dropped to 7.3 percent, a more than four-year low, in part because workers left the  labor force .  The lack of more progress in the job market was behind the
decision of Federal Reserve policy makers to refrain from
reducing the monthly pace of stimulus. Central bankers said they
need to see more evidence of sustained economic strength.  Bernanke’s View  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said following the Federal Open Market Committee’s two-day
session on Sept. 18. “The committee has concern that rapid
tightening of financial conditions in recent months would have
the effect of slowing growth.”  Speculation the Fed would begin paring the $85 billion
monthly pace of bond purchases has pushed up  mortgage rates ,
threatening to slow the recovery in housing.  More Americans indicated in today’s confidence survey that
they plan to buy homes and automobiles in the next six months.  The  auto industry  has been thriving as Americans replace
older models and take advantage of dealer incentives, including
interest-free financing. Ford Motor Co., General Motors Co. and
Toyota Motor Corp. posted U.S. sales gains in August that beat
analyst estimates. The annualized pace of motor vehicle sales
climbed to 16 million in August, the highest in almost  six
years , according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Cutting Back  While some consumers are spending on big-ticket goods such
as new cars and appliances, they may be cutting back elsewhere.
Retailers from Macy’s Inc. to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. cut forecasts
after missing their second-quarter sales targets.  Clarence Otis, chairman and chief executive officer at
 Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , owner of the Red Lobster and Olive
Garden chains, referred to “guests who need more
affordability,” on a Sept. 20 earnings call. “They’ve got to
do some more disciplined budgeting, and dining out is one of the
things that may be paying a price for that,” Otis said.  Chief executive officers reported a dimmer economic outlook
in the third quarter, according to a Business Roundtable survey
last week. Fewer company leaders expected a pickup in sales and
capital spending in the next six months. Half of the respondents
indicated that uncertainty over the budget debate in Washington
may keep their companies from hiring.  Holiday Spending  Deloitte LLP, a New York-based consulting firm, said retail
sales may climb as much as 4.5 percent this  holiday shopping
season , about the same as last year.  “Rising  home prices  with steady  job creation  may buoy
consumers,” Daniel Bachman, Deloitte’s senior U.S. economist,
said in a statement.  At the same time, it may be difficult for lower-income
households to boost spending after a 2 percentage-point increase
in the  payroll tax  at the start of the year. The  poverty rate 
hovered close to a two-decade high, while median  household
income  showed little change, according to a Sept. 18 report from
the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  