-- Copper Falls Most in a Week on U.S. Economy, Budget Concern
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-24T17:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/copper-drops-for-third-day-on-concern-about-u-s-budget-clash.html
Copper fell the most in more than a
week on speculation that budget woes will damp the economy in
the U.S., the world’s second-biggest user of the metal.  Republicans in the House of Representatives are considering
alternatives to deny funding for President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law that could extend a debate on spending past a
Sept. 30 deadline. American  consumer confidence  declined in
September, a private report showed today. Copper fell 1.4
percent in the previous two sessions after Federal Reserve Bank
of St. Louis President James Bullard said policy makers may
start paring monetary stimulus next month.  “There’s concern over the budget talks in the U.S., and
that’s keeping some negativity in the markets,”  David Meger ,
the director of metal trading at Vision Financial Markets in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “There’s also lingering
uncertainty over what the Fed will do.”  Copper futures for delivery in December slid 1.3 percent to
settle at $3.2565 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest drop since Sept. 12.  The U.S. government’s next fiscal year begins Oct. 1.
Congress is under pressure to agree on a spending bill before
that date or begin closing some government operations. The
nation’s debt ceiling could be reached sometime after the middle
of next month, according to the Treasury Department.  China  is
the biggest copper consumer.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 1.4 percent to $7,147 a metric ton ($3.24 a pound).
LME electronic trading was halted for about three hours because
of a technical issue. It resumed at about 1:10 p.m. local time,
the bourse said.  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also declined in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  