-- De Blasio Spars With Lhota Over Debates for NYC Mayor
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-09-24T17:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/de-blasio-spars-with-lhota-over-debates-for-nyc-mayor.html
A debate about debates is the
latest spat between Bill de Blasio, the Democratic nominee and
frontrunner for New York mayor, and his Republican opponent
Joseph Lhota.  A news release sent out by de Blasio’s campaign today
listed three debates scheduled for the consecutive Tuesdays
prior to the Nov. 5 election, with the first on Oct. 15. That
would be the most debates for a mayoral general election in New
York since 1985, the campaign said.  Lhota’s campaign quickly shot back with a statement of its
own, calling it “incredibly disappointing” that de Blasio
didn’t heed Lhota’s call to hold five debates, one in each of
the city’s five boroughs.  “Trumpeting their agreement to a single debate beyond what
is required by the campaign-finance law as historic is a joke,”
said Jessica Proud, a spokeswoman for Lhota. “Their strategy of
ducking the press and public since winning the nomination will
grow weary on New Yorkers who want to see leadership from their
next mayor.”  Polls have de Blasio, 52, leading by more than 40
percentage points over Lhota, 58, who headed the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority and served as a top aide to former
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.  TV Viewers  Debating will give the Republican a chance to try to narrow
the gap with de Blasio in front of live, primetime television
audiences. Democrats hold a 6-to-1 edge in voter registrations,
yet haven’t controlled City Hall for 20 years.  “New Yorkers deserve a City Hall that thinks about those
struggling just to get by instead of only focusing on the rich
and the elite,” de Blasio said in the statement, repeating a
refrain that helped elevate him from third place in a crowded
primary. “I look forward to participating in these debates and
presenting this vision for progressive reform directly to the
people of New York City.”  Lhota has called de Blasio’s decrials of inequality
divisive, arguing that the best way to foster opportunity for
New Yorkers is by creating middle-class jobs and maintaining
order in a city once plagued by crime and fiscal distress.  The 12-year tenure of Mayor Michael Bloomberg, founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, concludes
at the end of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  