-- Debt Disaster Seen Unless VAT Rises to 20% by 2020: Japan Credit
-- B y   R o c k y   S w i f t   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-09-25T00:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/debt-disaster-seen-unless-vat-rises-to-20-by-2020-japan-credit.html
Japan must raise its  sales tax  to
at least 20 percent by the time the Olympics come to Tokyo in
2020 to avert a “disaster” in its  bond market , according to
the head of a panel advising the world’s biggest pension fund.  The consumption levy, due to increase in April for the
first time since 1997, will need to quadruple from current
levels to handle Japan’s increasing welfare costs and rein in
the nation’s debt, said Takatoshi Ito, who leads an investment
panel for the 121 trillion yen ($1.23 trillion) Government
Pension Investment Fund. He said funds like GPIF are at risk of
being too dependent on Japanese government bonds, where 10-year
yields of 0.670 percent are the lowest globally.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is expected to decide next month
if  Japan ’s economy can weather an increase in the tax to 8
percent in April. Current rates of 5 percent are a fifth of the
value-added taxes imposed in Nordic countries like  Sweden , and
need to be raised to prevent the implosion of a  debt burden 
that’s more than double the size of Japan’s economy, Ito said.  “There is a narrow path to escape from the disaster,”
Ito, the dean of Tokyo University’s Graduate School of Public
Policy, said in an interview yesterday. “The good news is that
there is a big fiscal space to increase taxes.”  Abe will announce his decision on Oct. 1 after the release
of the Bank of Japan’s  Tankan survey  of business sentiment. He
has pledged to defeat 15 years of deflation and spur growth in
the world’s third-largest economy using the so-called three
arrows of fiscal stimulus, monetary easing and a package of
growth-oriented initiatives including deregulation.  BOJ Buying  The BOJ unveiled an unprecedented monetary stimulus program
in April, saying it would double monthly JGB purchases to more
than 7 trillion yen in pursuit of a 2 percent inflation target.
The easing has kept a lid on bond yields as it helped Japan’s
exporters by sending the yen to a 4 1/2-year low of 103.74 per
dollar in May. It was at 98.74 as of 9:41 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Even as Japan’s economy recovers from the effects of an
earthquake and nuclear crisis in 2011, it hasn’t begun to chip
away at its debt pile. Government obligations will grow to 245
percent of economic output this year, the highest ratio
globally, according to International Monetary Fund estimates,
compared with Greece’s 179 percent and 108 percent for the U.S.  Italy, whose debt is expected to expand to 131 percent of
its gross domestic product in 2013, is slated to raise its
value-added tax to 22 percent on Oct. 1.  ‘Big Disaster’  While more than 90 percent of JGBs are held  domestically ,
Japan’s declining population and expanding welfare expenses mean
that the country will eventually lose the ability to fund its
debts, Ito said. Without an increase in the  tax rate  toward 20
percent or higher by 2020, “my prediction is that a big
disaster happens in 2023,” he said, citing projections for
household wealth and  government borrowing .  Sales tax increases are the way to reform Japan’s finances
because they don’t affect growth as much as levies on household
or corporate income and they don’t transfer costs onto future
generations, according to Ito.  “It’s a clawback on the rich, retired Japanese persons,”
he said.  Tokyo beat out  Madrid  and Istanbul to stage the 2020 games
in a Sept. 7 decision by the  International Olympic Committee ,
bringing the event back to Japan’s capital for the first time
since 1964. The government sold its first bonds the following
year to contend with a recession. By June this year the
 outstanding balance  of debt grew to exceed one quadrillion yen,
according to the Ministry of Finance.  Turning Point  “The Tokyo Olympic games started  government bonds ,” said
Ito, 62, who has served stints in the Ministry of Finance and as
a professor at  Harvard University . “Let’s do the 2020 Olympic
games as a  turning point  to reduce government bonds.”  An improvement in the economy because of the Olympics could
hurt JGBs, Tomoya Masanao, the head of  portfolio management  for
Japan at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview
in Tokyo yesterday.  “What is more important than the direct economic impact we
can expect from infrastructure spending is the secondary effects
from public confidence being restored,” said Masanao, whose
company is the manager of the world’s biggest fixed-income fund.
“If growth picks up and the economy becomes a little bit more
inflationary, that would be negative for JGBs, but that hinges
on whether the government can leverage the positive impact on
economy.”  Yield Swings  Yields on benchmark 10-year JGBs have swung from an all-time low of 0.315 percent to as high as 1 percent after the BOJ
announced its unprecedented easing plan in April. The five-year
average is 1.08 percent.  Japan will  spend  22.2 trillion yen servicing its debt in
the fiscal year begun in April, accounting for more than half of
total  tax revenue  and occupying about 24 percent of the
government’s budget, according to Finance Ministry estimates in
January. In the U.S., total interest payments of $359 billion
accounted for about 10.2 percent of budgetary outlays in the
year that ended September, according to  Treasury data .  Moody’s Investors Service said on Aug. 15 that  “delaying
or watering down” the sales tax plan would be “credit
negative” because the government has yet to unveil significant
steps to reduce its deficits.  A BOJ report in April examining potential losses at banks
from rising bond yields found that if  interest rates  climb 1
percentage point across all maturities, Japan’s biggest lenders
would incur 3.2 trillion yen of unrealized capital losses. A 3
percentage-point increase would lead to 8 trillion yen in
capital losses, the central bank estimated.  Capital Losses  Potential losses on JGBs pose a risk for pension funds like
GPIF, Ito said. The fund, which is the world’s largest manager
of retirement savings, posted its smallest gain in three
quarters in the period ended in June because of record domestic
bond losses.  GPIF announced in June a cut to its target holding for
domestic bonds to 60 percent from 67 percent, while the
proportion of foreign and local shares will rise to 12 percent
each, from 9 percent and 11 percent respectively. Allocations
will remain at the revised levels until at least March 2015,
GPIF President Takahiro Mitani said.  Ito was named to a newly formed panel to advise on
investments by GPIF and others government-related funds. The
group will deliver its first report in November, and is
discussing further diversification into stocks, overseas bonds
and alternative assets such as real estate funds, he said.  “There will be a recommendation to change the portfolio,”
Ito said. “There is a consensus that we should reduce the
domestic bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  