-- Dell Buyout Isn’t Seen as a Model for BlackBerry
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r ,   J o d i   X u   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/dell-buyout-isn-t-seen-as-a-model-for-blackberry.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  is following  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  in pursuing a leveraged buyout after losing its market
leadership to rivals such as  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. That’s where the
comparisons between the two companies end.  BlackBerry’s deteriorating business prospects and a lack of
financing make its tentative $4.7 billion buyout agreement a
harder sell to investors. The bid, announced yesterday by top
shareholder  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , comes with caveats:
The rest of the coalition of buyers hasn’t been identified yet,
and funding still needs to be lined up.  Like BlackBerry, Dell used to dominate an industry -- in
its case, personal computers -- and sought refuge from the
public markets after losing its technological edge. Dell’s
buyout, however, had the backing of the company’s billionaire
founder and  Silver Lake  Management LLC. At BlackBerry,
meanwhile, Fairfax isn’t committing money to the bid beyond its
stake, and prospective buyers ranging from KKR & Co. to
Microsoft Corp. are unlikely to join the effort.  “If they have a real name committed in the consortium,
they would have flagged the name,” said  Erik Gordon , a
professor at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School of
Business. “If they had a strong consortium, not only wouldn’t
they keep their names secret, they would put 10,000 spotlights
on it and say, ‘Look who’s on it.’”  Shares Recover  BlackBerry shares rose 1.1 percent to $8.82 yesterday after
the deal was announced, erasing an intraday decline of as much
as 6.1 percent. The Fairfax offer represents a 3.1 percent
premium over BlackBerry’s closing price last week. The stock
remains down 26 percent this year and has fallen about 94
percent since its peak in 2008.  For the next six weeks, a Fairfax-led group will scrutinize
the device maker’s books while BlackBerry Chief Executive
Officer Thorsten Heins and a special board committee see if
there are any alternative proposals.  “This transaction will open an exciting new private
chapter for BlackBerry, its customers, carriers and employees,”
Fairfax CEO Prem Watsa said in a statement yesterday. “We can
deliver immediate value to shareholders, while we continue the
execution of a long-term strategy in a private company with a
focus on delivering superior and secure enterprise solutions to
BlackBerry customers around the world.”  Job Cuts  The Waterloo, Ontario-based phone maker was already
retooling its strategy before the buyout was announced.
BlackBerry said last week that it’s cutting 4,500  jobs  and
narrowing its focus to corporate and professional customers.  It also is taking a writedown of as much as $960 million
for unsold inventory of its Z10 phone -- a touch-screen device
unveiled in January as its answer to the iPhone. Sluggish demand
for the product contributed to BlackBerry’s weakest quarterly
sales in six years and a larger-than-estimated loss.  Both BlackBerry and Dell have seen their market share
tumble in recent years, though the PC maker has fared better. It
remains profitable, and sales growth is projected to resume in
fiscal 2014 after a dip last year.  Those prospects helped founder and CEO  Michael Dell  enlist
Silver Lake’s help in orchestrating a $24.9 billion buyout,
which was approved by investors on Sept. 12. Still, even Dell
had to fight a seven-month battle with dissident shareholders
over the deal and sweetened the bid twice before securing
victory. The CEO personally forked over almost $1 billion of his
own money.  Seeking Financing  Fairfax’s Watsa doesn’t plan to contribute more cash as
part of the takeover bid for BlackBerry. He will roll over the
firm’s 9.9 percent stake, worth $457 million as of yesterday’s
close. Other investors will be able to finance the rest of the
purchase through equity and debt, Watsa said.  The investor has held talks with BlackBerry co-founder  Mike Lazaridis  on working together on a deal, according to people
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are private.  In an interview yesterday, Watsa said Lazaridis isn’t yet
involved in the transaction. Lazaridis didn’t immediately return
an e-mail message seeking comment.  “We wouldn’t put our name on the line and we wouldn’t do
this unless we were very confident,” Watsa said.  Watsa resigned from BlackBerry’s board last month to avoid
a conflict of interest as the company sought a buyer. Lazaridis,
who stepped down as co-CEO last year, still holds about 5.7
percent of the company.  Private Equity  In the search for buyers, BlackBerry was shopped to KKR and
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , and both  private-equity  firms passed,
according to people with knowledge of the matter. Microsoft also
is unlikely to pursue a bid for BlackBerry, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  “The uncertainty around the subject of financing means it
won’t lift the stock above $9 for any length of time,” said
Matt Skipp, chief investment officer with Sw8 Asset Management
Inc., a hedge fund based in Toronto. “The market always likes
cash bids, but the market likes cash bids that aren’t subject to
financing.” Skipp manages C$55 million ($54 million) and has
shorted shares of BlackBerry in the past.  BlackBerry, credited with inventing the first smartphones
more than a decade ago, once sold products that were so popular
and addictive they were known as CrackBerrys. In recent years,
the company failed to keep pace with Apple and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , which offered better Web browsing and a wider
range of applications.  ‘Tomorrow’s Losers’  BlackBerry’s share of the global smartphone market shrank
to 2.9 percent in the second quarter from 4.9 percent a year
earlier, according to IDC. It has fallen to fourth place behind
Google Inc.’s Android, Apple’s iOS and Microsoft’s Windows 
Phone platform.  “Yesterday’s heroes are tomorrow’s losers,” said  David
Cockfield ,  fund manager  with Northland Wealth Management in
Toronto. His firm manages about C$225 million, including a small
amount of BlackBerry shares. “I hope Prem Watsa knows what he’s
doing.”  The group led by Toronto-based Fairfax is seeking financing
from Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and from BMO
Capital Markets, according to yesterday’s statement. BlackBerry
will owe a breakup fee of 30 cents a share, or about $157
million, if it chooses an alternate transaction, the company
said. If the smartphone maker and Fairfax sign a definitive
agreement, the fee will rise to 50 cents a share.  Board’s Advisers  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Perella Weinberg are advising a
special committee of BlackBerry’s board on the transaction.
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Torys LLP are legal
advisers to the committee. BDT & Co., Merrill Lynch and BMO are
Fairfax’s financial advisers, while Shearman & Sterling LLP and
McCarthy Tetrault LLP are its legal advisers.  The lead adviser on the deal for BDT is Don McLellan, a
former senior vice president of strategy at Motorola Inc. who
also oversaw the U.S. Treasury’s capital purchase program in
2008 before joining  Byron Trott  at his new firm in 2009. Another
BDT adviser on the deal, besides Trott, is John Dills, a former
executive at the private-equity firm GTCR LLC who also spent
time at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The tentative bid is “the best the company can get to
survive,” said Neeraj Monga, an analyst with Veritas Investment
Research Corp. in Toronto. “At least under a private owner they
can shrink to a size where they may become profitable and a
sustainable business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net 
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  