-- Euro Rallies as U.S. Budget Spurs Shutdown Concern; Krona Falls
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-25T21:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/dollar-holds-gains-as-budget-talks-spur-haven-appeal-kiwi-drops.html
The euro advanced versus the dollar
on signs of economic strength in the 17-nation region and
concern Washington budget talks may lead to a federal shutdown.  The shared currency gained versus most of its major peers
as  consumer confidence  in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy,
increased more than estimated. The yen gained against a majority
of its most-traded counterparts amid reduced risk demand.  New
Zealand ’s dollar fell after the nation’s  trade deficit 
unexpectedly widened. The Swedish krona dropped for a fourth day
against the dollar as consumer confidence worsened in September.  “Strength in the euro is very supported by the German
consumer confidence data,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a Boston-based
senior market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of Western Union Co., said in a telephone interview. “Most
market participants are also very aware of previous shutdowns in
the U.S., and are behaving accordingly.”  The euro appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.3526 per dollar at 5
p.m.  New York  time. The common currency rose 0.1 percent to
133.14 per yen. The dollar fell 0.3 percent to 98.43 yen.  The Brazilian real has gained 6.9 percent versus the
greenback this month, while the yen has declined 0.3 percent.  The quarter, New Zealand’s dollar has led all major gainers
with a 6.5 percent increase, while the worst-performing South
African rand has slipped 1.1 percent. Denmark’s krone is the
best-performing currency in 2013 and the rand has plunged 15.2
percent.  Krona Falls  Sweden’s krona extended its longest losing streak since
June as a gauge of consumer confidence fell to 98 in September
from 98.8 a month earlier. The nation also sold its remaining 7
percent stake in  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s largest
lender, for 21.6 billion kronor ($3.36 billion) to institutional
domestic and international investors, it said today.  The krona dropped 0.3 percent to 6.4171 per dollar and
weakened 0.7 percent to 8.6794 per euro.  South Korea ’s won fell the most in more than a month on
speculation authorities will intervene to slow gains after
global demand for local shares boosted the currency to an eight-month high last week. The won depreciated 0.5 percent to
1,077.23 after falling the most since Aug. 22.  The  New Zealand dollar  fell for a second day against the
dollar after the government said the nation’s trade deficit
widened to NZ$1.2 billion ($989 million) in August, the biggest
shortfall in five years. The kiwi declined 0.5 percent to 82.41
U.S. cents.  Technical Level  The currency may depreciate to 79.95, its weakest level in
almost three weeks, if it fails to hold a key support level in
the 81.40-to-81.80 area, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based
technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co, wrote today in a
client note.  Purchases of  new houses  in the U.S. increased 7.9 percent
to a 421,000 annualized pace following a 390,000 rate in the
prior month that was less than previously estimated, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . Demand
slumped 14.1 percent in July.  Durable goods  orders, excluding
transportation, decreased 0.1 percent in August after falling
0.5 percent the prior month.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew stepped up pressure on
Congress to avert a potential default, telling lawmakers in a
letter that measures to avoid breaching the debt ceiling will be
exhausted on Oct. 17.  The Senate advanced a stopgap spending measure after
Republican Ted Cruz defied party leaders by staging an extended
speech that lasted more than 21 hours. By a vote of 100-0, with
60 votes required, the Senate advanced the House bill passed
Sept. 20 for further debate.  Closed Sign  “The lingering shutdown risk from the U.S. government is
one factor that’s hurting some of the riskier currencies versus
the core ones like the yen and euro,”  Richard Franulovich , the
chief currency strategist for the northern hemisphere at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Treasury bills maturing close to the deadline for raising
the borrowing ceiling were little changed. Rates on bills due on
Oct. 24 were 0.015 percent, compared with 0.005 percent two
weeks ago. The rate on bills due Oct. 31 has held within two
basis points of zero during the period.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, slipped 0.2 percent to 1,012.33.  The euro rose after  GfK SE (GFK)  forecast in a report its German
consumer-confidence index will rise to 7.1 percent in October,
the highest since September 2007. The Nuremberg-based research
company said its measure of economic expectations climbed to
10.7 in September from 1.8 in August.  Euro Support  The  derivatives market  is showing the most confidence in
the euro area since before the financial crisis as the premium
traders pay to exchange euro-denominated loans for dollar
funding for one-year has fallen to the lowest since March 2008.  The one-year cross-currency basis swap between euros and
dollars shrank to minus 8.45 basis points today, from minus 24
at the end of last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A negative swap rate signals that investors are willing to
receive reduced euro interest payments to obtain dollar funding,
and a smaller spread signals more confidence in the currency.  The euro has gained 5.7 percent this year, the biggest
increased among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 2.8
percent and the yen fell 10.7 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $20 billion, from $24.5 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.4 billion, the largest share of
trades at 22 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$2.1 billion.  Dollar-yen options trading was 11 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 41 percent less than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  