-- Dudley Tells CNBC Fed May Taper QE Later This Year on Data
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-09-24T12:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/dudley-tells-cnbc-fed-may-taper-bond-purchases-later-this-year.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said the central bank may reduce the
pace of its quantitative easing program in 2013 depending on the
economy’s performance.  “If the economy were behaving in a way aligned with the
Fed’s June forecast, then it’s certainly likely that the Fed
would begin to taper later this year,” Dudley said in an
interview with CNBC. “I certainly wouldn’t want to rule it out.
But it depends on the data.”  U.S. policy makers last week unexpectedly refrained from
reducing their $85 billion in monthly bond buying, saying they
need to see more signs of sustained labor-market gains. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said on Sept. 18 the Fed will alter record
accommodation based on “what’s needed for the economy” and not
“let market expectations dictate our policy actions.”  Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee , said the markets shouldn’t have
been surprised by the Fed’s decision not to taper last week.  “The chairman never said that we were going to reduce the
rate of asset purchases in September,” Dudley said. “He said
‘later this year.’ I think that framework that he laid out is
still very much intact.”  Dudley said in a speech in New York yesterday that policy
makers must “forcefully” push against economic headwinds as
the U.S. has yet to show “any meaningful pickup” in momentum.
He said yesterday that “the economy still needs the support of
a very accommodative monetary policy.”  Forward Guidance  The Fed’s guidance on  interest rates  will probably outlast
the expected departure of Bernanke and the appointment of a new
chairman, Dudley said.  “The market should have reasonable confidence in the
forward guidance because the reality is the Federal Reserve is
not just about the chair,” he said.  The New York Fed chief told CNBC that the central bank’s
policies would be consistent under the leadership of Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen , should President  Barack Obama  choose her
to succeed Bernanke.  “I’ve known Janet for many, many years,” Dudley said.
“I’m a huge supporter. She’s smart. She’s tough. I think she’d
be a very fine choice, if that’s where the president decided to
go.”  Dudley said the debate over raising the U.S. debt ceiling
and the resulting “high level of uncertainty” are creating “a
little bit of a cloud right now over the economy.”  “You can certainly imagine that that can cause businesses
and households to hold off on their spending decisions,” Dudley
said. “So even with a good outcome, it could actually have a
negative effect for the economy over the near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  