-- EADS Seeks Edge in South Korean Fighter Jet Contest Against U.S.
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-09-24T19:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/eads-seeks-edge-in-south-korean-fighter-jet-contest-against-u-s-.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. plans to improve its bid to sell 60 Eurofighter
Typhoons to South Korea, and top  Boeing (BA)  Co. and  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  when a competition for the combat jets is reopened.  “We expect that through this new process we will re-enter
a dialogue that will allow us to optimize the offer,” Christian
Scherer, head of strategy at EADS’s defense unit, said yesterday
in a telephone interview. EADS leads the Typhoon campaign for
the Eurofighter joint venture that includes BAE Systems Plc and
Finmeccanica SpA.  The South Korean government yesterday called off a tender
for 60 fighter jets after rejecting Boeing’s bid for the 8.3
trillion-won ($7.7 billion) contract over concerns the F-15SE
wasn’t advanced enough to counter  North Korea ’s nuclear threat.
The Eurofighter Typhoon and Lockheed’s F-35 entries were
rejected earlier on cost grounds.  “You can always improve an offer by making it more
suitable to the requirement,” Scherer said. “It is more subtle
than just dropping the price. We have plenty of ideas.”  South Korea  said it would move quickly to reopen the
bidding. Boeing’s F-15 Silent Eagle may also still be
considered, Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said in
 Seoul  after the decision. Based on the F-15 that entered U.S.
Air Force service in  1974 , it features radar-evading stealth
technology.  Toulouse, France-based EADS faces a big hurdle of winning
in South Korea given the country’s close military relationship
with the U.S., Daniel Darling, of Forecast International, said
by e-mail.  Early Test Case  The European group is trying to recover from a string of
losses in  India ,  Japan  and  Switzerland  and has tried to
streamline operations to be more successful in export campaigns,
with South Korea considered an early test case.  “It is quite comforting that despite the huge political
might of the the U.S. we are still standing in the ring,”
Scherer said. “What this whole Korean experience is telling us
is when we put our heads to it Eurofighter is quite competitive
on the export market.”  Boeing said it was “deeply disappointed” by the decision
and that it is “evaluating our next options.”  Failure to secure a South Korean contract comes with
“significant” potential cost to Boeing, which spent company
money on devising the Silent Eagle configuration that includes
new tanks,  Howard Rubel , a New York-based aerospace analyst with
Jefferies LLC, wrote in a research report. As of June 30,
Chicago-based Boeing had $85 million in potential termination
liabilities and inventory tied to an anticipated international
order, Rubel said.  Wartime Command  Meanwhile, “the scuttling of the current bidding round is
a huge win for Lockheed Martin,” Roman Schweizer, a Washington-based analyst at Guggenheim Partners, said in a note. “The
decision immediately puts Lockheed Martin’s F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter back into the contest and presumably in the lead.”  The purchase of new fighter jets would boost South Korea’s
ability to independently defend itself after the country takes
back the wartime command of its 640,000 troops from the U.S. in
2015. That command was given to the U.S. at the onset of the
 Korean War  and has never been returned.  “South Korea needs measures for retaliation against North
Korean provocation,” Kim said. “South Korea needs to secure
military capability in line with recent aviation technology
developments.”  North Korea tested its third nuclear device in February and
in March threatened the South and its main ally, the U.S., with
a first strike. The growing atomic threat is shifting South
Korea’s defense strategy.  Stealth Trumps Cost  “Concern over the vulnerability of the stealth features
Boeing planned to incorporate appears to have trumped worries
over the cost of the project,” Forecast’s Darling said by e-mail. If South Korea plans to buy the F-35 it will need to raise
its budget, he said.  The budget for the jet fighter project will be adjusted,
the procurement office said in a statement.  A focus on a more advanced aircraft will not hinder a
Typhoon bid even if the European plane does not provide all-around stealth characteristics championed by the F-35, Scherer
said. “The Eurofighter advantage is that in addition to having
some stealth attributes it has unmatched self-defense capability
meaning if it is threatened it can evade that threat through
countermeasures and through its agility and speed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  