-- Ebay Links With Argos Store Chain in U.K. Click-and-Collect Test
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-09-24T14:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/ebay-links-with-argos-store-chain-in-u-k-click-and-collect-test.html
Ebay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Home Retail Group
Plc (HOME) ’s Argos chain announced a tie-up so shoppers at the world’s
biggest online marketplace can collect their goods from 150
Argos stores around the U.K.  The trial, involving 50 Ebay merchants, will initially run
for six months, Home Retail said today in a statement.  The partnership rivals Amazon.com Inc.’s locker delivery
service, where customers can order online and then pick up their
parcel from secure passcode-protected lockers situated in local
shops or other venues. Click and collect is one of the U.K.’s
fastest-growing purchasing methods as more people shop online.  The partnership between Ebay and Argos “is clearly being
driven by the irreversible trend of increasing consumer demand
for convergence in online and store-based retail shopping
environments,” Scott Dacko, associate professor of marketing
and strategic management at Warwick Business School, said in an
e-mail. “It is  likely to be a win-win arrangement, with both
partners and U.K. consumers benefiting all round.”  Milton Keynes, England-based Home Retail, which said it
introduced the click-and-collect concept in the U.K. in 2000, is
seeking to attract more customers and boost sales at its Argos
stores. The tie-up with San Jose, California-based Ebay isn’t
expected to “materially impact” Home Retail’s financial
performance in the current fiscal year, it said.  “It’s certainly an interesting concept and will help drive
footfall to the Argos stores,” said Robert Evans, an analyst at
Espirito Santo in  London . “I don’t think it will be a game
changer for Home Retail though.”  Home Retail declined to comment on whether Ebay will pay
for the service and which stores will participate in the trial.  Ebay already takes part in the Collect+ service in the
U.K., where customers can collect their parcel at one of more
than 5,000 local stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  