-- ECB Officials Play Down Possibility of Long-Term Loans
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-09-24T14:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/ecb-officials-play-down-possibility-of-long-term-loans.html
European Central Bank policy makers
played down market expectations that a new round of long-term
loans is imminent, even after President  Mario Draghi  indicated
that he’s ready to provide funds to banks if needed.  “There has been no specific discussion on what the right
instrument would be in case there would be a need for the ECB to
act,” Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said at an event at
the Bank of Finland in Helsinki today. “There is a clear
commitment by the governing council of the ECB to make sure the
liquidity we issue will remain ample.”  Coeure’s comments were echoed today by Finnish central bank
governor Erkki Liikanen,  Austria ’s Ewald Nowotny and Vice
President  Vitor Constancio . The officials said that while a
discussion is taking place within the ECB, Mario Draghi’s
comment yesterday that he’s ready to deploy another LTRO if
required didn’t mean they’re committed to action at the moment.
Excess liquidity in the financial system is approaching the 200
billion-euro ($270 billion) level the Frankfurt-based central
bank has previously signaled as a  lower limit .  “It’s important for us to remind everyone that there are
instruments in our box to be used if the data will justify it,”
Constancio said at an event in  Madrid . “We aren’t committed to
any particular policy measures right now.”  Fragile Recovery  The euro fell yesterday and euro-area government debt,
including German bunds, rose after Draghi’s comments. As a
credit crunch in the 17-nation euro area loomed at the end of
2011, the ECB offered banks as much cash as they needed for up
to three years, repeating the offer in early 2012. More than 1
trillion euros was injected into the financial system.  In Brussels yesterday, Draghi said the ECB is committed to
keeping the  cost of borrowing  in the region in check as a
fragile economic recovery takes hold, and is attentive to the
effect that a reduction in stimulus in the U.S. may have on
money-market rates in  Europe .  “We are ready to use any instrument, including another
LTRO if needed, to maintain the short-term money markets at the
level that is warranted by our assessment of inflation in the
medium term,” Draghi said in response to questions from members
of the European Parliament.  The amount of spare cash in the financial system is
 dwindling  as banks repay the three-year loans, helping to push
up expectations of future borrowing costs this year as measured
by Eonia forward rates. Those market rates have eased after the
introduction of forward guidance on ECB interest rates in July
and repeated pledges by officials to keep rates low.  December Prediction  Andrew Bosomworth , managing director of Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, told
Bloomberg TV today that the ECB could still be forced into
action by the end of the year.  “We’re looking at a very low growth profile in the  euro
zone ,” he said. “If that does initiate the need for a policy
change, we’re probably looking first of all at forward guidance
-- words are cheap, the ECB will try and talk rates down -- and,
failing that, another long-term refinancing operation, a two-year one at the December meeting.”  The ECB forecasts an economic contraction of 0.4 percent in
the euro area this year and growth of 1 percent in 2014, while
it expects inflation to average 1.5 percent and 1.3 percent,
respectively. Nowotny said today that while the need for
liquidity injections is falling, the ECB retains the ability to
step in.  “It’s important to show that that we have all instruments
available, and they are flexible,” Nowotny said at an event in
Vienna. A further LTRO “is a discussion we are having and will
have in the ECB,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  