-- Economy Can’t Be All That’s Slowing Health Costs
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-09-24T13:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/economy-can-t-be-all-that-s-slowing-health-costs.html
A new  set of projections  released
last week by Medicare’s actuaries has drawn much attention, in
part because it suggests the deceleration in the growth of
health costs we’ve seen over the past few years is ephemeral.
The actuaries  attribute  the slowdown to the “lingering effects
of the economic downturn and sluggish recovery” and to
increases in cost sharing.  Both of these explanations have serious shortcomings -- and
that, in turn, suggests something larger is in fact at work.  The assertion that economic sluggishness is playing a
dominant role is based on an econometric analysis that links
past slow growth in gross domestic product to current aggregate
health spending. However, such a macroeconomic explanation is
difficult to reconcile with the slowdown in Medicare, because
there is no reason to expect Medicare -- a subsidy that goes
mainly to retired people -- to be much affected by the economy.  What’s more, the econometric methodology itself, which I
have long disliked, was debunked in  another paper  released last
week. Amitabh Chandra and Jonathan Holmes of  Harvard University 
and Jonathan Skinner of  Dartmouth College  found that when they
made even modest changes in this type of model, the results
changed drastically. They concluded, “We are reluctant to make
much of the time-series evidence between GDP growth and
healthcare spending.”  A simple rule of thumb is that econometric results are
untrustworthy if small specification changes -- such as shifting
the time period by a couple of years -- substantially alter the
results. (The same critique applies to an  earlier analysis  of
this ilk, also much cited in the news media, from the  Kaiser
Family Foundation . The report is unfortunately less scientific
than it pretended to be.)  Cost Sharing  The second reason for the spending deceleration cited by
the Medicare actuaries -- increased cost sharing -- has a bit
more force to it. As I noted in  a column  a couple of years ago
and as has played out in  recent decisions  by  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and
other companies, employers are shifting away from defined
health-care benefits and toward defined contributions. But as
the  actuaries’ report  shows, total out-of-pocket spending has
fallen from 11.7 percent of aggregate health-care spending to an
estimated 11.3 percent in 2013. So even though increased cost
sharing may help explain the change in private spending on
health care, it’s hard to see how this factor can explain the
overall slowdown.  All things considered, I don’t put too much weight on last
week’s report from the Medicare actuaries. And I’m willing to
put some pride, if not money, on the table. The actuaries
project that, in 2014, Medicare will grow by more than 5
percent. I bet it will be less than that. (Anyone who wants to
take the over on that projection can e-mail me at the address at
the bottom of this column, and we will check back at the end of
2014.)  The Chandra paper raises another, more serious reason to
worry that the recent trend might not last: The growth in
health-care employment has not slowed. And as they note, it
seems unlikely that there will be “a permanent bending of the
cost curve without a commensurate shift in employment rates.”  That’s a good point, and yet Chandra and colleagues may be
a bit too pessimistic. Consider that labor compensation accounts
for only about 60 percent of total health-care spending. So it
doesn’t move in lockstep with spending, and slower job growth
doesn’t necessarily imply a sustainable decline in spending
growth. Indeed, job growth declined markedly in the late 1990s,
after a slowdown in health spending earlier in the decade, but
neither of those changes were sustained. A noticeable decline in
job growth is thus not sufficient for an ongoing deceleration in
health spending. And it’s not clear it’s necessary either.  Encouraging Trends  The recent experience is illuminating. As the Chandra paper
points out, employment in the health sector is growing at about
2 percent a year, in line with historical rates. But we should
expect some job growth as the population ages and demand for
health care increases. It is therefore encouraging that the
ratio of health-care workers to Medicare beneficiaries has
stabilized and even declined a bit.  It is also encouraging that the growth in total
compensation in the health sector has fallen to between 2
percent to 4 percent annually over the past three years, from 5
percent to 8 percent a decade ago. (Compensation per full-time-equivalent worker is rising at only 1 percent to 2 percent a
year, down from 4 percent to 5 percent.) If labor is 60 percent
of health costs, and labor costs are rising at 3 percent a year
instead of 6 percent, the effect is to reduce the underlying
growth in health costs by about 2 percent a year.  Doug Elmendorf, the director of the  Congressional Budget
Office , summarized the situation trenchantly last week. In
comments on the Chandra paper,  he noted , “The slowdown in
health care cost growth has been sufficiently broad and
persistent to persuade us to make significant downward revisions
to our projections of federal health care spending.”  At the same time, Elmendorf emphasized, “Growth in such
spending remains the central challenge in putting the  federal
budget  on a sustainable path.”  He is exactly right. The past several years have been
encouraging. But we should push for further steps -- especially,
moving Medicare away from fee-for-service payments -- to keep
costs decelerating.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 