-- Edenor Rallies on Bets Subsidies Will Rise: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-09-24T18:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/edenor-rallies-on-bets-subsidies-will-rise-buenos-aires-mover.html
Empresa Distribuidora y
Comercializadora Norte SA,  Argentina ’s largest power company,
surged to its highest level in almost two years on speculation
it will receive higher subsidies from the national government.  Shares climbed for a seventh day, rallying 5.4 percent to
1.75 pesos at 3:12 p.m. in Buenos Aires, the highest on a
closing basis since November 2011. The stock has more than
doubled this year, the best performance on the  Merval (MERVAL)  index.  Edenor climbed after regulators allowed it to report higher
costs, supporting the case for more subsidies, according to
Lautaro Marra, an analyst at Buenos Aires-based brokerage Bull
Market Brokers. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s surprise decision
last week to maintain the pace of its bond purchases to
stimulate the economy has helped push most Argentine stocks
higher, Marra said in a phone interview.  “The whole stock market is rising, and this news in
Edenor’s balance sheet gave it an extra boost in the past
week,” Marra said.  Edenor has posted yearly losses since 2009 as a decade-long
cap on utility rates with estimated 20 percent annual inflation
undermined the company’s profit.  The government’s decision to allow Edenor to publish its
expenses came after President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
party suffered election setbacks in August.  “People see a shift from the government after elections,
and the expectation is there will be a change,” Alejandro Bianchi, the head of investment at  Buenos Aires  brokerage
Invertironline.com, said in a telephone interview. “You’re
buying at a low price a power company that supplies half of
Buenos Aires. There’s more room for it to go even higher.”  Standard & Poor’s rates Edenor at CCC-, nine levels below
investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  