-- Medical-Device Makers See EU Rules Slowing U.S. Approvals
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-09-25T18:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/medical-device-makers-see-eu-rules-slowing-u-s-approvals.html
U.S. medical-device manufacturers
are looking anxiously across the Atlantic as the European Union
prepares to tighten the process to approve new products, a step
companies say will crimp their lifeline to funding and patients.  The EU’s overhaul is meant to close loopholes that allowed
breast implants made with industrial-grade silicone to be
implanted in thousands of women. Yet device makers say the new
rules will delay approvals without increasing safety. The
European Parliament’s Committee for Environment,  Public Health 
and Food Safety today backed a tighter approval process for
high-risk devices by experts designated by the European
Medicines Agency, a spokesman said. The proposal will be the
basis for negotiating with member states on final rules.  Smaller U.S. companies depend on the EU’s easier process to
test their products and accumulate patient data that they may
use to get approval in the U.S., the world’s most-profitable
health-care market. Companies can get their devices approved in
Europe years earlier than in the U.S., according to the European
device-industry group  Eucomed .  “The bar is set artificially high in the U.S.,” said
Kevin Sidow, chief executive officer of Moximed, a Hayward,
California-based company with a knee-implant system approved in
Europe. “If the rest of the world begins to raise the bar of
approval to the U.S. level, it will surely damage investment in
innovation and patient progress will plateau.” He expects a
U.S. regulatory decision on the product, called  KineSpring , in
2016, which would be seven years after getting EU clearance.  ‘Notified Bodies’  The drug regulator for the 28-nation EU, the European
Medicines Agency, plays no role in the device industry. Instead,
private reviewers known as  notified bodies  are hired by
manufacturers to vet products and grant a so-called CE mark that
allows them to be sold in the EU. Notified bodies, which are
certified by member state governments, are required to assess
the device for safety according to standards set out by European
Commission  directives .  Device makers pointed to the speedier EU system as a model
to follow when the U.S. was considering overhauling its
regulations last year, even as experts such as Oxford
University’s  Carl Heneghan  said the European method resulted in
EU citizens serving as “guinea pigs” for the device industry.  While  Europe  had been looking to overhaul its rules for
some time, the scandal over the breast implants added a sense of
urgency, David Hudson, a spokesman for the  European Commission’s 
consumer policy division, said in an interview.  Industrial Gel  French manufacturer Poly Implant Prothese SA, or PIP, was
liquidated in March 2010 after French authorities banned the
company’s implants following complaints they were leaking
industrial silicone inside patients.  The implants had been cleared by TUEV Rheinland, one of the
EU’s roughly 80 notified bodies. TUEV said the Toulon, France-based manufacturer, which had been warned in advance of
inspections, substituted a medically approved gel for the
industrial variety when its officials were on site.  “Broadly, the system works,” Hudson said. “We haven’t
had any more PIPs but there are weaknesses which we want to
strengthen.”  The  European Commission  said separately yesterday it backs
unannounced factory visits and sample testing at manufacturer
sites and monitoring of notified bodies by  member states . An
audit by the commission and member states reviewed 11 notified
bodies and two have been suspended from issuing CE marks until
problems are addressed, according to the statement.  ‘Kafkaesque’ System  Eucomed, the industry association,  called  the proposal
approved by the parliament committee today “Kafkaesque”
because it will require 600 clinical experts sitting on more
than 20 subcommittees to review devices. Eucomed said previously
that switching to a more centralized system would cost small- to
mid-sized manufacturers an additional  17.5 million euros  ($23.6
million) to get a device approved over a five-year period, based
on a survey of its members.  “Bureaucracy will not prevent an alleged fraud like PIP,”
Serge Bernasconi, chief executive of Eucomed, said today in the
statement.  Smaller companies would be hardest hit by any cost
increases, Eucomed said. Often their success in Europe is the
basis for attracting investors, said  Andrew Elder , a partner
with London-based investment firm Albion Ventures LLP.  Marketing Viability  “Acquiring companies are looking for commercial traction
as proof of the product being validated,” he said in an
interview.  Even with changes, Europe will probably remain the first
point of entry for many medical-device makers because the
approval process in the U.S., where it’s handled by the  Food and
Drug Administration , is becoming more stringent and less
predictable, said  Jeffrey Gibbs , an attorney with Hyman, Phelps
& McNamara PC in  Washington  and a former associate chief counsel
at the FDA.  About 25 percent of devices submitted for approval every
year are rejected by the FDA or the application is withdrawn,
Gibbs said. “You can meet the standards in Europe and not meet
the FDA’s regulatory standard,” he said in an interview.  Abbott Laboratories’ (ABT)  MitraClip, a clamp for leaky  heart
valves , has been on the market in Europe for five years yet the
FDA is still weighing whether to approve it. An advisory panel
recommended in March that the company provide more data on the
device before the agency decides on approval. The panel voted
unanimously that the product is safe and voted 5-3 that the
benefits of the device outweigh the risks.  U.S. Review  Abbott hopes the device will be approved based on its
experience in Europe as well as data from a U.S. trial called
 Everest II , said Steve Kelly, a spokesman for the  Abbott Park ,
Illinois-based company.  Like many device companies backed by  venture-capital firms ,
Moximed is looking to raise money and Sidow will be using his
experience in Europe to make his case with investors, he said.  It’s getting tougher for companies like Moximed, as
venture-capital funding for medical devices is at a more than
10-year low,  Iain Scott , a life sciences analyst at EY, said in
an interview. A report by Scott’s team this week cited
“unease” in Europe as the reason investors are staying away.  “They don’t see an easy ride any more,” he said.
“They’re now worried there will be two FDAs, one in the U.S.
and one in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  