-- Medical Device’s Slow Growth Forces Search for New Areas
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/medical-device-s-slow-growth-forces-search-for-new-areas.html
Slower growth in the medical device
industry, tougher regulatory standards and reluctant investors
will force companies into new areas for expansion, according to
 EY’s annual report .  Medical technology companies used to drive growth with
innovative products that were easier for doctors to use and
could improve lives, according to the Pulse of the Industry
report from EY, formerly known as Ernst & Young. Power has
shifted away from doctors, who can no longer insist on their
favorite brands, to hospitals looking for lower prices and proof
that treatment leads to reduced costs and better results.  A study released yesterday by the industry group Advanced
Medical Technology Association showed that prices paid in the
U.S. for the most widely used medical devices such as heart
stents and hip implants plunged as much as one-third since 2007.
The largest medical device companies are already starting to
find new business by offering services and home monitoring, with
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , for example, winning contracts in  England  to run
heart catheterization laboratories.  “Value-based health care is putting on pressure as
everyone tries to slow health-care costs,” Glen Giovannetti,
leader of EY’s Global Life Sciences group, said in a telephone
interview. “There is real pressure on both utilization and
price. Companies are beginning to, and we think they need to,
adjust their business models in light of this.”  Health-care services are among the major new areas of
growth as companies such as Medtronic, the world’s largest maker
of heart rhythm devices, and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  roll out
programs that enhance the benefits of their medical devices, he
said. Call services, for example, assist patients with their
devices and other programs identify people who may benefit from
novel products, the report found. Consulting services can lower
costs or increase productivity.  Wary Investors  The changing environment has caused concern among
 investors , who realize the device industry is in a period of
slower growth and uncertainty, Giovannetti said. The number of
medtech initial public offerings in 2012 fell by half from 2007.  Device companies will need to create a new business model
that focuses on an array of health-care solutions, rather than
discrete pieces of technology that move through a standardized
approval process, according to the report.  “Solving big health-care challenges, in a highly regulated
industry with numerous parties and conflicting interests, is
likely to take much longer than the relatively straightforward
task of building a new product,” the report’s authors wrote.
“Investors, company management and even strategic buyers will
grapple with the question of how far investors should be
expected to carry early innovation before a buyout.”  Device companies have the opportunity to make money from
new businesses by improving efficiency within the broader
health-care arena and capturing some of those savings, said
Gautam Jaggi, a co-managing editor of the EY report.  “The very business of medical technology is changing, and
that will inevitably lead to new ways to capture value,” Jaggi
said. “There is a whole pallet of new ways of making money as
the business model opens up. There may be higher margins in a
new solution that can move the needle on health-care costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  