-- Mediobanca Joins Italian Banks Selling Covered Bonds on Ratings
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-09-24T14:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/mediobanca-joins-italian-banks-selling-covered-bonds-on-ratings.html
Mediobanca SpA (MB)  hired banks to
arrange its first covered bond issue to investors, becoming the
fourth Italian lender to announce sales of the debt this month.  The nation’s biggest publicly traded investment bank will
meet with investors starting Sept. 30, according to a person
familiar with the offering, who asked not to be identified
because the terms aren’t set. Modena, Italy-based  Banca Popolare
dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl (BPE)  hired banks for meetings starting
tomorrow and a bond sale may follow, another person familiar
with the matter said.  Italian issuers are favoring covered notes, which are
backed by mortgages and public sector loans and typically have
higher credit rankings, amid downgrades of their senior
unsecured debt. Mediobanca was cut one step to BBB by Standard &
Poor’s in July, while the ratings firm lowered Banca Popolare
Emilia to BB- in August.  “We are seeing a run to covered bonds from Italian issuers
because they fear downgrades of their senior debt and feel more
protected in covered bonds,” said Jose Sarafana, a credit
salesman at Aurel Bgc in Paris. “We are also seeing a switch
among Italian investors towards covered bonds.”  Mediobanca mandated  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Societe Generale SA,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and its own dealing department for a deal backed
by prime Italian residential mortgages. SocGen and Mediobanca
will also arrange Banca Popolare Emilia’s transaction, together
with  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS
AG.  LTRO Deal  A Mediobanca spokesman, who asked not to be named citing
company policy, declined to comment on the bank’s plans. The
lender previously issued a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) covered
bond for the European Central Bank’s Longer Term Refinancing
Operations, according to its website.  S&P downgraded 18 Italian banks in July, including  Banco
Popolare SC (BP)  and  Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA (UBI) , citing rising
economic risk. Moody’s Investors Service placed Unione di Banche
on review for downgrade on Sept 20., citing weakening
profitability and asset quality.  Covered bond issuance has slowed this year to the least
since the same period of 2001 as lenders trim balance sheets and
central banks flood the financial system with cheap funds. The
market in Europe will end the year with negative net supply of
more than 50 billion euros after taking into account
redemptions, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  