-- Telecom Italia Unions to Fight Cuts as Telefonica Takes Hold
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-09-25T11:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/telecom-italia-unions-vow-to-fight-cuts-as-telefonica-takes-hold.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s agreement to
tighten its grip on Telecom Italia SpA has stoked concern among
worker representatives that the Spanish carrier will replicate
its cost-cutting program in  Italy .  Italian labor leaders say Telefonica may eliminate jobs at
Telecom Italia after agreeing to acquire control of the company
that owns 22.4 percent of the carrier in an 861 million-euro
($1.2 billion) cash-and-stock transaction.  “This is a very dangerous deal because all the issues of
Telecom Italia remain, starting from huge debt and the need for
new, real investments,” said Michele Azzola, secretary general
of Italy’s biggest telecommunications union, Slc-Cgil. The
government should call in Telecom Italia  shareholders  to talk
about “avoiding job cuts and also the sale of Tim,” its
Brazilian unit, whose market value is over $11 billion.  Spain ’s biggest phone company will gradually increase its
holding in Telco SpA -- the investment vehicle in Telecom Italia
created in 2007 -- to 70 percent from 46 percent. Under the
agreement, partners Assicurazioni Generali SpA, Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA and Mediobanca SpA will reduce their stakes.  “There is no discussion about Spanish capital or
Telefonica, the problem is the level of workers,” Prime
Minister Enrico Letta said when asked yesterday if he might
block the deal in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik
Schatzker . “We want to have the number of workers maintained.”  12,000 Jobs  Telecom Italia employed more than 82,000 workers as of June
30, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Mario Di Loreto, a
former executive at pasta-maker Barilla Holding SpA who took
over personnel at Telecom Italia this month, will oversee the
reduction of about 2,750 positions, or 5 percent of the Milan-based company’s domestic workforce. Unions agreed to those cuts
in March in exchange for the company waiting a year before
disposing of any call-center operations.  About 12,000 positions could go if the customer-service
unit were outsourced, Azzola said in a phone interview.  Selling assets in Brazil and  Argentina  would hurt growth,
Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe told a parliamentary
hearing in  Rome  today, listing the company’s options to boost
investments on fiber networks and avoid a downgrade. A capital
increase is another option, Bernabe said.  “Market conditions are favorable and there is also lot of
liquidity around now,” he said.  ‘Blocking Minority’  Bernabe, who said Telecom Italia’s management learned of
Telco’s reorganization from press releases, said he will need to
secure the support of all Telco shareholders at the Oct. 3 board
meeting for any decision on how to proceed, and called them “a
blocking minority.”  Telefonica, as Telecom Italia’s direct competitor in  Latin
America , has a conflict of interest, according to  Luigi Zingales , an independent director on Telecom Italia’s board. 
“The Spanish company may force Telecom Italia to dispose of its 
precious assets in Brazil and Argentina, valuable to the growth 
of the company,” he said in a statement today.  Telefonica “may put at risk the employment at Telecom
Italia,” Vito Vitale, secretary-general of the Fistel Cisl
union, said by phone. “We hope Italy’s government will do its
part investing in a potential separated network offsetting
Spanish power.”  In the last two years, Telefonica has shaved  costs  and sold
assets to reduce debt. Telefonica began a three-year project in
2011 to cut a fifth of its 35,000-strong Spanish workforce to
help cope with economic and competitive pressures. The carrier
cut 6 percent of management positions, linking pay and benefits
more to productivity.  ‘Same Recipe’  As Telefonica’s  debt  topped 58 billion euros last year,
it’s also sold assets around the world, including the Atento
call center, Irish business, and stakes in China Unicom Hong
Kong Ltd. and its Central American assets.  Telecom Italia (TIT) , whose
debt rating is now on the brink of junk, is considering selling
its wireless towers, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said last week.  “Since Telefonica started cutting costs through job cuts
and also sold assets to reduce debt more than a year ago, the
company is now in a much more stable and healthy position,”
said Adrian Zunzunegui, a Kepler Cheuvreux analyst in  Madrid .
“That same recipe could very well help Telecom Italia to
strengthen its balance sheet and be more competitive.”  300,000 Jobs  European carriers will probably cut their workforce by 30
percent -- more than 300,000 jobs -- over the next five years,
according to an April statement by UNI Europa ICTS union, which
represents telecommunications employees across the bloc.  Still, Italy’s unions will probably push the government to
block any major transaction that could trigger job cuts at the
Italian phone company.  “Letta’s government should evaluate using the golden share
included in the Telecom Italia statute,” Azzola said, referring
to a special takeover defense mechanism Italy has for former
state-owned companies.  “There are some strategic assets such as the network,”
Letta said. “So we will be very, very cautious on that and will
follow all the developments because we don’t want to lose on
this strategic aspect of the deal.”  Telecom Italia fell 2.2 percent to 58.7 cents at 12:24 p.m.
in Milan trading.  Employees’  productivity  at the carrier lags behind  Sweden ’s
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and Royal KPN NV of the Netherlands. Revenue per
worker last year was about 355,000 euros, compared with 433,000
euros for TeliaSonera and 474,000 euros for KPN, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It beats Orange SA’s 255,000 euros
and 250,000 euros for Deutsche Telekom AG.  Telefonica, by selling its call-center unit with more than
150,000 employees,  doubled  its sales per worker to 468,000 euros
in 2012, the data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  