-- Emerging Stocks Drop as Petrobras Slumps With Commodities
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-09-24T21:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/emerging-stocks-drop-as-chinese-developers-slide-on-tax-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated to
a one-week low as a decline in commodities sank producers from
Petroleo Brasileiro SA to OAO Mechel.  Indonesia ’s rupiah
weakened to the lowest level since November 2009.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,010.56, the lowest since Sept. 18.  Brazil ’s Petrobras paced
losses in energy shares, while Mechel,  Russia ’s biggest producer
of coal for steelmakers, sank 2 percent. China’s stocks slid,
led by the biggest drop in financial companies in two months, on
concern the government may encourage more competition among
banks and expand property taxes. The rupiah slipped on
speculation local companies boosted dollar purchases.  Commodity companies posted the biggest declines among 10
industries in the measure for developing-nation stocks. West
Texas Intermediate crude tumbled to the lowest level in eight
weeks on speculation that U.S.-Iranian relations are thawing and
as the threat of an American military strike on Syria recedes.
Gold, copper and silver also retreated.  “It’s a cliche, but it’s true: the market hates
uncertainty,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based
fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about
$364 billion, said by phone. “Resolution of the Syrian
uncertainty, via political discourse or military action would
likely be positive for the markets.”  The measure for emerging markets has risen 8.7 percent in
September, set for the best month since January 2012. The gauge
trades at 10.6 times projected earnings, compared with the
 valuation  of 14 for the MSCI World Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slipped 0.8 percent to $41.87. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slumped 3.2 percent to 22.36.  Investors also watched U.S. economic data for clues on
whether the  Federal Reserve  will trim its bond-buying program.
Confidence among American consumers fell in September to a four-month low, while  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose in the 12
months through July by the most in more than seven years.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell for the third time in four days as
commodity producers from Petrobras to Vale SA sank. Wireless
carrier Tim Participacoes SA jumped 9.6 percent after Madrid-based Telefonica SA agreed to pay $596 million to boost its
stake in the controlling group of parent Telecom Italia SpA.  Russian stocks fell for a third day as crude oil, the
nation’s chief export earner, retreated. Mechel fell to the
lowest level since Sept. 6, while  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the natural-gas
export monopoly, retreated 0.9 percent.  Turkey’s Lira  The Turkish lira slumped after central bank Governor Erdem Basci said policy makers will only increase  interest rates  if
they see two-year inflation expectations worsening.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid as  Ping An Bank Co. (000001)  paced
losses in lenders. China Vanke Co. and  Poly Real Estate Group
Co. (600048)  dropped at least 3 percent as the China Securities Journal
reported the government may accelerate a property-tax trial.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex added 0.1 percent as  Larsen & Toubro
Ltd. (LT)  drove a measure of capital goods producers to its first
advance in three days.  State Bank of India  sank after Moody’s
Investors Service cut its  credit rating . The rupee fell for a
third day, the longest losing streak in almost a month.  The rupiah dropped 0.4 percent to 11,488 per dollar as of
3:50 p.m. in Jakarta, after reaching 11,586 earlier, the weakest
level since April 2, 2009, prices from local banks show.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 325 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  