-- Lennar Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates as Prices Climb
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-09-24T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/lennar-third-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-house-price-gain.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue, reported a jump in quarterly
earnings that beat analyst estimates as the company sold more
homes and raised prices.  Net income climbed to $120.7 million, or 54 cents a share,
in the three months through August from $87.1 million, or 40
cents, a year earlier, the Miami-based company said in a
statement today. Analysts expected Lennar to earn 45 cents, the
average of 18  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lennar and other publicly traded builders have been able to
increase their earnings amid tight supplies of existing homes on
the market and rising demand from buyers. The companies are at
risk of their profit margins narrowing as higher  mortgage rates 
limit their ability to raise prices further and require them to
offer more incentives to complete sales.  “There was that little bit of sticker shock associated
with the rate increase,” Lennar Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said during an earnings conference call. “We see just
strong viable fundamental demand out there. But it’s cooled a
little bit.”  Lennar gained 4.3 percent to $36.01, compared with a 2.3
percent increase in the 11-member Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index. The stock has lost about 18
percent from a May high on concern rising  interest rates  will
curb demand.  Order Slowdown  The company’s orders, an indication of more recent demand,
climbed 14 percent in the fiscal third quarter to 4,785 homes.
That slowed from 27 percent growth in the previous three months
and a 34 percent increase in the first quarter.  Third-quarter revenue rose to $1.6 billion from $1.1
billion a year earlier as the number of houses delivered
increased to 4,990 houses from 3,655. The average sales price
climbed to $291,000 from $258,000.  “This result, top to bottom, is about as good as we could
envision in this unsettled rate environment,” Stephen East, an
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group LLC in St.
Charles, Missouri, said of Lennar in a note today.  KB Home (KBH) , a Los Angeles-based builder that targets first-time buyers, today reported a 9 percent decline in orders, while
profit exceeded analyst estimates. That company is especially
vulnerable to rising mortgage rates because many of its
customers are first-time buyers in the already pricey California
market, according to Jay McCanless, a Nashville, Tennessee-based
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  New-home sales in the U.S. probably reached an annual pace
of 420,000 in August, the median of 75 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, compared with 394,000 in July and 455,000 in June.
The Commerce Department reports new home sales tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  