-- Meridian Seeks to Raise EU170 Million From Warsaw Share Offering
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-09-24T07:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/meridian-seeks-to-raise-eu170-million-from-warsaw-share-offering.html
Meridian Properties NV  plans to
sell 170 million euros ($230 million) of shares in an initial
public offering in Warsaw and become the first real estate
investment trust traded in the Polish capital.  The Amsterdam-registered trust resumed IPO plans after
suspending the transaction in June due to “deteriorating”
market conditions. The REIT, which pays investors rental income
generated from the properties it owns, plans to sell shares by
mid-October, it said in an e-mailed statement today distributed
by Warsaw-based CC Group public relations company.  The IPO is set to be among the largest in Warsaw this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. State-owned railway
Polskie Koleje Panstwowe SA plans to sell to the public a stake
in its cargo unit and the government will offer a 35 percent
stake in utility Energa SA in the coming months. The two state
sales may be valued at about 5 billion zloty ($1.6 billion),
Parkiet newspaper reported this week.  Meridian said the European Bank of Reconstruction and
Development agreed to buy a stake in its public offering.  The trust will use 87.7 million euros of the IPO proceeds
to buy so-called initial portfolio, which includes nine
properties in  Bulgaria ,  Romania ,  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic .
The REIT will spend a further 57.4 million euros on other real-estate investments as the company is in “advanced” talks to
buy two properties in  Poland .  Meridian plans to pay out all its funds from operations as
a quarterly dividend, while maintaining loan-to-value ratio at
35 percent to 45 percent, it said in the e-mail.  Citigroup Inc. will be the IPO’s global coordinator and the
sole bookrunner, while Raiffeisen, Erste Bank and Alpha Bank
will be co-lead managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  