-- Lerner’s Retirement From IRS Leaves Republicans Wanting
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/lerner-s-retirement-from-irs-leaves-republicans-wanting.html
Lois Lerner has left the  Internal
Revenue Service , retiring just as an agency board was about to
propose her firing. That isn’t enough for congressional
Republicans.  Lerner, the former director of exempt organizations,
retired yesterday, exactly four months after she was placed on
paid administrative leave. She has denied wrongdoing in the
agency’s scrutiny of Tea Party groups and refused to answer
questions from congressional panels.  Republicans, led by Representative  Darrell Issa  of
 California , vowed to press on with investigating the agency and
say they’ll seek answers from Lerner.  “Lois Lerner’s exit from the IRS does not alter the
Oversight Committee’s interest in understanding why applicants
for tax-exempt status were targeted and inappropriately treated
because of their political beliefs,” said Issa, chairman of the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Lerner is the central figure in the investigation
surrounding the IRS’s attention to Tea Party groups applying for
tax-exempt status. She has been the object of bipartisan scorn
since she acknowledged her office’s errors and apologized for
them on May 10, in response to a planted question at a tax
conference.  As the investigation unfolded, Republicans have criticized
the slow release of documents from the IRS and emphasized the
involvement of IRS lawyers in  Washington . Democrats have focused
on the lack of clear rules governing the tax agency’s oversight
of political groups.  Extra Attention  Under Lerner, the IRS gave extra attention to some Tea
Party groups solely because of their names. Those groups, and
others, encountered delays and were asked questions that the
agency’s inspector general deemed inappropriate.  Congressional panels opened investigations and the  Justice
Department  started a criminal probe. President  Barack Obama 
forced out the acting IRS commissioner,  Steven Miller . Lerner
and other agency executives were removed from their jobs.  Federal law empowers the IRS to police groups’ nonprofit
status. Many of the Tea Party-backed groups are set up under
section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, which requires
them to operate exclusively for the benefit of social welfare
and allows them to keep their donors secret.  IRS rules interpret that to mean that social welfare groups
can’t be primarily political. That requires the tax agency to
look at the groups’ activities and campaign involvement.  Since May, congressional investigators have found that IRS
officials working for Lerner and Chief Counsel William Wilkins
were involved in handling the Tea Party cases since 2010.  Democratic-Leaning Groups  They also have shown that some Democratic-leaning groups
received extra scrutiny, though it remains unknown whether and
how they differed from Republican-leaning organizations.  Those investigations and the internal review of Lerner
found no evidence of political bias or involvement from outside
the IRS, said Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee.  “The basic overreaching premise of the Republicans that
the IRS had an ‘enemies list’ and was being influenced from the
outside has been proven wrong again, as it has again and
again,” he said in a statement.  The IRS said Lerner retired and declined further comment,
citing privacy concerns.  William Taylor , Lerner’s attorney,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  At a May 22 congressional hearing, Lerner defended her work
with the government.  ‘Very Proud’  “I am very proud of the work that I have done,” she said
at the hearing before she refused to answer questions. “I have
not done anything wrong. I have not broken any laws.”  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee voted
in June to determine that Lerner waived her right against self-incrimination by making that statement. The panel hasn’t called
her back to testify.  Whether she was fired or retired, Lerner would get the same
benefits, said John Palguta, a former executive at the Merit
Systems Protection Board, a federal agency that hears government
employees’ appeals of firings and other actions.  Lerner, an attorney, has been a federal employee since at
least 1981, meaning that she may be covered under an older
retirement system that probably would let her receive a larger
annual pension than more recent hires receive. She would also
get subsidized medical benefits.  Before she started at the IRS, Lerner worked for the
 Federal Election Commission  and the  Department of Justice .  Federal Pensions  Employees with more than 40 years of federal work can
receive an annual pension worth 80 percent of their highest
three years of salary, not including bonuses.  Most federal employees in that older system receive between
50 percent and 60 percent of their final salaries, said Palguta,
now vice president for policy at the Partnership for Public
Service, a Washington-based nonprofit group that promotes
government work.  “Just because Lois Lerner is retiring from the IRS does
not mean the investigation is over,”  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the
top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, said in a
statement. “Far from it. In fact, there are many serious
unanswered questions that must be addressed so we can get to the
truth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  