-- EU Olive, Sunflower Oil Surge Leads Vegetable Oil Supply Rebound
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-09-24T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/eu-olive-sunflower-oil-surge-leads-vegetable-oil-supply-rebound.html
Production of vegetable oils and
fats in the European Union is set to rebound in the next season
as sunflower seed and olive oil output jumps, Oil World said.  Sunflower oil production in the EU may top 2.9 million
metric tons in the 2013-14 season starting Oct. 1, the most on
record and 16 percent higher than a year earlier, the Hamburg-based researcher said in an e-mailed report. Olive oil output
will surge 40 percent from the prior season, helping bring total
EU production of 17 oils and fats to 22.6 million tons, 3.6
percent more than a year earlier. Last year, some crops in
southern and eastern  Europe  were hurt by drought.  “Production of oils and fats will recover pronouncedly in
the EU,” Oil World said. “Consumption is expected to increase
at best marginally, probably curbing import requirements
somewhat.”  EU consumption of oils and fats, including for food and
biofuels, may total 29.8 million tons, 0.2 percent more than the
previous year, Oil World said. Imports at 9.98 million tons may
be the second-highest ever, behind last year’s record 10.1
million tons, according to the report.  Palm oil  will account for
the majority of EU imports at 6.3 million tons.  World production of sunflower oil may be about 15 million
tons in 2013-14, about 12 percent more than a year earlier, Oil
World said. Output in  Russia , the second-biggest producer, after
Ukraine, may climb 11 percent to 3.59 million tons, helping the
country’s exports jump 29 percent to 1.4 million tons.  “Following a season of insufficient supplies that resulted
in a decline of stocks worldwide, the global sun oil balance is
expected to return to a surplus,” Oil World said. “A sharp
increase of sunflower oil usage is likely to occur in the
European Union and  China  as well as in many North African and
Middle East countries, promoted by the exceptionally attractive
sun oil prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  