-- EU to Defend Limited Carbon Market for Airline Emissions
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-09-25T16:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/eu-to-defend-limited-carbon-market-for-airline-emissions.html
The European Union signaled it will
defend its right to continue a limited carbon market for
airlines until 2020 under a deal being discussed at a meeting of
the  International Civil Aviation Organization .  The EU’s goal of keeping its partial curbs drew objections
from Ajit Singh,  India ’s aviation minister, who said regional
emission rules shouldn’t be imposed unilaterally. Negotiators
from more than 190 states are at the United Nations agency’s
general assembly in Montreal in talks through Oct. 4 to iron out
differences for a global market to cut airline emissions.  Under the draft, governments would commit at ICAO’s
triennial meeting to begin designing a market-based mechanism
for the airlines industry, which emits 2 percent of all
 greenhouse gases . Details would be decided in 2016 and the
system would start by 2020. In exchange, the 28-nation EU would
limit its existing carbon curbs to flights in its own airspace
before the global deal.  Europe ’s agreement to narrow the scope of its program for
airlines “has already been a very big compromise,” EU
Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said in an interview after
the meeting’s opening session. “The proposed text to the
assembly seems to be supported by a large majority, and we are
among those who support it. Departing from that is a big
question mark.”  Until 2020 “countries or groups of countries should --
within certain parameters -- be able to deploy national and
regional market-based measures,” Kallas told the assembly.  Dialogue Defeat  A solution to reduce airline emissions should be agreed
upon multilaterally, India’s Ajit Singh said in an interview
today. Countries including  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China  also oppose
regional or national emission-reduction markets for carriers
prior to a global plan, according to an EU document obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  “If the EU is allowed to impose curbs unilaterally, then
every country and region will start their own emission rules,
which will defeat the purpose of a global dialogue,” Singh
said. “Let the meeting discuss and decide.”  The aviation talks are parallel to attempts by government
negotiators in the UN climate panel to reach a deal by 2015 to
cut greenhouse gases globally from 2020. Reducing pollution
would help limit global warming that risks causing more heat
waves, flooding and intense storms, according to UN scientists.  “Everyone needs to play a part,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told the negotiators. “I count on this meeting to
explore how the aviation sector can limit  carbon emissions  and
contribute to sustainable development.”  Retaliatory Measures  The creation of a carbon market for airlines made it to the
top of the ICAO agenda after the EU included airlines in its
emissions trading system beginning in 2012. That triggered
protests from countries from the U.S. to Russia and China, who
argued the EU measure was extraterritorial and that curbs on
airline emissions should be discussed in the UN agency.  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill last year shielding
carriers including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  from the EU rules.
Russia announced it was considering limits on European flights
over Siberia as part of possible retaliatory measures.  Airbus SAS said in June that 27 orders from China for A330
wide-body jetliners remain in limbo after the government there
froze the contracts as part of a campaign against the EU
measure. The Toulouse, France-based company is “looking forward
to a global solution led by ICAO,” said  Stefan Schaffrath , its
spokesman.  EU Deferral  To avoid trade conflicts, the EU deferred curbs on foreign
flights by a year. The European Commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, plans to put forward a proposal to limit the
scope of its emissions law for airlines in the first half of
October should ICAO back the deal in Montreal, two people with
knowledge of the matter said this month.  The Star Alliance group, which includes  United Airlines ,
Deutsche Lufthansa AG and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , supports the
initiative to find a solution on aviation emissions in ICAO,
according to its chief executive officer Mark Schwab. A
continuation of the EU market in its own airspace before a
global program would make European carriers less competitive, he
said.  “That is not a good thing for the European carriers,
particularly at a time when the European carriers are having the
most difficulty on a global basis within the industry,” Schwab
told reporters in Brussels today.  Raymond Benjamin , the secretary general of ICAO, told
reporters he was “absolutely confident” that nations will
reach an accord by the time the assembly ends.  Annual Limit  Europe’s cap-and-trade program is the cornerstone of its
plan to cut carbon dioxide. The annual limit for the aviation
industry began at 97 percent of average discharges from 2004 to
2006, falling to 95 percent in 2013. Airlines were given
emission permits making up 85 percent of the industry cap for
free. EU emission permits for delivery in December rose 0.2
percent to 5.40 euros a metric ton as of 4:59 p.m. at the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London  today.  “Everybody shares a view that a trade conflict should be
avoided,” Kallas said in the interview. “It seems to me there
is a possibility that we will have a resolution. But I am very
careful, very cautious to declare that today we are there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  