-- Ex-SAC Manager Martoma’s Trial Rescheduled for January
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-24T19:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/ex-sac-manager-martoma-s-trial-rescheduled-for-january.html
The trial of former SAC Capital
Advisors LP manager Mathew Martoma in a $276 million insider-trading case was postponed two months so his defense lawyer can
work on another trial.  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe today moved Martoma’s
trial from Nov. 4 to Jan. 6, after Martoma’s lawyer told the
judge that an unrelated trial beginning today interfered with
his ability to be ready on the earlier date. The lawyer,  Richard Strassberg , represents  Bank of America Corp. ’s Countrywide unit
in a lawsuit by the U.S. claiming  mortgage fraud .  “The upcoming Countrywide trial is already posing an
insurmountable difficulty for me to prepare properly for Mr.
Martoma’s case,” Strassberg said in a letter to Gardephe dated
Sept. 18. The letter was made public today.  The U.S. claims Martoma used inside information from two
doctors who were involved in the clinical trial of an
Alzheimer’s disease drug to trade shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth
on behalf of SAC, the hedge fund company founded by  Steven A. Cohen . The government has called it the biggest criminal
insider-trading case against an individual in history.  The Countrywide trial began today in  Manhattan  with jury
selection and opening statements. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is overseeing that trial, said it may take as long
as five weeks. Strassberg told Gardephe in June about a possible
conflict between the two trials.  Lady Gaga  Two weeks ago, Gardephe scheduled Nov. 4 as the trial date
in a case involving Stefani Germanotta, better known by her
stage name, Lady Gaga. In that case, Jennifer O’Neill, who said
she’s a former personal assistant to the musician, is claiming
unpaid overtime.  After Gardephe set the Jan. 6 trial date today, Strassberg
asked him to move it back another week, to Jan. 13, to allow
more time to prepare over the winter holidays. Gardephe said he
will rule on the request by tomorrow.  Earlier today, Gardephe signed an order freezing Martoma’s
$1.9 million  Boca Raton ,  Florida , home and more than $4 million
in accounts held by Martoma and his wife. The government claims
the assets were derived from Martoma’s alleged crime and is
seeking forfeiture if he’s convicted.  Prosecutors and lawyers representing Martoma agreed to the
order, which bars him from transferring the property while the
case against him goes forward.  Martoma was paid a $9.3 million bonus tied to the illegal
trades, prosecutors claim. SAC, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
was indicted in July, partly because of Martoma’s alleged
illegal trading.  If convicted, Martoma faces as long as 20 years in prison
on each of two securities-fraud charges and five years for a
single conspiracy charge. He has pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  