-- Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Has Home, Assets Frozen in Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-24T16:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/ex-sac-manager-martoma-has-home-assets-frozen-in-case.html
A judge in  Manhattan  froze the
Florida home and other assets of former SAC Capital Advisors LP
manager Mathew Martoma, who is charged in a $276 million insider
trading case.  The U.S. claims the assets, including Martoma’s $1.9
million Boca Raton home and more than $4 million in accounts
held by Martoma and his wife, were derived from the alleged
crime. The government is seeking forfeiture if Martoma is
convicted.  Prosecutors and lawyers representing Martoma agreed to the
order, which bars him from transferring the property while the
case against him goes forward. U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe
signed the order today.  The U.S. claims Martoma used inside information from two
doctors who were involved in the clinical trial of the
Alzheimer’s disease drug bapineuzumab, or “bapi,” to trade in
shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth on behalf of SAC, the hedge fund
company founded by  Steven A. Cohen . The government has called it
the biggest criminal insider-trading case against an individual
in history.  Martoma was paid a $9.3 million bonus tied to the illegal
trades, prosecutors claim.  Martoma has pleaded not guilty. His trial is scheduled to
begin Nov. 4.  Richard Strassberg , Martoma’s lawyer, has asked
Gardephe to delay the trial until February. Gardephe may rule on
the request this afternoon when he holds a court conference in
the case.  SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut, was indicted in July,
partly because of Martoma’s alleged illegal trading.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  