-- Mexico’s Calderon Leads Probe of Climate Change Economics
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-09-24T15:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/mexico-s-calderon-leads-climate-change-economics-probe.html
Former Mexican President Felipe Calderon is spearheading a study sponsored by seven countries
into the economics of climate change, seeking to elucidate the
financial benefits of reducing carbon emissions.  Calderon’s panel will draw from the experiences of
companies and governments around the world in fighting off the
ravages of storms and droughts, and in cutting greenhouse gases.
It also will use academic research to show the costs and risks
associated with climate change and efforts to stem it,
publishing a report next September to guide policy makers.  “We’ve talked about emissions -- this time, we will try to
talk about profits, and that will change the equation,”
Calderon said today at an event announcing the Global Commission
on the Economy and Climate in New York. “The idea is that we
can present an economic case. What we’re expecting is that our
report cannot be ignored in 2014.”  The effort by a group that includes Unilever NV Chief
Executive Officer Paul Polman and the former leaders of  Chile ,
New Zealand and  Mozambique  is designed to guide global envoys as
they devise a new treaty to fight climate change in 2015.
Britain, Colombia,  Ethiopia ,  Indonesia , South Korea,  Norway  and
 Sweden  are sponsoring the panel.  “The alternative of not doing anything is not actually an
alternative,” Norway’s Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said at
the event. “The costs of not doing anything are much higher.”  The panel also includes business leaders such as Vattenfall
AB Chief Financial Officer Ingrid Bonde, China International
Capital Corp. CEO Zhu Levin and officials from the World Bank
and International Monetary Fund.  Calderon’s Credentials  Calderon, a former chairman of state oil producer Petroleos
Mexicanos, was Mexico’s president for six years through December
2012. He oversaw a United Nations climate-change conference in
Cancun in 2010 and pushed through  Mexico ’s first climate-change
law last year.  United Nations scientists this week are putting the
finishing touches on their most comprehensive report into the
science of climate change, and are due to publish a summary of
their findings Sept. 27. A draft of the document seen by
Bloomberg News shows sea-level forecasts for the end of the
century higher and temperature-rise predictions lower than those
made in the UN’s last major assessment in 2007.  Calderon’s report will build on an effort in 2006 by the
U.K. government led by former World Bank chief economist
Nicholas Stern that said the impacts of global warming could
cost the world as much as 20 percent of economic output,
compared with the 1 percent cost of containing the problem.  The study also will show that the purported choice between
economic growth and battling climate change “is a false
dilemma,” Calderon said.  Stern Report  Stern, a member of Calderon’s panel, said there’s been “a
tremendous amount of experience both in what’s happened in the
world and in terms of the analysis” since then.  “The whole problem looks even riskier than we described it
in the Stern review,” Stern said. “Emissions are rising faster
than had been anticipated and many of the things are coming
through more quickly than we anticipated, an example being the
Arctic ice,” which is melting faster than predicted.  The world has also seen “remarkable technological change”
since 2006, with solar power prices coming down by a factor of
six or seven, advances in hydraulic fracturing that use large
amounts of water to tap new reserves of oil reserves and the
recession all being events that need to be included in the new
analysis, Stern said.  Seven Institutions  The research will be led by seven institutions around the
world: the Climate Policy Initiative in San Francisco, the
Ethiopian Development Research Institute, South Korea’s Global
Green Growth Institute, the Indian Council for Research on
International Economic Relations, the Stockholm Environment
Institute, Tsinghua University in Beijing and the Washington-based World Resources Institute.  “We are already paying very high costs as consequences of
climate change,” said Calderon, including hurricanes Manuel and
Ingrid, which battered Mexico this month and killed at least 123
people. “We are paying for the consequences of our lack of
action in the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  