-- Mexican Consumer Prices Rose More Than Expected Early September
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-09-24T13:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/mexican-consumer-prices-rose-more-than-expected-early-september.html
Mexican consumer  prices (MXCPCHNG)  rose more
than economists expected in the first half of September as
gasoline and farm costs climbed.  Prices rose 0.34 percent in the first two weeks of the
month, the national statistics agency said today on its website,
compared with the median forecast for an increase of 0.23
percent from 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Annual
inflation was 3.46 percent, unchanged from August and remaining
below the 4 percent upper limit of the central bank’s target
range. Core prices, which exclude energy and farm costs,
increased 0.3 percent, more than the 0.22 percent median
projection.  Mexican policy makers surprised analysts by cutting the
benchmark  interest rate  for a second time this year on Sept. 6,
saying the economy suffered a significant and unexpected
slowdown in the second quarter. In a 3-2 decision, the Banco de
Mexico board reduced the overnight lending rate by 25 basis
points to a record 3.75 percent after annual inflation slowed in
each of the previous four months amid easing agricultural
prices.  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 12.8500 per dollar at 8:08
a.m. in Mexico City. The currency rallied last week after the
U.S. Federal Reserve refrained from paring its $85 billion
monthly stimulus program, which has fueled demand for Mexican
securities.  Agriculture and livestock prices increased 0.54 percent in
the first half of September, while energy and other prices that
are set by the government rose 0.4 percent.  Inflation Outlook  The majority of policy makers at the Sept. 6 central bank
meeting said that “in coming months, it’s expected that
inflation’s path will be lower than previously anticipated due
to estimates that the large degree of slack in the economy will
continue in the second half of this year and next year,”
according to minutes published on Sept. 20.  Inflation will end the year at 3.5 percent, according to
the median estimate in a bi-weekly survey by Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit published on Sept. 20, down from a 3.52 percent
estimate in the previous survey.  Banxico surprised analysts on March 9 by cutting its  key
borrowing rate  by 0.5 percentage point, the first adjustment
since July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  New York  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  