-- Facebook Climbs to to Record High on Citi Upgrade
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-24T15:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/facebook-rises-to-record-on-citi-upgrade.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
world’s most popular social-networking service, climbed as much
as 5.2 percent to a record after an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
upgraded the stock to a buy, saying growth is “sustainable.”  Shares advanced 4.6 percent to $49.35 at 11:38 a.m. in  New
York , and earlier touched $49.66. The new high marks another
milestone for a stock that lost half of its value in the four
months following a May 2012 initial public offering.  Facebook’s latest earnings results in July marked a turning
point, assuaging investor concerns over the company’s ability to
make money as users shifted their activity to wireless devices.
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  has boosted efforts to
attract consumers and advertising dollars to Facebook’s services
on smartphones and tablets, where promotions are interspersed
with updates and photos. Mobile made up 41 percent of
advertising revenue in the second quarter, up from 30 percent in
the previous period.  “Following several conversations with advertisers and
agencies we believe the factors driving the sudden inflection
and growth in the second quarter are sustainable and that there
are a number of factors that should contribute to further growth
and gains, and potential upside,” Mark May, an analyst at Citi
Research, wrote in a report. He also raised the target price to
$55 from $32.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company has spent more
than a year rolling out advertising products aimed at reaching
consumers on mobile devices. Facebook, which has more than 1
billion members, has also worked to simplify the ad-buying
process for marketers.  Facebook, which has a market capitalization of more than
$120 billion, has surged more than 80 percent since reporting
that sales of promotions on wireless devices are on track to
surpass revenue from desktop computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  