-- Facebook Advances to Record on Citi Upgrade: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-24T20:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/facebook-advances-to-record-on-citi-upgrade-san-francisco-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
world’s most popular social-networking service, climbed to a
record after an analyst at Citigroup Inc. upgraded the stock to
a buy, saying growth is “sustainable.”  Shares advanced 2.7 percent to $48.45 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , a new closing high. The stock, which lost half its value
in the four months following the company’s May 2012 initial
public offering, has gained 82 percent so far this year.  Facebook’s earnings report in July marked a turning point,
assuaging investor concerns about the company’s ability to make
money as users shift their activity to wireless devices. Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  has boosted efforts to attract
consumers and advertising dollars to Facebook’s services on
smartphones and tablets, where promotions are interspersed with
updates and photos. Mobile made up 41 percent of advertising
revenue in the second quarter, up from 30 percent in the
previous period.  “Following several conversations with advertisers and
agencies we believe the factors driving the sudden inflection
and growth in the second quarter are sustainable and that there
are a number of factors that should contribute to further growth
and gains, and potential upside,” Mark May, an analyst at Citi
Research, wrote in a report. He also raised the target price to
$55 from $32.  Mobile Products  The  Menlo Park , California-based company has spent more
than a year rolling out advertising products aimed at reaching
consumers on mobile devices. Facebook, which has more than 1
billion members, has also worked to simplify the ad-buying
process.  Facebook, which has a market capitalization of almost $118
billion, has surged more than 80 percent since reporting in July
that sales of promotions on wireless devices are on track to
surpass revenue from desktop computers.  Separately, China is set to lift the ban on  Internet access 
to foreign websites considered politically sensitive to the
government within the Shanghai Free-Trade Zone, including
Facebook, the  South China Morning Post  reported on its website,
citing government officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Debbie Frost, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  