-- Fed Lets Smaller Banks Delay New Standards in Stress Test
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-09-24T19:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/fed-lets-smaller-banks-delay-new-standards-in-stress-test.html
Smaller U.S. banks  won’t have to
meet all of the new capital rules during the next round of
Federal Reserve stress tests as regulators gave them more time
to adapt to the tougher standards.  While the biggest banks, with total assets of $50 billion
or more, must adhere to the Basel III rules finalized in the
U.S. in July, lenders with $10 billion to $50 billion will get
an extra year, the Fed said today in a statement. The rules
apply to tests that will cover nine quarters starting Oct. 1.  The change in standards is part of a global push to fortify
banks with more capital and prevent a repeat of the 2008 crisis
that almost destroyed the financial system. The Fed’s annual
stress tests measure how the firms would fare in a similar
shock. Regional and community banks have sought easier terms,
saying they’re too small to trigger a worldwide meltdown.  Allowing smaller banks to use current capital rules should
give them “time to adjust their internal systems,” the Fed
said. At the largest lenders, capital adequacy will still be
assessed using the same minimum 5 percent tier 1 common ratio as
in earlier stress tests and capital plans, “ensuring
consistency with those previous exercises,” the Fed said.  While larger banks have been stress-tested in previous
years, smaller financial firms face them for the first time
starting Oct. 1. The interim final rules are effective
immediately, the Fed said. The central bank will accept comments
through Nov. 25 and may enact revisions in response.  Regulators surprised the industry and analysts last year by
applying the new Basel framework to most U.S. community banks.
Lawmakers and lobbyists said those firms shouldn’t be included
because they didn’t cause the 2008 crisis, couldn’t raise
capital as easily as the biggest lenders and might have to
reduce lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  