-- Fonterra Full-Year Earnings Decline After Drought Curbed Output
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-09-24T21:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/fonterra-full-year-earnings-decline-after-drought-curbed-output.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, said full-year earnings fell
after a drought curbed milk production.  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items declined 3
percent to NZ$1 billion ($828 million) in the year ended July
31, the Auckland-based company said in a statement. Fonterra
said yesterday that earnings in the first half of the current
year will be “significantly lower” than a year earlier.  “2013 was a year that tested our resilience,” Chairman
 John Wilson  said in the statement. “After a superb first six
months for both production and performance, our farmer
shareholders endured a drought which in some regions was the
worst in nearly 70 years.”  The drought drove up prices and squeezed Fonterra’s
margins. Today’s results don’t capture the potential impact of
the contaminated milk scare that erupted in early August and
prompted temporary import bans on some Fonterra products across
 Asia . Testing later showed that food safety fears were
unfounded.  Fonterra had record sales and revenue from two
GlobalDairyTrade auctions in August, which it said showed
continued confidence in its products.  The company yesterday raised the forecast payment to its
10,000 farmer suppliers for the 2013-14 season to NZ$8.30 a
kilogram of milk solids, up from NZ$5.84 a year earlier. It also
intends to pay a dividend to farmers of 32 cents per share,
unchanged from the 2012-13 year.  Economic Boost  If achieved, the payout would be a record and may help to
bolster the NZ$211 billion  New Zealand  economy.  “This is great news for the economy as the extra revenue
equates to around 2.5 percent of GDP, meaning growth prospects
for the year ahead have taken yet another step up,” ANZ Bank
economists said in a note to clients today.  The central bank has said it will start raising  interest
rates  from a record low next year as growth accelerates to 3.5
percent from 2.7 percent in the year through June.  Fonterra said sales fell 5.7 percent to NZ$18.6 billion
while net income rose 18 percent to NZ$736 million.  Collections from New Zealand farmers fell 2 percent to 1.46
billion kilograms of milksolids, “which hit our farmers and the
business financially,” the company said.  Fonterra said on Aug. 3 that a dirty pipe at a processing
plant may have contaminated a whey protein used in baby formula
with a botulism-causing bacteria. While government testing
subsequently found the contamination didn’t pose a food safety
risk, Fonterra undertook a review of its handling of the scare,
which jeopardized New Zealand’s trade links with  China .  China is New Zealand’s biggest dairy customer, buying NZ$3
billion worth of dairy products in the year through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tracy Withers at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net  