-- French Court to Decide Whether Fracking Ban Is Constitutional
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-24T13:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/french-court-to-decide-whether-fracking-ban-is-constitutional.html
A French court will decide next
month whether a ban on the oil- and natural-gas-drilling
technique known as fracking violates the constitution after
 Schuepbach Energy LLC  called the law unfair.  “No study has established that there is any risk linked to
hydraulic fracturing,” Marc Fornacciari, a lawyer representing
the Dallas-based company, told the  constitutional court  in Paris
today. “It has been used 45 times in  France  and has never
caused one problem.”  France banned fracking in 2011 and canceled shale-exploration licenses held by companies including Schuepbach and
 Total SA (FP) , the country’s biggest oil company, after protests by
environmental groups. The ban has proved divisive, pitting
Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg , who backs drilling for
unconventional resources as a way to create jobs, against
Environment Minister Philippe Martin.  The government will maintain the ban even if the current
law is struck down in court, Martin told a parliamentary hearing
this month. The court will render its decision Oct. 11.  France and  Poland  have the greatest potential for
recoverable shale gas in  Europe , the  International Energy Agency 
has said. In the U.S., where fracking is widely used, oil output
is poised to surpass  Saudi Arabia ’s by 2020, making the country
almost self-reliant, according to the IEA.  The technique, which involves blasting a mixture of water,
sand and chemicals underground to release oil and gas from shale
rock, has raised the ire of environmental groups who fear
ground-water contamination.  Industry Support  France’s oil lobby  Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres  has urged a reversal of the ban to boost domestic
energy production and encourage factories to set up French
operations. Total Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie
and his counterpart at  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  Gerard Mestrallet have spoken
in favor of drilling.  A parliamentary report concluded in June that the ban
should be eased to allow surveys to estimate shale reserves.  A U.K. report on fracking outlines measures that could be
taken to mitigate potential risks, Fornacciari argued today for
Schuepbach. The French law is unfair because permits have been
granted by the government for deep geothermal projects that will
require fracking, he said.  The ban is justified by reports from French research
organizations including  Bureau de Recherche Geologiques et
Minieres  and  IFP Energies Nouvelles , said Thierry-Xavier
Girardot, who was representing the government. “This ban is the
only measure that can ensure the protection of the
environment,” he said.  Today’s arguments focused on whether the ban is justified
in light of protections granted by France’s  Environmental
Charter , which is part of the constitution.  The charter allows authorities to take “provisional and
proportionate” measures to protect against potential risks that
may not be scientifically proven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  