-- Gemfields Says It Wants Some Zambian-Emerald Sales Abroad
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-09-24T10:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/gemfields-targets-zambian-emerald-sales-abroad.html
Gemfields Plc (GEM) , the largest emerald
miner in Zambia, is keen to sell some of the stones abroad after
the government urged it to keep all auctions inside the country.  “In a perfect blueprint we would include Zambia on the
circuit, but not necessarily to limit it only to Zambia,” Chief
Executive Officer Ian Harebottle said by telephone. “Whatever
decision is made, it needs to be in the best interests of
Zambia, and Zambian emeralds, in the long term.”  The southern African country said in April it wanted all
auctions of its emeralds to be held there as sales overseas had
contributed to “capital flight.” Gemfields, which previously
marketed the stones in India and  Singapore , has said its sales
would be hurt by such an arrangement. Zambia said in July it
would allow auctions abroad if companies could justify the move.  Gemfields shifted it’s last two auctions to Zambia. While
its July sale in the capital Lusaka achieved a record price of
$54 per carat, the company said it might have received even more
if the auction were held overseas.  Gemfields will also hold its next auction, scheduled for
the fourth quarter, in Zambia, Harebottle said yesterday. “Is
it all sorted with no problems and no issues? No. Are we more
likely to see it sorted? Yes. Our commitment, at least for now,
is to make it work in Zambia.”  Gemfields shares were unchanged at 25.5 pence at 11:38 a.m.
in  London . The stock has fallen 26 percent so far this year.  The London-based company owns 75 percent of Zambia’s Kagem
emerald mine, the world’s largest. Prices for high-quality
emeralds have risen more than 10-fold in the past four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  