-- German Business Confidence Increases Less Than Forecast
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-09-24T12:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/german-business-confidence-increases-for-a-fifth-month.html
German business confidence rose
less than economists forecast in September amid caution over the
recovery in the euro area, the nation’s biggest trading partner.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107.7 from a revised
107.6 in August. That compares with a median forecast of 108 in
a  Bloomberg News survey  of 43 analysts. The gauge has still
gained for five months to its highest level since April 2012.  Germany  is benefiting from unemployment near a two-decade
low and the end of the euro area’s longest-ever recession. That
helped Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats take the
largest share of the vote in Sept. 22 elections and set her up
for a third term as leader. The  European Central Bank  has
pledged to keep  interest rates  low to support what it calls a
fragile euro-area recovery.  “The backdrop for German growth is favorable,” said
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“The level of Ifo business confidence is well above its long-term average and compatible with our call for above-trend
growth. The ECB’s monetary policy is gaining traction.”  Euro Decline  A measure of the current situation unexpectedly dropped to
111.4 in September from 112 the prior month, today’s report
showed. A gauge of expectations climbed to 104.2 from 103.3. The
survey was conducted before Germany’s election, Ifo said.  The euro fell to $1.3483 at 1:51 p.m.  Frankfurt  time after
trading as high as $1.3519 before the report. Germany’s DAX
stock index was up 0.2 percent at 8,654, compared with a gain of
0.4 percent before the figures.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has promised to keep official
interest rates at or below current levels for an extended period
of time. He said yesterday that the ECB is ready to use another
longer-term refinancing operation if needed to curb market
rates. The bank introduced two three-year LTROs starting in
December 2011 to ease a credit crunch in  Europe .  ECB Executive Board member Vitor Constancio said in  Madrid 
today that while the bank isn’t committed to any particular
policy measures, it has several instruments available if needed.
Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in Vienna that no
additional liquidity is needed at the moment, though a new LTRO
“is a discussion that we are having in the ECB or that we will
have.”  “The confirmation of an extremely accommodative monetary
policy stance is a key supportive factor for confidence,” said
Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in London.
“Industrialists see a prolonged period of time of favorable
financing in Germany where credit conditions are smooth and
chances of pickup in activity.”  Bundesbank Outlook  Daimler AG, the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , said this month that it’s having trouble filling
orders as August sales at an all-time high put premium-car
manufacturers on course for record full-year deliveries.  German growth isn’t matching the pace of the second quarter
when gross domestic product expanded 0.7 percent, according to
the Bundesbank. Factory orders, industrial production and
exports all declined in July, and a preliminary  gauge of
manufacturing  for September unexpectedly dropped.  “At the start of summer 2013, the German economy didn’t
sustain the rebound from earlier in the year,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its monthly report yesterday.
“Company investment confirms the evidence of a solid
foundation, though signs of a dramatic upswing are lacking.”  The Bundesbank predicts the German economy will expand 0.3
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014. Unemployment was at
6.8 percent in August.  Government Coalition  The nation faces a period of coalition talks among its
biggest political parties. Merkel approached Sigmar Gabriel, the
chairman of the opposition Social Democrats, on the morning
after she won the highest share of votes in a national election
since  Helmut Kohl  in 1990. Gabriel said he didn’t take her first
call at 9 a.m. They spoke at 11 a.m., he said, without
specifying who called whom. Merkel’s traditional allies, the
Free Democrats, were ousted from parliament.  The euro area is showing signs it’ll sustain its economic
recovery. A gauge of services, based on a survey of purchasing
managers by London-based Markit Economics, climbed this month to
the highest level in more than two years.  The region’s GDP expanded 0.3 percent in the three months
through June, snapping six quarters of contraction. The ECB
forecasts the 17-nation economy will shrink 0.4 percent in 2013
and grow 1 percent next year.  Global Rebound  That adds to indications of a global recovery. A Commerce
Department report on Sept. 26 is predicted to show the  U.S.
economy , the world’s largest, grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate
in the second quarter, revised up from a prior estimate of 2.5
percent.  Manufacturing in  China , the second-biggest economy, is
expanding in September at the fastest pace in six months,
according to a preliminary Purchasing Manager’s Index released
yesterday by HSBC and Markit Economics. U.K. mortgage approvals
climbed in August, signaling the nation’s housing market is
growing, data from the  British Bankers Association  in London
showed today.  “The recoveries of the U.S. and U.K. economies, signs that
the Chinese landing is a soft rather than a hard one and the
tender stabilization of the eurozone economy should support
German exports,” said  Carsten Brzeski , chief economist at ING-DiBa bank in Frankfurt. “Today’s Ifo provides further evidence
that fears about a sharp slowdown of the German economy in the
second half of the year were overdone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  