-- Government Shutdown May Harm U.S. Credit Quality, Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-24T15:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/government-shutdown-may-harm-u-s-credit-quality-moody-s-says.html
A U.S. government shutdown or
failure to raise the debt limit may slow economic activity,
which would damage the nation’s credit quality, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  While the ratings company expects the nation’s leaders will
avoid a shutdown and increase the debt limit, if it fails to do
so “the consequences for the economy and government revenues
would be negative,” it said in a report today.  “Financial market and economic consequences would likely
be more severe if the debt limit is not raised than under a
government shutdown,” Moody’s said. “The perception that the
U.S. government could default on debt servicing if the debt
limit isn’t raised could roil financial markets and damage
business and  consumer confidence .”  Moody’s changed its outlook on the U.S.’s top Aaa grade in
July to stable from negative. Standard & Poor’s stripped the
nation of its top ranking in August 2011, citing in part
wrangling over raising the debt limit. Fitch Ratings, which has
a negative outlook on its AAA grade, has said its assessment of
the country’s credit is taking into account the political debate
over raising the debt ceiling.  Yields on 10-year  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  touched 2.67 percent today,
the lowest since Aug. 13.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has urged lawmakers to
raise the $16.7 trillion debt limit by the middle of next month
and has said if they don’t the Treasury would be forced to use
about $50 billion in cash to fund the government.  The Senate is considering a measure the House passed Sept.
20 that cuts off money for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law and finances the federal government through mid-December.
Democratic leaders in the Senate said they won’t pass a bill
that takes money away from the 2010 law.  “Our focus on the rating is the longer-term debt
trajectory, and we don’t think these short-term events are going
to affect that in any substantive way,” Steven Hess, Moody’s
senior vice-president and lead sovereign analyst for the U.S.,
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  