-- Guggenheim Pushes Cheaper Helsinki Museum Plan After 2012 Rebuff
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-09-24T15:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/guggenheim-pushes-cheaper-helsinki-museum-plan-after-2012-rebuff.html
The Guggenheim Foundation presented
a less expensive proposal to establish a museum in Helsinki
after the city board blocked advances last year.  “I’m more convinced than ever of Helsinki’s unique
attraction,” said  Richard Armstrong , director of the Solomon R.
Guggenheim Museum and Foundation, who presented the revised
 proposal  in the Finnish capital today. “Out of the 15 main
candidates over the last year, this is the one that has all the
ingredients, including transportation.”  The project seeks to tap into growing tourism in  Finland .
The number of arrivals of foreign tourists has grown 38 percent
since 2000, and the number of Russian visitors has almost
tripled in that time. The renewed museum bid includes a 3.8
percent increase in projected visitors to 550,000 people
annually, a 4 percent increase in annual revenue projections to
8.1 million euros ($10.9 million) and a 10 percent drop in
annual cost estimates to 13.1 million euros.  The foundation reduced its operations fee to 1 million
euros from the 2 million euros it had originally asked, pro-rated according to visitor numbers. Construction of the museum
would cost 130 million euros, the foundation said. The plan also
includes a $30 million fee paid to the foundation for a twenty-year license for use of the Guggenheim name, after which the
terms are renegotiable, Armstrong said. He didn’t name the other
cities considered.  2012 Rejection  Last year, Helsinki city board voted eight to seven to
block Mayor Jussi Pajunen’s proposal for a Guggenheim museum
amid resident opposition and fears it would reduce funding for
local museums. The New York-based foundation seeks to place the
museum in Helsinki’s South Harbor.  The Guggenheim Foundation has museums in  New York , Bilbao
and  Venice . Its art museum in Berlin, a collaboration with
Deutsche Bank AG, was closed in February after 15 years of
operation. A museum in  Abu Dhabi  is scheduled to open in 2017,
six years behind the original timetable.  With 550,000 visitors, the museum would be Finland’s most
popular art venue, also exceeding the attendance figures of
 Stockholm ’s Moderna Museet, according to the foundation.  Helsinki first invited the foundation to look into
establishing a museum in the city in January 2011, inspired by
the success of the Guggenheim Bilbao in  Spain , designed by  Frank Gehry . The Basque town has seen a tourism boost since the museum
opened in 1997, attracting almost a million visitors a year
compared with fewer than 100,000 before the museum opened. The
museum in Helsinki would generate an economic impact of 41
million euros, directly creating as many 111 jobs, according to
the proposal.  The next step in the bid is a fully-funded international
architectural competition planned for early next year, pending
city approval, according to Ari Wiseman, deputy director of the
foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  