-- Libya 620,000 Barrels Short Seeking First Islamic Loan
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-09-25T08:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/libya-620-000-barrels-short-seeking-first-islamic-loan.html
Libya , holder of  Africa ’s largest
crude reserves, is weighing its first bank loans as the OPEC
member seeks financing to more than double refining and expand
chemical production, in projects forecast to cost $60 billion.  Islamic debt is one option being considered, Mohamed
Alloub, chairman of the state-run Libyan Petroleum Institute,
said in a Sept. 18 interview. While loans for a petrochemical
venture between Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Dow Chemical Co. will
cost as much as 185 basis points over Libor, or 2.3 percent at
yesterday’s rate, Giyas Gokkent of National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC said Libya may have to pay more than 6 percent.  Libya, bigger in size than the U.S. state of  Alaska , is
seeking to boost refining capacity to 1 million barrels a day
from 380,000 barrels to meet growing domestic fuel demand. Its
oil output tumbled in the last year by two-thirds from levels
produced before the 2011 civil war that ended Muammar Qaddafi’s
42-year rule. Borrowing from foreign banks would let the
government use its own funds for schools, hospitals and housing,
Alloub said in the capital Tripoli.  “The government is expected to finance most of the
upgrade,” he said. For the rest, “we presented several
proposals to the government. One is for taking loans from local
or foreign banks,” Alloub said.  Credit Rating  Libya passed a law this year to ban non-Shariah-compliant
banking by 2015. The average yield on Islamic bonds, or sukuk,
from borrowers in the six nations in the oil-producing Gulf
Cooperation Council was 3.87 percent yesterday, according to
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai indexes. That compares with 4.57 percent on
non-Islamic debt in the  Middle East .  The North African nation, one of 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is progressing
toward seeking a credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s , Central
Bank Governor Saddek El Kaber said Sept. 18 in a separate
interview in Tripoli. The government appointed a company to
assist in the process, he said, without identifying it.  Libya would qualify for a rating of BBB, or S&P’s second-lowest investment grade, provided security conditions improve,
National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s Chief Economist Gokkent said. The
rating estimate is “very rough,” he said in a Sept. 23 e-mail.  ’Good Risk’  “The Libyan economy is a good debt risk because it doesn’t
have any debt, and it has a source of revenue: oil and gas,” J.
Jay Park, managing partner at Calgary-based Park Energy Law,
said Sept. 18 in Tripoli. “Stability is, however, a question
mark.”  Under Qaddafi, Libya experienced 20 years of U.S. and
international sanctions over accusations it supported terrorism,
a near 10-year border conflict with  Chad  and recurrent tensions
with Arab states including  Egypt , the most populous, and  Saudi
Arabia , the biggest economy.  Today, even as it restores ties with neighbors and world
powers, the country’s oil output has dropped to about 575,000
barrels a day from the 1.6 million barrels it pumped until
February 2011. Protests by energy workers seeking better pay and
management changes have crippled operations since July at most
crude-production and export facilities in the eastern region,
including Libya’s largest loading terminal at Es Sidr.  Curbing Imports  The state-run National Oil Corp. plans to increase capacity
at refineries and build new processing plants to curb the need
to import oil products and also increase exports, Alloub of the
 Petroleum Institute  said last week. Libya imported 80 percent of
its gasoline and 41 percent of its diesel in 2012, he said.  The NOC plans to boost capacity at the Ras Lanuf and Zawiya
plants to 300,000 barrels a day each, from 220,000 barrels and
120,000 barrels, respectively. The company also wants to build
refineries in Tobruk and Ubari with respective capacities of
300,000 and 30,000 barrels a day, Alloub said. Libya has smaller
plants in Brega, Tobruk and Sarir.  “Depending on the cost of the project and the cost of
money, we will decide” whether to borrow from banks, Alloub
said. Any debt must be Shariah-compliant, or conform with
Islam’s ban on interest, in accordance with the law approved
this year, he said.  Government-owned Libyan refineries would probably pay 8
percent to 9 percent for 10-year credits, Ahmad Alanani, an
analyst at London-based investment bank Exotix Partners LLP,
said in an e-mail on Sept. 23.  Sadara Interest  Interest on the loan to Sadara, the Saudi Arabian chemical
venture, will start at 125 basis points, or 1.25 percentage
points, above the London interbank offered rate, said the banker
who asked not to be identified because the information was
private. The spread above Libor will rise to 155 basis points
for the first five years of the venture’s operation and then to
185 basis points, the banker said.  Libya, like neighboring Morocco, Egypt and  Tunisia , began
developing its  Islamic finance  capabilities in the wake of the
regional uprisings of the so-called Arab Spring, and as Shariah
borrowing costs tumbled globally. The average yield on global
sukuk plunged 118 basis-points in 2012, pushing borrowing costs
below those for non-Islamic debt.  Borrowers in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa raised
$7.26 billion from 15 Islamic syndicated loans this year, less
than half the $15.6 billion in 26 syndications they arranged in
the same period of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Banks in Libya have stopped lending to consumers as they
transform into Shariah-compliant entities.  “Libyan banks are unfortunately underdeveloped,” El Kaber
said. “We are working on strengthening the infrastructure in
order to improve our operations and products and become part of
the international system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  