-- Libyan Lawmaker Denies Bribing Oil Guards to Reopen Ports
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-09-24T16:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/libyan-lawmaker-denies-bribing-oil-guards-to-reopen-ports.html
A Libyan lawmaker denied bribing an
armed military group to reopen key oil ports, saying the money
he handed over was part of mediation efforts in a dispute that’s
clogged crude production and sales.  Naji Mokhtar, the head of parliament’s energy committee,
paid 2.5 million dinars ($2 million) of his own money to a
senior member of the Petroleum Facilities Guards, which have
closed three ports in eastern  Libya , the lawmaker said today.  “Exceptional times call for exceptional measures,”
Mokhtar said at a press conference in Tripoli. “I went to them
thinking they would have a sense of patriotism.”  Oil output in Libya, which sits on  Africa ’s largest proven
reserves, has slumped to about 600,000 barrels a day from 1.6
million a day a year ago as port shutdowns cripple exports. Two
years after the 2011 war that swept the late  Muammar Qaddafi 
from power, efforts to revive an economy dependent on oil are
being stymied by demands from the PFG, an arm of the military
that protects oil installations, for more funding and resources.  The north African country has lost $5 billion since the
start of the year because of port closures, which threaten its
reputation as a dependable exporter, Mokhtar said. The  Finance
Ministry  also has said the government budget may suffer, forcing
it to dip into other funds.  Mokhtar traveled to the eastern city of Ajdabiya, where the
armed guards are based, on Sept. 21, he said today. There he met
the brother of Ibrahim Al Jedran, a former commander with the
PFG who was in charge of the middle and eastern regions where
the ports of Es Sider, Ras Lanuf and Hariga are located. The
three terminals have capacity to export a combined 1.1 million
barrels of crude a day, according to Mokhtar.  PFG Payments  The lawmaker said he submitted the payment and four blank
“IOUs” the next day in exchange for reopening the ports. On
Sept. 22, Al Jedran appeared on several television channels
saying he received 2 million dinars from Mokhtar, and was
promised 30 million dinars from Prime Minister Ali Zaidan,
according to Abdullah Alhesnawi, director of the PFG’s press
office. Zaidan was unable to comment immediately.  Mokhtar said he hadn’t informed other members of parliament
of his move or spoken about it with Zaidan. He didn’t want the
payment made public to avoid spurring other groups to make
similar demands. Parliament has appointed a committee to
investigate the matter and questioned Mokhtar yesterday for two
hours, he said, without elaborating.  The PFG has about 18,000 armed men, including about 5,000
protecting oil installations in central Libya. The group’s
demands have included more equipment, uniforms and patrol cars,
and an increase to the 186 million dinars allocated to the force
annually, Mokhtar said. The PFG started closing the ports in
July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  