-- Microsoft Forms China Game Venture to Capitalize on Trade Zone
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-24T20:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/microsoft-forms-china-game-venture-to-capitalize-on-trade-zone.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is forming a video-game venture with a Chinese company to capitalize on proposed
free-trade rules that would end a 13-year ban on foreign
companies selling consoles in the world’s largest nation.  Microsoft and  BesTV New Media Co. (600637) , a subsidiary of Shanghai
Media Group, formed a $79 million gaming venture, the Chinese
company announced in a statement to Shanghai’s stock exchange on
Sept. 23. BesTV will invest $40.29 million for a 51 percent
stake, while Microsoft will invest $38.71 million for the rest,
according to the filing. BesTV surged by the 10 percent limit to
51.11  yuan  in Shanghai trading yesterday.  Consoles such as Microsoft’s Xbox 360, Nintendo Co.’s Wii U
and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation were banned by China in 2000 to
protect youths from the perceived corrupting influence of video
games. They turned to online games including  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) ’s “League of Legends,” and game consoles are on a list of
items to be liberalized when Shanghai’s free-trade zone opens,
according to a draft plan seen by  Bloomberg News . The zone will
open on Sept. 29, China’s official Xinhua News Agency said on
its microblog yesterday, citing the local government.  “We believe there is great market potential and
partnership opportunities here,” Joanna Li, a Beijing-based
spokeswoman for Microsoft, said in an e-mail yesterday. “This
is the first step of many to come for Microsoft and BesTV and we
look forward to exploring new opportunities for bringing
entertainment offerings to  China .”  Xbox One  The investment by both parties will reach $237 million, the
filing said. The venture will design and develop games and
gaming-related products, sell self-produced and third-party
games and entertainment-related software, and provide technical
assistance services for video gaming machines.  Li declined to provide details on the venture’s products.
Microsoft is releasing the new Xbox One console later this year
in the U.S. and Europe.  Foreign-funded companies will be allowed to make and sell
game and amusement devices inside the Shanghai free-trade zone
after passing a content inspection, the document seen by
Bloomberg states. With the U.S. industry mired in a two-year
slump, console makers may be looking to China’s $10 billion
market for a boost.  Sony has no plans with regard to the Shanghai free trade
zone, according to Yo Kikuchi, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman.
Yasuhiro Minagawa, a spokesman at Kyoto-based  Nintendo (7974) , declined
to comment on whether the company had any plans related to the
zone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  