-- Miliband Paints Himself as Champion of Weak Against Big Business
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-24T16:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/miliband-paints-himself-as-champion-of-weak-against-big-business.html
U.K. opposition Labour Party leader
Ed Miliband positioned himself as the champion of voters who
feel exploited by business, setting out a policy platform that
included price controls on energy.  In an hour-long speech without notes today to Labour’s
annual conference in the southern English seaside resort of
Brighton, Miliband repeatedly warned against a “race to the
bottom” on wages and consumer protection. He placed blame for
the increasing cost of living at David Cameron’s door, saying
the Conservative prime minister has little interest in the lives
of ordinary voters.  “Here’s the thing about David Cameron: he may be strong at
standing up to the weak, but he’s always weak when it comes to
standing up to the strong,” Miliband told delegates.  The speech took Labour a step away from the free-market
economics it supported under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown during
13 years in government to 2010. Instead, Miliband said that if
Labour wins the 2015 election, energy companies will be forced
to cap prices and offer only a single tariff, and developers
will have land taken away from them if they don’t build on it.  Corporation tax for big companies would also go up by 1
percent, and employers bringing in workers from outside the
European Union would have to take on a similar number of
apprentices. Miliband said 200,000 homes a year would be built
under a Labour government. The party announced earlier in the
week it wants to increase a levy on banks in order to fund more
free child care.  Business View  “Businesses will view the proposals on tax and energy as a
setback for Labour’s pro-enterprise credentials,” Confederation
of British Industry Director-General John Cridland said in an e-mailed statement. Simon Walker, Cridland’s counterpart at
another business lobby group, the Institute of Directors, said
Miliband’s proposals are “not the answer.”  The speech received a series of standing ovations in the
hall in Brighton.  “It was an incredibly good speech,” Paul Kenny, the
general secretary of the GMB union, said in an interview. “He’s
not afraid to talk about workers’ rights, which is a breath of
fresh air, and he’s willing to challenge the ‘market’s right’
ideology. Unregulated markets have led to consumers being
fleeced.”  Miliband toured Scandinavia earlier this year as he
searched for political inspiration to help return Labour to
power. At the time, he acknowledged the difficulty of delivering
Swedish public services with U.K. tax rates.  ‘Gilded Elite’  “It was a populist speech, in the sense of portraying your
opponents as a gilded elite and yourself as a tribune of the
people who will clean house,” Tim Bale, professor of politics
at Queen Mary University of  London , said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t think it necessarily means they’re moving
towards socialism red in tooth and claw.”  Labour’s poll lead over Cameron’s Conservative Party has
narrowed to single digits over the past year, disappearing
altogether in one YouGov Plc poll last week. Even so, the uneven
distribution of votes across parliamentary districts gives
Labour an electoral advantage, meaning Miliband could still win
from such a position.  Attempting to frame the election as one about what he
called “the cost-of-living crisis,” Miliband echoed the words
of Ronald Reagan in the 1980 U.S. presidential debate with Jimmy Carter. “In 2015 you’ll be asking: Am I better off now than
five years ago?”  Income Erosion  Inflation (UKRPCJYR)  is running at 2.7 percent and wages are growing
by 1 percent. The Institute for Fiscal Studies estimates the
erosion of real incomes since 2008 has been unprecedented as
workers accepted pay cuts as the price of keeping their jobs.
The pressure on living standards is forecast to continue as
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne takes the ax to
welfare to narrow the budget deficit.  The price households pay for gas has risen 33 percent since
the 2010 election and electricity costs have gained 22 percent,
according to Office for National Statistics data. Consumer
prices overall have risen 11 percent.  “Philosophically the ideas may be left-wing,” Bale said
of Miliband’s policy announcements. “But I suspect that voters
will see both use-it-or-lose-it and the utility price freeze
simply as common sense rather than old-style socialism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  