-- Miliband Targets Energy Profits to Help Britons With Bills
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-25T07:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/miliband-targets-u-k-energy-profits-to-help-britons-with-bills.html
Ed Miliband , the leader of the
U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party , pledged to freeze energy bills
and said price increases have enriched power companies at the
expense of consumers.  Data from energy regulator Ofgem shows that energy
companies’ net profit on each bill  has risen  from 5 percent in
May 2010, when  David Cameron ’s coalition government took power,
to 6.7 percent in May 2013. For Miliband, speaking yesterday at
his party’s conference in Brighton, southern  England , it’s
evidence that “the system is broken.” His office said capping
prices until 2017 would cost the industry 4.5 billion pounds
($7.2 billion).  “Bills have gone up for three reasons: the cost of
wholesale energy, which you can’t control; the cost of
government policy, such as requiring utilities to buy wind and
solar power; and third because utilities have steadily increased
their profits,” said  Chris Rogers , senior utility analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. “The danger of fixing prices is that the
energy companies turn around and say they’ll invest elsewhere in
the world.”  With  Britain’s economy  recovering from the recession,
bolstering the government’s position that its measures are
working, the Labour leader is focusing on the cost of living as
a way to win over voters before the 2015 election. In his
address, he said the prime minister has little interest in the
lives of ordinary voters.  Cameron’s  Conservative Party  will hold its annual
conference in Manchester, northern England, next week.  Pay Freezes  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities in London,
said rising fuel bills had become more noticeable as a result of
recent pay freezes in the economy. While  inflation  was 2.7
percent last month, wages grew an annual 1 percent in the
quarter through July.  “Energy prices are a highly emotive topic in the U.K.,”
said Shaw. “Utility companies put their prices up in real terms
from year to year. In years gone by households were better able
to weather this price because you’d see your post-tax salary
going up.”  As recently as June 2009, energy companies were losing
money on household bills, according to the Ofgem data.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the largest supplier of energy to homes, said
yesterday that the Labour policy would jeopardize the future of
energy production in the U.K.  ‘Investment Challenge’  “If prices were to be controlled against a background of
rising costs it would simply not be economically viable for
Centrica, or indeed any other energy supplier, to continue to
operate,” the company said in a statement on its website. “Far
less to meet the sizeable investment challenge that the industry
is facing.”  Miliband said this morning that he’d written to the big
energy companies urging them to cooperate with his proposal. He
dismissed their objections to the plans, calling the companies
“pretty unreliable witnesses.”  “They’ve been engaging in quite predatory behavior,”
Miliband told BBC Radio 4. “When the wholesale price is going
up, people start to pay more, and when the prices come down,
people go on paying more.”  The Labour leader said his party had received legal advice
confirming it can cap prices and that energy companies can
accommodate the price freeze “on any reasonable scenario.”  Lakis Athanasiou, a utilities analyst at Agency Partners
LLP in  London , said the margins were still low enough that the
Miliband proposal could backfire.  “The U.K. is a price taker on global energy markets. When
you can’t control wholesale prices, you can’t regulate retail
prices,” said Athanasiou. “Companies will just start ditching
customers if they can’t make any money. You’ll be forcing some
of them out of business. Utilities aren’t making that much money
from selling power and gas to households.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in Brighton, England at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  