-- Miliband’s U.K. Utility Breakup Plan Threatens Investment
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-09-25T09:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/miliband-s-u-k-utility-breakup-plan-threatens-investment.html
Britain’s business lobby groups
said the Labour opposition’s proposal to break up the “Big
Six” utilities and cap power prices threatens the investment
needed to avoid blackouts by the end of the decade.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said the program would buy time
for creating a new energy regulator with the authority to reduce
consumer bills. The Confederation of British Industry along with
Centrica Plc and utilities and renewable-energy groups said the
policy may halt decisions on funding new projects.  “If prices were to be controlled against a background of
rising costs it would simply not be economically viable for
Centrica, or indeed any other energy supplier, to continue to
operate and far less to meet the sizeable investment challenge
that the industry is facing,” Centrica said in a statement on
its website last night. “The impact of such a policy would be
damaging for the country’s long term prosperity.”  The proposal backtracks on Labour’s support for Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s  energy policy , which is designed to
lure 110 billion pounds ($175 billion) for replacing older power
stations. The electricity regulator Ofgem says that funding is
essential to keep the lights on toward the end of this decade.  ‘Needed Investment’  “The proposed energy price freeze will deter much-needed
investment and is at odds with Labour’s pledge to decarbonize
the economy and create a million green jobs,” said  John Cridland , director general of the CBI, the nation’s main
business lobbying group.  The Labour leader said this morning that he’d written to
the big energy companies urging them to cooperate with his
proposal, which will require legislation if his party wins the
election due in 2015. He dismissed their objections to the
plans, calling the companies “pretty unreliable witnesses.”  SSE Plc (SSE)   dropped  as much as 3.9 percent in London trading to
their lowest in almost two months. Centrica Plc  shares fell  2.9
percent.  “These are people who are overcharging people so, of
course, they’re going to say when someone calls time on it that
they’re not very happy,” Miliband said in an interview on ITV’s
“Daybreak” program. He told BBC Radio 4 Labour had received
legal advice that it could cap prices and that the companies
could accommodate that “on any reasonable scenario.”  New Legislation  Miliband’s remarks raise indicate Labour may rip up part of
the Conservative energy legislation that’s passed most of its
hurdles in Parliament. His proposals suggest a new round of
lawmaking to restructure power markets if the opposition wins
the next election, which is due in 2015.  “These significant proposed changes may create a whole new
level of uncertainty,” said Tony Ward, head of power and
utilities at the consulting firm Ernst & Young LLP. “Each of
the changes proposed will require massive change in their own
right, and collectively will lead to a reassessment of the risks
of operating in the energy market.”  The most immediate risk is  Electricite de France SA ’s talks
with the government about building the first new nuclear power
plant in two decades. All except one of Britain’s 23 atomic
plants is due to retire from service by 2023.  EDF and the government have yet to agree on a strike price
for selling power from the plant, and EDF has said the energy
rules now in Parliament are essential to underpin the economics
of its investment. An EDF official declined to comment.  ‘Greater Uncertainty’  “Price controls only add greater uncertainty to companies
who we need to take the financial risks of energy investment,”
said Simon Walker, director general of the Institute of
Directors, a group representing company executives.  Miliband’s office said the move would cost energy companies
as much as 4.5 billion pounds while helping consumers cope with
a squeeze on their finances caused by the recession and slower
wage growth.  An average household’s bills for power and gas has risen 68
percent since the beginning of 2008 even though the economy
tipped into recession, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s partly because consumer pay for subsidies for wind and
solar farms through higher power prices.  “Bills could rise a further 50 percent by 2020, mainly due
to the impact of government policies, renewable subsidies and
network costs,” Robert Coates, a utilities analyst at Citigroup
Global Markets Inc. in London, wrote in a note to clients today.
“The outlook for household incomes remains tough. Current
policies are simply unaffordable and will need to change.”  Breakup Vow  Caroline Flint , the Labour member of Parliament in charge
of energy policy, said a Labour government would split up
Britain’s six largest gas and electricity companies and force
them to trade all their power on the open market to drive down
prices.  Those proposals aren’t the way to bring greater competition
into the market or to provide the range of services which
domestic and business customers want, said  Angela Knight , chief
executive of Energy U.K., whose members generate more than 90
percent of the nation’s electricity.  It sends a “clear message” to overseas investors that the
U.K. is “closed for business,” she said. The lobby group
estimates that halting the funds for power stations threatens
the jobs and livelihoods of 600,000 people.  ‘Ramshackle Infrastructure’  “We are concerned about the impact that Ed Miliband’s
proposal would have on investment in Britain’s ramshackle energy
Infrastructure,” said John Longworth, director general of the
British Chambers of Commerce.  The six largest energy companies are  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EDF
Energy Plc, EON SE, SSE Plc, Scottish Power Ltd., a unit of
 Iberdrola SA (IBE) , and  RWE Ag (RWE) ’s nPower unit. They each have different
divisions generating, trading and supplying electricity and
natural gas to households.  Instead of freezing tariffs, the government should recoup
the cost of promoting  energy efficiency  and renewables through
general taxation rather than by adding them to household energy
Bills, SSE said.  “This would wipe 110 pounds off the average persons’ bill
and shift the cost away from those who can’t afford to pay and
on to those who can,” said Brian Lironi, head of media at SSE.  Clean energy developments currently support 110,000 jobs,
with the potential for 400,000 in 2020, according to estimates
from the U.K.’s Renewable Energy Association. Labour’s proposals
may slow investment in low-carbon plants such as wind and solar
installations, the industry’s lobby group said.  “The big question is: how can Labour square a major reform
of the consumer energy market and a freeze on energy bills with
the urgent need for investment in low-carbon generation?” asked
Nina Skorupska, chief executive officer of the REA. “We cannot
afford another investment hiatus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  