-- Lilly Bets Quality Will Pay Off in U.S. Diabetes Battle
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-09-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/lilly-bets-quality-will-pay-off-in-u-s-diabetes-battle.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  is counting on the
quality of a diversified product portfolio over boosting its
sales forces to grab a bigger slice of the $22 billion U.S.
diabetes market, a difference in strategy to some of its rivals.  “I don’t think the market is responsive today to putting
more and more sales people focused on brands,” Enrique Conterno, president of Lilly Diabetes, said in an interview.
“We start with the patient and think of all the therapies we
could have for him” instead of “trying to force a brand” on
both diabetics and physicians, he said.  Earlier this year,  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s biggest
maker of insulin, redirected its U.S. sales force to boost
promotion of the diabetes drug Victoza. Soon after, revenue
slowed for competing treatments from  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , forcing them to increase sales efforts for
their own medicines.  Eli Lilly ’s strategy may be paying off. Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo Nordisk recently lost a contract to the Indianapolis-based drugmaker to provide diabetes treatments, including
insulin and Victoza, to  Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) , the largest
U.S. processor of prescription drug claims.  Eli Lilly plans only “very limited expansion, wherever we
may need it,” to its diabetes sales forces as the company
prepares to introduce as many as four new therapies by 2016,
Conterno said by telephone last week.  Strategy Validated  “The environment is playing out in such a way that I think
validates our strategy,” said the 47-year-old executive, who is
in Barcelona this week to attend the  European Association for
the Study of Diabetes  conference.  Increased obesity and sedentary lifestyles around the world
are kindling a surge in diabetes. The market will probably grow
to more than $58 billion in 2018 from $35 billion in 2012,
according to  Standard & Poor’s . In the U.S., diabetes affected
almost  26 million people  in 2010, of which 1.9 million were
adults newly diagnosed, according to the  U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention .  Diabetics fail to produce insulin or their body doesn’t use
the hormone properly to convert blood sugar into energy, leaving
blood-sugar levels too high without treatment.  Alternative Treatments  Eli Lilly, the maker of Humalog insulin and Tradjenta
tablets, may soon have a number of alternative treatments to
offer physicians. In addition to two new insulins, the company’s
pipeline includes an experimental GLP-1 agonist and an SGLT-2
inhibitor, treatments that belong to the two main new classes of
diabetes drugs. Many of the products are developed with
 Germany ’s Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, part of a deal struck in
2011.  Eli Lilly plans to start selling empagliflozin, its SGLT-2
inhibitor, and dulaglutide, its once-weekly experimental GLP-1
agonist, in the U.S. and  Europe  next year, Conterno said. The
company will probably introduce empagliflozin in the first half
of 2014, and dulaglutide later in the year, he said.  In July, Lilly  submitted  an experimental bio-similar
version of Sanofi’s blockbuster Lantus insulin for European
authorization. The treatment’s patent is due to expire in 2015.
The company “is on track” to submit the same product for
approval in the U.S. later this year, Conterno said.  “We don’t intend to infringe any patents that may be out
there,” he said, in reference to  Lantus, (SAN)  which last year
garnered almost 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) in sales. Eli
Lilly plans to introduce its own version as soon as the patent
expires, he said.  Mystery Unveiled  Later this year or in early 2014, the company expects to
publish initial data from a late-stage trial on LY2605541,
another experimental long-acting insulin, Conterno said.
Earlier-stage results showed the product was effective but
linked to an increase in liver enzymes, a potential sign of
liver damage.  “The mystery on this product will be soon unveiled,” the
Peruvian-born executive said. Lilly aims to file LY2605541 for
approval as early as next year, he added.  In the months to come, Lilly’s diabetes teams will be busy
“making sure we get it right with each one of these medicines
coming to market,” he said. “It is not that we are going for
quantity. Each one of those products within this comprehensive
portfolio has significant merit. Our focus now has to be on
execution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  