-- Time Warner Cable Is Willing to Take on More Debt for Right Deal
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-09-24T17:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/time-warner-cable-is-willing-to-take-on-more-debt-for-right-deal.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable operator, would consider taking on more debt
if it came across an attractive enough merger or acquisition,
Chief Financial Officer Artie Minson said at a conference today.  While the New York-based cable provider doesn’t feel the
need to get bigger, the company would add more debt to its
balance sheet under the right circumstances, Minson said at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Communacopia Conference in New York.
The company’s current leverage ratio target is 3.25 times
earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization.  “If the right opportunity came along and there was a very
clear path of deleveraging over a quick period of time and the
deal made sense from a return perspective, we would stretch for
the right opportunity,” said Minson, who declined to say how
much debt Time Warner Cable would consider adding.  Time Warner Cable, which has about 12 million video
subscribers, has spurned merger advances in the past -- at least
in part because debt concerns, people familiar with the
situation have said. John Malone’s Liberty Media Corp., which
owns a 27 percent stake in Charter Communications Inc., held
discussions with Time Warner Cable about a deal with Charter
earlier this year, the people said. Debt was an issue of
contention then, according to the people.  Charter, the fourth-largest U.S. cable provider, has about
a third as many customers as Time Warner Cable. Liberty and
Charter had discussed the idea of borrowing against the assets
of both companies to complete a deal, the people said.  Time Warner Cable currently has about $23.5 billion of net
debt and a leverage ratio of about 3 times, Minson said last
month on a conference call.  Verizon Communications Inc., meanwhile, raised $49 billion
in debt to acquire full control of Verizon Wireless from
Vodafone Group Plc, marking the larger corporate-bond sale ever.
That transaction hasn’t changed Time Warner Cable’s thinking in
how much debt it would be comfortable holding, Minson said.  “If there are deals and there are transactions, what we’ve
proven over the past couple of years in M&A is we’ll be really
disciplined about it,” Minson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  