-- India Allows State Energy Explorers to Extract From Shale
-- B y   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-09-24T16:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/india-allows-state-energy-explorers-to-extract-from-shale.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil
India Ltd. (OINL) , the country’s state exploration companies, won
government approval to extract shale oil and gas for the first
time as Asia’s second-biggest energy user seeks to curb imports.  ONGC and Oil India will be allowed to tap shale resources
in blocks allotted to the companies more than a decade ago, the
government said in a statement, citing a new policy aimed at
increasing domestic output of fossil fuels. Shale production
will be taxed on par with conventional fields, it said after the
cabinet cleared the policy today.  India is seeking to cut its energy import bill by 50
percent in seven years and to zero by 2030. Increased purchases
of crude oil and coal have led to an unsustainable current
account deficit and a slump in the rupee to a record last month.  “It is a good move, but it will take at least three to
five years to make any material impact on  India ’s energy
landscape,” said Kamlesh Kotak, head of research at Asian
Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  Shale extraction uses hydraulic fracturing, which involves
blasting water, sand and chemicals underground to release fuel.
While environmental groups have objected to the technique on
concern it may contaminate groundwater, some countries have
adopted the method to boost output. The U.S.’s shale boom helped
it overtake  Russia  as the biggest gas-producing nation in 2009.  “We will now review our blocks and seek rights to
undertake shale oil and gas exploration and production in those
which have good prospects,” said T.K. Ananth Kumar, finance
director at Oil India.  Oil import costs in India, Asia’s largest energy user after
 China , surged to a record $144.3 billion in the year through
March, or more than 8 percent of gross domestic product. The
country holds 6.1 trillion cubic feet of technically recoverable
shale-gas reserves in three basins, the  U.S. Geological Survey 
estimated in a report in January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debjit Chakraborty in  New Delhi  at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  