-- Indonesia Vows to Stick With Tin Trade Policy as Prices Jump
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-09-24T10:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/indonesia-vows-to-stick-with-tin-trade-policy-as-prices-rally.html
The Indonesian government will
stick with a rule change requiring tin producers to trade the
metal locally before export, curbing supplies from the biggest
shipper, and says the model may be applied to other commodities.  The new policy is designed to increase the value of tin
shipments and establish a domestically determined benchmark
price, according to Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan . It will be
implemented over the long term, and shipments are expected to
decline, Wirjawan said in an interview in Jakarta.  Three-month futures on the London Metal Exchange, which has
traded the global benchmark for more than a century, rallied to
the highest since March this month after the change took effect
and Indonesian suppliers cut shipments. Stockpiles of the metal
used to make solder and packaging are heading for the biggest
monthly drop since January 2012. The new policy is causing
confusion in the market, said Standard Bank Group Ltd.  “We have to see this policy in a long-term context that is
for us to be able to increase value-added products
domestically,” said Wirjawan. “The essence is that, if this
succeeds, this can be an example for other products,” he said,
without listing other commodities. The country is the biggest
exporter of  palm oil  and largest mined-nickel producer.  Three-month tin futures traded 0.5 percent lower at $22,855
a metric ton at 4:58 p.m. in  Singapore . That’s still 7.7 percent
higher this month and headed for the biggest monthly advance
since November. Prices rallied to $23,350 on Sept. 19, the
highest level since March 19. LME-tracked stockpiles have shrunk
11 percent to 13,765 tons in September.  Reference Price  “We are the second-biggest producer in the world and
 biggest exporter  in the world, we have to use a reference price
that is determined in Indonesia, not another place,” he said.
“We are keeping this policy for a while.”  The rule change, which took effect Aug. 30, is part of
wider government efforts to boost the value of commodity
shipments from  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy. Indonesia has
ordered mining companies to build smelters as it plans to ban
raw mineral-ore shipments from January 2014. The country imposed
a tax on cocoa-bean shipments in 2010 to encourage investment in
processing plants. Tin-purity rules were also raised this year.  “It is not very clear to me how having a benchmark pricing
would add value to the domestic tin sector,” said Xavier Jean,
director of corporate ratings at  Standard & Poor’s  in Singapore.
“ The only effect it could have is largely indirect, if the
market perceives domestic supply will be constrained by the new
rules,” he said in an e-mail.  Force Majeure  PT Timah (TINS) ,  Indonesia ’s largest tin producer which declared
force majeure on exports after the policy change, wants to sell
its tin to overseas buyers through the Indonesia Commodity and
Derivatives Exchange. The Jakarta-based ICDX has traded 515 tons
of the metal in total since Aug. 30, according to exchange data
compiled by Bloomberg. Indonesia shipped 98,817 tons of tin last
year, with 9,874 tons sent overseas in September 2012.  “We cannot expect higher trading just in less than a
month, people need time to adjust to the new regulation,” said
Gifar Indra Sakti, a Jakarta-based analyst at PT Sucorinvest
Central Gani. “We should be able to create greater value.”  The global tin market faces a deficit of 6,000 tons this
year, a fourth consecutive annual shortage,  Standard Bank  said
in a report on Sept. 11. Indonesia’s rule changes were causing
confusion and helping to boost prices, it said, forecasting
$28,000 a ton next year.  “We have to be in a position where we can crystallize the
value, determine the value,” said Wirjawan. “In three weeks,
the price has increased from $20,000 to $23,000. So that really
reflects that we are able to crystallize the value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmasna@bloomberg.net 
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  