-- Indonesia Seeks to Boost Bilateral Swaps as Rupiah Slumps
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-09-24T10:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/indonesia-to-boost-bilateral-swaps-with-china-korea-agreements.html
Indonesia  said it will seek to
enlarge bilateral swap agreements with its north Asian neighbors
as Southeast Asia’s biggest economy battles a slumping currency.  The country plans to boost swap arrangements to almost $40
billion by signing deals with  China  and  South Korea  and
increasing an existing agreement with  Japan , Industry Minister
M.S. Hidayat told reporters in Jakarta after meeting with the
central bank today. It may sign an agreement with China next
month when PresidentXi Jinping visits Indonesia, he said.  Indonesia’s rupiah fell to the weakest level since April
2009 today, extending a slump that’s made it the worst-performing emerging-market currency this year as a record
current-account deficit and the prospect of reduced U.S.
stimulus spurred outflows. The government will also unveil an
easing of investment rules in a few weeks, Finance Minister
Chatib Basri said separately today.  No discussion on a bilateral swap agreement with Indonesia
is taking place, according to two officials at  Korea ’s  finance
ministry , who asked not to be named because of the potential
sensitivity of the issue. The two officials spoke after the
Indonesian minister’s remarks today.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said Sept. 12 he
wasn’t aware of any request from Indonesia for a currency swap
line, and his country will make a decision if such a proposal
comes up.  ‘Close Relationship’  “The central banks of the two countries have been in a
pretty close relationship,” Kim said then. “We share the need
of more exchanges at the central bank level in line with growing
economic ties.”  The People’s Bank of China didn’t immediately respond to a
faxed request for comment. Indonesia may extend a bilateral swap
agreement with China, Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal
policy at the finance ministry, said earlier this month.  The rupiah declined 0.2 percent to 11,470 per dollar as of
5:42 p.m. in Jakarta, after reaching 11,586 earlier, prices from
local banks show.  Indonesia extended a $12 billion swap line with Japan last
month as policy makers tried to bolster a rupiah that has fallen
16 percent this year, the worst performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  India  also reached an
agreement with Japan this month to more than triple its
bilateral  currency-swap  line as it seeks to buoy the rupee.  Indonesia and China in 2009 agreed on a three-year 100
billion  yuan  ($16 billion) currency swap to ease foreign-exchange shortages and aid bilateral trade and investment. Xi is
due to visit Indonesia to meet President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono on Oct. 2, according to the Indonesian presidential
office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  