-- Iran’s UN Diplomacy Leaves Hard Work on a Nuclear Deal
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-24T17:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/iran-s-un-diplomacy-leaves-hard-work-on-a-nuclear-deal.html
With international talks on  Iran ’s
disputed nuclear weapons program now set to resume, world powers
will test whether the country is moderating its policies or
merely its rhetoric.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will meet in New York
with Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif on Sept. 26 in the
highest-level formal talks between the two nations since before
Iran’s 1979 Islamic Revolution, joined by their counterparts
from five other powers and Catherine Ashton, the European
Union’s foreign policy chief. Iran also will participate in
nuclear negotiations in Geneva in mid-October.  After meeting one-on-one with Zarif yesterday on the
sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, Ashton said
she was struck by “the energy and determination that the
foreign minister demonstrated to me” about resolving issues
over Iran’s nuclear program. Iran says it’s solely for peaceful
purposes, while the U.S., Israel and other nations suspect it’s
a clandestine effort to develop the capability to make weapons.  President  Barack Obama  told the United Nations General
Assembly today that he was encouraged that Iranian President
Hassan Rohani was elected with a mandate to pursue a more
moderate course.  “Conciliatory words will have to be matched by actions
that are transparent and verifiable,” Obama said in New York.
“The roadblocks may prove to be too great, but I firmly believe
the diplomatic path must be tested.”  Tempered by Tests  The enthusiastic reception for the Iranian leaders’
campaign to advertise their peaceful intentions, through social
and traditional media, should be tempered by tests of whether
they’re prepared to make significant concessions in exchange for
relief from the economic sanctions that have battered Iran’s
economy, according to Gary Samore, who until earlier this year
was Obama’s chief adviser on non-proliferation.  “Now that  Washington  has come this far and achieved a
truly painful sanctions regime -- which is obviously working or
a charm offensive wouldn’t be taking place -- I don’t think
they’re going to throw that away,” Samore, who participated in
several rounds of nuclear talks, said in an interview. “All the
good words on both sides are positive, but one should not
misread that for a solution that’s going to happen tomorrow.”  Iran’s oil exports have dropped by half, to less than 1
million barrels a day since U.S. and EU oil sanctions took
effect in July 2012, according to the International Energy
Agency in Paris. Inflation has almost doubled in two years to 39
percent last month, official figures show.  Iran’s Losses  Iran’s decades-old atomic program has cost the country an
estimated $100 billion, including its investments in nuclear
infrastructure as well as lost foreign investments and oil
revenue due to sanctions, according to an April report by the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington.  Since he was elected in June, Rohani has said that Iran
won’t develop nuclear weapons, citing a religious edict by
Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Last week,
Khamenei called for “heroic flexibility” in negotiations.  In exchange for relief from sanctions, the U.S. and its
European allies will “demand very significant limits on Iran’s
nuclear capacity -- meaning numbers of centrifuges, numbers of
facilities, stockpiles of uranium -- all the things that give
them a theoretical possibility to produce nuclear weapons,”
said Samore, who’s now at the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of
Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Being Careful  Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington policy research
organization, said in a report that the U.S. “needs to be
extraordinarily careful in dealing with Iran.”  “Iran has now spent well over a decade using delaying
tactics and negotiations to move towards a nuclear weapons
capability,” Cordesman said. “It also has strong reasons to
continue. Quite aside from the issue of national prestige, Iran
needs nuclear weapons to give its largely obsolete conventional
military forces credibility.”  The potential for resistance from hardliners in Iran was
underscored when a senior Iranian lawmaker warned Rohani against
holding talks with the U.S.  “There’ll be no negotiations with the U.S.,” said
Mohammad Kosari, a conservative member of parliament on the
legislature’s Security and Foreign Policy Commission, in an
interview with the Etemaad newspaper published today. “After
the U.S. has returned confiscated assets, the sanctions are
removed, and they have apologized for the crimes they have
committed against Iran, then we can investigate if we will enter
talks with them or not.”  Answering Questions  David Albright, a physicist and former UN nuclear weapons
inspector, said that one of the first things Iran could do to
prove its sincerity would be to cooperate with the International
Atomic Energy Agency, or IAEA, the UN’s atomic watchdog, at a
Sept. 27 meeting in Vienna.  “They can start answering the IAEA’s questions about
Iran’s past work on nuclear weapons and possible ongoing work,”
Albright, founder of the Institute for Science and International
Security in Washington, said in an interview.  Parchin, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) south of Tehran, is
one site where the IAEA suspects Iran has done high-explosive
testing related to making nuclear weapons, and other sites are
alleged to have been workshops to make a mock-up of a reentry
vehicle for a missile carrying a nuclear warhead. Iran could
begin by granting access to those disputed sites, Albright said.  Lacking Cooperation  While barring the IAEA, Iran has razed the facilities at
Parchin, removed soil and paved part of the area, according to
Albright’s group. As a result, the IAEA may be unable to obtain
useful information at the site even if Iran relents and lets
inspectors visit, IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano said in
June.  “Iran is not providing the necessary cooperation to enable
us to provide credible assurance about the absence of undeclared
nuclear material and activities,” Amano said Sept. 16. “The
agency therefore cannot conclude that all nuclear material in
Iran is in peaceful activities.”  The American  Israel  Public Affairs Committee, a pro-Israel
lobbying group, said today that a test of whether Iran has a
“genuine desire for a diplomatic solution” is if the Islamic
Republic is willing to suspend its uranium enrichment and
plutonium-related activities.  “Only such a step will allow the necessary time for
meaningful discussions,” the organization said on its website.
“Iran cannot be allowed to further advance its nuclear program
while talks go on, as it has repeatedly done in the past.”  Nuclear Breakout  Iran enriches uranium for nuclear power plants at two sites
that are monitored by the IAEA to prevent the diversion of
uranium to create bomb-grade fuel. Iran also is nearing
completion of a research reactor at Arak, which would be a
source of plutonium that could be used in a weapon.  The U.S. and Europe consider this week’s meeting of Zarif
with foreign ministers of the group known as the P5+1 --  China ,
 France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. -- a chance to
get a sense of the Iranians’ seriousness and whether they’re
coming to the table with concrete new proposals, according to a
U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity because of
diplomatic protocol.  The official tried to temper expectations for the meeting,
saying no one should expect that Iran and six nations will
settle the decades-long discussions about Tehran’s nuclear
program this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  