-- Iraq Threatens to Cut Revenue to Kurds Over Pipeline
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-09-24T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/iraq-threatens-to-cut-revenue-to-kurds-over-pipeline.html
Iraq  threatened to cut oil revenue
to the Kurdish north in a deepening standoff over a new export
pipeline that companies from  DNO International ASA (DNO)  to  Genel
Energy Plc (GENL)  plan to use to ship crude from the region.  The government in Baghdad may refuse to give the 17 percent
of annual earnings from oil sales allocated to the semi-autonomous Kurdish provinces if they bypass central authorities
and start operating a link through  Turkey  by year-end, Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for energy affairs, said
in an interview in Dubai yesterday.  “We have our options, and you will hear them when we adopt
measures, as this is a big loss for Iraq,” he said. “No Iraqi
would accept that they take 17 percent of Iraq’s revenue from
crude produced outside of Kurdistan and at the same time all of
the revenue of the crude produced in Kurdistan.”  The Kurdistan Regional Government halted crude exports
through the government-run pipeline in December amid a dispute
with the Oil Ministry in Baghdad over the sharing of crude sales
revenue and payments owed to companies such as DNO and Genel
Energy. The Kurds, who are building export pipelines as a step
toward self-sufficiency, estimate their oil reserves at 45
billion barrels.  The Iraqi government insists that the Kurds link their new
crude export pipeline to the main government pipe at a metering
station near the Turkish border, Shahristani said.  “They refused and said they want to link it after the
metering station to prevent the Iraqi government from knowing
the quantity of crude they are exporting,” he said. “The real
problem is that they don’t want anyone to know how much they are
producing and selling.”  ‘Serious Error’  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  made a “serious error” by signing a
contract to explore for oil in the Kurdish region without the
approval of the central government, Shahristani said. For this
reason, Iraq is demanding that Exxon and other foreign companies
quit their business in fields controlled by the central
government, he said.  Iraq, home to the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves, is
producing 3.3 million barrels a day and last month exported 2.58
million barrels a day, Shahristani said. That output will
increase by 400,000 barrels a day by year-end and will exceed 5
million within three years, he said. Export capacity will exceed
6 million barrels a day once four offshore plants are operating
next year and terminals in the south are upgraded, he said.  “We have plans for five single-point mooring facilities:
one as spare and four for simultaneous pumping, each with a
capacity of 900,000 barrels a day,” he said. Once the four
mooring units are operational at the start of next year, the
government plans to suspend activities at the onshore Basra oil
terminal to expand it. The nearby Khor al-Amaya terminal will be
upgraded later, he said.  Iraq’s reserves of 150 billion barrels, which don’t include
the Kurdish north, rank behind  Venezuela , Saudi Arabia,  Canada 
and  Iran , according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy
published in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  