-- Italy’s Letta Says Markets Underestimate Risk of U.K. Leaving EU
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-09-24T23:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/italy-s-letta-says-markets-underestimate-risk-of-u-k-leaving-eu.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
said a U.K. exit from the European Union would threaten the
future of the trading bloc and hailed Angela Merkel’s election
victory in Germany.  Markets, politicians and ordinary people “are all under-evaluating the risk of a U.K. exit,” Letta said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker . The other EU nations
need to work “a good deal to convince the  British (UKGRABIQ)  to remain on
board.”  While the weekend German elections helped stabilize Europe
by propelling Chancellor Angela Merkel to a probable third term
as leader, the U.K.’s increasing euro skepticism is a cause for
future concern, Letta said. U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
has promised a referendum on EU membership by the end of 2017 if
a Conservative government is elected in the 2015 vote.  “It is a very tough discussion and the anti-Europe party
is rising,” Letta, 47, said in the interview yesterday.  While Cameron has not mentioned specific demands he could
make of the EU to avoid an exit, his lawmakers have said they
want powers over areas such as justice, policing and worker
protection to be returned to national capitals.  Some help in that direction may come from  Germany ’s Merkel,
whose spokesman Steffen Seibert said on Sept. 4 that
repatriation of powers was “a sensible idea.” Common ground
between the two nations might set up the kind of deal Letta
hopes the EU can make to keep the U.K. in Europe, avoiding a
crisis of confidence in the 28-nation union.  “It’s in their own interest to stay,” Letta said.  European Parliament  The Italian prime minister, who spent part of his childhood
in Strasbourg,  France , the official seat of the European
parliament, has often spoken out in defense of the EU, saying it
is the best way for Europeans to continue to carry weight in an
increasingly globalized world.  “Historically  Italy  is pro-Europe because it’s a country
that is more comfortable with external constraints on things
like its accounts,” said Giovanni Orsina, a history professor
at Luiss Guido Carli University in  Rome . Letta is “also a
member of that moderate Italian Left that brought the country
into the euro-zone so it’s part of his identity.”  In the Bloomberg interview Letta reiterated his promise to
ensure Italy remains within the  EU’s budget deficit  limit of
under 3 percent saying he’ll achieve the goal through fiscal
adjustments and cuts in expenditure. He declined to say whether
he will stop a value-added tax increase planned for October.  Fiscal Adjustments  Italy will need to implement fiscal adjustments of between
2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) and 3 billion euros to remain
within EU budget deficit limits, Barclays Plc analyst Fabio Fois
wrote in a Sept. 23 research note.  “We have to cut expenses, we have to grow and we have to
privatize,” Letta said regarding the government’s plans for the
future.  Asked whether he would try to block a deal that allows
Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  to increase its control over Italian phone
company  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Letta said the government would be
vigilant but would not put up barriers.  “We are in the European market” and there is no problem
with companies doing business, Letta said. The government’s main
concern is jobs and the network which is a “strategic asset”
for Italy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  