-- Jamestown Purchases Ghirardelli Square in San Francisco
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-09-24T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/jamestown-purchases-ghirardelli-square-in-san-francisco.html
Jamestown, the owner of  New York ’s
 Chelsea Market , bought the retail portion of San Francisco’s
Ghirardelli Square to expand its holdings of globally known U.S.
properties.  The purchase price was $54 million, according to a person
with knowledge of the deal who asked not to be identified
because the terms of the agreement are private. The shopping
complex, sold by Ghirardelli Acquisition Co., has 100,394 square
feet (9,327 square meters) of rentable space that are 55 percent
leased, the person said.  The retail center’s brick buildings, converted from a
chocolate factory constructed at the turn of the 20th century,
overlook San Francisco Bay. Its location near Fisherman’s Wharf
and distinctive illuminated sign, mounted on the roof 100 feet
(30 meters) above ground, help draw tourists to the complex.  “Ghirardelli Square is an American icon,” Michael
Phillips, chief operating officer at Atlanta-based Jamestown,
said in a telephone interview. The firm is hoping for a
restaurant-leasing revival mirroring the square’s 1990s heyday,
when it attracted diners including football stars  Joe Montana 
and  Jerry Rice , Phillips said. “Food-focus is part of our
company culture.”  About $15 million in storefront, signage and plaza upgrades
are planned for the property, he said. Phillips declined to
comment on the purchase price.  ‘Nonexistent’ Construction  U.S. retail landlords are being helped by rising consumer
spending and “nonexistent” construction of malls, according to
research company Green Street Advisors Inc. Retail investment is
being channeled to “redeveloping higher-quality properties,
which should create value,” the  Newport Beach , California-based
firm said in an Aug. 21 report.  San Francisco’s economy is in the fourth year of job gains
fueled by expanding technology and health-care companies,
tourism and construction. Leisure and hospitality businesses
added 4,700 jobs in the 12 months through August, according to
preliminary data from  California ’s Employment Development
Department. The jobless rate of 5.6 percent compares with 7.3
percent nationally and 8.9 percent throughout California.  Since 2011, closely held Jamestown has spent about $900
million on California retail and office properties, becoming the
landlord of 799 Market St. in San Francisco, South Shore Center
in Alameda and Spenger’s restaurant in Berkeley, Phillips said.
The company also owns  Santa Monica ’s Lantana campus and various
properties in downtown San Luis Obispo.  “We’re committed to the West Coast and the Bay Area,”
Phillips said.  Ghirardelli Square also has residences, known as  Fairmont
Heritage Place , that were developed by San Francisco-based JMA
Ventures LLC and Fairmont Hotels & Resorts. JMA once owned the
retail portion of the square as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  