-- JPMorgan Said in Talks to Settle U.S. Mortgage Probe
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/jpmorgan-u-s-said-in-talks-to-settle-mortgage-probe.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  resumed
settlement talks with the U.S. after authorities prepared to sue
the bank yesterday in California federal court alleging it
misrepresented the quality of mortgage-backed securities it sold
from 2005 to 2007, a person familiar with the matter said.  The government told JPMorgan it was ready to file a
complaint yesterday in  Sacramento , the person said. Soon after,
talks restarted between the bank and Justice Department
officials over a possible settlement, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  JPMorgan is seeking to negotiate an accord resolving
mortgage-bond investigations being conducted by federal and
state authorities, including probes by the U.S. attorneys in
Sacramento, Philadelphia and  Washington , according to another
person briefed on the effort.  The bank had also tried to settle a $6 billion claim by the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  and an investigation by New York
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who sued the company in
October over mortgage bonds packaged by Bear Stearns Cos., which
JPMorgan acquired in 2008, according to the person, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  FHFA Suit  The FHFA sued the bank and 17 other lenders two years ago
over faulty mortgage bonds. The agency sought to recoup some of
the losses taxpayers were forced to cover when the government
took over failing mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  in 2008. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are
regulated by the FHFA, have taken $187.5 billion in federal aid
since then.  JPMorgan offered to pay about $3 billion to settle an array
of probes, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing a
person familiar with the matter. The Justice Department pressed
the bank to pay more, the newspaper said. The Financial Times
said the bank is discussing a $4 billion settlement as it seeks
to resolve state and federal mortgage claims. The New York Times
said today that this week’s talks included proposals in which
the bank would pay $3 billion to $7 billion.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on settlement negotiations. Adora Andy Jenkins, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, and Peter Garuccio, a spokesman for the FHFA, also declined to comment.  U.S. prosecutors in Sacramento had commenced criminal and
civil investigations into the securities backed by crisis-era
loans, the bank disclosed in an August regulatory filing.
Investigators already had concluded that JPMorgan violated civil
securities laws stemming from its sales of securities based on
loans made to high-risk borrowers and loans that didn’t require
documentation proving income, the bank said.  Violating Laws  JPMorgan last week admitted to violating federal securities
laws and agreed to pay about $920 million in connection with
more than $6.2 billion in trading losses at its  London  offices.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said senior managers
at the bank knew in April 2012 that its chief investment office
in London was using aggressive valuations that hid losses.  The  Justice Department  is still investigating the trading
loss.  The probe of the bank’s securities sales stems from the
work of an Obama administration task force set up to investigate
causes of the financial crisis. The group includes U.S. Attorney
Ben Wagner in Sacramento and Schneiderman.  In the Bear Stearns complaint, Schneiderman alleged that
investors were deceived about defective loans backing securities
they bought.  The bank also faces lawsuits by the Federal Home Loan Bank
of Pittsburgh and other buyers of the mortgage-backed securities
it sold.  FIRREA  The U.S. is investigating JPMorgan under the Financial
Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act, according to
another person. FIRREA allows the Justice Department to pursue
civil remedies.  The California probe is focused on loans and mortgage-backed securities put together by JPMorgan itself, not the ones
acquired when the company bought Bear Stearns’s and Washington
Mutual Inc.’s banking operations in 2008, according to a person
briefed on the matter.  ‘Categorically False’  The  New York  Times reported yesterday that talks between
JPMorgan and the Department of Housing and Urban Development
over a wide-ranging settlement of many of the mortgage
investigations broke down after the agency suggested the bank
would have to pay about $20 billion. The bank rejected the $22
billion accord that would have resolved some of the
investigations, the paper said.  Helen Kanovsky, HUD’s general counsel, disputed that
report. While the agency has been involved in multiparty
negotiations to reach a settlement with JPMorgan, “no one at
this agency -- including the Secretary -- ever floated a $20
billion settlement figure,” she said in a statement. “Nor has
the department’s involvement ‘effectively derailed’ settlement
talks. Both of those statements are categorically false.”  The New York Times later corrected the article on its
website to say a $20 billion settlement figure was discussed at
the bank then rejected, and that it isn’t clear who proposed it.  The Justice Department is leading negotiations over a
settlement, according to two people briefed on the matter who
asked not to be identified because talks are private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  