-- JPMorgan Hires Aon’s Haslip for U.K. Insurance Investing
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-24T15:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/jpmorgan-hires-aon-s-haslip-for-u-k-insurance-investing.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s asset-management business hired Gareth Haslip to lead U.K. strategy
for a group that advises insurance clients on investments and
oversees more than $90 billion.  Haslip previously was a director at Aon Benfield Securities
and Aon Hewitt’s Insurance Asset Solutions, units of broker  Aon
Plc (AON) , according to a statement today from New York-based
JPMorgan. Prior to that, he worked in Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
asset-management business, focusing on insurance clients.  “Gareth’s extensive experience of advising insurance
companies on their investments will further strengthen our
capabilities and deep working relationships with insurance
companies in the U.K.,” Douglas Niemann, head of strategy and
analytics for JPMorgan Asset Management’s global insurance
solutions team, said in the statement.  JPMorgan is adding staff as it vies with Goldman Sachs,
BlackRock Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG for fee income from managing
institutional client money. Insurance companies have outsourced
oversight of some investment duties as they shift strategies
amid new regulation and  low interest rates .  In June, JPMorgan said it hired Prashant Sharma from
Goldman Sachs to head international fixed-income investments for
insurance clients. Niemann joined the team in 2012 from insurer
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Earlier this month, Goldman Sachs announced the hiring of
Neil Moge from JPMorgan to lead a London-based team overseeing
insurer client money.  Haslip holds a Ph.D. in actuarial science with a focus on
derivative pricing from Cass Business School in  London ,
according to the statement. David Prosperi, a spokesman for
London-based Aon, declined to comment on the departure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  