-- KB Home Reports Higher Quarterly Profit as Prices Rise
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-09-24T13:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/kb-home-reports-higher-quarterly-profit-as-prices-rise.html
KB Home (KBH) , a U.S. homebuilder that
targets first-time buyers, reported third-quarter earnings that
beat analyst estimates as prices and sales jumped.  Profit for the three months through August was $27.3
million, or 30 cents a share, up from $3.3 million, or 4 cents,
a year earlier, the Los Angeles-based company said today in a
statement. The average of 20 analyst  estimates  was for earnings
of 23 cents a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Orders fell 9 percent from a year earlier, indicating rising
mortgage rates may slow growth.  A tight  supply  of existing homes on the market is drawing
buyers into new-home sales offices and boosting prices in many
of KB Home’s biggest markets. Construction of single-family
houses climbed 7 percent in August to a 628,000 annual rate, the
most since February, the Commerce Department said.  “KB home has benefited from their exposure to the
California and Texas markets, which have had low inventory
levels in the existing-home market and strongly rising prices,”
Drew Reading, a Bloomberg Industries analyst covering
homebuilding, said in an interview before the results.  KB Home’s average selling price increased 22 percent from a
year earlier to $299,100. Revenue jumped 29 percent to $549
million, as deliveries increased 6 percent.  The company is vulnerable to rising mortgage rates because
many of its customers are first-time buyers in the already
pricey California market, said Jay McCanless, a Nashville,
Tennessee-based analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. Net orders
fell to 1,736 homes from 1,900 a year earlier. The company’s
contract backlog, an indication of future sales, fell to 3,039
from 3,142 homes in August 2012.  ‘More Cautious’  “We are not as confident in the ability of the entry-level
consumer to get financing,” McCanless, who has a neutral  rating 
on KB Home shares, said in a telephone interview before the
results. “And since we believe the majority of KB’s business
comes from first-time buyers, we’re taking a more cautious
approach to our evaluation of the stock.”  The slowdown is probably temporary as low inventory, an
improving economy and positive demographic trends boost the
housing market, KB Home Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger 
said in the statement.  “We believe that the recent slower pace of the recovery
caused by an uptick in mortgage interest rates is a temporary
effect, and we expect to see steady upward demand for housing as
consumers adjust to both higher rates and pricing,” he said.  KB Home fell 3.4 percent yesterday to $17.03. The  shares 
have gained 7.8 percent this year, compared with a 2.8 percent
decline for the 11-company Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  