-- Kenyans Mourn as Deadly Mall Attack Ends With 61 Dead
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-09-25T06:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/kenyan-security-forces-struggle-to-end-mall-siege-that-killed-62.html
Kenyans began three days of
mourning after security forces ended an attack by Islamist
militants on an upscale mall in the capital, Nairobi, that
killed at least 61 civilians.  “Our losses are immense,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said
in a national address late yesterday. “We have shamed and
defeated our attackers. These cowards will meet justice.”  Five of the al-Qaeda-linked gunmen who stormed the Westgate
Mall on Sept. 21 were killed, 11 suspects have been arrested in
connection with the assault, and six Kenyan security officers
are dead, Kenyatta said. Three floors of the building have
collapsed, and bodies, including those of some of the attackers,
are trapped under the rubble, he said. The government earlier
estimated there were as many as 15 assailants from different
countries.  The attack was the deadliest in the country since the
August 1998 bombing of the U.S. Embassy in downtown Nairobi
killed 213 people. Al-Shabaab, the Somalia-based militia that
claimed responsibility for the raid, had threatened to strike
after  Kenya  deployed troops in Somalia in October 2011 to fight
the militants whom it blamed for a series of kidnappings and the
murder of a British tourist in Kenya. Al-Shabaab denied the
accusations.  The  shilling  gained less than 0.1 percent today, erasing a
loss of as much as 0.3 percent since the crisis started, and
traded at 87.40 per dollar by 9:05 a.m.in Nairobi. The Nairobi
Securities Exchange’s FTSE NSE 25 Index fell 0.3 percent to
164.24 in the period. The stock exchange opens at 9:30 a.m.  Stable Country  Kenya’s relative stability in a volatile region has
attracted companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , International
Business Machines Corp., General Electric Corp. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
to set up bases in the East African nation. The  United Nations ’
African headquarters are also in Nairobi.  East Africa’s largest economy will stick to its plan to
seek about $1.5 billion from its debut Eurobond issue by
December and the outlook for economic growth is the same as
before the attack, which is an “isolated” incident, Treasury
Secretary Henry Rotich said yesterday. The state forecasts 5.6
percent expansion in 2013 from 4.6 percent last year.  The upscale, Western-style Westgate Mall had more than 80
shops including restaurants, salons, a cinema and a casino and
it was popular with wealthy Kenyans and foreigners.  Al-Shabaab Targets  Al-Shabaab has been fighting Somalia’s government since at
least 2006. The militant group claimed responsibility in July
2010 for coordinated bomb attacks in neighboring  Uganda  that
killed 76 people watching the soccer  World Cup  final at two
venues. Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda because the country
had troops serving in the African Union Mission in Somalia.  The United Nations-backed African Union Mission for
Somalia, or Amisom, has more than 17,000 peacekeepers in the
Horn of African nation including 6,223 Ugandans, 5,432
Burundians, 4,040 Kenyans, 999 from Djibouti and 850 from Sierra
Leone.  East African leaders stand by their refusal to withdraw
soldiers from Somalia, a demand repeatedly made by al-Shabaab,
Mahboub Maalim, executive secretary of the seven-nation group
known as Intergovernmental Authority on Development, said today
in an e-mailed statement.  “Terrorists shall neither discourage IGAD and member
states in their collective efforts in Somali no intimidate
Amisom forces into pulling out of Somalia until total peace and
stability has been achieved,” Maalim said.  Foreign Thanks  Kenyatta thanked foreign leaders, including U.S. President
 Barack Obama , for their support during the ordeal. Among the
victims are citizens from the U.K.,  India ,  France ,  Canada ,  South
Africa ,  China  and  Ghana .  “Terrorism is a global problem that requires global
solutions,” said Kenyatta, who lost his nephew in the attack.
“Kenya will stand with our friends in tackling terrorism and I
ask our friends to stand with us.”  Kenya will lead forensic studies while experts from  Israel ,
the U.S. and Britain will help, Francis Kimemia, secretary to
the Kenyan cabinet, said on his Twitter account.  The president said he couldn’t confirm the nationalities of
the attackers. Kenyan Foreign Secretary Amina Mohamed told PBS’s
“NewsHour” on Sept. 23 that two or three Americans and a
female British citizen participated in the attack.  The Kenya Red Cross said on Sept. 23 that 63 people were
missing in the attack. Kenyatta didn’t account for those people
in his speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  