-- Kenya Will Stick to Schedule for Eurobond Even After Mall Siege
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-09-24T13:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/kenya-will-stick-to-schedule-for-eurobond-even-after-mall-siege.html
Kenya  plans to stick to its
schedule and sell an inaugural Eurobond for about $1.5 billion
by December, even after the country’s worst terrorist attack in
15 years, Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich said.  “Nothing is changing from our plans,” Rotich said in an
interview today from the capital, Nairobi. “The economy is in
an upward trend and we don’t expect any major impact from this
event. It’s completely isolated.”  As many as 15 gunmen stormed the Westgate Mall in Nairobi
on Sept. 21, killing 62 people. Al-Shabaab, a Somali militant
group, said it carried out the attack, fulfilling a threat to
strike the country after Kenya’s government deployed troops in
neighboring Somalia in October 2011 to fight the al-Qaeda-linked
militia. While Kenya’s police force said it’s in “full
control” of the situation, security forces are struggling to
clear out pockets of resistance inside the complex three days
into the siege.  The attack, in which more than 200 people were injured, was
the deadliest in the country since a 1998 bombing of the U.S.
Embassy in downtown Nairobi killed 213 people.  Kenya’s government forecasts the economy will expand 5.6
percent in 2013, the fastest pace in six years, from 4.6 percent
last year.  The country may select lead advisers for the planned
dollar-denominated debt issuance as early as this week or next,
completing a process that began in June, Rotich said. Proceeds
from the sale will be used to settle a two-year, $600 million
loan agreed last year and pay for infrastructure projects
including roads and rail, according to the government.  Kenya’s long-term, foreign currency debt has been assigned
a B+ rating by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, four levels
below investment grade and on par with Zambia and  Cape Verde . It
has the equivalent B1 rating from Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net  