-- KKR, China Modern Dairy to Form China Milk Farm Ventures
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-24T07:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/kkr-china-modern-dairy-to-form-china-milk-farm-ventures.html
China Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117) ,
the nation’s largest raw-milk producer, and a company part-owned
by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  agreed to build two dairy farms together amid
government moves to strengthen  food safety .  Modern Dairy and Success Dairy, owned by a subsidiary of
KKR China Growth Fund L.P. and a fund of CDH China Management
Co., will respectively hold 18 percent and 82 percent of the
joint venture operating the farms, Modern Dairy said in a filing
today. The partners will invest a combined $140 million in the
next 18 months, they  said  in a separate statement.  The partnership will provide premium raw milk to consumers
in China as the government steps up scrutiny of food such as
 infant formula  after contaminated goods were found as recently
as last month. Formula makers need to own their milk sources and
have research and development capability, according to a draft
of new rules for the baby-milk industry published in August.  The joint-venture farms will initially buy 6,600 cows from
Modern Dairy, increasing to a total of 10,000 over two years,
the Maanshan, Anhui-based company said in an e-mail.  Modern Dairy, which will be responsible for the
partnership’s milk sales, may also buy back the farms in three
years under terms of the agreement.  Modern Dairy rose 0.3 percent to HK$2.99 as of 2:47 p.m. in
Hong Kong trading, headed for the highest closing price since
its initial share sale in November 2010. The stock has advanced
40 percent this year, compared with a 2.2 percent gain for the
city’s  Hang Seng Index .  Tainted Milk  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. recalled dairy products in
countries including China after saying Aug. 3 that whey protein
used in goods such as baby formula may have been tainted with
botulism-causing bacteria.  In December 2011, China’s General Administration of Quality
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine said it found above-standard amounts of a toxin in some  milk products  including a
batch from  China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319)  during a random inspection.
The company subsequently said it had destroyed the contaminated
products and will boost its quality control.  Mengniu agreed to buy 26.9 percent of Modern Dairy for
HK$3.18 billion ($410 million) in May this year to gain greater
control of milk supplies. A month later, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia-based Mengniu offered HK$12.5 billion to buy  Yashili
International Holdings Ltd. (1230) , a Chinese maker of infant formula.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  