-- Nairobians Return to Work, Donate Blood Amid Kenyan Mall Siege
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-09-24T11:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/nairobians-return-to-work-donate-blood-amid-kenyan-mall-siege.html
Nairobians got back to work,
donated blood and gave money to charity amid insecurity in the
Kenyan capital as a siege by Somalia-based Islamist militants of
an upscale mall in the city entered a fourth day.  The East African nation’s police said they’re close to
ending the standoff with al-Shabaab gunmen at the Westgate Mall
that began Sept. 21 and left at least 62 people dead. An unknown
number of people were taken hostage. The attack fulfills a
threat by the al-Qaeda-linked militia to retaliate for  Kenya ’s
deployment of troops two years ago in neighboring Somalia, where
al-Shabaab has been fighting to create an Islamic state.  “I know we are not safe, but life has to continue,” said
Hamdani Mbugua, a 32-year-old taxi driver who witnessed the
beginning of the attack at the mall after he dropped off a
client. “It is wrong for those terrorists to kill innocent
people. I think the government should continue fighting them in
Somalia and anywhere they are.”  Traffic jams were back to their usual volume as businesses
reopened and workers returned to their jobs today after many
stayed away yesterday. There was a visible increase in the
number of police officers and army soldiers patrolling the
streets and helicopters circled overhead.  Kenya deployed troops in  Somalia  in October 2011 to fight
al-Shabaab after blaming the militants for a series of
kidnappings and the murder of a British tourist in Kenya. Al-Shabaab, which has been battling Somalia’s government since at
least 2006, denied the accusations.  Closed Shops  “These guys may hit another place,” said Moses Githinji,
a student who was shopping at an adjacent complex when the
gunmen struck. “I think the government should concentrate on
our security here, instead of going to fight in Somalia.”  Shopping centers close to Westgate Mall remained closed
today. Roads around the mall were still cordoned off, while some
schools in the vicinity had been shut.  The mall is located in a wealthy suburb in western Nairobi
where high-rise apartments and office blocks are being built.
Casual construction workers including Tony Wandera, a resident
of the Nairobi slum of Kibera, were turned away in their search
for day jobs as police continued to battle the remaining gunmen
still inside the mall.  “The boss has said no job today, we check tomorrow,” he
said.  Residents of the city responded to the attack through acts
of goodwill. Food, water and blankets were given to victims of
the attack and rescue workers. At Uhuru Park on the edge of the
central business district, hundreds of people queued to donate
blood after an appeal by the  Kenya Red Cross  to help the more
than 200 people wounded in the attack.  Blood Donations  More than 3,400 units of blood have been given since the
exercise began countrywide on Sept. 22, the Kenya Red Cross said
on its website.  An appeal by Safaricom Ltd., East Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, for people to donate funds to help pay the
victims’ hospital bills raised 56.9 million shillings ($650,000)
since the siege began, according to its Twitter feed.  In the city center, dozens of people who gather on the
streets for daily discussions known as Bunge Ndongos, or small
parliament, voiced concern about the threat posed by the
militants.  “I am scared, even here on the street, let alone in a mall
or social gathering,” Charles Sind, a 35-year-old businessman
who works for a cleaning company, said in an interview. “I
don’t know what the attackers are going to hit next. I now have
to watch my movements and my family’s, so that we can feel a
little safe.”  Security Threat  Residents also questioned the effectiveness of the
government’s security apparatus after it failed to prevent the
attack. As many as 15 gunmen of different nationalities, armed
with hand grenades and machine guns, were involved in the
assault, according to the Interior Ministry.  The security situation in the country has worsened since
the election of Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta in March,
according to 46 percent of 2,000 respondents in an Ipsos-Synovate Kenya surveyed conducted in June.  “I hope after this, we will have a serious national
dialogue,” said Janson Oyugi, a water-policy expert based in
Nairobi. “Our intelligence service focuses all its efforts on
monitoring opposition politicians instead of ensuring security
within the borders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  