-- New York Life Agrees to Acquire Dexia Asset Management
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-25T10:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/new-york-life-agrees-to-acquire-dexia-asset-management.html
New York  Life Insurance Co., the
largest U.S. life insurer owned by policyholders, agreed to
acquire a  Dexia SA (DEXB)  unit for 380 million euros ($512 million) as
it expands its business of managing money for investors.  Dexia Asset Management oversees about $100 billion, and the
transaction will boost assets under management at New York Life
Investments to more than $480 billion, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  The deal “demonstrates our commitment to the global asset-management business which provides important earnings
diversification,” New York Life Chief Executive Officer Ted Mathas said in the statement.  Mathas is among insurance executives expanding in asset
management to increase fee income. New York Life struck a deal
last year to take a stake in Cornerstone Capital Management Inc.
Dexia, based in Paris and Brussels, is being  wound down  at the
expense of French and Belgian taxpayers.  The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is
expected to close on about Dec. 31, according to the statement.  New York Life is paying the same price that Dexia was set
to receive in its agreement with Hong Kong-based GCS Capital in
December last year, a transaction that fell through in July
because GCS wasn’t able to meet its payment obligations.  Dexia Asset Management, which gathers about 60 percent of
its assets from clients at Dexia’s former bank units in Belgium
and Luxembourg, had a carrying value of 300 million euros in the
company’s accounts at the end of June, according to its
 financial report .  A distribution agreement with Belfius Bank NV, the former
Belgian bank unit now owned by the country’s government, was
renewed in March for at least 6 years. Banque Internationale a
Luxembourg SA, the former Dexia unit in Luxembourg, also agreed
to retain Dexia AM as its preferred partner for asset management
for 6 years starting in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  