-- N.Y. Task Force Seeks Laws to Fight 21st-Century Crimes
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-09-24T18:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/new-york-state-recommends-changes-to-fraud-corruption-laws.html
New York  needs to update state laws
dating from 1986 to better prosecute white-collar criminals,
according to a special task force report released by Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.  Current laws predate the Internet, social media and e-commerce and can’t keep pace with increasingly sophisticated
frauds, Vance said today at New York University’s Center for the
Administration of Criminal Law. Proposals include expanding the
definition of larceny to cover the theft of software and
personal identifying information, and eliminating a requirement
that schemes to defraud target more than one victim.  “The Internet has become our 21st-century crime scene,”
Vance said, noting that the most recent overhaul of New York’s
penal code dates from the invention of Xerox Corp.’s first fax
machine.  For example, old definitions of larceny don’t cover theft
by duplication, a common means of stealing computer code, Vance
said. The  task force  recommends expanding the definition of
“computer material” to let prosecutors target hacking into
another person’s private e-mail or webcam, and combat using
computers to spy on unwitting victims.  Criminal law in New York State has been mostly unchanged
since 1965, and the last notable alterations to white-collar
crime enforcement were made in 1986, leaving fraud and
corruption laws antiquated, Vance’s office has said.  State Legislature  The task force, convened almost a year ago, includes
district attorneys, academics and defense lawyers. Their
recommendations will be presented to the governor and the state
Legislature for consideration in the 2014 January session. Aside
from cybercrime, today’s report targets four main areas: fraud,
elder fraud, public corruption and procedural reforms.  Punishment guidelines for fraud should be graduated so that
more serious schemes are tied to longer sentences, according to
the report. Under current law, a criminal who attempts to
defraud victims of $2 will be punished the same as someone who
attempts to swindle them of $2,000.  Some of the changes would help combat what the Securities
Investor Protection Corp. estimates is $10 billion to
$40 billion a year in U.S. investment fraud.  Because New York is home to the third-largest elder
population in the U.S., new laws should make it harder for
criminals who get “technical consent” to take assets from
elderly victims in poor physical or mental health, according to
the report.  ‘Meaningfully Consent’  Prosecutors should be able to make a case that victims may
have been unable to “meaningfully consent,” said Frank. A Sedita III, Erie County district attorney and the task force’s
co-chairman.  Public corruption should be subject to stronger anti-bribery measures and a new law of “undisclosed self-dealing by
public servants,” according to the task force. That would make
it a crime for a public servant to have a secret interest in a
government business above a certain threshold, such as owning
property through a shell company that’s involved in public
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 