-- NFL Cardinals Safety May Play Versus Bucs After Losing Fingertip
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/nfl-cardinals-safety-may-play-versus-bucs-after-losing-fingertip.html
Arizona  Cardinals safety Rashad Johnson may play this weekend against the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
after a freak injury that severed the tip of the middle finger
on his left hand and left the bone exposed.  Johnson, in his fifth National Football League season out
of the  University of Alabama , said his hand went numb after he
attempted to tackle Darren Sproles of the  New Orleans Saints  on
a punt return two days ago. Johnson’s hand was bloody as he ran
to the sideline and he said his fingertip, including the nail,
remained in his glove when it was removed by a team doctor.  Johnson, 27, underwent surgery and had the wound stitched
up, though the fingertip wasn’t re-attached.  “I’m not even sure how it happened,” Johnson  told
reporters . “If I had to take a guess, I would say it dug into
the turf and then kind of snapped and broke that way. The glove
wasn’t torn or ripped, so that makes me think it didn’t get
caught on a face mask or a cleat stepped on it.”  Johnson said whether or not he plays in this week’s game
against the Buccaneers will depend on his pain tolerance and the
risk of infection in his finger.  “A big part of it is infection because the bone was
exposed when I pulled it out of the glove,” Johnson said. “The
pain tolerance as well, but the infection will probably be the
number one thing that decides if I play or not.”  Johnson has 13 tackles in the first three regular-season
games for the Cardinals, who have a 1-2 record.  “It’s a different injury,” Johnson said. “We hear about
ACLs, shoulder separations, things like that, but for somebody
to lose a part of their finger, that’s something you can’t go
put back on. It’s gone. It’s something that I’ll have to adjust
to, but at the end of the day. I’ve got nine more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  