-- Crude Climbs on Stockpiles as Copper Gains; Kiwi Weakens
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-09-25T01:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/nikkei-futures-rise-as-dollar-holds-gains-crude-rebounds.html
Crude oil snapped a four-day
decline on speculation U.S. stockpiles fell last week, while
copper rebounded. Asian stocks slipped a second day as the  New
Zealand dollar  and South Korean won retreated.  West Texas Intermediate crude climbed 0.2 percent to
$103.32 a barrel by 10:01 a.m. in Tokyo, after sliding almost 5
percent over the past four sessions. Copper rose for the first
time in four days. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent
as Japanese stocks dropped and Australian shares rallied.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures  were little changed after
the gauge lost 0.3 percent in New York. New Zealand’s dollar and
the won weakened at least 0.3 percent versus the greenback.  A private survey showed  China’s economy  slowed this
quarter, as investor  Jim Chanos  told a conference in New York he
isn’t convinced by the nation’s improving fundamentals. The
Philippines publishes trade data, Taiwan posts export orders and
Vietnam issues gross domestic product figures today. U.S. crude
inventories may have declined to an 18-month low last week,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts before today’s
Energy Information Administration report.  “There’s good support for prices at these levels, and the
data is the trigger for them to go higher,”  Jonathan Barratt ,
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in Sydney, said by
phone today, referring to  oil prices . “A lot of the  risk
premium  we saw earlier in the month has come off as tensions in
the  Middle East  abate, and now the market’s all about supply and
demand. And with inventories expected to show a fall, we could
see prices rise.”  Brent crude futures and gasoline contracts both rose 0.1
percent, while natural gas futures added 0.3 percent.  API Report  U.S. oil supplies fell 54,000 barrels last week, according
to the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute . WTI dropped
to the lowest close in eight weeks yesterday on speculation
President Obama may have contact with Iran’s Hassan Rohani at
the  United Nations General Assembly  in New York, stoking
speculation of a thawing in relations. WTI is up 7 percent in
the third quarter.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange jumped 0.4 percent, rising from a one-week low.
Aluminum and zinc increased 0.3 percent and rubber futures due
in February slipped 0.7 percent.  Soybean futures extended gains into a second day, rising
0.3 percent on signs rain in the U.S. Midwest failed to bolster
crops in the world’s biggest producing nation. Corn futures
added 0.2 percent and wheat climbed 0.3 percent.  Japan’s Topix Index fell 0.3 percent, while  Tokyo Electron
Ltd. (8035)  surged by the exchange limit after  Applied Materials inc. (AMAT) 
agreed to buy it for $9.39 billion in stock. The Kospi Index in
Seoul slipped 0.6 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index halted
a three-day drop to gain 0.5 percent, led by technology and
consumer stocks.  Fed ‘Juice’  While the U.S. will release data on durable goods orders
and new home sales today, investors are looking to the Oct. 4
payrolls report for clues on the timeline for reductions in
monetary stimulus after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly left
the program intact last week.  “If the Fed is going to continue to juice these markets
ultimately they are going to continue to go higher,”  Jim Bianco , president of Bianco Research LLC in Chicago, told
Bloomberg TV. “It doesn’t mean the economy gets better but the
markets can definitely go higher, with a lot more more
volatility than we’ve usually seen.”  Price Swings  Ten-day volatility  on MSCI’s Asia Pacific gauge climbed to
12.685, the highest level since Sept. 9. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average Volatility Index jumped a second day, rising 0.7 percent
in Japan.  The Fed’s quantitative easing program may be pared later
this year “if the economy were behaving in a way aligned with
the Fed’s June forecast,” Fed Bank of New York President
William C. Dudley said in an interview with CNBC. “I certainly
wouldn’t want to rule it out. But it depends on the data.”  The number of workers on non-farm payrolls in the U.S. will
rise by 177,000 for September, after gaining 169,000 in August,
the Labor Department may say next week, according to the median
of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg in a survey of economists.
Most economists in a separate poll Sept. 18-19 said they expect
the Fed to taper its bond buying program in December after
unexpectedly leaving it unchanged last week.  Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index added 0.2 percent in
their most recent trading session, while contracts on the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index climbed 0.4 percent. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in New
York dropped 1 percent as wireless carrier American depositary
receipts slumped.  Beige Book  U.S.-based China  Beige Book  International said yesterday
Chinese  expansion  has slowed since June as growth in
manufacturing and transportation weakened, according to a Aug.
12 to Sept. 4 survey of 2,000 people as well as interviews.  Chanos, founder of Kynikos Associates Ltd., said at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York that he isn’t convinced
by signs of improvement in China’s economy and is maintaining
bets on declines in the nation’s banks.  Jim O’Neill , former
chief economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on the same
panel that the economy will double in five years to $16 trillion
as China’s leaders are capable of reining in the housing and
loan markets.  New Zealand’s currency, dubbed the kiwi, weakened 0.4
percent to 82.52 U.S. cents after sliding 1.1 percent yesterday
in its biggest one-day tumble since Aug. 21. The South Pacific
nation’s trade deficit widened to NZ$1.191 billion in August,
more than the NZ$700 million gap predicted by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Exports also fell more than projected,
government data today showed.  Won, Ringgit  The won dropped the first day this week, losing 0.3 percent
to 1,075.70 per dollar, as Malaysia’s ringgit slipped a fourth
day, depreciating 0.3 percent to 3.2246 a dollar, set for the
weakest close since Sept. 18.  The yen was little changed at 98.66 per dollar, after
strengthening 0.7 percent the past three days. Japan’s currency
is up 0.5 percent versus the greenback this quarter. The
Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against
10 major peers, was steady after gaining 0.2 percent yesterday.  Yields on 10-year  U.S. Treasuries  were little changed at
2.66 percent, after falling a third day yesterday. Similar
maturity  Australian bonds  rose a second day, pushing yields down
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.88 percent.  Budget Bunfight  Investors are also watching the debate in Washington over
spending cuts as  Senate Democrats  offered a new proposal to fund
the U.S. government through Nov. 15.  Hardening positions on the  federal budget  and borrowing
limit, and recent political setbacks suffered by both President
 Barack Obama  and Republican congressional leaders as they go
into the fight, are raising the odds of a government shutdown,
debt default or near-miss that could roil markets.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, who spoke yesterday at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit, repeated that Obama won’t negotiate
with Republicans on increasing the $16.7 trillion ceiling on the
nation’s borrowing authority.  “I think that if you look at the calm out there, which I
think is a bit greater than it should be, there’s a sense that
2011 was a terrible experience, and nobody would do that
again,” Lew said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma O’Brien in Wellington at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Singapore at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  