-- Nokia, Marvell, Nirma, Mondelez: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-24T11:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/nokia-marvell-nirma-mondelez-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish company
selling its handset business to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , won a mixed
ruling in the first round of its U.S. patent-infringement fight
against Taiwanese phone maker  HTC Corp. (2498)   HTC violated two Nokia patent rights, while no infringement
was found on another patent, U.S. International Trade Commission
Judge Thomas Pender said in a notice posted yesterday on the
Washington agency’s website. The judge’s findings are subject to
a review by the six-member commission, which has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents and is
scheduled to make a final decision by Jan. 23.  The judge found that HTC violated Nokia’s patents for a way
to remove errors in radio signals and another for a process to
deal with different radio frequencies. No violation was found on
a third Nokia patent for a way to transmit data from a computer
to a mobile phone, which  Google Inc. (GOOG)  helped Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC challenge.  Nokia had long been the world’s biggest maker of mobile
phones before losing its 14-year title to Samsung Electronics
Co. in 2011. It has sought to use patent licensing to recoup
some of the money it spent on phone innovations. Those patents
will stay with Nokia after it sells its handset business and
licenses its technology to Microsoft Corp. for $7.2 billion.  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia had accused HTC of infringing
nine patents related to mobile phones when it filed the
complaint in May 2012.  While Pender found that a domestic industry existed in the
U.S. to be violated in the first two Nokia patents, he ruled
that there was none regarding the patent claim targeting
Android.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices,
Including Mobile Phones and Tablet Computers, 337-847, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Marvell Fails to Overturn $1.2 Billion Verdict  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  failed to overturn a $1.17
billion verdict it lost last year to  Carnegie Mellon  University
after a judge said it deserved to pay for deliberately
infringing patents for hard-disk drives.  U.S. District Judge Nora Barry Fischer in Pittsburgh
yesterday denied Marvell’s request for a new trial on either
liability or damages, and agreed with Carnegie Mellon’s argument
that the jury’s award should be increased because it found
willful infringement. The judge said she would issue a further
opinion later. The verdict was the fourth-biggest patent
decision in U.S. history, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The jury said Marvell intentionally infringed two Carnegie
Mellon patents for a way to more accurately detect data from
computer hard-disk drives. The university claimed Marvell knew
of its inventions and intentionally incorporated the technology
in its chips for computers and  mobile phones  for more than a
decade.  “There was adequate evidence upon which a reasonable jury
could properly find a verdict in favor of CMU,” the judge said
on infringement. She also rejected Marvell’s invalidity
arguments and said the damage award, while large, isn’t
disproportionate since it was based on more than $10.3 billion
in Marvell sales.  Fischer also upheld the finding that Marvell knew about the
university patents and went ahead with its designs anyway. The
company’s “bad facts and even worse litigation strategy were
fatal to its cause,” the judge said.  “At one point in trial, the court observed two out of
Marvell’s three experts sound asleep for a period of time,” the
judge said. “In all likelihood, the jury made the same
observation.”  The judge has yet to rule on Marvell’s argument that the
university took too long to file the suit, which could lower the
damage award, or on Carnegie Mellon’s request for either an
order blocking further use of its inventions or a payment
schedule for future royalties.  In a Sept. 5 regulatory filing, Marvell said it doesn’t
believe a material loss is probable, and that “there are strong
grounds for appeal.”  The case is  Carnegie Mellon University  v. Marvell
Technology Group Ltd., 09cv290, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  CalTech Sues OmniVision Over Patents for Phone-Camera Sensors  California Institute of Technology  sued imaging-chip maker
 OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  for allegedly infringing patents
covering sensors used in cameras contained in mobile devices.  OmniVision, based in Santa Clara,  California , knowingly
infringed eight patents, some of which had previously been
covered by license agreements, according to the complaint filed
Sept. 20 in federal court in  Delaware .  The Pasadena, California-based university asked the court
for money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs, as well
as an order barring further infringement. CalTech said
OmniVision’s infringing sensors are included in products made by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , neither of which are parties to the
suit.  OmniVision didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is California Institute of Technology v.
OmniVision Technologies Inc., 1:13-cv-01589-UNA, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  UMG Takedown Requests Halt ‘Charming Charlie’ Tumblr Postings  Universal Music Group Inc.’s takedown requests under the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act are “increasing every hour,”
according to a user of Yahoo! Inc.’s Tumblr microblogging site.  The blogger’s “ This Charming Charlie ” site presented a
mash-up of images from Charles M. Schultz’s “Peanuts” comic
strip and music from the now-defunct ’80s  rock band  The Smiths.  Lauren LoPrete, the graphic designer who created “This
Charming Charlie,” is herself a music producer, running the
 Loglady  label,  she said  on her Tumblr site.  In her most recent Charming Charlie post, LoPrete said
simply “I know it’s over.”  The fight may not be completely over. LoPrete later
 responded  to a query from the Motherboard tech news website,
saying she had received a “flood of offers” from lawyers
specializing in Internet law who said they are willing to take
on her representation pro bono and challenge UMG’s takedown
requests.  BBC, Welsh Music Group Go to Copyright Tribunal Over Royalties  A dispute over fees paid to Welsh musicians, publishers and
composers by the British Broadcasting Corp. will be handled by a
copyright tribunal, the  BBC   reported .  Eos , the agency representing the Welsh music interests, is
seeking an increase in annual royalty payments from 120,000
British pounds ($193,000) to 1.5 million pounds, according to
the BBC.  The Welsh group was formed after the British performing
rights society reduced its royalty payments in 2007, causing
some affected Welsh-language musicians to lose as much as 85
percent of their income, the BBC reported.  The BBC said it has given Eos an interim annual license fee
as well as 35,000 pounds for it to use for legal representation
before the tribunal.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Nirma Fails to Block Nirmal’s Indian Trademark Registration  Nirma Ltd., a maker of detergents and industrial products
from Ahmedabad, India, has lost its bid to block Indian
trademark registrations by Nirmal Industrial Controls Pvt. Ltd.
of Mumbai,  according to  the Times of India.  Nirma had registered “Nirma” as a trademark for a range
of categories including metal goods, the newspaper reported.  After Nirma blocked Nirmal’s registrations, the Mumbai-based company asked India’s  Intellectual Property  Appellate
Board to remove the Nirma registration for metal goods,
according to the Times.  The board found that Nirma wasn’t using the mark for this
class of goods, accused the company of “excessive monopolistic
problems, and canceled the Nirma mark for metal goods, while
leaving it in place for other categories, the newspaper
reported.  Cadbury Loses Bid to Block Whittaker’s ‘Berry Forest’ Mark  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) ’s Cadbury unit lost its bid to
block a trademark registration by its New Zealand rival
 Whittaker ’s, Fairfax New Zealand News website  reported.   Cadbury had claimed Whittaker’s ‘‘Berry Forest’ trademark
for a chocolate bar was too close to its ‘‘Black Forest” mark,
also used for chocolate, according to the news website.  The mark used by Whittaker’s -- founded 117 years ago by a
former Cadbury’s apprentice -- called to mind a forest of
berries, while the Cadbury name had the association of black
forest cake, the trademark examiner found and Fairfax News
Zealand News reported.  The examiner said the two marks differed sufficiently
visually, aurally and conceptually to allow the Whittaker’s
trademark registration to go forward, according to Fairfax News
New Zealand.  Harper Lee’s ‘Mockingbird’ Trademark Opposed by  Alabama  Museum  Harper Lee, author of the iconic novel “To Kill a
Mockingbird,” has until Sept. 28 to respond to objections filed
to her application to register the book’s name as a trademark
for clothing.  Lee filed her application to register the mark in September
2012, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office . The objection was filed by the Monroe County Heritage
Museum Inc. of Monroeville, Alabama.  The museum has a site in a courtroom in the Old Monroe
County Courthouse specifically  devoted to Lee’s novel . That
courtroom is the setting for the trial that is the heart of “To
Kill a Mockingbird.” According to the museum, the courtroom was
“carefully recreated on a Hollywood sound stage” for the trial
scenes in the 1962 film based on the novel.  The museum said its gift shop sells  items related to the
novel , including “ dozens of custom items available ONLY in
Monroeville.”  Harper Lee’s copyright suit against her former literary
agent for allegedly depriving her of royalties from her novel
about racial issues in Alabama was dismissed Sept. 11.  Lee agreed to terminate the suit against her former agent,
Samuel Pinkus, and other defendants, according to a federal
court filing in Manhattan. No details of the agreement were
disclosed.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  