-- Northrop Boosts Spending as Congress Stands by Its Drone
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-09-24T18:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/northrop-boosts-spending-as-congress-stands-by-its-drone.html
Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  tripled its
political giving and increased spending on lobbying as it fended
off Obama administration efforts to cut spending for a version
of its Global Hawk surveillance drone.  The defense contractor’s political action committee made
$1.3 million in federal campaign donations during the first six
months of 2013. That was second only to  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  and three times the $372,000 contributed during the same
period two years ago, Federal Election Commission reports show.
Northrop spent $9.3 million to lobby from January to June, up
from $8.6 million in the first half of 2012, according to U.S.
Senate filings.  At the same time Northrop is boosting its Capitol Hill
advocacy, U.S. lawmakers are considering rejecting, for the
second consecutive year, the administration’s effort to reduce
funding for the Global Hawk version known as Block 30. The
Defense Department said the unmanned surveillance aircraft isn’t
“affordable in an austere budget environment” and that
upgraded models of the 58-year-old  U-2 spy plane  can fly the
missions.  “There doesn’t appear to be any other pending issues that
would cause such a dramatic change in campaign contribution
behavior” by Northrop, the fifth-biggest Pentagon contractor,
said  Craig Holman , who lobbies for stricter campaign-finance
laws for the Washington-based advocacy group  Public Citizen .
“There’s too much at stake. Their campaign contribution
patterns reflect that.”  PAC Donations  Mark Root, a spokesman for  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Northrop, declined to comment on specific donations or why the
company’s PAC spending increased. He said the PAC contributes to
members of both parties who sit on congressional committees of
interest to the company or who represent districts with Northrop
facilities.  Congress’s support of the Global Hawk drones shows how
lawmakers are standing by favored weapons systems even when the
Pentagon says the hardware must be eliminated or reduced in a
time of declining funds. The automatic budget cuts known as
sequestration call for reducing  defense spending  by $500 billion
over a decade.  Defense officials also have tried and failed to persuade
Congress to cut funding for the Bradley Fighting Vehicle from
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and cancel upgrades of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s
M-1 tank.  ‘Parochial Pork’  “It’s fine to cut when you’re talking about the top line,
but when it comes to parochial pork, lawmakers are still lining
up to defend it,” said  Steve Ellis , vice president of Taxpayers
for Common Sense, a Washington-based advocacy group that
supports cuts in spending. “The Pentagon’s never been bashful
about wanting everything under the sun. So when they say they
don’t need something, Congress should take notice and cut.”  One of the Global Hawk’s champions is Representative Jim Moran of  Virginia , a senior Democrat on the House Appropriations
defense subcommittee, whose district includes Northrop’s
headquarters. He said the decision to keep funding the Global
Hawk was made on the merits, not on the basis of lobbying and
campaign contributions.  “Some folks would like to think everything is political,”
Moran said in an interview. “This is more about policy. We need
to be on the cutting edge of technology.”  Global Hawk  Northrop is developing a successor to the Block 30 version
of the Global Hawk, which can stay airborne for 32 hours and has
been used to support U.S. troops in Afghanistan and  Iraq . The
unmanned aircraft flies intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance missions over large areas.  The Global Hawk’s Block 30 version  has “fundamentally
priced itself out of our ability to afford it when the U-2 gives
in some cases a better capability and in some cases just a
slightly less capable platform,” Army General Martin Dempsey
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the House Armed
Services Committee in February 2012.  The administration said in its fiscal 2014 budget request
that ending Global Hawk purchases would save $2.5 billion over
five years. The  Air Force  also proposed putting into storage the
18 drones it had already bought after spending $3.4 billion to
develop and build them.  Instead, Congress last year required the Pentagon to
continue buying the Global Hawk Block 30, as would pending
legislation for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1.  “The Air Force continues to support the U-2 as the
platform of choice,” Acting Air Force Secretary Eric Fanning
said Sept. 16 at the Air Force Association’s Air and Space
Conference at National Harbor in  Maryland .  Defense Measures  The House defense spending bill for the fiscal year
beginning Oct. 1 instructs the Air Force to spend money
previously approved to buy three more Global Hawk drones and to
submit a plan for following that requirement within 90 days
after the measure is signed into law. The Senate version also
requires the Air Force to buy the drones.  The House in June separately approved legislation requiring
the Pentagon maintain the fleet through Dec. 31, 2016.  “The Global Hawk spans much more territory, it’s more
efficient, it’s unmanned and it’s the technology of the
future,” Moran said. “The U-2 has been around since I was a
kid. Any system that is as old as I am needs to be replaced.”
Moran is 68 years old.  Northrop Grumman employees this year gave more money to
members of the House Armed Services Committee than did those at
any other company, donating $306,450 to their campaign
committees and leadership PACs, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
analyzes donations. Employees of  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell were second with $202,539.  McKeon’s Support  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican, joined Moran in complaining to
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel that the Air Force was delaying
the congressionally mandated drone purchases.  “The Air Force has continued to ignore clear congressional
intent,” the lawmakers wrote May 13.  McKeon received $14,600 from company executives on June 29,
according to a computer-assisted analysis of FEC reports done by
 Bloomberg News . Moran received $15,600 from Northrop Grumman
executives on April 3.  Northrop Grumman employees have given $190,200 to McKeon’s
campaigns since 1991, more than any other donor, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics. John Noonan, a McKeon
spokesman, declined to comment.  Lobbying Expenditures  Northrop’s lobbying expenditures during the first six
months of 2013 were its largest in five years, Senate filings
show. Of the 17 people registered to lobby for Northrop on
Global Hawk, 13 previously worked on  Capitol Hill , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “These are the folks with the understanding of how
 Washington , and specifically Capitol Hill, works and even more
importantly, the connections,” said  Sheila Krumholz ,  executive
director  for the Center for Responsive Politics.  The pending defense bills are H.R. 2397, H.R. 1960 and S.
1429.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  