-- Loans Risk Fueling Debt Tinderbox Under Economy: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-09-24T06:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/loans-risk-fueling-debt-tinderbox-under-economy-turkey-credit.html
The Turkish central bank’s pledge
to keep interest rates low is fueling a credit boom,
perpetuating a debt-driven economic-growth model that Deputy
Prime Minister Ali Babacan says is undesirable.  Lending to households jumped 28 percent and rose 41 percent
for businesses in the year to Sept. 13, the banking regulator in
Ankara said yesterday. That compares with less than 4 percent
for households and companies in  Poland  in the year to June 20,
and 12 percent for companies and 33 percent for individuals in
 Russia  for the year to Aug. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Turkey was the fastest  growing  major economy in
Europe at 4.4 percent in the second quarter, industry and
exports need to be drivers rather than domestic consumption and
government spending, Babacan said in a speech at the Istanbul
Finance Summit Sept. 18. Central bank Governor Erdem Basci cut
the average  cost of funding  for banks to 6.1 percent last week,
or 1.1 percentage points below August  inflation .  “The risk is consuming while production is weak -- getting
more and more in debt,” Haydar Acun, managing director of
Sardis Securities in Istanbul, said by e-mail yesterday. “One
day -- boom -- you can have large-scale bankruptcies in a
chain.”  Turkey  has the fourth-lowest proportion of non-performing
loans in Europe, after Finland, Austria and Luxembourg, at 2.76
percent of all borrowing, according to July data compiled by
Bloomberg. Even so, total bad debt has jumped 24 percent to 27.5
billion liras ($13.8 billion) in the past year.  Warning Sign  The 30 percent increase in lending in the past year is
double the central bank’s 15 percent target. The amount
outstanding climbed to 986 billion liras from 805 billion liras
at the end of 2012, according to the banking regulator. Gross
domestic product was $786 billion at the end of last year.  Turkey’s lending as a proportion of GDP poses risks,
according to William Jackson, an economist at Capital Economics
in  London .  “A rise in the credit-to-GDP ratio of 3 percentage points
over a year is a warning sign,” Jackson said by e-mail
yesterday, citing International Monetary Fund reports. “In
Turkey, we estimate that credit-to-GDP rose by 4 percentage
points simply between the first and second quarters of this
year.”  While Turkish banks are capitalized enough to withstand a
substantial deterioration in bad loans, “the Turkish credit
numbers do look worrying,” Jackson said.  Stimulus Measures  Even as the central bank keeps a lid on domestic lending
rates, banks are being charged more to borrow on international
capital markets by investors, who are monitoring the Federal
Reserve as it prepares to taper its stimulus measures. The yield
on dollar bonds due September 2022 from  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
AS (GARAN) , the country’s largest lender, rose to 6.4 percent yesterday
from 5.1 percent a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  yield  on Turkey’s 10-year government notes rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage points, to 8.98 percent
yesterday, the third-highest in major  emerging markets , behind
India and  Brazil . The cost to insure Turkish debt against non-payment using credit default swaps was 187 basis points,
compared with 162 a year ago.  The central bank’s guidance for 15 percent loan expansion
was based on an assumption of “balanced growth in which net
exports contributed,” Seyfettin Gursel, an economist at
Bahcesehir University in Istanbul, said by telephone yesterday.
That didn’t happen as Europe remained in recession and Turkey
failed to gain through competitiveness, he said.  Babacan’s focus is “at least giving a message to his
government by reminding them of the need for structural
reforms,” Gursel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  