-- Obama Says Iran Must Match Words With Verifiable Action
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-09-24T22:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/obama-says-iran-overtures-must-be-matched-by-verifiable-action.html
President  Barack Obama  welcomed
overtures from Iran as a chance to diplomatically resolve the
confrontation over the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program,
even as Iranian officials told the U.S. that the time isn’t
right for direct contact between the two countries’ leaders.  The U.S. is “encouraged” that Iranian President Hassan Rohani was given a mandate in his election to pursue a more
moderate course and that may provide a basis for a “meaningful
agreement” on the nuclear issue, Obama said in an address to
the United Nations in which he also sought to justify the broad
U.S. role in world affairs.  “Conciliatory words will have to be matched by actions
that are transparent and verifiable,” Obama told other leaders
today in New York. “The roadblocks may prove to be too great,
but I firmly believe the diplomatic path must be tested.”  Iranian officials rejected a possible informal encounter
between Obama and Rohani while both leaders were at the UN today
because of domestic political considerations, an administration
official told reporters later. U.S. contacts will be handled
through talks led by Secretary of State John Kerry, according to
the official, who asked not to be identified to discuss the
negotiations.  In his own address to the General Assembly, Rohani said his
nation is ready to engage in “result-oriented” talks on the
nuclear program while offering no concessions. He called  Iran ’s
goals peaceful and said nuclear weapons have no place in his
country’s doctrine.  Core Interests  Obama focused his speech on the Middle East, including the
civil war in Syria and the Israel-Palestinian peace process. He
vowed the U.S. will use all means necessary, including military
force, to protect its “core interests” in the region and
ensure the free flow of energy to the world.  He called on the UN to apply meaningful pressure on the
regime in Syria to follow through on its promise to surrender
its chemical weapons. Iran and Russia, Syria’s main allies, must
recognize that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad cannot remain in
power if the civil war is to be resolved by political means,
Obama said.  Any notion that  Syria  can return to the status quo before
the civil war erupted is “a fantasy,” he said.  The president’s speech laid out his foreign policy
priorities for the remainder of his presidency, placing two
issues -- curbing Iran’s nuclear program and Israel-Palestinian
peace -- at the top of the U.S. agenda.  Progress Signaled  “Real breakthroughs on these two issues --- Iran’s nuclear
program and the Arab-Israeli conflict -- would have a profound
and positive impact on the entire Middle East and North
Africa,” Obama said.  The address came at a time when there are signs of progress
on those long-stalled issues. After years of little
communication with Iran, a new leader is signaling that he’d
welcome talks with Obama and other U.S. officials. Russia has
joined with the U.S. in negotiations to eradicate Syria’s
chemical weapons stockpiles. And  Israel  and the Palestinians
have resumed U.S.-brokered peace talks.  The U.S. relationship with Iran has taken center stage at
the UN meeting. Both Obama, 52, and Iran’s Rohani, 64, have
indicated an interest in closing a three-decade-old rupture
between the two countries. Iran has the world’s fourth-largest
proven  oil reserves .  Staff Discussions  During staff-level discussions between the two governments,
the U.S. indicated that Obama was open to some personal contact
with Rohani, though no formal meeting was envisioned, according
to the administration official. The Iranians told the U.S. today
that would cause complications domestically, the official said.  Speculation about a thaw in U.S.-Iran relations helped push
oil prices lower. West Texas Intermediate crude for November
delivery declined 46 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $103.13 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
July 30.  Obama said he has directed Kerry to pursue talks with the
Iranian government on resolving the nuclear standoff, in
coordination with the European Union as well as the other
permanent members of the Security Council plus  Germany .  He said Iran’s past behavior is responsible for the
economic sanctions that have hobbled the country’s economy.  A Carnegie Endowment for International Peace report
estimated in April that sanctions had cost Iran more than $100
billion in lost foreign investment and oil revenue. The country,
historically the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi Arabia, has slipped
to sixth place.  ‘Soothing Words’  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is scheduled
to meet with Obama on Sept. 30 at the White House, is urging
caution in dealing with Iran.  “Iran thinks that soothing words and token actions will
enable it to continue on its path to the bomb,” Netanyahu said
in an e-mailed statement today.  On Syria, Obama repeated the U.S. case that Assad’s
government is responsible for the chemical attack last month
outside Damascus that killed hundreds of people.  He said the UN must adopt a strong resolution that will
verify that Assad is keeping the commitment he made in a deal
brokered by  Russia  to disclose and give up chemical weapons.  “If we cannot agree even on this, then it will show that
the UN is incapable of enforcing the most basic of international
laws,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  