-- Oil-Tanker Hiring Signals Libya Export Gain as BP, Total Charter
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-09-24T15:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/oil-tanker-hiring-signals-libya-export-gain-as-bp-total-charter.html
Oil companies  including  BP Plc (BP/)  and
Total SA booked eight tankers to load Libyan crude, a signal
exports from the North African country are poised to accelerate
after at least three months of disruption.  Europe’s second- and third-largest oil companies were among
traders who hired eight tankers to collect more than 5 million
barrels from the nation’s ports this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from four shipbrokers including Poten &
Partners in New York and Galbraith’s Ltd. in London.  Libya ’s
production plunged to 150,000 barrels a day at the start of this
month, from 1.4 million barrels a day in April, the
 International Energy Agency  said Sept. 12.  Brent oil,  Europe ’s benchmark, rose 19 percent from April
to August as unrest in the country with Africa’s largest oil
reserves led to cargoes being canceled as well as stopping
operations at ports and oil fields. Crude output has recovered
to more than 600,000 barrels a day and all the fields in the
west of the country are producing, Sliman Qajam, the deputy head
of the parliament’s energy committee, said Sept. 22.  “Returning production is bearish for  oil prices  as the
amount of oil is increasing,” Gareth Lewis-Davies, a London-based energy strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said by phone, adding
that shipments are still disrupted from the east of the country.
“The fact it’s from these  oil fields  in the West is significant
as it’s where the government has greatest control.”  Victoria Chanial, a Paris-based spokeswoman for Total, and
Toby Odone, a London-based spokesman for BP, both declined to
comment. Repsol also booked one vessel. Kristian Rix, a Madrid-based spokesman for the company, declined to comment.  Million Barrels  The eight tankers comprise two Suezmaxes able to hold 1
million barrels of crude each and six Aframaxes that would haul
about 600,000 barrels. One vessel was booked to load part of its
cargo in Libya and another part in Egypt, according to the
reports. One of the cargoes is condensate, fuel that’s produced
during oil extraction and is equivalent to extra-light crude.  Brokers report charters at the provisional stage, meaning
the bookings are sometimes canceled. Traders sometimes hire
vessels when they are competing to win tenders and will not
proceed with the booking if they don’t win the cargo.  The Libyan ports of Es Sider, Ras Lanuf, Hariga and
Zueitina were closed  as of Sept. 19, while Brega, Zawiya,
Mellitah, Al Jurf and Bouri were operational, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  