-- Toll CEO Says Contracts Flat as Buyers Digest Rate Rise
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-09-24T21:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/toll-ceo-says-contracts-flat-as-buyers-digest-rate-rise.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  Chief Executive
Officer Douglas Yearley said business is flat seven weeks into
the homebuilder’s fourth quarter as buyers are temporarily
holding back after an abrupt rise in mortgage rates.  “The move from 3.5 percent to 4.75 percent happened so
quickly,” Yearley said in a panel discussion at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit in New York today. “There were some buyers
that had to digest it.”  Orders slowed in the fiscal third quarter for  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
and  KB Home (KBH) , the homebuilders reported today, in a sign that
rising mortgage rates are cooling demand. For Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based Toll, the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
the flat  sales (NHSLTOT)  in recent weeks follow a strong comparison to a
year ago, Yearley said.  The number of contracts signed to sell  new homes  dropped 13
percent in the U.S. in July from June, according to the Commerce
Department. The  median price  gained at an 8.3 percent pace from
a year earlier, slower than the prior month’s 11 percent
increase and less than half of April’s 18 percent jump.  Sales probably increased 6.6 percent in August, according
to the median estimate of 77 economists. The Commerce Department
is due to report the figures tomorrow.  Homebuilders had been some of the biggest winners from the
 Federal Reserve ’s efforts to push down borrowing costs to record
lows, with a Bloomberg stock  index  of 14 companies more than
doubling in 2012. The gauge was little changed in the three
months through today as 30-year  mortgage rates  jumped from a
near-record low of 3.35 percent in May to 4.57 percent at the
beginning of September, according to  Freddie Mac .  Rate ‘Pause’  Rates dropped to 4.5 percent in the week ended Sept. 19,
and may fall further after the Fed’s decision not to curb its
purchases of bonds.  “The market is digesting and accepting that and
understanding that it’s still a great rate,” Yearley said. “We
are going through a little bit of a pause here where the builder
numbers are a little bit flat, but we still feel that it will be
just fine.”  Strict mortgage-lending standards and a scarcity of
available land means the U.S. will see fewer homes  constructed 
than the 1.5 million built annually before the housing crash,
Yearley said. Toll Brothers and other publicly traded builders
have been able to increase their earnings amid tight supplies of
existing homes on the market and rising demand from buyers.  “So many people want to either own their first home or
move up,” Yearley said.  Commercial Deals  Among commercial properties, a rise in  interest rates 
hasn’t been “abrupt” enough to undermine the high prices paid
for recent deals, said Richard Lefrak, chairman of property firm
Lefrak Organization, which owns more than 400 buildings.  “If we saw rates normalize and long term rates will jump
to 6, 7, 8 percent, a lot of the transactions that happened in
the last 24 months will be trashed,” he said at the conference.  Owners who paid high prices after borrowing at low rates
must be “well capitalized” to weather an inevitable rise in
interest rates, said Steven Witkoff, chief executive officer of
New York-based developer Witkoff Group LLC, which is building
several ultra-luxury condominium projects in Manhattan  “All that cheap money is causing a real escalation in
costs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  