-- Moody’s Reiterates Higher Sales on Boosted Ratings Demand
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-09-24T22:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/moody-s-forecasts-higher-earnings-on-boosted-demand-for-ratings.html
Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , whose stock is near
an all-time high, forecasts that revenue this year will increase
by “high-single digits” from $2.7 billion in 2012, surpassing
last year’s record sales on higher demand for ratings and
boosting earnings.  The owner of the second-largest ratings company,
reiterating its guidance, expects firms to take further
advantage of borrowing costs that are near historic lows,
according to an investor presentation today. Demand for the
grades has been boosted by lower levels of funding from European
banks, and higher growth in Asia that exceeds the capacity of
its lenders, both leading to increased financing through bond
markets, the company  said .  Hopefully, the high single-digit growth forecast “will
prove to be conservative,” Ray McDaniel, the company’s chief
executive officer, said at the conference in  New York . “The
rate of growth that we have seen in recent years has in fact
been better than low-double digit,” he said.  Earnings per share are growing at 13 percent, a trend
that’s expected to continue, Linda Huber, chief financial
officer at Moody’s, said at the conference.  Companies sold a record $4 trillion of bonds worldwide last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt, which
makes up most of Moody’s ratings  revenue , is close to matching
last year’s pace of offerings with $2.8 trillion of sales so far
this year.  Unprecedented bond issuance has sent Moody’s shares
soaring, climbing 57 percent in the last year including
reinvested dividends, to $70.51 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York,
near its record of $74.84 reached on Feb. 8, 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest rates  have risen from record lows as investors
expect a decrease in the  Federal Reserve ’s bond buying. Yields
on corporate debt worldwide have climbed to 3.72 percent through
yesterday from 3.09 percent on May 2, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 