-- Horner Says Proposed Regulator Not in Alberta’s Interests
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-24T15:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/horner-says-proposed-regulator-not-in-alberta-s-interests.html
Alberta opposes the Canadian
government’s proposal for a national securities regulator and is
leading an effort by provincial ministers to craft an
alternative, Doug Horner, the province’s finance minister said.  The “cooperative” national securities regulator proposed
by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and his counterparts in Ontario
and British Columbia on Sept. 19 would need to be amended to
remove a federal veto over decisions and to reflect Alberta’s
expertise in the oil and gas sector, Horner said in an interview
in Toronto today.  “From Alberta’s perspective that agreement would have to
change in a fairly significant way for us to be able to sign,”
he said. “What I’m told is, ’There’s the agreement, sign it if
you like it.’ I don’t like it. How much negotiation is there?”  Canada , home to the world’s sixth-largest stock market,
unlike most developed-nation peers, has no national securities
regulator. Flaherty, arguing the current system of 13 provincial
agencies is more costly and reduces the country’s ability to
regulate, has been pushing for a single model in the face of
opposition from provinces such as  Quebec  and Alberta since the
Conservative government came to power in 2006.  Horner said provincial finance ministers are working on
their own proposal for regulatory reform and decided at a
meeting yesterday in  Quebec City  to consider adopting some of
the federal government’s ideas.  90-Percent Agreed  The Canadian constitution makes securities regulation a
provincial matter. Flaherty’s plan proposes provinces formulate
common legislation on regulation and pass it individually. The
provinces at yesterday’s meeting were “90 percent” agreed on
harmonized legislation, Horner said. The ministers also agreed
to shift decision making on regulatory issues to a voting
system, from consensus.  “The good thing about the federal government’s proposal is
it has definitely spurred us to take some action,” Horner said.  Quebec officials have already rejected the federal
government’s proposed “cooperative” plan and may mount a legal
challenge. Horner said he believes it is possible to reach an
agreement for securities regulation reform that would include
Quebec.  Alberta  would challenge the proposed regulator in court
if it imposes on provincial jurisdictions, Horner said.  “We would protect our interests, and right now the
agreement that the Federal government, Ontario and B.C. signed
is not in Alberta’s interest,” Horner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  