-- Pandora Founder Expects ‘Modest’ Dent From ITunes Radio
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-24T20:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/pandora-founder-expects-modest-dent-from-itunes-radio.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P)  will see a
“modest” impact from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iTunes Radio, according
to  Tim Westergren , who founded the leading Web music service.  Half of Pandora users listen on devices other than those
from Apple, which makes the iPhone and iPad, Westergren told
investors today at a conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in New York.  “We believe iTunes Radio will have a modest impact,”
Westergren said, without providing specifics.  Pandora fell 10 percent yesterday after Apple said more
than 11 million listeners tuned in to iTunes Radio since it was
released on Sept. 18. Pandora, based in Oakland,  California , has
72 million active listeners. The company has been tested by
larger competitors, Westergren said, citing iHeartRadio from
broadcaster  Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO)   “They launched with a huge marketing budget and no
commercials, and Pandora’s market share only continued to
grow,” Westergren said.  Apple has built a superior Web radio service for iPhones
and iPads, CNET said in a  review  last week. The Cupertino,
California-based company has access to more music than Pandora,
with fewer commercial breaks and more relevant stations built
around artists, genres and events, the media website said.  “ITunes Radio may be late to the party, but it’s still
better than Pandora when it comes to streaming programmed
radio,” on Apple’s iOS mobile operating system, wrote  Jaymar
Cabebe , a reviewer for CNET.  Pandora shares rose 0.9 percent to $24.47 at the close in
 New York . The stock has more than doubled this year. Apple fell
0.3 percent to $489.10.  Content Costs  Westergren said Pandora stands to benefit from recent Web
radio agreements, including Apple’s iTunes Radio deal, with the
record industry that have secured slightly lower content rates
than what it pays.  Judges overseeing arbitration proceedings with the U.S. Web
radio industry will establish royalties beyond 2015 partially by
drawing on these new pacts, he said.  “Right now all the benchmarks being set in direct deals
are narrowing the possible outcome in the statutory realm,”
Westergren said, also  referring  to a pact this month between Len Blavatnik’s Warner Music Group and Clear Channel.  Pandora paid $164.7 million for music and other content
during the six months ended July 31, which accounted for 58
percent of revenue. A year earlier, music costs totaled 64
percent of sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  