-- Paschi Delays Restructuring Plan Pending Regulator Review
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-09-25T07:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/paschi-delays-restructuring-plan-pending-regulators-review.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA , the bailed-out bank embroiled in a fraud probe, delayed
approval of a restructuring needed to win regulator support for
state aid as the authorities complete their review of the plan.  Monte Paschi’s board met yesterday and decided to postpone
the approval, the bank said in a stock-exchange statement. The
plan may include more asset sales, branch closings and savings
than originally sought to comply with the tougher European
antitrust regulator’s requirements for a 4.1 billion-euro ($5.5
billion) bailout received this year.  “Although a lot of progress has been made over the past
few weeks, we are still in contact with Italian authorities to
finalize some aspects of the restructuring terms of Monte
Paschi,” Antoine Colombani, EU competition commissioner  Joaquin Almunia ’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed comment to Bloomberg
News yesterday after the announcement of the delay.  Undisclosed losses from financings carried out in previous
years forced Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola, 55, and
Chairman  Alessandro Profumo , 56, to seek additional state aid
and prompted demands from regulators for a deeper reorganization
of the world’s oldest bank. The pair, appointed last year to
turn the company around, must convince investors they can meet
the goal, which includes luring buyers to a 2.5 billion-euro
stock sale over the next year, an amount that’s similar to
Paschi’s current  market value .  Share Price  Civil and criminal trials related to the hidden losses,
first reported by  Bloomberg News  in January, start in London and
Siena this week.  Monte Paschi was little changed at 21.10 cents at 9:38 a.m.
in Milan, giving the company a market value of 2.47 billion
euros.  The Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index , which
was down 0.4 percent today, has risen 14 percent this year,
compared with Monte Paschi’s 6.4 percent decline.  “A delay should be read in negative terms considering it
contributes to reduce the visibility on Monte Paschi, its
restructuring and its capital base,” analysts at Fidentiis
Equities wrote in a note to client today.  Monte Paschi agreed with authorities earlier this month to
more than double the amount of capital it must raise to repay
state aid.  Suspended Interest  On Sept. 20, the lender said it suspended interest payments
on about 481 million euros of three hybrid notes that are part
of its  Tier 1 capital , the most junior layer of debt capital
securities, forcing bondholders to contribute to the
restructuring.  The company may also decide to act on its 2.6 billion euros
of more senior Upper Tier 2 debt, on which it is still paying
coupons, according to analysts including London-based Eva Olsson
at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities. An offer to buy back the
securities at a discount to face value, creating a capital gain
that will bolster its Tier 1 ratios, is a possibility, she said.  The company may also be able to suspend interest payments
on the securities if it chooses, said  John Raymond , an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. in London.  Shareholders agreed in July to remove a limit that capped
 voting rights  at 4 percent to make the share sale attractive.  Bailout Blueprint  The European Union resisted  Italy ’s original bailout
blueprint and insisted in recent months on changes. In a July
letter sent to Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni, the
regulator recommended executive pay caps, lower costs and
cutting Italian sovereign-debt holdings and trading activities.  The letter also pointed out that state aid rules require
beneficiaries to stem cash outflows to holders of hybrid and
subordinated debt “to the maximum extent legally possible.” It
added that that the rules apply to the outstanding Upper Tier 2
subordinated bonds.  “The formal phase of examination between the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and the European Commission has not yet been
finalized,” Monte Paschi said in a statement yesterday. Viola,
who canceled a presentation to investors planned for today, told
reporters the delay was due to a hold-up over details.  The bank had 29 billion euros of Italian sovereign debt on
June 30, the most among the nation’s biggest banks relative to
its tangible equity. Between 2009 and 2011, Monte Paschi bet on
sovereign debt, buying  government securities  and arranging
structured deals underpinned by Italian bonds, which led to a
capital shortfall.  Sovereign Debt  “The bank’s future is linked to the sovereign-debt
spread,” said Marco Elser, a partner at investment bank
Advicorp Plc in  Rome .  Monte Paschi may seek the closing of 200 more branches,  Il
Sole 24 Ore  wrote Sept. 22, citing the bank’s advisers.
Management cut more than 1,800 jobs in the first half and closed
400 branches.  Monte Paschi, whose biggest shareholder is Fondazione Monte
dei Paschi di Siena,  posted a loss  of 279.3 million euros in the
second quarter after net interest income dropped. The lender,
which pays 9 percent interest on the bonds it sold to the
government in the bailout, must pay with stock if it’s
unprofitable this year.  “Monte Paschi will continue to be loss making, so we
consider unavoidable the entrance of the state into the
capital,” Elser said. “It’s not a question of if, but a
question of when.”  At a  price  of about 21 cents, the government would receive
some 1.74 billion shares, or about 13 percent of Monte Paschi,
according to Bloomberg calculations. The state would become the
bank’s second-biggest  shareholder  after the foundation that
currently owns 35 percent of the firm.  Debt Rating  The lender may have an annual loss of 625 million euros for
2013, according to the average of nine analysts’ estimates.  Moody’s Investors Service  downgraded  Monte Paschi’s long-term debt and deposit ratings in May by three steps to B2, with
a negative outlook, and said it wasn’t confident about Monte
Paschi’s plans to repay state aid.  Prosecutors are probing how former managers at Monte
Paschi, which piled up losses of 7.9 billion euros in the past
two years, used derivative contracts to obscure more than 700
million euros of losses. Tomorrow, three former executives face
trial for allegedly obstructing regulators by hiding a document
on a deal signed with Nomura Holdings Inc. in 2009.  Paschi told a  London  court on Sept. 23 that Italy was the
proper venue for its dispute with Nomura over the financing
that’s at the center of the criminal probe. Monte Paschi sued
Nomura in Florence saying the lender colluded with former
managers to conceal losses, prompting Nomura to file a complaint
in London to have the contracts upheld.  In a separate probe, magistrates are accusing JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and at least one of its employees of withholding
information from regulators about how the bank financed Monte
Paschi’s  purchase  of Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2008. JPMorgan
said in a statement last month that it believes its employees
“acted correctly at all times,” and that it planned to
“vigorously” defend itself.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  