-- Patrizia Makes Year’s Biggest German Office Property Deal
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-09-24T15:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/patrizia-to-buy-36-german-office-properties-worth-1-1-billion.html
Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z)  agreed to
buy 36 German office properties valued at about 800 million
euros ($1.1 billion) in what would be the country’s biggest
commercial real estate transaction this year.  Patrizia is buying the buildings from  Austria ’s  CA
Immobilien Anlagen AG (CAI) , according to a  statement  today. The
company, based in Augsburg, is making the purchase through a
fund that has institutional clients including German savings
banks, pension funds and insurers.  Demand for German real estate is rising as investors seek
profitable places to put their money amid the  European debt
crisis . Investors are set to buy about 27 billion euros of
German shops and offices this year, the most since 2007, when 54
billion euros of properties changed hands, according to data
compiled by Chicago-based broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   “It’s an ideal investment for safety-oriented investors
who are looking for long-term, stable income,” Patrizia Chief
Operating Officer Klaus Schmitt said by e-mail.  Patrizia has about 10 billion euros of assets under
management, most of which is held for institutional clients. In
April, the company agreed to make  Germany ’s biggest residential-property acquisition in five years.  ‘Good Return’  “ Interest rates  are very low and investors who put their
capital into property can expect a comparatively good return,”
said Helge Scheunemann, head of research at Jones Lang LaSalle
in Hamburg.  Offices in prime German locations offer a net initial yield
of about 4.75 percent, he said. A 10-year German government bond
yields about 1.9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Patrizia is buying office properties in the western German
state of Hesse that are leased to the government, today’s
statement showed. The buildings have 450,000 square meters (4.8
million square feet) of space. The deal is expected to close
this year.  The sale will allow Vienna-based CA Immobilien to focus on
building properties in Berlin, Munich and  Frankfurt , Chief
Executive Officer Bruno Ettenauer said in a separate statement.  ‘Ideal Environment’  “The current market environment is ideal for selling the
portfolio,” Ettenauer said.  After property assets more than doubled between 2006 and
2012, CA Immobilien is streamlining its portfolio to become more
profitable, provide a regular dividend and increase its equity
ratio, a measure of financial strength, to 40 percent from 32
percent.  Patrizia climbed 0.9 percent to 7.44 euros in Frankfurt,
while CA Immobilien gained 1.6 percent to 10.54 euros in Vienna,
the highest since May 15.  The biggest commercial property deal completed this year
was the acquisition by  IVG Immobilien AG (IVG)  of three office and
retail properties in Frankfurt and Berlin in February, according
to data compiled by Jones Lang. That transaction was valued at
550 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  