-- Penn State Gets Some Football Scholarships Back After Review
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-09-24T17:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/penn-state-gets-some-football-scholarships-back-in-ncaa-review.html
Penn State  University’s football
program next season will get back five football scholarships
that had been stripped in the Jerry Sandusky child sex-abuse
scandal.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  said in a
statement today that the university had made “continued
progress toward ensuring athletics integrity” in the aftermath
of the Sandusky case.  The NCAA said that while other penalties would remain in
place, it might consider “additional mitigation” in the four-year postseason game ban placed on the Nittany Lions. The
original punishment included annual reductions of 20
scholarships for four years, and the NCAA said the number of
restored scholarships would continue to increase.  “While there is more work to be done, Penn State has
clearly demonstrated its commitment to restoring integrity in
its athletics program,” said  George Mitchell , the former U.S.
senator who was hired as the school’s athletics integrity
monitor. “The university has substantially completed the
initial implementation of all the Freeh Report recommendations
and its obligations to the Athletics Integrity Agreement, so
relief from the scholarship reductions is warranted and
deserved.”  School Gratified  Penn State officials said in a separate statement that they
were gratified by the decision to modify the sanctions, which
they said will restore a total of 65 football scholarships.  “The action taken today by the NCAA, following its review
of the positive report issued this month by Senator George
Mitchell, recognizes the significant efforts over the past year
to make Penn State a safer, stronger institution,” Penn State
President Rodney Erickson said.  “This news is certainly
welcome to our University community, particularly the student
athletes who may want to attend Penn State and will now have the
means to do so. As we promised throughout this process, we are
committed to continuing to improve all of our policies,
procedures and actions.”  The NCAA imposed unprecedented penalties, including a $60
million fine, on the  State College , Pennsylvania-based school
after a July 2012 report by former  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh  said top Penn State officials
failed to protect children from Sandusky.  Progress Made  The initial punishment called for the NCAA to review the
sanctions after two years, but Mitchell said the school had made
enough progress to revisit them early.  He suggested the modifications focus on scholarships
because that would most directly affect the athletes.  “This was a positive response to positive action,”
Mitchell said on a media conference call, calling the
modifications “a combination of both attitude and action that
have been positive.”  Penn State is 3-1 this season, its only loss coming at home
Sept. 14 against the  University of Central Florida , 34-31. Last
season was their first after sanctions had been leveled and the
Nittany Lions went 8-4, including 6-2 in the  Big Ten Conference ,
good for second place in the Leaders Division behind undefeated
Ohio State. Both schools were banned from the postseason because
of rules violations.  Sandusky, 69, who retired in 1999, was sentenced to at
least 30 years in prison for abusing boys. He is seeking to
reverse his conviction, claiming he didn’t get a fair trial.  Media ‘Monster’  During his sentencing on Oct. 9, 2012, he blamed his
victims, attorneys and the media for making him out to be a
“monster” who “did disgusting things.”  He was found guilty by a jury in June 2012 on 45 counts of
abusing boys over a 15-year period. The abuse took place on the
Penn State campus and at Sandusky’s home, according to
testimony.  The scandal led to the firings of university President
 Graham Spanier  and football coach  Joe Paterno , who died in
January 2012.  Spanier and two other school officials face related
criminal charges.  Last month, the school agreed to settle claims brought by
Sandusky’s victims for an undisclosed amount. It has spent
almost $50 million on the scandal, including the first of five
installments toward the $60 million NCAA fine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 ceichelberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 