-- Pimco Sees Asia Advantage as Bright Outlook Shrinks Spreads
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-09-25T03:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/pimco-sees-asian-advantage-as-spreads-shrink-on-brighter-outlook.html
Asia’s stronger balance sheets and
better economic outlook will see the yield premium investors
demand to own the region’s debt versus U.S. bonds shrink,
Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest fixed-income fund, predicts.  Sectors to watch include energy, financials and high yield,
where corporate issuance since Dec. 31 set a record with 76 new
deals totaling more than $30.4 billion, the  Newport Beach ,
California-based  fund manager  said in its latest Asia Credit
Perspectives report, released today. The extra spread investors
demand to hold Asia dollar bonds has fallen 25 basis points this
month to 333 basis points, Bank of America Merill Lynch indexes
show. That compares with a 3 basis-point fall to 152 for
debentures from U.S. companies.  “There are many advantages to investing in Asia,” said
Raja Mukherji, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian credit research
at Pimco, which had $1.97 trillion in assets under management as
of June 30. “The region enjoys decent rates of growth which
exceed much of the developed world.”  Developing nations in Asia are forecast to expand almost
four times faster than developed economies in 2014, according to
International Monetary Fund world growth estimates released in
July. The last several years have seen some extraordinary growth
in Asian credit markets and ongoing trends, including supply and
demand dynamics, banking sector deleveraging and increasing
demand for energy across the region paint a vivid picture for
credit investment opportunities, Pimco said.  Issuance Revival  Borrowers in Asia outside  Japan  sold some $93.1 billion of
U.S. dollar-denominated bonds this year versus $84.1 billion the
same period of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Issuance ground to a halt in June after the  Federal Reserve 
signaled it may begin tapering stimulus this year, sending bond
yields to a one-year high as funds demanded compensation for the
cost of future interest-rate rises.  News last week U.S. policy makers won’t pare their $85
billion-a-month quantitative-easing program before they see more
evidence of a sustained economic recovery has sparked an
issuance revival with companies including  China  National
Offshore Oil Corp., China General Nuclear Power Holding Corp.
and  Sri Lanka ’s DFCC Bank planning sales.  ‘Huge Window’  Woori Bank Co. sold $500 million of 2.875 percent 2018
bonds yesterday while  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL)  raised $500 million
selling similar-maturity 3.3 percent notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. investors bought 28 percent of
Woori’s deal, while European accounts took 17 percent, a person
familiar with the matter said today.  A lack of U.S. dollar-denominated sovereign supply as
countries increasingly prefer to issue debt in their own
currencies, investor demand for yield and companies looking
outside their traditional banking relationships for financing
will ensure bond offerings from the region remain robust, said
Pimco, whose $251.1 billion Total Return Fund has fallen about
2.2 percent this year.  “These three factors have opened a huge window for Asian
corporate issuers to come to the market for financing,” said
 Robert Mead , a portfolio manager at Pimco and the report’s co-author. “ Korea , including its quasi-sovereign  Korea Development
Bank , was for many years the single-largest issuer by country in
JPMorgan’s Asia Credit index but as of February, China has taken
its place, driven by strong corporate issuance. We expect the
larger economies in the region, particularly China, India and
 Indonesia , to continue to increase their presences in the
index.”  China’s Consumers  More companies in China’s retail and consumer sectors may
sell bonds in 2014 as personal incomes in the world’s most
populous nation rise and urbanization boosts spending, according
to Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)  And,
because refinancing needs across the region are minimal over the
next two years, default rates are expected to remain low.  “Many countries across  Asia  are also improving the quality
of their institutional frameworks, regulatory bodies and
bankruptcy regimes,” Mead said. “That said, we fully expect to
see instances where these frameworks, bodies and regimes will be
tested -- challenges which, in turn, may help Asia’s credit
markets evolve and develop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  