-- Pittsburgh Pirates Lock Up First MLB Playoff Berth in 21 Years
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-24T06:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/pittsburgh-pirates-lock-up-first-mlb-playoff-berth-in-21-years.html
The Pittsburgh Pirates clinched
their first Major League Baseball playoff berth in 21 years,
locking up at least a wild-card spot with a 2-1 win against the
 Chicago Cubs  coupled with a loss by the Washington Nationals.  The Cincinnati Reds also secured a trip to the postseason
with a 3-2, 10-inning win against the  New York  Mets last night.  While the Reds celebrated their third playoff berth in four
years with little fanfare in Cincinnati, Pirates players sprayed
each other with champagne in the visitors’ clubhouse in Chicago
when the Nationals lost to the  St. Louis Cardinals .  “We’re doing the celebrating here because we’ve earned
it,” Pirates outfielder Andrew McCutchen told reporters last
night. “But we’re not done. Tomorrow, it’s back at it.”  Pittsburgh took the lead last night when Starling Marte’s
home run with two outs in the top of the ninth inning snapped a
1-1 tie. The Pirates then threw out a runner at home plate in
the bottom of the inning to end the game.  The Pirates (90-67) last made the playoffs in 1992, when a
team led by  Barry Bonds  lost in the National League Championship
Series for a third straight year. Pittsburgh then went on a run
of 20 consecutive losing seasons -- the longest in the four
major North American professional sports -- before this year.  “At the beginning of the year, the only people who
believed in the Pittsburgh Pirates were the Pittsburgh
Pirates,” second baseman Neil Walker said. “We got ourselves
an opportunity now, and that’s all we can ask for.”  Reds’ Win  The Reds are 90-67 as well after beating the Mets on Shin-Soo Choo’s run-scoring single off the wall in the bottom of the
10th inning last night. They’re also guaranteed at least a wild-card playoff berth. Wild cards are given to the two non
division-winners in each league with the best records.  Pittsburgh and Cincinnati are two games behind the
Cardinals (92-65) in the NL Central Division.  The Cardinals,  Atlanta Braves  and  Los Angeles Dodgers 
previously had locked up the NL’s other three playoff spots.  The  Boston Red Sox  and Oakland Athletics have won division
titles in the  American League .  The Tampa Bay Rays lead the AL’s wild-card race with an
87-69 record after beating the Baltimore Orioles 5-4 yesterday
for their fourth straight win. James Loney snapped a 4-4 tie
with a solo homer to lead off the bottom of the ninth inning.  The Orioles (81-75) fell five games behind the idle
Cleveland Indians for the second AL wild-card berth with six
regular-season games to play for both teams.  The  Texas Rangers  (85-71) are one game behind the Indians
after yesterday’s 12-0 rout of the  Houston Astros . The Kansas
City Royals (83-73) are three games back after beating the
Seattle Mariners 6-5 in 12 innings.  The  New York Yankees , who were off yesterday, are four
games behind the Indians in the wild-card race and in danger of
missing the playoffs for the second time in the past 19 years.
The Yankees (82-74) host the Rays tonight in the start of a
three-game series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  