-- Potash Shake-Up Takes Toll as Agrium Sees Drop in Sales
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/potash-shake-up-takes-toll-as-agrium-sees-drop-in-sales.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU)  is the latest North
American potash producer to cut its sales forecast as the
breakup of the world’s largest marketing bloc for the crop
nutrient begins to take its toll.  Agrium, the third-largest North American producer, expects
to sell 30 percent less potash in the third quarter and forecast
a 64 percent drop in profit from its wholesale fertilizer
division, the Calgary-based company said yesterday. U.S.-based
Mosaic Co., the second-biggest producer, cut its sales forecast
by about 20 percent on Sept. 16.  The two companies form an export group, Canpotex Ltd., with
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,  North America ’s biggest
producer. Potash Corp. won’t be spared the drop in demand, said
Peter Prattas, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Toronto.  “They’re all going to hurt equally given the fact that
they’re a collected group,” Prattas said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  The potash market has been roiled since OAO Uralkali, the
 world’s largest  producer, announced it had pulled out of an
export sales venture with its Belarusian counterpart on July 30.
The Berezniki, Russia-based company said it would boost output
and start selling at lower prices, a move that sent shares of
fertilizer companies such as Potash Corp. and Tel Aviv-based
 Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)   falling . Potash Corp. has declined 15
percent since the day before the Uralkali announcement while ICL
has declined 16 percent.  ‘Essentially Paralyzed’  Potash Corp. Chief Financial Officer Wayne Brownlee said
during a Sept. 18 investor conference in  New York  that volumes
in offshore markets “have been essentially paralyzed.” He is
scheduled to give an  update  on the company’s activities today at
a conference in Toronto.  Buyers are holding back, in anticipation that prices will
sink, before stocking up on the crop nutrient, said  John Hughes ,
an analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto.  “Why buy today at 400 bucks U.S. a ton potash if the
general perspective is we’re going to head to $300 or $350?”
Hughes said yesterday by phone.  The change is affecting Uralkali as well, Danila Yakub, a
Moscow-based analyst for UBS AG, said in a Sept. 20 report.
Russian customs data suggests September exports may be down 40
percent from the average of the prior 12 months, Yakub said.  Agrium, which also produces nitrogen and phosphate
fertilizers and is the largest U.S. farm-products retailer,
forecast third-quarter wholesale fertilizer sales that were
worse than estimated, Hughes said.  Lower Prices  “Most were looking for maybe a 15 or 20 percent decline in
sales volume, and we’re getting a 25 to 30,” he said.  Potash, which helps strengthen plant roots and improve
resistance to drought, isn’t traded on public exchanges. Prices
for delivery at  Vancouver ’s port have fallen to $410 a metric
ton, 19 percent less than a year earlier, according to data from
Green Markets, a fertilizer-industry information provider that
is a unit of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  The average retail potash price in 11 U.S. states has
declined 11 percent to $538.93 a ton since the Uralkali breakup,
according to  data  from Green Markets.  Prattas said global prices may decline further.  “In order for volumes to recover, the price does have to
come down lower,” he said.  The first big step to reforming the Russia-Belarus export
group is to return Uralkali Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner to  Russia , Hughes said.  Baumgertner was arrested in Minsk on Aug. 26 on charges of
abuse of office as chairman of the joint venture. A meeting
between Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and his Belarusian
counterpart Aleksandr Lukashenko signals Baumgertner may be
released soon, Hughes said.  The marketing group, formerly known as Belarusian Potash
Co., may be back together by the end of the year, he said.  Even so, a reunification of potash producers in the former
 Soviet Union  doesn’t mean prices will increase, Prattas said.
The two companies may agree to keep volumes high and prices low,
he said.  “That’s yet to be determined,” Hughes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  