-- U.K. Gilts Advance as BOE Officials Rule Out Imminent Tightening
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-24T15:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/pound-little-changed-versus-dollar-before-u-k-mortgage-report.html
U.K. government bonds rose for a
second day, with 10-year yields falling to a three-week low, as
 Bank of England  officials said investors should not expect an
imminent tightening of monetary policy.  Gilts climbed with German bunds and U.S. Treasuries as
policy makers around the world debate the outlook for additional
stimulus measures that cap borrowing costs. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday policy makers may
consider another round of longer-term refinancing operations.
Britain sold 5 billion pounds ($8 billion) of inflation-linked
bonds maturing in 2068 via banks today. The pound weakened
against most of its 16 major peers.  “Bank of England members are reiterating their commitment
to continued low rates,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist at broker RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh.
“Investors are also unclear about the Fed’s intentions,
weighing on risk appetite. However, if U.K. data surprises on
the upside the current rally may run out of steam.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield fell 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 2.81 percent at 4:19 p.m.  London  time
after reaching 2.80 percent, the  lowest  level since Aug. 30. The
2.25 percent bond due in September 2023 climbed 0.835, or 8.35
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.165.  The rate on similar-maturity U.S. notes slipped three basis
points to 2.67 percent, after sliding five basis points in the
previous two trading days, while German 10-year bund yields
dropped seven basis points to 1.85 percent.  “No Rush”  The market’s view on unemployment is too optimistic, and it
is wrong to think a tightening of policy is imminent,  David
Miles , a member of the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee, said in a speech in Newcastle today.  BOE Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the U.K. central bank
was in “no rush” to withdraw stimulus. “The MPC’s forward
guidance provides an articulated framework for a probing
approach to policy, without a change in our preferences on
inflation,” Tucker said in London.  Bank of England policy maker Ben Broadbent said yesterday
it was right to link the U.K. central bank’s guidance on future
 interest rates  to unemployment.  “As far as the Monetary Policy Committee is concerned,
there seems to be a broad acceptance that rates won’t go up for
a long time,” said  Sam Hill , a U.K. fixed-income strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in London. “Miles clearly thinks
productivity will increase as the recovery strengthens which
implies it will take a long time to get the  unemployment rate 
down to 7 percent.”  Pound Slides  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5986 after climbing to
$1.6163 on Sept. 18, the highest since Jan. 11. The U.K.
currency weakened 0.3 percent to 84.39 pence per euro after
appreciating to 83.53 pence on Sept. 18, the strongest level
since Jan. 17.  Sterling has risen 5.6 percent in the past six months, the
best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was little
changed, while the euro gained 4.4 percent.  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said today
policy makers will debate whether additional longer-term
refinancing operations were needed, while Benoit Coeure said the
discussion was “open.”  Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said
yesterday the  U.S. economy  still needs support from the central
bank. The Fed last week maintained its policy of buying $85
billion of debt a month to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs, causing investors to push back forecasts for when the
central bank would raise its benchmark interest rate.  “Long Rally”  “The pound has had a long rally recently on the back of
strong U.K. data and a generally weaker dollar due to the delay
of Fed tapering,” said Bernd Berg, a currency strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “There is a lot of positive
economic news priced into the pound. Any slight disappointment
in economic data in the weeks ahead will lead to a reversal of
the recent strength and a pull back towards $1.57.”  The U.K. sold index-linked gilts due in March 2068 at a
real yield of 0.137 percent, the Debt Management Office said in
a statement on its website. The debt office hired Barclays Plc,
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Morgan Stanley to manage
the transaction.  U.K. gilts lost 4.3 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German securities
dropped 2.2 percent and Treasuries fell 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  