-- Practice Fusion Said to Be Valued at $700 Million
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-09-24T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/practice-fusion-said-to-be-valued-at-700-million.html
Practice Fusion Inc., a provider of
Web-based software for the medical industry, said it raised $70
million in a financing round led by investors including Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers.  The funding values San Francisco-based Practice Fusion at
$700 million, said a person with knowledge of the deal, who
asked not to be identified because the valuation wasn’t
disclosed. Joining Kleiner Perkins were  OrbiMed Advisors LLC  and
 Deerfield  as well as Artis Ventures and other previous
investors, Practice Fusion said today in a statement.  Since its founding in 2005, Practice Fusion has signed on
100,000 medical professionals who use the free service to track
records and offer advice to 75 million patients. Practice Fusion
generates revenue by providing technology that lets labs,
pharmacies, imaging centers and insurance companies tap into its
network of doctors and patients. With the new funding, Chief
Executive Officer  Ryan Howard  said he expects to double the user
base in the next year.  “We’re positioned where we can solve the largest problems
in health care,” Howard said in an interview.  Practice Fusion has about 300 employees and generates tens
of millions of dollar a year in sales, Howard said. He declined
to provide a specific number or comment on the company’s
valuation. The financing puts Practice Fusion on track for an
initial public offering, though the company hasn’t decided when
that will be, he said.  In the next month or so, Practice Fusion will roll out a
product called Population Management for insurance companies and
accountable-care organizations, or ACOs, Howard said.  ACOs  are
groups of doctors and other health-care providers that come
together to provide coordinated services.  Holistic View  The product allows Practice Fusion clients to manage their
patients by giving them a holistic view of their conditions and
health-care providers. Practice Fusion has already signed three
million-dollar deals for Population Management, Howard said.  The new capital brings Practice Fusion’s total amount
raised to $134 million. Beth Seidenberg, a partner at  Menlo
Park , California-based Kleiner Perkins and a former senior vice
president at Amgen Inc., and Michael Hardin, a partner at Artis,
are joining the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  