-- Private Doping Probes Seen Hurting Tennis as Cilic Feigns Injury
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-09-24T12:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/private-doping-probes-seen-hurting-tennis-as-cilic-feigns-injury.html
The  International Tennis Federation 
said on June 26 that Marin Cilic was withdrawing from the
Wimbledon championship because of a knee injury. In reality, he
was beginning an anti-doping suspension.  The ITF, the sport’s ruling body, published a report today
that shows how it kept the case of the player then ranked No. 11
in the world private during the grass-court Grand Slam under a
policy that aims to protect the reputation of players in case
they turn out to be innocent. The ATP, the men’s tour organizer,
has concealed “many” doping violations in the past, former
Spanish tennis federation president Pedro Munoz said in an
interview. The ATP says it has always acted within the rules.  Cilic was handed a nine-month ban by the ITF for testing
positive for the stimulant nikethamide, which a panel found he
took inadvertently in tablets bought by his mother. The
“hushing up” approach risks damaging the credibility and
sponsorships of tennis just as it increases efforts to boost
drug testing, according to  Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports
business strategy at the U.K.’s Coventry University.  “It looks like damage limitation on the part of the ITF,
that they are trying to protect television contracts and
sponsorships,” Chadwick said.  The London-based ITF’s  sponsors include BNP Paribas SA , and
the ATP, based in  Monaco , counts Emirates Airline among its
backers. ITF spokesman Nick Imison said its anti-doping rules
are drawn up with the men’s and women’s tours, and are
constantly under review. Tennis is acting within world anti-doping guidelines that give sports federations “some
flexibility in terms of disclosure” when athletes test positive
for a banned substance, Ben Nichols, a  World Anti-Doping Agency 
spokesman, said in an e-mail from  Montreal .  More Testing  Roger Federer , a 17-time Grand Slam champion, and Wimbledon
winner  Andy Murray  have called for more stringent doping tests
following the admission by cyclist  Lance Armstrong  that he used
drugs to cheat throughout his career. In March, tennis
authorities agreed to follow cycling and track and field in
using so-called biological passports to catch cheats. The
passport measures changes in blood profiles and can detect
anomalies that might indicate doping.  Cycling and track authorities are usually swifter at
announcing anti-doping cases than tennis. In July last year, the
international cycling union UCI announced that Luxembourg’s
 Frank Schleck  had tested positive for drugs four days earlier,
midway through last year’s Tour de  France . In June this year,
two-time Olympic 200-meter champion Veronica Campbell-Brown was
provisionally suspended, pending an inquiry, for testing
positive for a banned diuretic in May.  Unfairly Tarnished?  It’s reasonable for tennis to protect the identity of
athletes until after a hearing, provided that takes place soon
enough after a positive test, said Zane Shihab, a sports lawyer
at Kerman & Co. in  London . Otherwise, an athlete could be
unfairly tarnished, according to Shihab.  “With something like a drugs test, mud tends to stick
whether an athlete is innocent or not,” Shihab said.  Cilic said he took the nikethamide inadvertently from April
22 to April 26 after his supply of glucose ran out and his
mother went to a pharmacy in  Monte Carlo  to buy him more but
bought a different product,  according to the ruling of a three-member independent tribunal . He tested positive for the drug at
the BMW Open in Munich on May 1.  After being informed of the positive test, Cilic cited a
knee injury for withdrawing from Wimbledon “to avoid adverse
publicity,” the ruling said. The ITF announced his withdrawal
through injury in a statement, at the same time it was in
contact with his lawyers.  Other Secrets?  Munoz, the former  Spanish federation president , said in an
interview in Madrid last week that “many times” tennis
authorities have kept cases secret.  He said he travelled with a Spanish player, whom he
declined to identify, to an ATP hearing in Paris after the
athlete tested positive for a drug he took to help heal a
shoulder injury in the late 1990s. The men’s tour fined the
player the equivalent of about 5,000 euros ($6,700) and never
made the test result public, according to Munoz.  Andre Agassi , who won all four Grand Slam singles titles,
said in his 2009 autobiography he tested positive for crystal
meth in 1997, and duped tennis officials into believing he
consumed it in a spiked soda. After reviewing the case, the ATP
took no further action against the American.  Following Rules  The ATP said in a statement that its anti-doping program
has “always” followed the rules, requiring positive doping
tests to be reviewed by an independent panel and, if there is a
case to answer, an independent tribunal.  “There has never been a deviation from this process,” the
ATP said, without directly responding to a request to explain
the case Munoz mentioned.  With tennis coming under more scrutiny than ever from
people interested in celebrity and rumor, authorities aren’t
helping the sport’s reputation by conducting inquiries in
private, Chadwick said.  “They’re trying to keep a lid on it and manage the news
but in the social media age it’s very difficult to keep things
quiet,” Chadwick said. “It’s a dangerous strategy”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Alex Duff} in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  