-- ProAssurance to Buy Eastern Insurance for $205 Million
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-09-24T15:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/proassurance-to-buy-eastern-insurance-for-205-million.html
ProAssurance Corp. (PRO) , the seller of
medical-liability coverage, agreed to buy  Eastern Insurance
Holdings Inc. (EIHI)  for about $205 million in cash to expand in
workers’ compensation coverage.  The deal values Eastern at $24.50 a share, compared with
yesterday’s closing price of $21.16, and is expected to be
completed by Jan. 1, Birmingham, Alabama-based ProAssurance said
today in a statement.  ProAssurance, the  fourth-largest seller  of medical
professional liability insurance in the U.S., has been expanding
through acquisitions as part of a strategy to build its product
mix and add clients. The company last year announced a deal to
purchase Medmarc Insurance Group for $153.7 million to expand in
medical technology coverage.  “Workers comp is a major area of expense and concern in
health care,” ProAssurance Chief Executive Officer Stan Starnes
said on a conference call today. “Adding the capability to
provide that coverage to our policyholders and to introduce our
products to Eastern’s policyholders will help us grow our
business and deepen the relationships” with customers.  Eastern advanced 16 percent to $24.51 at 11:06 a.m. in New
York. ProAssurance slipped 0.2 percent to $46.04.  The purchase “modestly diversifies PRA’s product mix,”
 Fitch Ratings  said in a statement, using the ticker symbol for
ProAssurance. “While these recent transactions offer potential
benefits of premium diversification, PRA is exposed to several
 new risks  in integrating and meeting profit objectives.”  Pennsylvania, Indiana  Eastern posted  net income  of $10.4 million last year on
revenue of $168.1 million. Shareholders’  equity , a measure of
assets minus liabilities, was $140.8 million as June 30 at the
Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based insurer. The company counts
Pennsylvania, Indiana and  North Carolina  among its largest
markets.  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  is ProAssurance’s banker, and
Burr & Forman LLP is providing legal advice. Eastern is being
advised by  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) ’s Keefe Bruyette & Woods unit
and the law firm of Stevens & Lee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  