-- Regenersis Rises to Eight-Year High on Dividend: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-24T16:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/regenersis-rises-to-eight-year-high-on-dividend-london-mover.html
Regenersis Plc (RGS) , a repair services
company that aids consumer technology firms such as smartphone
provider HTC Corp., rose to the highest price in eight years
after boosting its dividend more than estimated by analysts.  Regenersis, a fixer of mobile phones, tablets and cable
television boxes, acquired an Indian company this month and won
a slew of contracts across Europe and  emerging markets  this
year, it said in a statement today. The London-based company
will pay a 1.83-pence final dividend, for an annual total of
2.50 pence, exceeding the estimates of all three analysts who
share their predictions with Bloomberg.  The  stock  rose 4.5 percent, the most on five months, to
253.5 pence, the highest since at least April 2005, and the
fourth-biggest gain among 134 companies on the FTSE AIM
Industrial Goods Index.  The final dividend was “well ahead of our estimate and
exceeds our forecast for 2014 too,”  Paul Jones , an  analyst  at
Panmure Gordon & Co., said in a note. “Regenersis is being seen
increasingly as the ‘go to’ solutions house for the industry.”  Regenersis bought Digicomp Complete Solutions Ltd. for 4.4
million pounds ($7 million) on Sept. 10, extending its
aftermarket services to India, it said today. The company also
has moved into  Spain ,  Mexico ,  Argentina ,  Sweden  and the U.S. in
the last 12 months.  “The opportunity exists to continue to grow annually at
double-digit rates of growth for the foreseeable future,”
Chairman Matthew Peacock said in the statement.  Major Clients  Regenersis became the Europe-wide mobile repair provider
for a “major” equipment manufacturer in the second half of the
fiscal year and counts Nokia Oyj, Samsung Electronics Co. and
Toshiba Corp. among its clients. It is building business in
areas such as testing for cable operators to diagnose set-top
box faults in the home.  Revenue in the year ended June 30 rose 28 percent to 179.7
million pounds. Underlying operating profit more than tripled to
7.1 million pounds.  Panmure’s Jones, who has a  buy rating  on the stock, raised
his 12-month price target 26 percent to 302 pence. He left his
2014 earnings estimate unchanged.  Trading volume was more than four times the three-month
daily average. Regenersis has gained 179 percent in 12 months
and is valued at 126 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  