-- Regulators Look Into Timing of Trades After Fed Statement
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-09-24T21:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/regulators-look-into-timing-of-trades-after-fed-statement.html
U.S. regulators are looking into
how trading in financial instruments linked to gold in New York
and Chicago occurred so quickly after the release of a Federal
Reserve statement in Washington last week.  “It’s standard practice to look at moves like this from a
surveillance perspective,”  Bart Chilton , a Democratic
commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said
in a statement today.  The Federal Reserve is asking news organizations to review
their procedures for publishing stories based on central bank
releases from so-called lock-ups, according to David Skidmore, a
Fed spokesman.  Trading in gold futures and exchange-traded funds linked to
gold intensified within 1 millisecond of 2 p.m. eastern time on
Sept. 18, when the Fed released a statement saying it would
refrain from tapering its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases,
according to Nanex LLC, a firm that analyzes high-frequency
trading.  The quick response is unusual because information takes
seven milliseconds to travel to Chicago from Washington, where
the Fed statement is released, according to Nanex. The time
between  Washington  and New York is two milliseconds, Nanex said.
The trading wasn’t possible unless the statement had been
available in those financial centers before the 2 p.m. embargo
time in Washington, Nanex said.  High-Speed Trading  Elite investors with high-speed trading systems who gain
early access to sensitive information are a growing threat to
the integrity of U.S. financial markets, New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman said today at a conference.  Schneiderman said at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New
York that his office is looking at combating the advantages won
by securing early access to market-moving data. Calling the
issue “Insider Trading 2.0,” Schneiderman said the combination
of high-speed trading and early data access unfairly sets up a
small group of investors to reap enormous profits.  “A new generation of market manipulators has emerged,”
Schneiderman said. Average investors aren’t “going to invest if
they think the markets are rigged,” he said.  The Fed’s unexpected decision last week affected prices of
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities. The price of gold
climbed to 1,364.02 an ounce on Sept. 18 from 1,310.64 the day
before. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.2 percent to
1,725.52, the highest on record.  ‘Just Unbelievable’  “It’s just unbelievable how much really goes down in the
first 10 or 20 milliseconds,” said Eric Scott Hunsader, the
chief executive of Winnetka, Illinois-based Nanex. “This is
very explosive information.”  The Fed releases its market-moving policy statements
through lockups at the press room of the Treasury Department.
Journalists in the lockup are given the statement about 10
minutes early on condition that they refrain from publication
until 2 p.m. as measured by the U.S. Naval Observatory’s master
clock. Bloomberg News is a participant in the lockup.  “We will be conducting follow-up conversations with news
organizations to ensure our procedures are completely
understood,” Skidmore said in a statement.  Journalists at the lockup agree to make no public use of
documents distributed by Fed staff, including broadcasting or
posting on the Internet, until the specified time.  Trading Centers  The agreement doesn’t address whether news organizations
may store the information in advance on remote servers and time
it for release at 2 p.m. Such servers could be located in
trading centers such as  Chicago  or New York, eliminating the
time it takes for the data to travel from Washington, according
to Robert Stowsky, a senior analyst at the Aite Group in  Boston ,
an industry research firm that studies market infrastructure and
high frequency trading.  The data could then be picked up by clients of news
agencies that engage in high-speed and algorithmic trading, in
which computers are programmed in advance to respond to news and
execute trades automatically, Stowsky said.  “If the information was pre-released to servers in Chicago
and New York and that information went out at fairly high speed
to a trading algorithm system in those two places, that could
definitely account for the lack of time it took for those trades
to start taking place,” Stowsky said.  “Most of these machines are co-located to the exchange
systems,” he said. “Instantaneous is not the correct word, but
it’s fairly close.”  The procedure for FOMC lock-ups was changed in March. Prior
to March, journalists in the lockup were told they could send
their stories at the sound of a bell. That meant they couldn’t
time their stories for release in advance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  