-- Riverstone Energy Seeks Up to $2.4 Billion in London IPO
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-09-24T08:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/riverstone-seeks-up-to-1-5-billion-in-ipo-for-energy-investment.html
 Riverstone Holdings LLC, the
private-equity firm that invests mainly in North American energy
assets, will raise as much as $2.4 billion (1.5 billion pounds)
through an initial public offering in  London .  A new company, Riverstone Energy Ltd., will sell at least
670 million pounds in shares and already has commitments of 550
million pounds, according a statement today in London. It will
make investments alongside Riverstone Holdings’s Fund 5, which
has raised $7.7 billion in private equity, at a ratio of one-third to two-thirds.  “This provides public investors a chance to invest
alongside private-equity investors in a way that’s both unusual
and, I hope, highly rewarding,”  Robert Wilson , who will serve
as chairman of Riverstone Energy, said in a telephone interview.
“Going to the public has been an ambition of Riverstone
partners for some time to establish a permanent capital
vehicle.”  The IPO gives Riverstone a source of funding that won’t
need to be repaid within about five years, the time frame that
most private equity funds use, Wilson said. Since Riverstone was
founded by David Leuschen and Pierre Lapeyre in 2000, it has
raised about $25 billion of equity and won a net overall rate of
return of 20 percent.  John Browne , the former Chief Executive Officer of  BP Plc (BP/) 
and Riverstone managing director, and Jim Hackett, the former
CEO of  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , will sit on the board of the
new company.  The five so-called cornerstone investors who have already
promised to by shares are AKRC, an affiliate of the Alaska
Permanent Fund Corp., KFI, a private investment vehicle of hedge
fund manager  Louis Bacon , Hunt Oil Co., Casita LP, and the
McNair Group.  Riverstone makes buyout and growth capital investments in
the exploration and production, midstream, oilfield services,
power and renewable segments of the  energy industry . The funds
from the IPO will only be invested in exploration and production
and midstream, Wilson said today.  Riverstone Energy expects to be admitted to the London
Stock Exchange on Oct. 29 and will seek inclusion in the FTSE
250 index, it said in the statement.  The offering will be managed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and JPMorgan Cazenove.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  