-- Iran Ready for Result-Oriented Nuclear Talks, Rohani Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-24T22:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/rohani-says-iran-is-ready-for-result-oriented-nuclear-talks.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohani
said his nation is “prepared to engage immediately in time-bound and result-oriented talks” to build confidence and remove
uncertainty about  Iran’s nuclear program .  “ Iran  seeks constructive engagement with other countries
based on mutual respect and common interest, and within the same
framework does not seek to increase tensions with the  United
States ,” Rohani told the United Nations today in  New York ,
according to an English translation of his remarks.  Rohani, 64, said Iran has the right to enrich nuclear fuel
and has always had peaceful goals for its nuclear program,
reiterating the country’s longstanding position. The U.S.,
European Union and  Israel  say they suspect Iran is using its
research program as a cover to develop the capability to make a
nuclear weapon.  Rohani said Iranians “voted for the discourse of hope,
foresight and prudent moderation” when he was elected three
months ago. He used the word “moderation” nine times during
the speech.  Iran “poses absolutely no threat to the world or the
region,” said Rohani, a cleric and former top nuclear
negotiator. “Let me say loud and clear that peace is within
reach,” he said.  Rohani spoke after Iranian officials earlier today rejected
a possible informal encounter with U.S. President  Barack Obama 
while both leaders were at the UN, citing domestic political
considerations, a U.S. administration official told reporters.  Speaking earlier today to the UN, Obama said the U.S. is
“encouraged” that Rohani was given a mandate in his election
to pursue a moderate course that may provide a basis for a
“meaningful agreement” on the nuclear issue.  Rohani denounced the impact of economic sanctions imposed
on Iran by the U.S. and allies, saying “it is the common people
who are victimized by these sanctions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  