-- Rosneft Buys $1.8 Billion Enel Stake in Russia Gas Producer
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-24T15:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/rosneft-buys-1-8-billion-stake-in-russia-gas-producer-from-enel.html
OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  agreed to buy a $1.8
billion stake in a Siberian venture from Italy’s  Enel SpA (ENEL)  as the
state-run oil producer seeks a greater share of Russia’s
natural-gas market.  Rosneft will acquire a 19.6 percent stake in SeverEnergia,
which produces gas in western Siberia, according to a statement
today.  OAO Gazprom Neft (SIBN)  and  OAO Novatek (NVTK)  own 51 percent of the
project with Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Enel holding the remainder.  The acquisition moves Rosneft closer to a goal of boosting
natural gas output to 100 billion cubic meters by 2020. That
amount is equal to Canada’s annual consumption and would make
Rosneft the largest Russian supplier behind state-run OAO
Gazprom. Under Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin , a long-time
ally of President  Vladimir Putin , Rosneft has steadily increased
its weight in Russia’s energy sector, buying the TNK-BP oil
venture for more than $50 billion from  BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners.  “SeverEnergia is really a transformative asset for all the
partners involved,” Oleg Maximov, an oil and gas analyst at
Sberbank CIB in Moscow. “We think that Rosneft got a very good
deal out of this.”  SeverEnergia has the potential to produce 35 billion cubic
meters of gas a year, according to a Novatek presentation made
last month. It may also pump out 6.5 million metric tons of gas
condensate, which is similar to light crude oil.  Gas Strategy  Enel and Eni bought the company during the liquidation of
bankrupt Yukos Oil Co. in 2007, the only international energy
firms to buy assets in the auctions. Gazprom, the world’s
largest gas producer, later bought a 51 percent share, which it
sold to Novatek and its liquids arm,  Gazprom Neft .  “Gas business is one of the company’s strategic
development priorities,” Sechin said in today’s statement.  Rosneft shares fell as much as 1.1 percent in Moscow
following the announcement, and closed down less than 0.1
percent at 259.5 rubles. Enel shares rose as much as 2.4 percent
in Milan.  For the Italian company, the SeverEnergia sale is part of a
plan to sell assets announced this year, Enel CEO Fulvio Conti
said in the statement. Russia will remain a “strategic
country” in power generation and sales for Enel, he said.  Today’s deal is the latest in a string of acquisitions for
Rosneft, which in July agreed to take full control of gas
producer OOO NGK Itera for $2.9 billion. The Moscow-based
company has about $71 billion in debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, largely as a result of the TNK-BP
transaction, which closed in March this year.  The deal raises some concerns that Rosneft will pursue
deal-making at the expense of debt reduction, said Alfa Bank
analyst Alexander Kornilov. Still, he said: “The acquisition of
gas assets in  Russia  looks reasonable, given Rosneft’s
ambitions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  