-- Russia Urged by IMF to Avoid Stimulus as Growth Forecast Lowered
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-09-24T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/russia-urged-by-imf-to-avoid-stimulus-as-growth-forecast-lowered.html
Russia should avoid higher budget
spending in the coming years and refrain from easing monetary
policy to keep inflation under control, the  International
Monetary Fund  said as it cut the economy’s growth forecast.  Increased infrastructure outlays have to be offset by cuts
in other expenditure to rebuild fiscal buffers and save oil
revenue, the Washington-based fund said in a statement after
completing the Article IV consultation of Russia’s economy. It
recommended that Bank Rossii keep  interest rates  on hold “with
a tightening bias.”  The comments feed into a government debate over how to
steer the $2 trillion economy out of its sharpest slowdown since
2009, with the central bank spurning calls by senior officials
for lower borrowing costs by holding its main lending rates for
a year. The IMF predicts Russia’s gross domestic product will
grow 1.5 percent this year and 3 percent in 2014, versus July
projections of 2.5 percent and 3.3 percent.  “The near-term outlook is for moderate growth and
inflation at the upper end of the target range of the central
bank,” the IMF said. “To protect growth-enhancing investment
spending, adjustment efforts should primarily focus on
rebalancing the mix of spending and enhancing its efficiency,
and pursuing structural reforms, in particular pension reform.”  The ruble depreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar to
31.9290 as of 4:31 p.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index of 50 stocks
retreated 0.5 percent to 1,460.85.  Growth, Privatization  Slowing economic growth and worsening expectations for
proceeds from state asset sales forced the government last week
to widen its budget deficit forecasts through 2015 even as
public salaries are frozen for next year. Spending in areas
excluding pensions, welfare benefits and debt servicing will be
cut by as much as 5 percent and dividends from state-owned
companies are set to rise from 2015, according to the draft
plan.  Bank Rossii Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina , who’s overseeing
the monetary authority’s planned shift to inflation targeting by
2015, last week raised the possibility of increasing interest
rates because of government plans to exempt households from a
tariff freeze, as she seeks to reduce inflation to 4.5 percent.
Consumer-price growth, which remained at 6.5 percent from a year
earlier in August, has exceeded the top end of the central
bank’s target range of 5 percent to 6 percent for 12 months.  Russia’s general government budget deficit, the first in
three years, may amount to 0.6 percent of GDP this year and 0.7
percent in 2014, the IMF estimates. Year-end inflation may slow
to 6.2 percent this year from 6.6 percent in 2012, and
decelerate to 5.3 percent in 2014, it said.  Russia  would need more banking supervision measures to
reduce risks from continued high growth in unsecured retail
lending, according to the IMF. Russian banks should also
strengthen corporate governance, creditor rights and
competition, the fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Moscow at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  