-- Sandvik Chief Sees Most Site Cuts in Mining and Machinery Units
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-09-24T12:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/sandvik-chief-sees-most-site-cuts-in-mining-and-machinery-units.html
Sandvik AB’s (SAND)  divisions making
machinery and mining equipment will take the brunt of a cost-cutting program to include site closures, Chief Executive
Officer Olof Faxander said in an interview.  Sandvik plans to cut the number of sites to 125 from 150 in
three to four years, Faxander said in the interview in
Sandviken, where the company held an investor meeting. The focus
on machinery and mining divisions reflects their relative size
in the group. Gary Hughes, who heads Sandvik Mining, said his
area will see eight to 12 sites affected.  The savings program will cost as much as 4 billion kronor
($624 million), Sandvik said. Costs at mining-gear operations
will be cut by as much as 700 million kronor by mid-2014 because
of weakened demand. Sandvik has suffered as miner  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and others reduced spending, prompting Sandvik to announce
almost 1,000 job cuts about a year ago.  “We’re adjusting our cost base to the market situation,”
Faxander said. “On a positive note, the downward trend we’ve
seen in mining has now stabilized at this low level.”  Faxander earlier this year said the strong krona could
affect where the company makes future investments. While the
reduction of sites doesn’t target  Sweden  primarily, there could
be an impact on local operations, he said today. Sandvik’s
capital expenditure will be reduced in  Europe  in the coming
three to four years and will be focused more on  emerging
markets , where Sandvik has “invested too little historically,”
according to Faxander.  The cost-cutting measures in mining will lead to one-time
costs of as much as 400 million kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  