-- Schneiderman Calls Traders With Early Data Growing Threat
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-09-24T20:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/schneiderman-calls-traders-with-early-data-growing-threat.html
Elite investors with high-speed
trading systems who gain early access to sensitive information
are a growing threat to the integrity of U.S. financial markets,
 New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said.  Schneiderman said today at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit
in New York that his office is looking into combating the
advantages won by securing early access to market-moving data.
Calling the issue “Insider Trading 2.0,” Schneiderman said the
combination of high-speed trading and early data access unfairly
sets up a small group of investors to reap enormous profits.  “A new generation of market manipulators has emerged,”
Schneiderman said. Average investors aren’t “going to invest if
they think the markets are rigged,” he said.  Faster technology and regulatory changes aimed at spurring
competition among exchanges have allowed for rapid increases in
the speeds at which stocks change hands. Trades now can occur
within a fraction of a second of when market-moving information
is available.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White
said the “jury is still out” on whether high-frequency
trading, which now accounts for more than half of U.S. volume,
is helpful or harmful to the market.  Public Confidence  Schneiderman said targeting the combination of high-speed
trading and early data access is necessary to restore public
confidence in the markets.  “When blinding speed is coupled with early access to data,
it gives people the power to suck value out of the markets
before it even hits the street,” he said today.  Earlier this year, financial information provider  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. reached a deal with Schneiderman’s office in which
it agreed to stop providing consumer survey data from the
 University of Michigan  to certain high-frequency traders two
seconds before other investors. Thomson Reuters competes with
Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  David Girardin, a spokesman for Thomson Reuters, declined
to comment on the attorney general’s statements.  Schneiderman said his office is turning to the state’s
Martin Act, a nine-decade-old law used to probe investment fraud
and white-collar crime, to go after improper distribution of
data. The office set up a hotline, 800-771-7755, for
confidential reporting of potentially illegal trading activity.  Apart from the continuing Reuters probe, Schneiderman’s
office is looking into the early release of analyst reports as
another possible target under the new initiative, the attorney
general said today.  “Obviously our concern does not end with that firm,” he
said of Reuters. “We’re aware that others might be engaged in
similar practices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  