-- Sheikh Ahmed Says Dubai Able to Meet Debt Repayments Next Year
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-24T13:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/sheikh-ahmed-says-dubai-able-to-meet-debt-repayments-next-year.html
Dubai, which needs to repay $20
billion to Abu Dhabi entities next year, will meet its
obligations and isn’t negotiating with its neighbor to roll over
the debt, the emirate’s top finance official said.  “Most of our business is doing well, there’s growth,
there’s profitability, so I don’t think we will have any issue”
with repayments, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , head of
Dubai’s Supreme Fiscal Committee and chairman of Emirates
airline, told reporters in the emirate today. The Persian Gulf
business hub isn’t in talks to renegotiate any of the debt
coming due next year, he said.  Dubai, which was on the brink of a default in 2009, raised
$20 billion that year from the central bank of the  United Arab
Emirates , the Abu Dhabi government and two of its banks to help
state-owned companies through the credit crisis. Much of that
money was used to support debt restructuring at holding company
Dubai World Corp. and property developer Nakheel PJSC, the
builder of the palm-tree shaped islands off the emirate’s coast.  Dubai’s economy is recovering from one of the world’s worst
property crashes and is set to expand 4.6 percent, on average,
between 2012 and 2015, more than twice the growth of the
previous four years, according to government forecasts. Dubai’s
growing population, improving economy and its status as a haven
amid political and economic unrest in other parts of the  Middle
East  have helped boost apartment prices by 38 percent in the
past 12 months, according to Standard Chartered Plc.  Property Rebound  “We’re not creating this bubble; what we passed through in
last five years, that was a worldwide problem,” Sheikh Ahmed
said. “We see the market is back with most of the projects.”  Buoyed by the real-estate recovery, Dubai’s developers have
announced projects, including a shopping mall to overtake the
Dubai Mall as the world’s biggest. The sheikhdom is one of four
cities that is bidding to host the World Expo 2020 and the
results of the process will be announced in November. A win
would boost Dubai’s economic growth by about 0.5 percentage
points in the run-up to the event and by about 2 percentage
points in 2020, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a research
report dated yesterday.  Dubai “has high hopes to win the bid,” Sheikh Ahmed said.
“Without a doubt, it will be a massive achievement for Dubai
and the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  