-- Singapore Says City Remains Open Amid Foreign Employment Policy
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-24T02:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/singapore-says-city-remains-open-amid-foreign-employment-policy.html
Singapore  Acting Manpower Minister
Tan Chuan-Jin spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday about the city’s latest measures making companies
consider citizens before hiring foreigners.  On the timing of the policy announcement:  “I think Singapore remains open as an economy. We need to
be competitive. I think that’s something all Singaporeans
understand, because that’s the only way we can create good jobs
and opportunities for Singapore. I would say that the Singapore
story remains actually very compelling.  ‘‘What some companies have also acknowledged is that they
perhaps were not paying as much attention to the way their staff
were doing the hiring, for example, and you had some clustering
effects taking place. And this applies to different sectors, not
just any particular sector. So we feel that it’s probably
timely. There are concerns among Singaporeans, which I think is
fair and so it’s timely for us to introduce this. But I think
it’s something that companies understand.”  On looking at immigration policies in other countries:  “We spent some time taking a look at the various processes
and structures put in place by many countries -- Hong Kong, the
U.K., the U.S. and so on. We’re very mindful that there’s no one
silver bullet that solves everything and we’re also mindful that
every country has their own slightly different circumstances and
you can’t just import it wholesale to our system here. So what
we’ve done is to extract some of the best practices which we
think is applicable to Singapore.  ‘‘We have a very low unemployment. Singapore citizens
unemployment is about 3 percent or so. But be that as it may,
there are Singaporeans out there looking for job opportunities,
even though they may be difficult to find. So requiring
companies to put out advertisements actually would help with
that process because it allows those that are looking for jobs
to then identify the opportunities available. It allows
companies to also find Singaporeans who might be suitable.”  On balancing low unemployment against public angst toward
foreigners:  “We have grown quite fast from a labor force perspective
in the last few years. Having foreigners in Singapore has always
been part and parcel of our landscape. We’re are very
cosmopolitan society and if anything I think it provides us with
our strengths. But I think we grew at a faster rate than we
could bear, perhaps from an infrastructural standpoint and from
a social standpoint. So we are tightening the labor market so
we’re making sure that growth is at a much more manageable rate.  ‘‘Be that as it may, 3 percent Singaporeans translates to
about 50,000, 60,0000 Singaporeans without jobs. And obviously
today with social media, the stories are amplified a lot more
than perhaps before so it would seem a lot more obvious. But
when you take a step back you realize that the fundamentals of
having low unemployment remains strong.”  On Singapore remaining meritocratic:  “I don’t think as a result of this you can guarantee
Singaporeans of the job that they want because it still needs to
be on basis of merit, it still needs to be on basis of them
being able to fulfill the requirements of the job.  ‘‘What the regime allows is that there may be a better
matching of demand and supply. So as companies are looking for
people to fill their companies, they can actually tap on the
Singaporean workforce, tight as it may be, low unemployment as
it may be, there are Singaporeans out there, well-skilled and
capable, who are looking for jobs and I think this step would
actually facilitate that process.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  