-- Smithfield Shareholders Approve Takeover Bid by Shuanghui
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-24T20:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/smithfield-shareholders-approve-shuanghui-s-34-a-share-offer.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  shareholders
voted to approve Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.’s $4.7
billion deal, the largest Chinese acquisition of a U.S. company.  The $34-a-share offer for the world’s biggest producer of
hogs and pork was approved by 96 percent of voting shareholders,
Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope said at a special meeting
in Richmond,  Virginia , yesterday. Hong Kong-based Shuanghui
agreed to buy the meat processor in May. An alternative plan
from an activist shareholder to split the company into three
parts was abandoned before the vote.  “China needs our product bad, and we need to sell it,”
Maynard Gwaltney, a shareholder in the Smithfield, Virginia-based company, said after the meeting. “It’s a good merger for
both parties for the future and it’s the way to go.”  The purchase drew criticism from some lawmakers who raised
concerns that it may help transfer food-safety issues from  China 
to the U.S. The bid for Smithfield underscores the increased
demand for meat, particularly pork, from China’s expanding
middle class.  The acquisition price is fair and the deal may mean growth
in the U.S. with new plants and more hog farms to meet China’s
demand, Gwaltney said.  The deal received clearance from the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., the companies said Sept. 6. Proxy
advisory firms Glass Lewis & Co. and Institutional Shareholder
Services both recommended voting for the deal this month.  Starboard Split  Starboard Value LP, the activist investor that has
advocated a breakup of Smithfield since June, was unable to
offer an alternative to Shuanghui’s offer, according to a Sept.
20 filing. In the absence of another bid, Starboard planned to
vote in favor of Shuanghui’s offer.  Smithfield faced demands to increase returns for investors
in March from shareholder Continental Grain Co. as rising
animal-feed costs made hog production unprofitable. Continental
said in April a breakup into three businesses would achieve a
stock price of $40 within three years. Continental subsequently
backed the bid from Shuanghui and sold its holding.  Smithfield was unchanged at $33.98 at at the close in  New
York  yesterday. The shares have gained 31 percent since
Shuanghui’s bid was announced.  “This is an opportunity for us to move the company
forward,” Pope said at the meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Richmond at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  