-- Soap Boycott Adds to Trade Slump as Egypt Punishes Turkey
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-24T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/soap-boycott-adds-to-trade-slump-as-egypt-punishes-turkey.html
Laila Said loved Turkish soap
operas so much she named her baby boy Mohannad after the main
character in her favorite program. For the past two months,
she’s stopped watching.  “I was addicted to Turkish television series and was so
emotionally involved with the characters, the scenes and the
culture that I wouldn’t miss a single episode,” Said, 31, said
in a central Cairo salon where she works as a hair stylist.
“Now, I just hate everything related to  Turkey .”  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been one of
the most forceful international critics of the army’s July 3
overthrow of Mohamed Mursi, Egypt’s first freely elected
civilian president, and the deadly crackdown on Mursi’s
supporters that followed it. His defense of the ousted Islamist
leader has enraged Egyptians who support the military
intervention, spurring popular boycotts and threatening to choke
off a burgeoning trade link.  “Mursi was the first Egyptian ruler in 200 years who got
on with Turkey,” said Mustafa El-Labbad, director of the
independent Al Sharq Centre for Regional and Strategic Studies,
in an interview. “The fall of Mursi meant a fall to the dream
of Turkey in the region as well.”  In 2012, the year of Mursi’s election, Turkish  exports  to
 Egypt  surged to a record $3.7 billion, quadruple the 2007 level.
It was part of a drive by Erdogan, whose party has roots in
Islamic movements, to develop business and political links in
the Middle East, overcoming suspicion of Turkey in a region
where it was the imperial power for centuries.  ‘Bit Risky’  There are signs that the boom is reversing. Turkish goods
shipped through Egyptian ports dropped as much as 30 percent
after Mursi’s ouster, according to data from OSF International
Logistics Services, a transport company in Turkey.  Egypt’s Trade and Industry Ministry is threatening anti-dumping duties on Turkish steel imports. Cairo-based Oriental
Weavers this month said it was canceling a carpet production
project in Turkey that might eventually have meant an investment
of as much as $250 million.  Asked whether the decision was political, Haitham Abdel Moneim, the company’s investor relations director, said
“politics is part of the economy.”  “It’s a bit risky now, on the economic front there were
credit lines to Egypt that they stopped,” he said. “It gives
you an indication that later they may create problems for you
when transferring money. You can wake up in the morning to find
Egyptian investments in a trap.”  ‘Big Mistake’  Turkey lent Egypt $1 billion during Mursi’s one-year rule.
A second installment of the same size was never delivered
because Egypt didn’t request it, Turkish Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said last month. The gap was more than covered by Gulf
countries that supported Mursi’s ouster and stepped up financial
aid in the weeks following it.  Erdogan called Mursi’s removal a military coup, and
criticized the chief imam at the Al-Azhar, Egypt’s leading
Islamic authority, for supporting the army.  Egyptians who resent that stance are targeting Turkish
goods in response. Alaa Hussein, 29, who sells home appliances
on Abdel-Aziz Street in downtown Cairo, said customers are
opting for Chinese equivalents instead.  “People are very emotional and when it comes to their
national feelings, this can affect their choices,” he said.
Outside his shop, 59-year-old housewife Salwa El-Sayed agrees.
“Erdogan made a big mistake,” she said. “He supported the
regime over the people, and now he’s paying the price.”  ‘Sorry, Erdogan’  Members of Egypt’s army-backed government regularly speak
out against Turkey. Last month, Interim Foreign Minister Nabil Fahmy said Erdogan’s stance is prompted by fears his Justice and
Development Party will suffer if political Islam fails. State
media, which have backed the military intervention, joined the
campaign. Recent newspaper headlines read: “Egypt is no longer
under the Ottoman empire” and “Sorry, Erdogan, the Egyptian
people are their own masters.”  Public opinion may be less unanimous, since Egypt remains
polarized and there have been frequent demonstrations calling
for Mursi’s reinstatement.  For Erdogan, it’s a turnaround from 2011 when he visited
Egypt and was greeted by thousands hailing him as one of the
first leaders to call for the removal of President  Hosni Mubarak . Since Mursi’s fall, Turkey and Egypt canceled military
drills and recalled ambassadors.  Egyptians planning a trip to Turkey are being discouraged.
The Independent General Tourism Workers Syndicate is organizing
boycotts and has called for the removal of Turkey from a list of
recognized destinations.  Not Welcoming  Engy Salem, 28, said she was “strongly advised” against
going to Turkey when she tried to book a holiday. “I was
shocked because that’s the same destination I was always advised
to go to by the very same agent,” she said. “But this time she
told me there are some worries Turkish authorities and people
might not be as welcoming as before.”  Elhamy El-Zayat, head of the Egyptian Tourism Federation,
said Egyptians are now avoiding Turkey, which used to be one of
their favorite foreign destinations. “Occupancy rates for
flights heading to Istanbul have fallen,” he said.  At least four Egyptian television channels have halted
broadcasts of Turkish soaps since Mursi’s removal, among them
Al-Kahera Wal Nas, whose owner Tarek Nour, says the message is
political rather than cultural.  “I only want to send a message to Erdogan that your
position and interference in our affairs is not welcome,” he
said.  In her hair salon, Laila Said recalls how Turkish soap star
Kivanc Tatlitug played Mohannad, a character in the series,
Forbidden Love, and gained the admiration of Egyptian women.  “I used to love Turkish actors, even dreamed about
visiting Istanbul,” she said. “But now it’s about the dignity
of Egyptians. Erdogan needs to understand we are not part of the
Ottoman empire anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  