-- Soros to Goldman Poised to Win on Crisis-Era Housing Bet
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-24T20:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/soros-to-goldman-poised-to-win-on-crisis-era-housing-bet.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and billionaire  George Soros  are poised for gains
from a housing bet placed in the depths of the financial crisis.  Essent Group Ltd. (ESNT) , the Bermuda-based mortgage insurer that
raised $500 million from a group including those backers in
2009, filed last week to sell shares in the first initial public
offering of a home-loan guarantor in almost two decades.  The industry is rebounding from record homeowner defaults
that triggered payouts, forced almost half the companies out of
the business and pushed some of the biggest survivors to the
brink of default. With  property prices  now rising at the fastest
pace since 2006 and the government reducing its role backing
home loans, firms that sold policies before housing collapsed --
Radian Group Inc. and  MGIC (MTG)  Investment Corp. -- are attracting
new investors to replace capital lost in the slump.  “We still think it’s the best way to play the housing
recovery,” Jack Micenko, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group LLP in  New York , said of mortgage insurers.  Radian and MGIC, which were unprofitable for most of the
past six years, have more than doubled in 2013 in New York
trading. Homebuilders in comparison are down 0.6 percent this
year after slumping 20 percent since a May peak.  Mortgage insurance  is typically required when borrowers pay
less than 20 percent of the cost of their home up front. The
coverage will play an increasing role in facilitating first-home
purchases as the economy strengthens, said  Jim Ryan , an analyst
at Morningstar Inc.  ‘Demand Factors’  “Not many people have the 20 percent to put down,
especially first-time homebuyers,” he said. “There’s a lot of
good demand factors there.”  Essent, founded by Mark Casale, a 49-year old, former
 Radian (RDN)  executive, said in May 2009 it had received a commitment
of $500 million from investors including JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs
and Pine Brook Road Partners. The backers agreed in 2010 to make
another $100 million the following year as housing was entering
its fourth year of decline.  While Essent was collecting investments, MGIC recorded
losses of more than $1 billion in 2009. That year,  Triad
Guaranty Inc. (TGICQ)  was ordered by regulators to only pay a portion of
claims after being forced to stop selling policies. Triad and
another rival, PMI Group Inc., eventually filed for bankruptcy.  Market Turnaround  To aid its expansion, Essent bought Triad’s mortgage
insurance technology in late 2009 for about $30 million and by
February 2010 received approval from  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
to insure loans.  “We feel like the market is starting to turn around,”
Casale said in a Bloomberg interview at the time. “Our timing
is actually very good.”  As housing began to rebound in 2012, driven by the  Federal
Reserve , which was pushing  mortgage rates  to record lows,
Essent’s growth accelerated. It almost tripled sales in the
first six months of this year compared to the same period of
2012 and expanded its share of the traditional private mortgage
insurance market in the first half of this year to 12 percent,
making it the No. 5 seller of the coverage, according to Inside
Mortgage Finance.  As of June 30, the company had used $438 million of the
cash, according to the regulatory filing, which identifies an
entity controlled by  Soros Fund Management  LLC as an additional
investor. Vipul Tandon, a managing director in the private
equity group of Soros Fund Management, has served on Essent’s
board since 2010, according to the filing. Spokesmen for the
investors declined to comment on the IPO.  IPO Filing  The filing proposes a $287.5 million offering, a
placeholder amount used to calculate registration fees, which
may change. It doesn’t list a share price or say how much
Essent’s investors will sell in the offering.  Janice Walker, a spokeswoman for Essent at JD Walker
Communications LLC, said executives declined to comment ahead of
the IPO.  Essent sold insurance on $10.2 billion of loans in the
first six months of this year, up from $3.6 billion a year
earlier. Radian, based in Philadelphia, had $24.36 billion in
traditional sales and No. 1  United Guaranty , owned by  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  sold $24.38 billion.  “New players got into this business five years ago
promising they would walk over and destroy existing players,”
Radian Chief Executive Officer S.A. Ibrahim said by telephone.
“When we were on our backs, they couldn’t destroy us. Share
gains in this much more intense competitive environment are
going to be more difficult.”  Bigger Pie  The industry can grow by taking business from the
government, Ibrahim said. U.S. programs, led by the  Federal
Housing Administration , accounted for about a quarter of the
market in 2005 through 2007, according to data from Inside
Mortgage Finance.  As private companies retreated in the crisis, the
proportion of insured loans backed by the FHA and Department of
 Veterans Affairs  reached almost 85 percent in 2009. The figure
fell to 63 percent in the three months ended June 30.  “Everybody has an opportunity to get bigger because the
whole size of the pie will get bigger with the FHA pullback,”
Ibrahim said.  Insurers including  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  and Milwaukee-based MGIC also have been loosening terms to bring in more
business as  home prices  rise.  “There’s a lot more capital, there’s a lot more
competition for each loan,” said Jason Stewart, an analyst at
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC. “It’s going to start
impacting returns.”  15% Return  Essent said in the filing that it targets an unlevered
return on capital of 15 percent on new coverage, after taxes.  Profit was $30.8 million at Essent in the first six months
of 2013, compared with a loss of $12.5 million in the same
period of 2012. MGIC posted  net income  of $12.4 million in the
second quarter, its first profitable period since 2010, while
Radian recorded a loss in the quarter tied to investments.
Genworth’s U.S. mortgage insurer was profitable in the six
months ended June 30. That’s the first time it recorded a half-year profit since 2007.  Competition is good for the industry, said Donna DeMaio,
United Guaranty’s CEO, in an e-mailed statement. She declined to
comment on Essent.  Essent has advantages over its competitors because it’s
unburdened by losses from pre-crisis loans, giving the company a
leg up with customers over rivals, said Rob Haines, an analyst
at CreditSights Inc.  Legacy Exposure  “These companies do not look nearly as favorable as a
company like Essent, and it gives them an opportunity to capture
market share,” Haines said. “Why in the world would you want
to buy from a company that has these legacy troubled
exposures.”  Essent’s insurer has a BBB+  financial strength rating  at
 Standard & Poor’s , as does New York-based AIG’s United Guaranty.
MGIC, Radian and Genworth’s mortgage guarantor all have B
strength ratings, which are seven steps lower.  Raising capital in the IPO could help Essent extend its
advantage over rivals, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Sept.
23 research note. Moody’s has a Baa3 financial strength rating
with a positive outlook on Essent’s insurance unit.  “Our financial strength has been a reason that some
customers have done business with us,” Essent said in the
filing. “This competitive advantage may be mitigated if our
competitors continue to improve their capital positions,
profitability and financial strength ratings.”  Radian rose 2.1 percent today to $13.74 at the close in New
York trading, extending its gain this year to 125 percent. MGIC
declined 0.7 percent to $7.22 and is up 171 percent since the
end of 2012.  At Essent,“the growth opportunity is still there as it is
with the other two, but they don’t have the legacy book,”
Micenko said, referring to MGIC and Radian. “The million dollar
question is what does valuation look like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 