-- Southern California Apartment Rents to Rise for Two Years
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-09-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/southern-california-apartment-rents-to-rise-for-two-years.html
Southern California  residential
rents are likely to rise for two years as  home prices  climb and
apartments remain in short supply, according to a study by the
University of Southern  California ’s Lusk Center for Real Estate
and the state’s Realtors group.  In  Los Angeles  County, rents climbed to an average of
$1,435 a month in the second quarter, up 2.9 percent from a year
earlier, according to the 2013 USC Casden Multifamily Forecast,
released today. That was the biggest jump in the four major
Southern California markets, said the Lusk Center and the
California Association of Realtors, which coauthored the study.  While rents are rising in the region, the increase in home
prices is outpacing them. The median price paid for all new and
resale houses and condominiums sold last month in Southern
California was $385,000, up 25 percent from a year earlier,
according to San Diego-based DataQuick. The median price,
unchanged for three months, is the highest since April 2008, the
research firm said.  “Despite marked improvements in employment and the overall
economy, the rapid increase in home priciest and  interest rates 
are pricing first-time home buyers out of the local market,”
 Richard Green , director of the  USC Lusk Center , said in a
statement today. “As more and more of these households become
renters instead of buyers, we will continue to see fewer
vacancies and higher rents.”  A shortage of apartments also has a contributed to rising
rents. In Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties and the
Inland Empire, about 6,700 new apartment units were completed in
the year through June 30, while 11,900 units were rented in the
same period, the study showed.  Rents in Orange County, the area’s pricest rental market,
rose 2.8 percent to an average of $1,572, followed by San Diego
County with a 2.8 percent gain to $1,388 and the  Inland Empire 
with a 1.9 percent increase to $1,059, the study showed.  The Casden Multifamily Forecast in April 2012 also
predicted two years of residential rent increases in Southern
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  