-- Won Rises to 8-Month High as Foreigners Buy Shares; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-09-24T08:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/south-korea-s-won-drops-on-intervention-concern-bonds-steady.html
The won rose to an eight-month
high, erasing an earlier loss, as foreign investors added to
their holdings of South Korean stocks. Government bonds fell.  Overseas funds bought more local shares than they sold for
the 20th day, adding to almost $6.3 billion of net purchases
this month through yesterday, exchange data show. The won fell
in the morning as the Finance Ministry’s director general, Choi
Hee Nam, met exporters in  Seoul  to discuss possible “herd
behavior” in the currency market after the Federal Reserve last
week unexpectedly refrained from reducing its record stimulus
that has buoyed global assets.  “The majority of dollar supplies came from foreign
investors buying local shares,” said Han Sung Min, a currency
trader at Busan Bank in Seoul. “There was speculation the
authorities intervened to slow the pace of the won’s gain.”  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,072.32 per dollar in
Seoul, after falling by as much as 0.2 percent to 1,076.52,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
1,072.31, the strongest level since Jan. 25. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, climbed 15 basis point, or 0.15
percentage point, to 6.91 percent.  Standard & Poor’s today affirmed South Korea’s long-term
credit rating at A+, the fifth-highest investment grade, and
stable outlook, citing the country’s “favorable” policy
environment, “sound” fiscal position and net external creditor
position.  U.S. Policy  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said yesterday the
U.S. economy “still needs the support of a very accommodative
monetary policy,” while his Atlanta counterpart Dennis Lockhart
said policy should focus on creating a more dynamic economy
after a recent cooling in growth.  “Fed presidents gave dovish comments on the stimulus exit
strategy, and the won is forecast to rise to 1,070 versus the
dollar until the next Fed meeting in October,” said Lee Dae Ho,
a currency analyst at Hyundai Futures Co. in Seoul.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016
climbed three basis points to 2.83 percent, snapping a three-day
decline, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  