-- Spain’s Val Said to Hire Jefferies to Help Sell Ono Stake
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-24T15:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/spain-s-val-said-to-hire-jefferies-to-help-sell-ono-stake.html
Val Telecomunicaciones SL, a
Spanish investment holding company, is seeking a buyer for its
stake in cable provider Grupo Corporativo Ono SA, according to
five people familiar with the matter.  Val Telecomunicaciones hired Jefferies Group LLC to find an
acquirer for its 5.4 percent holding in Madrid-based Ono, the
people said, asking not to be identified because the
negotiations are private. The stake could be sold for about 120
million euros ($162 million), which would value closely held Ono
at about 2.2 billion euros, two of the people said.  European cable operators Kabel Deutschland Holding AG and
Virgin Media Inc. were acquired this year, fueling speculation
that Ono may be the next target as telecommunications companies
add broadband assets. Ono could be attractive for  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ,  Europe ’s largest mobile-phone company, and Liberty Global
Plc, controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone , who said in
July he would look to southern Europe for growth opportunities.  “This minority shareholder must feel under some immediate
pressure to monetize its investment now because it will probably
fall short of what it could get after a potential trade sale to
a competitor down the road,” said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor who helps manage $1 billion at FM Capital in
 London .  Santander, Providence  Officials of Val Telecomunicaciones, which includes
multiple investors, didn’t return calls seeking comment. A
Jefferies representative declined to comment.  The stake sale is significant as it will put a value on Ono
amid the recent wave of cable acquisitions. Yet a minority sale
may be difficult to execute as the other Ono shareholders have
the right to buy the stake, which could delay the process or
deter potential buyers, two of the people said.  Providence Equity Partners Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners LP
and  Spain ’s biggest bank Banco Santander SA are among Ono’s top
investors, according to the cable company’s  annual report .  Ono, which has its own high-capacity fiber-optic network in
Spain, reported a first-half loss of 19 million euros as revenue
climbed 3.5 percent to 800 million euros. The company had net
debt of 3.4 billion euros at the end of June.  The operator is continuing with a plan to sell shares in an
initial public offering when markets recover, Chief Executive
Officer Rosalia Portela said this month in a conference in
Santander, Spain. Portela declined to comment on whether the
company had been approached by potential buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  