-- Stanford Sues Chiang Kai-Shek’s Kin Over Diary Ownership
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-24T21:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/stanford-sues-chiang-kai-shek-s-kin-over-diary-ownership.html
     Sept. 24 (Bloomberg) -– Stanford University, holder of one
of the largest collections related to the Chinese Nationalist
Party, sued Chiang Kai-shek’s descendants to resolve competing
claims for ownership of the party leader’s personal diaries,
which were loaned to the university in 2004.  Stanford’s board of trustees seeks a court order shielding
the school from lawsuits over the papers and requiring the
descendants to “litigate amongst themselves his or her rights
or claims” to the diaries, according to a complaint filed in
federal court in San Jose, California.  Stanford’s Hoover Institution was loaned the papers,
consisting of 51 boxes of materials with hundreds of thousands
of pages, by the daughter-in-law of Chiang Ching-kuo, Chiang
Kai-shek’s son. Since then, the school has received claims of
ownership by several of Ching-kuo’s grandchildren and other
relatives in  Taiwan , as well as differing instructions regarding
the handling of the papers, Mark Litvack, an attorney for
Stanford, said in the complaint.  “Plaintiff is ready, willing and able to return” the
papers “to the person(s) or entity(ies) legally entitled to it
or parts of it, but under the circumstances, plaintiff does not
know and cannot determine to whom the” documents should be
delivered, according to the complaint.  Taiwan Rule  Chiang Kai-shek headed the nationalist government in China
from 1928 to 1949, when his party, known as the Kuonmintang,
fled the mainland to Taiwan after a civil war against Mao Zedong’s Communists. He ruled Taiwan for an additional 26 years
and died in 1975. He kept personal diaries from at least 1917 to
1972, according to the Stanford complaint.  The Communist Party still deems Taiwan a renegade province
that must be unified with  China , by force if necessary.  The Hoover Institution holds hundreds of pre-1949 Chinese
publications that barely exist in present-day China and the
personal papers of numerous modern Chinese leaders, according to
the complaint.  “We are reluctantly turning to a court for assistance,”
Eryn Witcher, a Hoover spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Hoover
is not advocating for one outcome or another; Hoover is simply
looking for clarity so it can either return the materials to its
proper owner(s), or continue to hold the materials for the
proper owner(s).”  Chiang family members in the San Francisco bay area
couldn’t immediately be reached.  The case is The Board of Trustees for the Leland Stanford
Junior University v. Chiang Fang Chi-yi, 13-cv-04383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  