-- Sunderland Targets Zola as Manager, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-24T07:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/sunderland-targets-zola-as-manager-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Sunderland Wants Zola  Sunderland is considering hiring Watford’s Gianfranco Zola
as its new manager after firing Paolo Di Canio, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  An emergency board meeting yesterday discussed a group of
candidates that also included Roberto Di Matteo and Gustavo Poyet, both of whom are out of work, the newspaper added.  Blackpool’s Paul Ince and Celtic’s Neil Lennon also feature
on Sunderland’s shortlist, the  Daily Mail reported .  Reluctant Targets  Former Chelsea manager Di Matteo and ex-Brighton coach
Poyet have reservations about taking the Sunderland post, the
 Guardian reported .  Di Matteo is said to be reluctant to accept another
managerial position unless it offers an outstanding opportunity,
while Poyet is unsure about taking over at a club where Director
of Football Roberto De Fanti controls player recruitment, the
newspaper added.  Baines’s Raise Delayed  Everton manager Roberto Martinez said a new contract for
Leighton Baines has been “put aside” because there’s no rush
to agree on a deal before the January trade period, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  The club plans to offer Baines a 50 percent pay increase to
75,000 pounds ($120,262) a week after he accepted a decision not
to trade him to Manchester United, the newspaper added.  World Cup Doubt  Arsenal forward Theo Walcott may miss  England ’s World Cup
qualifiers against Montenegro and  Poland  next month because of
the stomach injury that forced him to withdraw just before the
Gunners’ win over Stoke City, the  Daily Mail reported .  Walcott, who was set to start in the matches on Oct. 11 and
15, is expected to be out for two weeks following tests on the
injury, the newspaper said.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  