-- Sweden Raises $3.4 Billion After Selling Remaining Nordea Stake
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-09-25T07:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/sweden-plans-to-sell-remaining-3-5-billion-stake-in-nordea-bank.html
Sweden ’s government raised 21.6
billion kronor ($3.4 billion) after selling its remaining stake
in  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  as part of a broader plan to divest state
assets and reduce debt.  The state sold about 284 million shares, equivalent to 7
percent of the share capital in  Scandinavia ’s biggest bank, at
76 kronor per share to institutional domestic and international
investors, it said today. The shares were offered to investors
at 75.50 kronor to 76 kronor, the term sheet showed.  “The government’s role is to regulate the banks, not to
own them,” Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said in a
statement late yesterday, when the government announced the
sale. “Bank shares are risky assets and banks require strict
regulation and extensive supervision. The aim of the government
is therefore to sell the state’s remaining stake.”  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s government earmarked
Stockholm-based Nordea for divestment after coming to power in
2006 as part of a strategy to sell holdings, such as its stake
in Sweden’s largest phone company  TeliaSonera AB. (TLSN)  It reduced its
share in Nordea to 7 percent from 13.4 percent in June, raising
19.5 billion kronor by selling 260 million shares at 75 kronor
apiece. It also cut its stake in February 2011, raising 19
billion kronor by selling shares at 74.5 kronor each.  Banking Crisis  The government has taken advantage of an increase of 28
percent increase in Nordea shares this year. The stock rose 1.1
kronor, or 1.3 percent, to 79.2 kronor yesterday, with the
government announcing the planned sale after the market close.
The shares slipped 2.8 percent to 77 kronor as of 9:18 a.m. in
 Stockholm .  State ownership of Nordea traces its roots to the nation’s
banking crisis in the early 1990s, when predecessor Nordbanken
was nationalized after losses wiped out its equity. Nordbanken
was later merged with other Nordic lenders such as  Finland ’s
Merita Bank to create Nordea. Its largest shareholder is
Finland’s  Sampo Oyj (SAMAS) , which owns the biggest Nordic non-life
insurer If, with a 21.4 percent holding as of the end of August.  Since coming to power, the Swedish government has cut
public debt to 38.1 percent of gross domestic product at the end
of last year, helped by the sale of Absolut vodka maker Vin &
Sprit AB, real estate company Vasakronan and stakes in stock-market operator OMX AB and TeliaSonera. The National Financial
Management Authority forecast on Sept. 3 that public debt will
rise to 41.5 percent of gross domestic product this year, before
gradually falling to 34 percent by the end of 2017.  The government has raised a total of 60.1 billion kronor
this mandate period by selling Nordea shares, it said today. It
named  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as global coordinator and joint book-runner
of the stake sale and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Carnegie and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as joint bookrunners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  