-- Swiss Stocks Advance as Investors Await Fed Speeches
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-24T07:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-givaudan-evolva-climb.html
Stocks in Switzerland  advanced as
investors awaited a report on U.S. consumer confidence and
speeches by two Federal Reserve officials.  Givaudan SA (GIVN)  climbed after Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended
buying shares in the world’s largest maker of flavorings.  Evolva
Holding SA (EVE) , a developer of food ingredients, jumped 4.5 percent.
Burckhardt Compression Holding AG tumbled 8.9 percent after the
supplier to oil and gas companies cut its 2013 operating-profit
margin guidance.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.3 percent to 8,083.72 at
9:24 a.m. in Zurich. The measure climbed 0.8 percent last week
after the Federal Reserve refrained from reducing its $85
billion of monthly asset purchases, and is heading for a 5.2
percent quarterly gain and 18 percent annual advance. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also rose 0.3 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was 18 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fed Bank of Cleveland President  Sandra Pianalto  speaks at
the Chicago Federal Reserve’s payments symposium at 8:30 a.m.
local time. Fed Bank of Kansas President Esther George addresses
the conference at noon local time, after European markets close.  A report at 10 a.m. New York time may show the Conference
Board’s  consumer-confidence index  slipped to 80 this month from
81.5 in August, according to the median forecast of 77
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Separate data at the same time may show that manufacturing
in the region covered by the Fed Bank of Richmond shrank this
month. The  factory index , which covers North Carolina,  South
Carolina , the District of Columbia, Maryland, Virginia and most
of West  Virginia , dropped to 12 from 14 last month, economists
predicted in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  