-- U.K. Labour Would Split Energy Big Six, Force Power Trading Pool
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-24T11:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/u-k-labour-would-split-energy-big-six-force-power-trading-pool.html
The opposition Labour Party pledged
to break up Britain’s six largest energy companies and force
them to trade all their electricity on the open market to drive
down prices for consumers if it wins the next election.  “We will break up the big six; the power stations will be
separated from the companies that send you your bill,” Labour’s
energy spokeswoman,  Caroline Flint , told her party’s annual
conference today in Brighton, southern England. “Just as the
banks will have to separate their investment and trading arms
from the high-street branches, so we will make the energy
companies separate their production from the companies that
supply your home.”  The six largest energy companies, including  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,
EDF Energy Plc, EON SE,  SSE Plc (SSE) , Scottish Power Ltd. and  RWE AG (RWE) 
have different units generating, trading and supplying energy.
In a July 29 report, Parliament’s cross-party Energy and Climate
Change Committee said energy regulator Ofgem should act to make
company profits more transparent.  “I promise with a Labour government the most radical,
comprehensive reforms since energy privatization,” Flint said.
“No more price setting in secret. The energy companies will be
forced to open their books. And do all their electricity trading
on the open market, in a pool.”  The U.K. has been debating energy costs after suppliers
garnered criticism for posting profits while raising prices.
Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said his
government will change the law to tackle rising energy bills by
forcing companies to charge each customer at the lowest rate for
their type of use. His government’s Energy Bill is currently
being considered by the upper House of Lords.  New Policies  The Labour Party has used its annual conference to spell
out a range of new policies with 20 months to go to the
election. Both the party leader,  Ed Miliband , and his Treasury
spokesman, Ed Balls, have said they have no problem calling
themselves “socialists.”  “Half a dozen companies, squeezing out competition,
setting prices in secret, and never telling you if you’re
getting a rotten deal,” Flint said today. “Prices rising year
after year, followed by record-breaking profits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton,  England  at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  