-- Generals Seen Trying to Impede Afghan Hospital Probe
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-09-25T01:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/u-s-generals-seen-trying-to-impede-afghan-hospital-probe.html
(Corrects third, fifth and 17th and 18th paragraphs to say
Caldwell isn’t retired yet from the Army and hasn’t yet begun a
position at a Georgia educational facility.)  The top U.S. general responsible
for training the Afghan military and his deputy tried to impede
their staff from contacting investigators about patient abuse at
the largest military hospital in the war-torn country, according
to the Pentagon’s inspector general.  The two generals sought in 2011 to restrict contact with a
team of investigators probing allegations of corruption and
substandard patient care -- including the starving of Afghan
military patients and filthy conditions -- at Dawood National
Military Hospital, according to an inspector general’s report
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Army Secretary John McHugh should “take appropriate action
against” Lieutenant General William Caldwell, who remains on
active duty and his deputy, Army Major General Gary Patton, who
now heads the Pentagon’s sexual-assault prevention office, the
inspector general said in the Aug. 13 report.  The generals “attempted to limit” contacts and “required
all communications” with the inspector general “be approved
prior to release,” the report found. They acted after the
training command’s own inspector general submitted a seven-page
assessment in February 2011 documenting substandard patient care
to the investigating team without the general’s knowledge.  Caldwell is still on active duty and could be handed a
reprimand and a demotion in rank that would result in reduced
retirement benefits. Patton, who was cited for forwarding one of
Caldwell’s e-mails ordering limits on outside contacts, also
could face a reduction in rank or a reprimand.  Fifth Time  Caldwell declined to comment for this story, according to
Army spokesman George Wright. Patton also declined to comment,
according to Army Lieutenant Colonel Catherine Wilkinson, his
spokeswoman at the Pentagon’s sexual-assault prevention office.  The report marks the  fifth time  this year that the Defense
Department’s inspector general said it substantiated allegations
of misconduct or abusive management style by senior Army
officers. The previous cases involved officers in  South Korea ,
the U.S. Africa Command, the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point 
and the  Missile Defense Agency .  “We substantiated the allegations of restriction,” Acting
Inspector General Lynne Halbrooks wrote McHugh. “The evidence
established that LTG Caldwell issued restrictive orders via
three e-mails to subordinate members of his command.”  Halbrooks asked McHugh for a response within 60 days.
Wright said in an e-mailed statement that the service is “in
receipt of the report, and it is currently undergoing
appropriate staff review.”  Caldwell had ordered that all contacts on the hospital
issue be approved by him after Army Colonel Mark Fassl, the
inspector general for the training command, went directly to the
Pentagon inspector general’s team with the 2011 assessment.  ‘Disgraceful Conditions’  It alleged shortcomings in patient care at the hospital,
with “pictures of starving Afghan soldiers” that “reflected
the poor treatment they received,” according to the Pentagon
inspector general’s report.  Dawood, with 410 beds, is the largest of six Afghan-run
national hospitals for that country’s soldiers and is supported
by U.S. funding.  Wounded soldiers were “subjected to disgraceful
conditions, abuse, starvation and neglect,” Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said in a Sept. 11 letter to
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel demanding that the two generals be
disciplined.  Afghan soldiers were “allegedly ‘extorted for medical
care’ and there was no anesthesia for operations, no heat,
maggots crawling from festering wounds and feces on the floor,”
Grassley said, citing testimony by Fassl and other witnesses at
a July 2012 hearing of a House subcommittee.  ‘Off Guard’  Caldwell told investigators that he and his staff were
“caught completely off guard” when they were contacted about
Fassl’s assessment, according to the report.  “Any commander would have been frustrated by this
situation,” Caldwell said in a rebuttal included with the
report.  Caldwell relinquished command this month as commander of
the U.S. 5th Army after a 37-year career. He is on leave and
still considered on active duty, said Pentagon spokesman Colonel
Steve Warren.  Caldwell has accepted an offer to serve as the President of
 Georgia  Military College and will begin work there when he
retires, Warren said. Georgia Military is a junior college and
preparatory school based in Milledgeville, Georgia.  Patton facilitated the restrictive orders by forwarding an
e-mail from Caldwell when he was in Brussels at a conference of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the report said. Patton
wrote in his rebuttal that he acted in “an attempt to manage
communications and synchronize the staff on an issue of great
importance to the command.”  ‘Uniquely Positioned’  Patton said that information provided outside the chain of
command wasn’t “protected communications” that fall under
whistle-blower protection laws.  The investigative report found that Patton “was uniquely
positioned to question the restrictive order, or at least ask
for clarification. Not only did he not question LTG’s Caldwell’s
orders, he forwarded them.”  Grassley, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, wrote to Hagel that the generals “engaged in a
pattern of misconduct designed to effectively ‘restrict’ five
officers and a civilian deputy from reporting fraud and theft.”  Republican Representative  Jason Chaffetz  of  Utah , chairman
of the panel that held the House hearing on Dawood, said in an
e-mail that “whistle-blowers need to be allowed unfettered
access to the IG and members of Congress” and that he would
follow up on the Pentagon’s response to the inspector general’s
findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  