-- UBS CFO Naratil Says Banks Need to Deleverage Further
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-09-24T13:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/ubs-cfo-naratil-says-banks-need-to-deleverage-further.html
(Corrects wording in last paragraph.)  UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil said the financial industry needs to continue
deleveraging as the size of bank assets hasn’t “substantially
changed” since the global financial crisis.  “The need for further industry deleveraging is clear,”
Naratil, 51, told investors at a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
conference in  London  today, adding that UBS also needs to reduce
its leverage, or assets versus capital.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Morgan Stanley and
UBS boosted their cumulative common equity by 59 percent from
the end of 2007 through June to $681 billion, according to
Naratil’s presentation slides. At they same time, they reduced
funded assets by 16 percent to $9.25 trillion, they showed.  Switzerland ’s largest bank plans to reach its targeted 13
percent common equity ratio under fully applied Basel III rules
in 2014, with an aim to pay out more than 50 percent of earnings
in dividends afterward, Naratil said. UBS also plans to cut its
leverage further over “the next few years,” he added.  The lender, based in Zurich, will continue to cut legacy
assets though not at any cost, according to Naratil.  “Certainly speed is important, but long-term value
creation remains paramount,” he said.  Naratil urged regulators to find “a common approach” when
looking at leverage ratios and consider the quality of both
assets and capital for calculations.  “Global coordination and cooperation is essential to
resolving a crisis or potentially to preventing and mitigating
an upcoming crisis,” Naratil said. “If left unchecked with
vastly different treatments in regimes, you’ll have regulatory
arbitrage and the industry will look to take advantage of that.
Banks will all move to the leaky side of the boat, and that’s
not the best outcome for the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  