-- Ukraine CDS Jump to Three-Year High After Moody’s Downgrade
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-09-24T15:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/ukraine-cds-jump-to-three-year-high-after-moody-s-downgrade.html
The cost of insuring Ukrainian debt
against default surged to a three-year high after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the country’s credit rating deeper into
junk last week, citing “very high  default risk .”  The cost of Ukrainian credit-default swaps jumped for a
third day, increasing 103 basis points to 1,041 at 5:30 p.m. in
Kiev, the highest since January 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield on the country’s dollar bonds due in
2023 rose to a one-week high of 10.06 percent today.  Moody’s downgraded Ukrainian debt on Sept. 20 by one level
to Caa1, seven steps below investment grade, amid growing
political and economic risks and a lack of prospects for a
bailout from the  International Monetary Fund . Ukraine is
struggling with  economic contraction , a widening current-account
deficit, shirking foreign-currency reserves and trade
restrictions from  Russia , its biggest export market.  “Moody’s downgrade served as a wake up call on Ukraine,”
said  Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in  London . “All in all, we are looking into a scenario under
which Ukraine depends even more from Russian capital flows, and
some borrowing in the external markets.”  The government, which is poised to pursue closer links with
the European Union instead of joining a Russia-led trading bloc,
has failed to agree on a new IMF bailout because of
disagreements over energy subsidies.  Declining Reserves  Ukraine’s central bank reserves slid to $21.65 billion on
Aug. 31, or less than three months of imports, dipping below a
threshold some economists use to gauge financial stability.  The country’s 2023 dollar notes have lost 12 percent since
they were sold in April, compared with a 6.3 percent decline in
the Bloomberg  Emerging Markets  Sovereign Bond  Index. (BEMS)  The hryvnia
weakened 0.3 percent to 8.1850 per dollar today.  Moody’s cited “increased political and economic risks due
to deteriorating relations with Russia,” low central bank
reserves and “increased downside risk related to future
negotiations” with the IMF in its statement on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  