-- Uralkali Shares Gain on China Bond-for-Stake Swap: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-09-24T15:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/uralkali-leads-gains-on-china-bond-for-stake-swap-moscow-mover.html
OAO Uralkali climbed for the first
day in six after a unit of  China ’s sovereign wealth fund
exchanged bonds it holds in the world’s biggest potash producer
for a 12.5 percent stake.  Uralkali increased as much as 3.9 percent and closed up 0.5
percent at 171 rubles in Moscow. The amount of shares traded was
equivalent to about 99 percent of the three-month average.  Chengdong Investment Corp., a unit of China Investment
Corp., or CIC, bought the bonds in November from Wadge Holdings,
owned by billionaires Suleiman Kerimov, Filaret Galchev, Anatoly
Skurov. Chengdong Investment notified Uralkali today that it had
converted the bonds into shares, the potash producer said in a
statement. China imports about a fifth of global potash
shipments, valued at about $20 billion, using it to enhance
crops that feed the most-populous nation.  “The Chinese have been interested in increasing their
position in the potash industry for a long time,” Oleg Petropavlovskiy, an analyst at BCS Financial Group, said by
phone from Moscow. “I’d estimate the Chinese had to pay a 60
percent premium to the current share price for the conversion.”  Kerimov, Galchev and Skurov retain a combined 33 percent
stake in Uralkali. They are said to have received offers to sell
out of the Berezniki, Russia-based company after it quit a
trading venture with  Belarus  in July and its Chief Executive
Officer Vladislav Baumgertner was arrested in Minsk in August.  Vladimir Kogan, an ally of President  Vladimir Putin , is a
leading bidder for control of Uralkali, people familiar with the
situation said on Sept. 13.  The agreement to convert bonds is between China and the
company’s shareholders and Uralkali isn’t involved in the
transaction, its press service said. CIC’s press-office didn’t
return calls seeking comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  