-- Usain Bolt Renews Puma Deal Until After 2016 Rio Olympics
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-09-24T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/usain-bolt-renews-puma-endorsement-deal-until-after-rio-olympics.html
Six-time Olympic sprint gold
medalist Usain Bolt renewed his endorsement contract with
sportswear maker  Puma SE (PUM)  until after the 2016 Summer Games in
Rio de Janeiro.  The 27-year-old reigning Olympic champion and world record
holder over 100 and 200 meters has been training and competing
in Puma gear for a decade,  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods maker said in a statement today.  Neither Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Puma nor Bolt’s
management team would disclose financial details of the
partnership. Last year, Forbes magazine said Bolt’s previous
Puma deal, signed in 2010, was worth $9 million annually, a sum
it described as “astronomical” for a track athlete.  Jamaica’s Bolt, victorious over 100 and 200 meters at the
World Athletics Championships in Moscow last month, said Sept. 4
he’ll retire from athletics after the 2016 Olympics, although
last week said he was “reconsidering” the decision.  “Puma has been with me since the very beginning,” Bolt
said in the statement. “They recognized my talent at an early
age and have supported me throughout, especially in the early
years when I had some difficult times due to injuries.”  Puma also sponsors  soccer players  including Yaya Toure,
Cesc Fabregas and Marco Reus and soccer federations such as
 Italy , the Czech Republic and Cameroon. The company also has a
partnership with  Borussia Dortmund ,  Germany ’s second-biggest
soccer club after  Bayern Munich , as well as Newcastle United and
Bordeaux.  Other Puma partnerships have included a deal with the
Mercedes GP Petronas Formula One team and with the Oracle Racing
team at the 34th America’s Cup.  The company is closing stores, eliminating jobs and cutting
product ranges to combat declining footwear sales, while seeking
to boost its performance-wear credentials. It reported steeper
declines in profit and sales than analysts had estimated in the
second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  