-- Utility Stock-Rate Link Ignores Industry Gains
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-09-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/utility-stock-rate-link-ignores-industry-gains.html
Rising interest rates have taken
too great a toll on shares of utilities, according to Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup Inc.’s chief U.S. equity strategist.  “Investors have become overly focused on getting out of
income-oriented stocks,” Levkovich wrote in a Sept. 20 report.
Utilities have suffered accordingly even though many of their
biggest customers are petrochemical companies, which are more
competitive because of relatively cheap natural gas, he wrote.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the relationship between the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Utilities Index and the 10-year Treasury
note’s yield since 1990. Levkovich, based in  New York , provided
a similar chart in his report.  Utilities were this year’s second-worst performers among
the  S&P 500 ’s 10 main groups through yesterday. Their industry
index rose 8.8 percent, less than half as much as the S&P 500.
The worst were telephone companies, the only group to have a
dividend yield exceeding the more than 4 percent for utility
stocks.  The petrochemical industry has given U.S. utilities more
business as shale-gas discoveries hold down the cost of natural
gas, Levkovich wrote. At yesterday’s settlement price of $3.602
per million British thermal units, gas was 18 percent cheaper
than this year’s high, set on April 19.  Real-estate investment trusts have suffered a similar fate
to utilities, the report said. Shares of REITs have fallen even
though the yield gap between the stocks’ dividends and 10-year
Treasuries isn’t a consistent measure of relative performance,
Levkovich wrote. He added that the gauge’s flaws are tied to
increases in property values and rents over time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  