-- Vale Mulls More Asset Sales as It Seeks to Boost Profit
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-24T21:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/vale-mulls-more-asset-sales-as-it-seeks-to-boost-profit.html
Vale SA (VALE)  is considering more asset
sales this year following $2.7 billion of divestments since
early 2012 as it seeks to cut costs and boost profit.  The iron-ore producer based in Rio de Janeiro is studying
whether to sell its stake in Oslo-based aluminum producer  Norsk
Hydro ASA (NHY) , as well as oil and gas assets, Chief Executive
Officer Murilo Ferreira said today. The company is also
pondering the sale of its 40 percent stake in Brazilian bauxite
producer Mineracao do Rio Norte SA, he said.  “We also have a surprise that I won’t mention so you
remain curious,” Ferreira told reporters in  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil, after a speech at the Brazilian Mining Congress.  Vale is selling assets, putting projects on hold and
focusing on its more profitable  iron-ore  business in a bid to
recover profit margins after commodities prices fell. The
company last week sold stakes in a cargo unit for about 2.7
billion reais ($1.2 billion) to Japan’s Mitsui & Co. and a
Brazilian government fund after $1.47 billion of asset sales
last year, including a  coal mine  in Colombia and 10 large
vessels.  Vale  lost  1.5 percent to 32.27 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo today, the lowest level for its shares since Sept. 6.  The expansion of shale-gas production in the U.S. is
creating an opportunity for Vale to sell pellets, a processed
form of iron ore, to American steelmakers, Ferreira said in a
presentation at the mining event. The company is in
“intensive” discussions to supply pellets to U.S. steel mills
and its Tubarao VIII project will benefit from rising demand in
the country, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  