-- Virgin-Delta Realign Heathrow Schedule to Battle British Airways
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-09-24T11:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/virgin-delta-realign-heathrow-schedule-to-battle-british-airways.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. will streamline timetables between  New
York ’s John F. Kennedy airport and  London Heathrow  as their
first priority after winning antitrust immunity for an alliance.  The pair will operate nine daily New York-London flights
each way from March 30, seven focused on Kennedy and two at
 Newark . Jets will leave Heathrow for JFK every 30 minutes in an
evening peak currently dominated by British Airways and  American
Airlines , Virgin Chief Executive Officer Craig Kreeger said.  “The first thing that we’ve done in terms of changing our
schedule is take flights that were on top of each other and
create a better schedule for customers in the New York market,”
Kreeger said in a phone interview. “It’s the logical place to
start -- it’s where we have the biggest amount of service and
it’s where we think our competition can be a huge value.”  Yesterday’s approval of the pact by the U.S. Department of
Transportation lets the airlines combine networks on key trans-Atlantic routes in an alliance driven by Delta’s June purchase
of a 49 percent stake in  Richard Branson ’s flagship company.
Antitrust clearance means the airlines can also coordinate
pricing, share costs and consult on fleet needs, Kreeger said.  Terminal Switch  In London, Virgin is working with Heathrow Airport Ltd. on
moving Delta services to Terminal 3, where its own flights are
based, from Terminal 4. Shifting feeder traffic from northern
Britain there from Terminal 1 is also desirable, the CEO said.  Delta and Virgin will together control about 35 percent of
available seats between New York JFK and Heathrow, versus a 63
percent joint share at  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG) ’s BA and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American, which have coordinated JFK-Heathrow flights since April 2011, according to Kreeger.  Between  Europe ’s busiest airport and the entire U.S. the
Delta-Virgin share will be about 25 percent, versus 55 percent
for BA-AA, and to  North America  as a whole the figure will be 21
percent, compared with 51 percent for the two Oneworld carriers.  “While we together won’t have the single largest network
between the U.S. and the U.K., we’ll now have an extremely
competitive one,” said Kreeger, a 53-year-old American who took
over as CEO of Crawley, England-based Virgin Atlantic on Feb. 1.  Restrictions in place prior to the antitrust signoff mean
Virgin and Delta haven’t yet shared information on supply and
demand or compared their strengths on various services, though
the only other overlap route is London-Boston, Kreeger said.  Blend Sought  In total, the pact between the carriers will entail joint
operation of 31 daily round-trip flights between the U.S. and
the U.K., versus 58 offered by British Airways and American.  The carriers plan to see how customers respond to their
accord before making major service changes, Kreeger said. While
dedicated to retaining a Virgin ethos known for perks spanning
resort-like lounges to motorcycle pickups, the CEO reckons there
may be opportunities for aligning the two identities.  “I like to think it will be a blend of some things that
makes sense for us to do similarly and other things that are
characters of each airline’s brand and service that customers
associate with that airline,” he said.  Delta, which bought its stake in Virgin Atlantic from
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  for $360 million earlier this year, has
itself been wooing premium passengers at its hometown hub in
Atlanta with surprise Porsche sports-car rides between terminals
when they have a connecting flight to catch.  Kreeger, has set a target of returning a company in which
billionaire Branson retains a 51 percent stake to profit in the
year through February 2015, after it recorded a loss of 69.9
million pounds ($112 million) in fiscal 2013.  A more fuel-efficient fleet and the Delta pact alone will
ensure profitability, Kreeger said earlier this month, with
Virgin also targeting cost savings of 45 million pounds this
year, mainly from enhanced computer and e-commerce functions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  