-- Volkswagen Brand to Cut More Costs as Europe Car Market Shrinks
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-09-24T12:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/volkswagen-brand-to-cut-more-costs-as-europe-car-market-shrinks.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
automaker, is stepping up efforts to reduce costs at its
namesake passenger car brand to offset shrinking demand in its
home region, where new-car sales are sliding to a 20-year low.  VW sees “need for further belt-tightening over the coming
months at all levels, in all departments, in all regions and at
all plants,” the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said in a
statement today.  Volkswagen steered through the European car industry gloom
better than most mass-market peers, mainly because of its large
presence in  China  and profits from upscale brands such as
Porsche and Audi. First-half operating profit at the VW brand
passenger car division, the manufacturer’s biggest unit by
vehicle sales,  declined  34 percent from a year earlier to 1.49
billion euros ($2 billion).  “We need solid earning power and a competitive cost
position,” Arno Antlitz, VW brand board member for accounting
and controlling, told 18,000 employees at a meeting in
Wolfsburg, according to the statement.  The brand’s diversified regional presence is a competitive
advantage and will be expanded further, he said.  “We are able to invest record sums in our future projects
in spite of the crisis,” Antlitz said.  Profitability Targets  VW said earlier this month that it plans to boost
profitability at its mass-market brands even with the timing of
a rebound in its home region uncertain. It expects the loss-making Seat and the namesake VW badge to contribute more to the
group’s goals of becoming the world’s largest automaker by 2018.
Higher profit margins are tied to expanding beyond  Europe  and
sharing more technology between the brands to lower costs.  The VW car brand is forecast to lift its operating profit
margin to more than 6 percent of sales from 3.5 percent last
year, according to a Sept. 9 presentation by Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch. Seat, which posted an operating
loss of 156 million euros last year, has a target profit margin
of more than 5 percent. Skoda will have a margin of 6 percent to
8 percent, after posting 6.8 percent in 2012. The presentation
didn’t set a date for when the targets would be achieved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  