-- Watson Looking for Woods to Be Leader of 2014 Ryder Cup Team
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-24T16:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/watson-looking-for-woods-to-be-leader-of-2014-ryder-cup-team.html
U.S. Ryder Cup captain  Tom Watson 
wants Tiger Woods to take a leadership role next year when the
American golfers seek to reverse their recent poor record
against Europe.  The U.S. has won only one of Woods’s seven appearances in
the biennial team competition since the world’s top-ranked
player made his debut in 1997. Still, according to Watson, the
14-time major winner’s status in the game puts him in an
influential position among his teammates.  “We need him to be a leader, there’s not a question about
that,” Watson said today at a press conference with European
captain Paul McGinley at the Gleneagles Hotel in Perthshire,
 Scotland , site of the 2014 Ryder Cup. “I don’t care who you
are, if you don’t look up to  Tiger Woods , what he’s accomplished
in his career and say, ‘I want to play like Tiger Woods,’ you
don’t know what you’re talking about.”  Watson said it was “special” to have Woods on the team
and compared it to his playing days when he’d be teamed with 18-time major champion  Jack Nicklaus  at the event.  “When I played in the Ryder Cup, I stood on the tee
several times and heard, ‘And now on the tee, Tom Watson and
Jack Nicklaus,”’ he said. “You don’t think that was kind of a
(drawing a deep breath) moment? God, I’ve got Jack Nicklaus.”  Europe has dominated the Ryder Cup recently, winning five
of the past six editions. The only American win in that span
came in 2008 when Woods was sidelined by injury.  Record Comeback  The U.S. lost last year’s matches at Medinah Country Club
outside Chicago 14 1/2 to 13 1/2 as  Europe  equaled the 13-year-old U.S. record for the biggest comeback in the competition’s
history. Europe entered the final day trailing 10-6 and
outscored the U.S. 8 1/2 to 3 1/2 in the 12 singles matches.  Playing on home soil makes the European team the early
favorite of U.K. bookmakers to continue its winning run. With
six Americans currently among the top-10 of the Official World
Golf Ranking, compared with just three Europeans, and the past
two victories coming by just a point, McGinley turned to another
sport to assess his team’s chances.  “I really see this as two heavyweights going toe to toe,
15 rounds,” the Irishman said. “The margin between the two
teams is so slight and so small, even though we have come out on
the right side of winning, we are going to have to play
incredibly well to win this Ryder Cup. As we saw in Medinah it
came right down to the wire, and I have no reason to think it
won’t come right down to the wire again here in Gleneagles.”  Watson’s Return  Europe’s winning run led the PGA of American to pick Watson
for a second stint as captain, even though the eight-time major
winner will be 65 when the matches begin. He guided the U.S. to
victory at The Belfry in  England  in 1993, the last time the
Americans won in Europe.  Watson said it won’t be hard to motivate his team.  “I know for a fact that our players, through my
conversations with our captain last year Davis Love, he said our
players were absolutely depressed over the fact that they lost
and it kept with them for a while,” Watson said. “Actually, I
hope that that feeling remains for some of those players who
will be on my team and they’ll be able to use that as a
motivator.”  Played since 1927, the Ryder Cup is golf’s top biennial
international team competition. The 2014 matches will take place
Sept. 26-28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 