-- Watsa Mixed Record Makes BlackBerry Risky Bet
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-09-24T20:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/watsa-mixed-record-makes-blackberry-risky-bet.html
Prem Watsa, the Canadian investor
who made $1.15 billion betting against U.S. real estate, is now
trying to reverse his investment losses on BlackBerry Ltd. by
taking the smartphone maker private.  Watsa, 63, who models his investment strategy after  Warren Buffett , said yesterday his Toronto-based insurance firm Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. is leading a group that plans to bid
$4.7 billion for BlackBerry.  As the largest  shareholder  of the Waterloo, Ontario-based
company, Watsa is trying to match his investment gains from the
U.S. housing crisis and the Bank of Ireland, while avoiding the
losses from other bets including Canadian media companies
Torstar Corp. and CanWest Global Communications Corp.  “He’s capable of doing some really smart things, but he’s
also capable of doing some really dumb things and I don’t know
which one this is,” said David Baskin, president of Baskin
Financial Services Inc. in a telephone interview from Toronto
yesterday. His firm manages about C$535 million ($520 million).
“Time will tell. Certainly I wouldn’t be lining up to do it.”  The value of the tentative bid for BlackBerry would be the
biggest yet led by Fairfax. The insurance holding company,
founded by Watsa in 1985, said today it would buy back as much
as 5 percent of its stock over the next 12 months.  In the BlackBerry transaction, the insurer won’t provide
additional financing outside of the equity stake it currently
owns, expecting its partners to contribute the remaining debt
and equity, Watsa said in a phone interview yesterday. The
company hasn’t arranged financing for the cash offer.  Confident in Bid  The insurance company  holds  51.9 million BlackBerry shares
worth $457.4 million as of yesterday’s closing share price of
$8.82 in  New York , data compiled by Bloomberg show. BlackBerry
is Fairfax’s largest investment, followed by drugmaker Johnson &
Johnson, and Montreal-based Resolute Forest Products Inc.,
according to a June 30 filing.  “We wouldn’t put our name on the line and we wouldn’t do
this unless we were very confident,” Watsa said in the
interview.  Watsa declined to name the other investors in the funding
group, saying that it will have strong Canadian backing. Michael
Lazaridis, the co-founder of the Canadian mobile company and the
second-largest BlackBerry shareholder, isn’t involved in the
process yet, Watsa said.  Fairfax has  announced  at least 17 investments including
acquisitions in the past four years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Recent deals have included bids for retailer
William Ashley China Ltd. and restaurant chain Prime Restaurants
Inc. which  owns  the Bier Markt and Casey’s Bar and Grill chains
in  Canada .  Riskier Bets  “Watsa’s strategy is well outside the norm,” David Havens, a credit-desk strategist at Imperial Capital LLC said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “There’s been a lot made about
Prem being the Warren Buffett of Canada. His track record has
been terrific and his strategy very well might pay off in
spades, but it’s riskier than most insurance companies.”  Watsa, who hails from Hyderabad,  India , has led the company
through hits and misses, acquiring everything from a pet insurer
to a cremation home and stakes in media companies in Canada.  Watsa’s investment in BlackBerry hasn’t  panned out  so far.
He agreed to double his stake in January 2012, and has paid an
average of $17 a share for his 10 percent stake. The shares
closed today at $8.53 in New York, a decline of 50 percent and
below the $9 a share offer price.  Watsa was named a director of the mobile phonemaker in
January 2012 as part of a management shakeup that included the
replacement of co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Balsillie and
Lazaridis with former operating chief Thorsten Heins.  Profit Slips  Fairfax’s profit before one-time items reached a record
$1.69 billion in 2008 as the company recorded investment gains
on credit-default swaps on U.S. banks and insurers. The swaps
became more valuable as the subprime mortgage market collapsed
and banks began to fall. Profit was $541 million last year.  Fairfax shares gained 25 percent in the last five years,
compared with a 2.2 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index. (FFH)  Fairfax rose 1.1 percent to C$420.45 yesterday
in Toronto, for a market value of C$9 billion.  Buffett, 83, built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. during the last five decades into a $285 billion business
through stock picks and  acquisitions . Once a failing textile
maker, the business now has operations in insurance, railroads,
energy, manufacturing and retail. Its equity portfolio was
valued at $103.3 billion at the end of June. Some of Berkshire’s
largest stock holdings include Coca-Cola Co., Wells Fargo & Co.
and American Express Co.  Stock Gains  Book value, the measure of assets minus liabilities that
Buffett uses as a yardstick for his performance, has advanced
about 20 percent annually from 1965 through last year, according
to the company’s most recent  annual report . That’s about double
the pace for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, including
dividends. The firm gained 35 percent in the last five years.  Although insurance and reinsurance contributed to about 83
percent of revenue last year, Fairfax also invests in out-of-favor and eclectic assets. It doubled a 2011 investment in  Bank
of Ireland (BKIR) , the country’s largest lender, while writing down
losses tied to Canadian newspaper publishers Torstar and
CanWest.  “I wouldn’t want to be investing against him,” said
Havens, who’s been a BlackBerry user for a decade. Watsa “does
seem to have a sixth sense in some regard towards some of these
investments. He has misses, but he seems to have a lot more hits
than misses.”  Bank of Ireland  In July 2011, Fairfax Financial, WL Ross & Co., and
 Fidelity Investments  were among five institutions buying a
combined 35 percent stake in Bank of Ireland from the
government. Fairfax Financial holds about a 9.3 percent  interest 
in the lender, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fairfax is also betting on a Greek recovery. In June it
raised its interest in Eurobank Properties Real Estate
Investment Co., a commercial property firm owned by Eurobank
Ergasias SA,  Greece ’s third-largest lender, to 42 percent from
19 percent, expecting high returns as the economy improves
there.  “When you’re investing in Fairfax you’re investing in
Prem, there’s no question about that,” Baskin in Toronto said.
“Either he succeeds or he fails.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  