-- Twitter Seen as Tool Helping Companies Manage Disasters
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-09-24T22:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/twitter-seen-as-tool-helping-companies-manage-disasters.html
Twitter Inc. and other social media
are transforming how companies and individuals prepare for and
manage disasters, a former senior official with the U.S.
Department of  Homeland Security  said.  “Information is a commodity,” Jane Holl Lute, who served
as deputy secretary of the department under President  Barack Obama , said at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New York 
today. “If you do not have an informed population, you don’t
have a stable population.”  Despite wider availability of technology to disseminate
information, U.S. companies remain unprepared to handle threats
ranging from extreme weather to hacking attacks, said Lute and
 Eileen Claussen , who served as a special assistant for global
environmental affairs to former President  Bill Clinton .  During a panel on risks to industries and markets, Lute
said governments can help companies understand better how to
protect their  computer networks  by sharing information about
best practices.  Simple actions she said companies can take to improve
security include identifying which software is safe to use and
which isn’t, limiting access to sensitive data and automatically
scanning networks and patching flaws.  Extreme Weather  Companies are only beginning to figure out how to prepare
for and respond to extreme weather, said Claussen, president of
the Center for Climate and Energy Solution, a  nonprofit  based in
Arlington, Virginia that advocates for environmental public
policy.  “Companies and governments have to build resiliency into
their systems, whether it’s a power or a water system,” she
said. “You’re going to have to start thinking about how you
deal with these events in the future.”  Some companies have an aversion to talking about  climate
change , though they will acknowledge they are trying to prepare
for adverse weather, Claussen said.  “If you start with talking about climate change, you
immediately turn off a huge number of people,” she said. “But
if you start by talking about extreme weather events and how to
prepare for them, people will actually engage with you.”  Information Sharing  The rise of social media, which instantly connects billions
of people to the Internet and each other, also has a dark side.
It can lead people to distrust government and take matters into
their own hands, said Lute, who is president and chief executive
officer of the  Council on CyberSecurity , a nonprofit based in
Arlington,  Virginia  that promotes an open and secure Internet.  Governments have provided security for the populace, Lute
said. When it comes to cyberspace, though governments don’t have
a monopoly, she said.  “I’m not sure Americans expect their government to hold
their hands or want them to,” she said.  Lute said she believes cyberspace is “simply too
dangerous” for governments to not play a role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  