-- WTI Crude Snaps 4-Day Loss on Forecast Stockpiles Shrank
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-09-25T06:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/wti-crude-snaps-four-day-loss-on-forecast-u-s-stockpiles-shrank.html
West Texas Intermediate snapped
four days of losses before U.S. data that’s forecast to show
crude stockpiles dropped in the world’s largest oil consumer.  Futures rose as much as 0.6 percent before a U.S.
government report today that may show inventories slid 1 million
barrels to an 18-month low last week. The industry-funded
American Petroleum Institute said supplies fell 54,000 barrels.
WTI dropped to the lowest close in eight weeks yesterday on
speculation that U.S.-Iranian relations are thawing and as the
threat of an American military strike on Syria receded.  “There’s good support for prices at these levels, and the
data is the trigger for them to go higher,”  Jonathan Barratt ,
the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in Sydney,
said by phone today. “A lot of the risk premium we saw earlier
in the month has come off as tensions in the Middle East abate,
and now the market’s all about supply and demand. And with
inventories expected to show a fall, we could see prices rise.”  WTI crude for November delivery advanced as much as 61
cents to $103.74 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
and was at $103.61 at 2:57 p.m. in Singapore. Futures slid 4.6
percent over the previous four sessions. The volume of all
futures traded was 41 percent below the 100-day average. Prices
are up 7.3 percent this quarter and 13 percent higher in 2013.  Supply Forecast  Brent oil for November settlement gained 44 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $109.08 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark traded at a premium of
$5.47 to WTI today. The spread was at $5.51 yesterday, the
widest since Sept. 6.  U.S. crude inventories fell 0.3 percent to 354.6 million
barrels as of Sept. 20, according to the median of 10 analyst
estimates surveyed before the Energy Information Administration
report. Supplies probably dropped as refineries operated at more
than 90 percent of capacity and oil imports slipped.  The EIA, the U.S. Energy Department’s statistical arm, is
scheduled to release its inventory report at 10:30 a.m. today in
 Washington . The data will show stockpiles of gasoline slid
750,000 barrels, and middle distillates, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, slipped 925,000 barrels last
week, according to the Bloomberg survey.  API Report  The American Petroleum Institute’s weekly report yesterday
showed distillate fuel inventories rose 485,000 while gasoline
stockpiles increased 341,000 barrels. API collects information
on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk
terminals and pipelines. The government requires that reports be
filed with the EIA for its weekly survey.  Supplies slipped in 10 of the past 12 EIA reports as
refineries  operated  near the highest rates of the year. Plants
have slowed fuel output in the third quarter of each year since
1999 as they implemented maintenance programs. Crude imports
decreased during September in four of the past five years.  Refineries probably ran at 91.6 percent of capacity on
Sept. 20, down 0.9 percentage point from a week earlier, the
survey showed. Utilization rates reached an annual high in June
or July during the summer driving season in eight of the past 10
years. Units are often idled in September and October for
maintenance as attention shifts away from gasoline and before
heating-oil demand peaks.  Syria, Iran  Oil rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict and disrupt
Middle East shipments.  Syria  borders  Iraq  and is near  Iran ,
which together control almost a fifth of the production capacity
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The United Nations Security Council is set to negotiate a
Syria resolution. The U.S., the U.K. and  France  have accused
government forces of carrying out a chemical attack on Aug. 21
that killed 1,400 people near Damascus. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has blamed rebel groups. Russia rejected a plan to
include enforcement in the resolution.  Separately, U.S. President  Barack Obama  welcomed overtures
from Iran as a chance to resolve diplomatically the
confrontation over the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program,
even as Iranian officials told the U.S. that the time isn’t
right for direct contact between the two countries’ leaders.  Deutsche Bank AG increased its forecasts for WTI and Brent
crude this year as prices rose in the third quarter amid
stoppages in Libya and the threat of strikes against Syria. The
bank raised its outlook for WTI by 5 percent to $99.88 barrel
and Brent by 1.8 percent to $109 a barrel, according to a report
e-mailed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in  Singapore  at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  