-- WTI Falls to Eight-Week Low on Signs of U.S.-Iran Thaw
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-24T20:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/wti-falls-to-six-week-low-on-signs-of-u-s-iran-thaw.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
to the lowest close in eight weeks on speculation that U.S.-
Iranian relations are thawing and as the threat of an American
military strike on  Syria  recedes.  Futures dropped 0.4 percent amid the possibility of contact
between President  Barack Obama  and Iran’s Hassan Rohani at the
United Nations General Assembly today in New York. Any
interaction would have been a significant symbol of a shift in
relations between the countries. The UN Security Council is
working toward an agreement to disarm Syria’s chemical weapons.  “The market is reacting to speculation that we’re on the
verge of a breakthrough in the Middle East,” said John Kilduff,
a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “The lowering of tensions between the U.S.
and Iran, and an agreement about Syria’s chemical arms would go
a long way to easing worries about the troubled region.”  WTI crude for November delivery declined 46 cents to
$103.13 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the
lowest settlement since July 30. The volume of all futures
traded was 7.3 percent below the 100-day average at 4:44 p.m.
Prices have gained 6.8 percent this quarter, the most in a year,
and are up 12 percent in 2013.  Prices were little changed after the American Petroleum
Institute reported inventories dropped 54,000 barrels last week.
The November contract slid 32 cents to $103.27 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:44 p.m. It was at $103.34 before the
report was released at 4:30 p.m.  No Meeting  Brent oil for November settlement gained 48 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $108.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 18 percent higher
than the 100-day average. The European benchmark traded at $5.51
premium to WTI, the widest spread since Sept. 6.  Obama and Rohani won’t meet while in New York for the
General Assembly, White House officials said after the oil-market settlement. While the U.S. was open to an informal
exchange, such as a handshake, the Iranians decided against such
a display, citing domestic political concerns, said the
officials, who asked for anonymity to describe the private
discussions.  Recent overtures from  Iran  may offer a basis for a
“meaningful agreement” to resolve the confrontation over the
Iran’s nuclear program, Obama told world leaders earlier today
at the UN. Sanctions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic’s
nuclear program have hindered its ability to export oil.  ‘Conciliatory Words’  Iran is a key player in Syria’s civil war, nuclear
proliferation and Middle East peace. It has the world’s fourth-largest proven  oil reserves  after  Venezuela , Saudi Arabia and
 Canada , according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Any presidential encounter would have marked the first
exchange between leaders of the two nations since the 1979
Islamic revolution, during which the U.S. embassy in Tehran was
stormed and 52 Americans inside were held hostage for 444 days.  “Conciliatory words will have to be matched by actions
that are transparent and verifiable,” Obama said. “The
roadblocks may prove to be too great, but I firmly believe the
diplomatic path must be tested.”  The U.S. said yesterday that Secretary of State John Kerry
will meet with his Iranian counterpart as part of talks over the
nuclear program, along with the other four permanent members of
the Security Council, plus  Germany .  Syrian Conflict  “The main reason for the decline in prices is the prospect
that Obama and the new Iranian leader will meet today,” said
Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in New York. “There are also signs that
progress is being made on an agreement that would remove Syria’s
chemical arms. The reduction in worries about these two hot
spots is putting downward pressure on the market.”  The Security Council is set to negotiate a Syria
resolution. The U.S., the U.K. and  France  have accused
government forces of carrying out a chemical attack on Aug. 21
that killed 1,400 people near Damascus. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has blamed rebel groups. Russia rejected a plan to
include enforcement in the resolution.  Oil rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict and disrupt
Middle East shipments. Syria borders  Iraq  the second-biggest
crude producing country in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude futures have retreated this month following an
increase in Libyan production to 600,000 barrels a day. South
Sudanese output returned to 240,000 barrels a day, and pumping
began at Kazakhstan’s Kashagan field and Iraq’s Majnoon field.  Returning Production  Output in Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest crude-producing
country, increased to 2.4 million barrels a day after sabotaged
lines were restarted, Tumini Green, a spokeswoman at Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp., said in an e-mailed statement. Supply
dropped to 2.2 million in the first quarter, according to the
state-owned company.  “Some fields are back in Libya, there are signs of
improvement in  Sudan  and pipeline issues have been resolved in
Nigeria, which may lead to increased output there,” said
 Michael Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale
SA in New York.  “The market had been focused on the threat of
supply disruption, both real and potential, and that’s fading.”  A government report tomorrow will probably show that U.S.
crude  supplies  dropped to an 18-month low as refineries operated
at more than 90 percent of capacity and oil imports slipped, a
Bloomberg survey showed. Inventories fell 1 million barrels, or
0.3 percent, to 354.6 million as of Sept. 20, according to the
median of 10 analyst estimates before an Energy Information
Administration report tomorrow.  Implied Volatility  “The bulls and the bears are in balance,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in St. Louis, which oversees $1.4 billion. “There’s
been a big downturn in inventories which is bullish, while
seasonal demand is set to fall which is bullish.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.1 percent, up from 21 yesterday, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 523,161
contracts as of 4:45 p.m. It totaled 465,653 contracts
yesterday, 26 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.88 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  