-- Yellen Isn’t a ‘Knee-Jerk Dove,’ Former Colleague Kroszner Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-09-24T15:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/yellen-isn-t-a-knee-jerk-dove-former-colleague-kroszner-says.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen carefully analyzes economic data and isn’t an ideologue
more focused on fueling growth than curbing inflation, according
to Randall Kroszner, a former Fed governor.  “To just say ‘She’s a knee-jerk dove,’” that “is
incorrect,” Kroszner, a professor at the University of Chicago,
said today on a panel moderated by Michael McKee at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York. “She really looks at
the data.”  Kroszner and Yellen served together on the policy-making
Federal Open Market Committee. Kroszner was a governor from 2006
to 2009, and Yellen was president of the San Francisco Fed from
2004 until 2010. Yellen became the Fed’s vice chairman in
October 2010.  The likelihood that Yellen, 67, will be nominated to
replace Ben S. Bernanke as Fed chief increased as White House
officials began gauging lawmakers’ support and she won the
backing of a top Senate Democrat last week. Senator Charles Schumer of New York, the chamber’s No. 3 Democrat and a member
of the Senate Banking Committee, on Sept. 18 called Yellen an
“excellent choice” to succeed Bernanke, whose term expires on
Jan. 31.  Laurence Meyer, a Fed governor from 1996 to 2002, said on
the panel that Yellen would go from being “the leader of the
opposition” in favor of additional stimulus to running the
Federal Open Market Committee.  “Now Janet is going to be chairman of the committee, not
the leader of the doves,” said Meyer, a senior managing
director at forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in
 Washington .  Surprise Decision  U.S. policy makers last week unexpectedly refrained from
reducing their $85 billion in monthly bond buying, saying they
need to see more signs of sustained labor-market gains. Bernanke
said on Sept. 18 the Fed will alter record accommodation based
on “what’s needed for the economy” and not “let market
expectations dictate our policy actions.”  Policy makers led the markets to expect a taper in
September, Meyer said. Central bankers decided against paring
their stimulus because of their “growing lack of confidence”
in their economic forecasts.  “We thought they were really itching to taper,” Meyer
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  