-- YPF, Dow Agree on $188 Million Joint Venture for Shale Gas
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-09-24T21:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/ypf-dow-agree-on-188-million-joint-venture-for-shale-gas.html
YPF SA,  Argentina ’s largest
company, and Dow Chemical Co.’s Argentine unit signed a final
accord to invest $188 million to jointly develop shale gas at
the country’s Vaca Muerta formation.  Dow will provide $120 million over a year while YPF,
nationalized in April 2012, will invest $68 million to develop
16 shale gas wells, the Buenos Aires-based company said in a
statement today. Dow, the largest U.S. chemical producer by
sales, is YPF’s second shale partner after Chevron Corp.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government seized a 51 percent stake in YPF from  Spain ’s  Repsol
SA (REP)  in April 2012 to stem fuel imports that generated an energy
deficit of $5.4 billion this year through Aug. 31, according to
figures released yesterday by Argentina’s National Statistics
Institute. YPF said Sept. 20 it is planning its first overseas
bond offering since the nationalization as it seeks to raise
financing for a $37 billion five-year investment plan to develop
Vaca Muerta.  “This agreement confirms the path we decided to take when
we presented our strategic plan,” YPF Chief Executive Officer
Miguel Galuccio said in the statement. “We said we needed to
develop a shale gas pilot and today we are materializing it.”  Dow Chemical Executive Vice President Jim Fitterling signed
the agreement that will drill wells at the El Orejano block in
Neuquen province, which has the potential to produce 3 million
cubic meters of gas a day, YPF said in the statement.  YPF and Chevron, the second-biggest U.S. oil company,
formed a $1.24 billion shale partnership in July to tap the
world’s second-largest shale gas deposit and fourth-largest
shale oil reservoir at Vaca Muerta in southwestern Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  