-- ThyssenKrupp Gets Permission to Relax Terms on Loan Deals
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-09-24T13:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/thyssenkrupp-gets-permission-to-relax-debt-terms-on-loan-deals.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  got permission from
lenders to waive a test on its 2.5 billion-euro ($3.4 billion)
 credit line  as the German steelmaker’s proposed sale of its
Steel Americas unit takes longer than it expected.  The waiver means the company is exempt from an end-September test of its debt to equity ratio, Nicola Roettger, a
spokeswoman for the Essen, Germany-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. The terms of the loan limited ThyssenKrupp’s
 leverage ratio  to 150 percent and lenders would have been able
to cancel the facility if it failed the test, according to a
company  report  last month.  “For all financial instruments concerned by the gearing
covenant, ThyssenKrupp received a waiver,” Roettger wrote.
“ThyssenKrupp is exempt from the obligation of the gearing
covenant on Sept. 30, 2013.”  The German company’s leverage ratio was 186 percent at the
end of June following losses stemming from a decline in the
value of its Steel Americas unit. ThyssenKrupp, which has been
seeking to sell the division for 16 months, said in last month’s
report a sale would help reduce the leverage ratio. The company
said it was “confident of finding a solution for Steel Americas”
before the end of September, according to an e-mailed statement
in February.  Thirty-seven banks provided the credit line in 2007 and the
syndicate was led by  Bayerische Landesbank , BNP Paribas SA,
 Dresdner Kleinwort  and HSBC Holdings Plc, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt matures in July and was undrawn
at the end of June, according to the company report.  A 207 million-euro loan from the  European Investment Bank 
and a 630 million-euro facility, denominated in Brazilian reals
provided by Brazil’s state development bank BNDES, also included
a debt-for-equity covenant test, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  