-- Zero-for-14 Bust Sinks HRT Below Asset Value: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-24T19:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-24/zero-for-14-bust-sinks-hrt-below-asset-value-corporate-brazil.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA (HRTP3) ’s
failure to find oil time after time across Brazil and  Africa  has
produced a selloff so spectacular that the stock price doesn’t
even capture the value of its tax credits and helicopters.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company founded by a geologist
from Brazil’s state-run oil producer has plunged 76 percent this
year, a slump only topped in the Ibovespa Small Cap Index by the
collapse of former billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil and ship-building units. None of the 14 wells that HRT has drilled since
2009 has produced crude, leaving its output at zero, according
to the company.  In their rush to dump the stock,  investors  have overlooked
HRT’s non-core business assets: the helicopters and tax credits
as well as cash, according to analysts at GBM Brasil and
Empiricus Research. The value of those holdings means HRT would
be worth 4.3 reais per share in a liquidation, more than three
times yesterday’s closing  price  of 1.15 reais, GBM estimates.  “The company’s assets mean there is a significant upside
potential for the shares,” Luana Helsinger, an analyst at GBM,
said in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . She has a
recommendation equivalent to buy for the stock.  HRT declined to comment about its stock value and business
plan in an e-mailed response to questions. After declaring a
third dry well in  Namibia , the company said in a Sept. 9
regulatory filing that it will analyze the information it
obtained from the drilling campaign in Africa in order to make
plans for 2014 and 2015.  Dry Wells  Since its peak at 10.1 billion reais ($4.6 billion) on
March 17, 2011, HRT’s market value plunged 97 percent to 339.5
million reais, below the company’s cash position of 814 million
reais as of the end of the second quarter. The market value of
Batista’s  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  has slumped to
1.26 billion reais from 75.2 billion reais in October 2010.  HRT’s 76 percent plunge this year is the worst among the
100 biggest oil and gas companies in  emerging markets  after
OGX’s 91 percent decline. HRT declined 0.9 percent to 1.14 reais
at 4:06 p.m. in Sao Paulo, while OGX fell 2.6 percent to 38
centavos.  Like OGX, HRT sold shares to the public before it was
producing any oil. HRT has drilled wells that were declared dry
and wells where it found oil in non-commercial volume, according
to an e-mailed statement from the company. Batista’s company has
been missing production targets at its only active field.  Eight Choppers  OGX originally planned to pump as much as 20,000 barrels a
day at each of two wells at Tubarao Azul and began scaling back
estimates after production missed targets. In June, the wells
produced together 23,000 barrels per day, according to a
regulatory filing on July 4.  “There are similarities between them, but the main
difference is that now HRT has valuable and tangible assets it
can turn into money and almost no debt, the opposite of OGX’s
situation,” Helsinger said.  OGX’s press office declined to comment.  Among its non-cash assets, HRT has eight helicopters worth
$30 million remaining from the air logistics unit it sold to
Erickson Air-Crane, as well as four drilling rigs worth $50
million, according to a Sept. 4 regulatory filing. The company
also has tax credits worth about 500 million reais, according to
Felipe Miranda, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based Empiricus.  Neither GBM nor Empiricus assigned any value to HRT’s
exploration blocks in  Brazil  or Namibia when estimating a fair
price for HRT’s shares. Empiricus’ target price for the stock is
between 4 reais and 5 reais, Miranda said in a phone interview.  Alternative Plans  HRT was created in 2008 by geologist Marcio Mello, who left
state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA after more than 20 years
with a strategy to drill for oil in previously unexplored areas
in the developing world. The company raised $1.1 billion in an
initial public offering in October 2010, according to a final
prospectus posted on the company’s website.  As its adjusted  net loss  widened to 90.3 million reais in
the second quarter from 50.5 million reais a year earlier, HRT
named Milton Romeu Franke its new chief executive officer,
replacing Mello, and appointed new financial and administrative
directors to lead a turnaround. The plan focuses on preserving
cash, cutting costs and selling assets that are not tied to
exploration, according to HRT’s second-quarter earnings report.  ‘Extremely Cheap’  While there is some value in HRT’s tax credits, cash
position and hard assets, it’s probably not enough to attract
investors, said Eric Conrads, who manages about $750 million of
Latin American stocks at ING Investment Management.  “When investors put money into a stock, it’s because they
believe in the business,” Conrads said by phone from  New York .
“If the exploration is not viable anymore, there’s no reason to
buy shares.”  HRT said on Sept. 2 that it will form partnerships to
develop projects to liquefy natural gas found in the Solimoes
Basin or build thermal plants in the region to produce energy.
Those alternatives were listed in a study completed with
Petrobras and Rosneft Oil Co.  The company also intends to continue drilling in Namibia
and expects to make “commercially viable discoveries” there,
according to a Sept. 9 regulatory filing in which it disclosed
that a third well it drilled in the African nation was dry.  “We just can’t see anything ahead on the exploration
side,” Empiricus’ Miranda said in a phone interview. “But the
stock is extremely cheap considering the company’s assets. HRT
has attracted shareholders who entered the business to profit.
So they will have to do something to defend their investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  