-- 
‘Head-Scratcher’ Petroleum Release to Inflate U.S. Crude Glut

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-06-23T18:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/-head-scratcher-petroleum-release-to-inflate-u-s-crude-glut.html
Oil producers tumbled the most in
more than a year after the U.S. government announced plans to
pour as much as 1 million barrels of stockpiled crude a day into
an amply supplied market.  The U.S. and 27 other nations pledged today to tap
government-controlled oil inventories in response to civil war
in  Libya  that disrupted shipments and after  Saudi Arabia  failed
to persuade fellow members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to plug the gap with increased output. Crude
futures plunged more than $5 a barrel in New York trading.  The U.S. plans to make 30 million barrels available from
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve over the next 30 days as part of
a coordinated effort by International Energy Agency member
states, according to the Energy Department in  Washington . The
other 27 IEA countries will collectively release an equal amount
of crude during the same period.  The supply addition comes at a time when refiners in the
world’s biggest economy have more crude on hand and are
importing less as demand for fuels such as gasoline and diesel
is slipping, according to Energy Department figures. The
National Petrochemical and Refiner’s Association criticized the
decision to tap the strategic reserve as a political move that
“makes no sense” and “will do nothing to benefit consumers.”  “This is kind of a head-scratcher because we’re just not
in a situation in the U.S. where we physically need more barrels
to meet demand,” Blake Fernandez, an energy analyst at Howard
Weil in  New Orleans , said in a telephone interview. “This looks
more like a perception move by the U.S. government and the
Europeans to alleviate high crude prices.”  Third Release  A  Standard & Poor’s  oil-industry index that includes  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and ConocoPhillips fell as much 3.5 percent in the
first 45 minutes after the Paris-based IEA’s announcement, the
biggest drop since June 4, 2010. Marathon Oil Corp., based in
Houston, and  San Ramon , California-based Chevron were the
biggest losers in the seven-member index at 1:55 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  IEA members have conducted coordinated releases of
emergency stockpiles on two other occasions since the group was
founded in 1974. The first was during the 1991 Persian Gulf War;
the second was in the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina , which
slammed into U.S. refineries and offshore oil platforms in 2005.  West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell $3.80, or 4
percent, to $91.61 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 1:35 p.m. Earlier, the contract dropped as much as $5.72, or
6 percent. Before today, the futures had gained 24 percent in
the past year.  Producers’ Profits  The decision to tap stockpiles will comfort European
leaders apprehensive that debt crises in  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland may portend a continent-wide economic contraction, said
Eliecer Palacios, an energy specialist at Maxim Group LLC in New
York. Although profits for oil producers will be reduced by
lower crude prices, even companies exploring the most expensive
deep-water and shale prospects still will make plenty of money,
he said.  “Everyone will be happy even if oil falls to $75” a
barrel, Palacios said in a telephone interview. “There will be
a short-term impact on the equities based solely on the
perception of lower prices but nothing fundamentally has
changed. We saw a nice rally on the Libyan disruption and now
that  risk premium  is being removed.”  ‘Reactionary Move’  Karen Matusic, a spokeswoman for Exxon Mobil Corp., the
world’s biggest oil refiner, declined to comment on whether the
company plans to request any supplies from the strategic
reserve. Chevron and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  also declined through
spokesmen to discuss their crude needs or attitudes toward the
availability of strategic stockpiles.  “This is a reactionary move based on failed  energy policy 
by this administration,” the  American Petroleum Institute ,
which represents about 400 producers, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We need a long-term solution that focuses on more
development here at home that would improve our  energy security ,
generate revenue for our government and create American jobs.”  Storage tanks used by oil producers at the crude-trading
hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma , held 38 million barrels as of June 17,
41 percent above the five-year average for this time of year,
according to Energy Department figures. Stockpiles at Cushing
reached 41.9 million barrels in April, the highest point since
at least 2004, when the Energy Department began tracking the
figures.  U.S. crude imports are almost 10 percent lower than a year
ago. Refiners brought 9.15 million barrels of oil into U.S.
ports last week, down 9.5 percent from the same week in 2010,
according to Energy Department data. Demand for foreign crude in
the world’s largest economy dipped to a 24-month low of 7.69
million barrels in December.  “This action today will do nothing to benefit consumers,”
Charles Drevna, president of the National Petrochemical &
Refiners Association, said in a statement. “Instead, it leaves
our nation vulnerable if hurricanes, other natural disasters or
a foreign crisis causes a real supply shortage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  