-- 
H&R Block Profit Declines 4.9% After U.S. Regulators Halt Tax-Refund Loans

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-06-24T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/h-r-block-s-quarterly-profit-falls-4-9-after-u-s-stops-tax-refund-loans.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, said fiscal fourth-quarter profit fell 4.9 percent
after U.S. regulators blocked a lending partner from offering
tax-refund loans to customers.  Net income from continuing operations for the three months
ended April 30 was $658.2 million, or $2.14 a share, compared
with $692.4 million, or $2.11, in the same period a year
earlier, when there were more shares outstanding, the Kansas
City, Missouri-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Adjusted earnings per share were $2.20, exceeding the $2.15
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer William C. Cobb is aiming to
reverse the loss of market share to Intuit Inc.’s TurboTax
software and introduce products to replace profit from refund-
anticipation loans. Total U.S. returns prepared by the firm in
fiscal 2011 climbed 6.5 percent, compared with an estimated 1.1
percent gain in industrywide filings at the  Internal Revenue
Service , the company said.  “In digital, our share gains were the result of improved
marketing, the redesign of our website and product
simplification,” Cobb, 54, said in a conference call with
analysts.  H&R Block climbed 1 cent to close at $16.07 yesterday on
the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have gained 4.6 percent
in the past year.  Revenue Falls  The fourth-quarter results included a litigation charge of
$17 million, or 6 cents a share, according to the statement. Net
revenue slid 0.5 percent to $2.33 billion as H&R Block sold 280
company-owned locations during the year and was unable to offer
refund loans, the company said. For the full year, net income
from continuing operations fell 14 percent to $419.4 million.
Annual revenue dropped 2.6 percent to $3.77 billion.  Refund-anticipation loans are secured by a customer’s
expected tax refund, with annualized  interest rates  that may run
as high as 124 percent at some firms.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency told HSBC
Holdings Plc in December not to fund the loans, prompting the
London-based bank to end an exclusive contract with H&R Block
three years early. The IRS said in August it would no longer
help banks underwrite RALs, which consumer groups say carry
unfairly high interest rates.  H&R Block’s effort to compete with Intuit suffered a 
setback last month when the U.S. Justice Department sued the
company to stop its proposed purchase of closely held 2SS
Holdings Inc., the developer of TaxAct digital tax-preparation
products.  Cobb, who became CEO last month, may be helped by the
struggles of his firm’s biggest competitor, Jackson Hewitt Tax
Service Inc., which filed for bankruptcy last month. A former
executive at PepsiCo Inc. and Yum! Brands Inc., Cobb joined H&R
Block’s board in August and became the company’s third CEO in
less than a year on May 16, when he replaced Alan Bennett, 60,
who’s retiring. In April, Robert A. Gerard became chairman,
succeeding hedge-fund manager Richard Breeden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 Lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  