-- 
‘Whitey’ Bulger’s Southie Neighbors Say His Arrest Is Big ‘as Bin Laden’

-- B y   L a u r a   K e e l e y   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-06-23T18:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/-whitey-bulger-s-southie-neighbors-say-his-arrest-is-as-big-as-bin-laden.html
Accused murderer, racketeer and
former FBI informant James “Whitey” Bulger, captured with a
stash of cash and guns after 16 years on the run, was one outlaw
his South  Boston  neighbors thought would never be found.  “You’ve got to be kidding,” said Kevin Stuart, shaking
his head at a copy of the Boston Herald with Bulger’s photo
under the headline, “CAUGHT!” Stuart, 71, at breakfast with
friends today at Mul’s Diner in the historically Irish-American
enclave, said he was surprised by the capture. “Around here,
he’s as big of a deal as bin Laden,” he said.  Bulger, 81, is wanted in connection with 19 murders as
leader of the Winter Hill Gang. Described by the government as a
“major organized-crime figure from South Boston,” he was
arrested yesterday in  Santa Monica ,  California . He and his
girlfriend, Catherine Greig, 60, were apprehended by  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agents at their apartment following a
tip, the agency said.  The arrest came after the FBI’s Boston office this week
announced a new television ad campaign to generate information
in its search for him. Bulger often used disguises to travel
extensively through  Europe ,  Canada  and  Mexico , the FBI said.  In the 1980s and early 1990s, Bulger worked as an informant
on mob activities for the FBI in Boston, according to the
government. He was indicted in 1995 for racketeering violations,
including activities while he was working for federal agents.
Five years later, he was indicted for multiple murders.  ‘Southie’  Bulger’s notoriety as both an alleged gangster and FBI
informant spread beyond South Boston, the neighborhood also
known as “Southie.”  Martin Scorsese ’s 2006 movie, “The
Departed,” was set in Boston and featured a Bulger-like
character played by  Jack Nicholson . Some residents of the area,
to the south of downtown Boston, seemed surprised at how long
Bulger had evaded detection.  “He was a pretty lucky guy, really, to get away with it
for so long,” said Michael Dore, 47, who works at the South
Boston Community Health Center. “The real question is whether
or not he rolls over on anyone. The bet on the street is no.
He’s an old guy, there’s no real reason he needs to do that.”  Tom Tracy, 72, a South Boston resident since 1970 and a
Bulger acquaintance, said the image Bulger tried to cultivate as
a champion of the working class is false.  “None of this Robin Hood stuff you hear is true,” Tracy
said, adding that he doesn’t think Bulger will be any help to
the FBI. “He probably already has an escape plan.”  “There was a lot of folklore that surrounded him,” said
Rob Alexander, 33, at Mul’s Diner. “He brought a lot of
drama.”  About half of the two dozen people interviewed refused to
give their names for fear of retaliation.  “I’ve got sons,” one woman said. “I don’t want to get
them in any trouble when they’re running around out here.”  Tarnished the FBI  Bulger’s association with the FBI helped tarnish the
agency’s reputation, according to a 2003 congressional report.
Years before he went into hiding, he worked with Boston FBI
agent John Connolly, who grew up a few doors down from his
family in South Boston.  The report blasted the FBI for its use of Bulger and other
alleged criminals as informants, calling it “one of the
greatest failures in the history of federal  law enforcement .”  Connolly, who had since retired, was eventually indicted
for alerting Bulger and associates to ongoing investigations,
the  Associated Press  reported. He was convicted in 2002 and
sentenced to 10 years in prison.  Bulger Brothers  While seen in many movies as a bleak, working-class
redoubt, South Boston has produced generations of the city’s
best-known politicians, including former Boston Mayor Raymond Flynn and Bulger’s brother, William, who served as president of
the Massachusetts Senate from 1978 to 1996.  After becoming president of the  University of
Massachusetts , William Bulger appeared before a U.S. House
committee and refused to answer questions about his brother’s
whereabouts, citing his Fifth Amendment right against self-
incrimination.  Today, he declined to comment when interviewed at his
Boston home, the Boston Globe reported.  From his seat in Mul’s diner, Alexander said the
neighborhood the Bulger brothers grew up in retains a
complicated relationship with William’s ex-fugitive sibling.  “Most people don’t like him down here,” Alexander said.
“But they respected him because they feared him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Keeley in Boston at   lkeeley1@bloomberg.net  and;
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at   tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  