-- 
Abhisit Says Election in Thailand a Chance to Remove ‘Venom’ of Thaksin

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-06-24T05:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/abhisit-says-election-in-thailand-a-chance-to-remove-venom-of-thaksin.html
Thailand’s July 3 election may
represent the final chance to rid the country of the “venom”
of fugitive former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , Prime Minister
 Abhisit Vejjajiva  said.  “This is the best chance for us to remove Thaksin’s venom
from society,” Abhisit said yesterday in a speech to 5,000
supporters outside a shopping mall in Bangkok that was torched
during a crackdown on pro-Thaksin protesters last year. “It’s
time to show the world that Thailand is not the property of one
person or one color. The country is the property of all Thais.”  Abhisit was appealing to opponents of Thaksin whose street
protests helped remove allies of the former premier from power
twice since 2006. Concerns that an election victory for the pro-
Thaksin Pheu Thai party may spark unrest prompted overseas
investors to withdraw $812 million from Thai stocks this month,
the most among Southeast Asian markets.  Opinion polls show Abhisit’s Democrat party trailing Pheu
Thai, led by Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s youngest sister.
Abhisit told supporters that Pheu Thai plans an amnesty for
Thaksin, allowing him to return to  Thailand  and reclaim more
than $1 billion in seized wealth.  Thaksin, ousted in a 2006 coup, has directed party affairs
from overseas since fleeing a jail sentence two years later for
abuse of power, a verdict he says was politically motivated. He
detailed Pheu Thai’s economic policies via video link from
overseas last month, and the party’s campaign slogan reads
“Thaksin Thinks, Pheu Thai Does.”  ‘Reconciliation and Unity’  “I’d like to ask Thai brothers and sisters to use today as
a good start to move forward to reconciliation and unity,”
Thaksin posted on his official Twitter  account  today. “I would
like to apologize to those who I upset and made unhappy in the
past and until now. And for those who criticize and hurt me, I
forgive them. I won’t be upset or take revenge. We have to cross
over the past and move the country forward together.”  Last year, a court seized about 60 percent of the 76.6
billion baht ($2.5 billion) that Thaksin’s children and
relatives earned from the 2006 sale of holding company Shin Corp.
to  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte. Yingluck netted about 985
million baht in the deal, according to stock exchange filings.  “I am ready to do everything, but I won’t give amnesty to
a corrupt man,” Abhisit said. “I won’t return 46 billion baht
to Thaksin.”  ‘We Don’t Want Red Shirts’  Hundreds of screaming women of all ages greeted Abhisit as
he arrived at the late-night campaign rally, giving him yellow
and red roses as he squeezed past them on his way to the stage.
At the same location a year ago, Thailand’s military ended two
months of protests by pro-Thaksin Red Shirt protesters, sparking
arson attacks and clashes that left more than 90 people dead.  Democrat Party officials told about 40 people to remove T-
shirts that said “We Don’t Want Red Shirts” to avoid inciting
unrest.  Abhisit’s party won 27 of 36 Bangkok seats in the 2007
election in finishing second to Thaksin’s allies. Two years
earlier, Thaksin’s party had claimed 32 of 37 seats in the
capital in a landslide victory that saw it control 75 percent of
the Parliament.  “If the Democrats lose Bangkok, they lose everything,”
said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute for
Strategic and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University
in Bangkok. Moves to highlight Thaksin’s wealth, jail sentence
and last year’s protests that led to arson attacks represent “a
one-upmanship from the Democrat party aimed to turn the tide in
Bangkok,” he said.  No ‘Policy for Amnesty’  Yingluck, in a June 8 interview, said “amnesty will not be
special for himself but will be equal with everyone,” referring
to her brother. “We have to sit down and talk together how we
can make Thailand move forward.”  Pheu Thai “doesn’t have a policy for amnesty,” party
member Yongyuth Wichaidit said during a debate with Abhisit
earlier yesterday in Bangkok. “Pheu Thai will not interfere in
the process. There is still a lot of misunderstanding about
amnesty.”  The benchmark SET Index has fallen 5.8 percent this month,
 Asia ’s second worst performer behind  Hong Kong . The baht has
lost 0.7 percent in that time.  Of the 500 parliamentary seats up for grabs next month, 375
are chosen in districts and 125 through proportional
representation. Pheu Thai held a 17-point lead against Abhisit’s
Democrats for the party list vote, according to a Suan Dusit
Rajabhat University poll released on June 19 that surveyed
102,994 people nationwide from June 4 to June 18.  “The probability that Pheu Thai will gain more seats than
the Democrats is high,” said Rakpong Chaisuparakul, an analyst
with KGI Securities (Thailand) Pcl. “But setting up the
government is up to negotiations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  