-- 
Aflac Plans to Issue Bonds After $610 Million in Losses on European Banks

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-23T20:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/aflac-may-sell-bonds-after-610-million-loss-on-european-bank-investments.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest seller of
supplemental health insurance, may issue as much as 100 billion
yen ($1.24 billion) in debt as it records losses tied to
investments in banks from  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Second-quarter losses on the assets will probably be about
$610 million, the Columbus, Georgia-based insurer said today in
a statement.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos has added investments in
public utilities and Japanese government debt as he seeks to
limit losses on holdings tied to Europe, where the continent’s
leaders are discussing how to stave off a Greek default. Aflac
last year dumped its sovereign debt from Greece at a loss.  “It’s a legacy position,” said Edward Shields, an analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, of Aflac’s investments in
 Europe . “In large part, it was a search for yield.” He rates
the company “buy.”  Aflac fell 32 cents to $45.05 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has dropped about
20 percent this year.  Aflac will take a loss of about $165 million on the sale of
investments in Greek and Irish financial institutions, the
insurer said as it amended a 2009 filing with Japanese overseers
tied to the possible issuance of debt. Aflac projected about
$445 million of impairment losses on investments in Portugal
banks. The company previously had disclosed $72 million in
losses on the Ireland and Greece financial-firm securities.  Flashing Red  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has
said risk signals for financial stability in the euro area are
flashing “red” as the debt crisis threatens to infect banks.  Aflac, which gets most of its revenue outside the U.S., has
previously taken losses on holdings in Icelandic banks and the
Republic of  Tunisia .  “We are executing on our plan to proactively derisk our
investment portfolio,” Amos said in today’s statement. The
insurer is scheduled to post complete second-quarter results on
July 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  