-- 
Lagarde Vows Impartiality Toward European Nations as She Seeks Top IMF Job

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/lagarde-backs-more-clout-for-emerging-market-nations-as-she-seeks-imf-post.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , vying for the leadership of the  International Monetary
Fund , pledged to be impartial toward European nations seeking
aid and to give emerging economies greater influence.  “I will not shrink from the necessary candor and toughness
in my discussions with the European leaders,” Lagarde said in a
statement in Washington delivered in a meeting yesterday with
IMF directors. “I am not here to represent the interest of any
given region of the world, but rather the entire membership.”  Lagarde, 55, has the backing of European nations that have
31 percent of the voting shares at the IMF and has also gathered
support among emerging countries from  Egypt  to  Indonesia . Her
sole rival, Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens,
claims the backing of 12 Latin American nations while failing to
garner endorsements from Argentina or Brazil. The IMF board has
said it will meet June 28 to assess the two candidates and
repeated it aims to make a choice by June 30.  Under an informal agreement, an American has always headed
the  World Bank , while a European has led the IMF. Leaders from
emerging-market nations, including Brazilian Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega , have called for an end to that arrangement,
saying the heads of the two institutions should be chosen on the
basis of merit.  While emerging economies have failed to unite behind a
candidate from their own ranks, they may still gain influence if
Lagarde gets the job, said  Kevin Gallagher , an associate
professor of international relations at Boston University.  ‘Best Opportunity’  “Lagarde is the best opportunity for emerging markets,”
Gallagher said in a telephone interview. “Since so many of them
are lukewarm about Carstens, they can dangle and maximize,
basically trade their vote for commitment” on policies and IMF
representation.  Lagarde yesterday sought to dispel notions that she might
show favoritism toward  Europe . The IMF approved a record $91.7
billion in emergency loans last year and provides a third of
bailout packages in Europe. She also called for a more diverse
staff, from gender to country of origin to education.  Carstens, a 53-year-old former deputy managing director of
the IMF, has described Lagarde’s chances as “quite high.”
Lagarde has tried to turn attention away from her nationality
and pledged to make the IMF more representative of a global
economy projected to see developing countries’ share  exceed  that
of advanced counterparts in 2013.  Merit-Based  “The fund should be more responsive, certainly more
effective and more legitimate,” Lagarde told reporters
yesterday in  Washington  after her meeting with the board. She
said the selection process “has been clearly both open,
transparent and should be merit-based.”  The U.S., the largest IMF shareholder with almost 17
percent of the votes, has refrained from publicly taking sides.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said both Lagarde and
Carstens are qualified.  “We want to see a real change in the voting power,” Paulo Nogueira Batista, Brazil’s executive director at the IMF, who
also represents eight other countries, said in a telephone
interview before meeting with Lagarde and after seeing Carstens.
“The reason why this election is so pre-determined in its
result is the voting-power distribution.”  When she announced her candidacy on May 25, Lagarde vowed
to push for quick implementation of a  2010 agreement  that makes
 China  the third-strongest voice in the organization and gives
more say to nations such as  Brazil  and  South Korea . It also
weakens the influence of advanced European economies, which
pledged to reduce the number of seats they hold at the 24-person
board. She indicated more changes may come.  187 Members  “I would be committed to continuously adapt the
representation of the fund, in particular quotas, to changing
economic realities,” she told IMF directors yesterday,
referring to so-called quotas, which reflect the division of
voting power at the 187-member agency.  While Lagarde is likely to support existing efforts to
give emerging markets a greater say, she may not take additional
steps to extend their influence, said  Arvind Subramanian , a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington and a former assistant director in the
IMF’s research department.  The next IMF chief could “use the whole euro crisis to
reduce the role of Europe in the board” in exchange for more
funding for the continent, he said. “A non-European would be
more willing to do that.”  Staving Off Default  European Union leaders yesterday pledged to stabilize the
euro-area economy and stave off a Greek default in the latest
attempt to stem the debt crisis after bonds of debt-strapped
euro nations slumped and officials in the U.S. and China warned
that the euro area’s failure to restore confidence threatened
the world economy.  “There is no room for benevolence when tough choices must
be made, and there is no option that does not start with
difficult but necessary adjustments by the Greek authorities to
restore the sustainability of public finances and to rebuild the
country’s competitiveness,” Lagarde told the IMF board.  Lagarde may come under pressure to offer more job
opportunities to economists from emerging markets at the IMF,
 Boston University ’s Gallagher said.  An internal IMF report released last month said that the
share of senior positions filled by employees from  Africa , East
Asia, the Middle East and so-called “transition countries”
that include most of Eastern Europe “is still unacceptably
small.”  Senior Posts  While Lagarde has said she isn’t trading positions for
votes, she acknowledged emerging countries’ complaints that they
are under-represented in senior posts.  “If that was the case, which it very well might be, I
would certainly apply the principles that in my previous roles I
applied to gender,” she told the Financial Times in a May 26
interview, a reference to what the newspaper said was her
practice of choosing a woman over an equally qualified man.  When asked in Beijing earlier this month if Zhu Min, a
special adviser to the IMF chief, would play a bigger role, she
said that it is “fully appropriate if he played a key role in
the management of the fund.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 