-- 
Thai Banks, Retailers to Lead Stock Rebound After Elections, Top Fund Says

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/thai-banks-retailers-to-lead-stock-rebound-after-elections-top-fund-says.html
Thailand ’s banks and retailers are
set to lead a rebound in the nation’s equities in the second
half, as their earnings will benefit from increased  government
spending , Ayudhya Fund Management Co. Ltd. said.  The SET Index may climb to 1,200 in the second half, a 17
percent gain from yesterday’s close, as concern over political
tensions may ease following a July 3 election, said Prapas Tonpibulsak, chief investment officer at Ayudhya Fund. Prapas’s
 AYF Dividend Stock Fund (AYFSDIV)  rallied 62 percent last year and was
jointly ranked  top  among the nation’s equity funds in a survey
by  Morningstar Inc. , a mutual-fund research company.  “The nation’s overall economy will receive a big boost
from state spending once the new government implements its
promised policies,” Prapas, who helps manage about $3.1 billion
of assets, said in a phone interview today. “Overseas
investors’ anxiety over political instability should also
subside after the new administration is formed.”  The SET Index has lost 5.5 percent in June as overseas
investors withdrew $718 million from Thai shares amid concern
the election will revive political tension. The drop was the
second-biggest among  Asia ’s 12 largest markets, after  Hong
Kong ’s Hang Seng Index. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG advised investors this month to reduce holdings.  Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva’s Democrat party is facing
a challenge in the elections from the Pheu Thai party, led by
the sister of Thailand’s former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra .
Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived abroad since
fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power three years ago.
Demonstrations against Abhisit’s government last year left more
than 90 dead.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  The recent sell-off presents a “buying opportunity” for
Thai equities, Suchart Techaposai, a Bangkok-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said in a report on June 21. “If history is any
guide, the market has rallied post political climaxes” such as
the 2006 military coup, the airport blockade in 2008 and the May
2010 riots in the capital, he said.  Bank shares, which led the slump in Thai equities this
quarter, will rebound in the second half as higher state
expenditure and slower inflation boost loan demand from
companies and consumers, said Prapas. Retailers will also
benefit from increased spending from individuals as the economy
expands, he said.  The SET Banking Index has dropped 7.9 percent this quarter,
the third-worst performer in the bourse’s 27 industry groups,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The SET Commerce Index,
a gauge of retailers, has rallied 9.3 percent in the period, the
second-biggest gain.  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO) , the nation’s largest cash-and-carry
wholesaler,  CP All Pcl (CPALL) , the No. 1 convenience store operator,
and  Tisco Financial Group Pcl (TISCO)  are among the biggest holdings in
Prapas’s fund, according to  data  on the company’s website. The
 fund manager  said he still favors those stocks.  Siam Makro has gained 8.8 percent this year, CP All has
risen 8.9 percent and Tisco has dropped 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  