-- 
Airbus Posts Paris-Order Victory as A320neo Routs Boeing

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n ,   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-23T15:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/airbus-posts-runaway-paris-order-victory.html
Airbus SAS scored a runaway order
victory over  Boeing Co. (BA)  at the  Paris Air Show  as the revamped
A320neo, launched last December, came of age with a succession
of deals that climaxed with an $18 billion, 200-jet contract
from AirAsia Bhd., the biggest in the company’s 40-year history.  Airbus won 418 firm orders with a list price of $44
billion, more than 16 times the worth of Boeing’s 23 contracts
priced at $2.4 billion. The total of 441 sales valued at $46.4
billion shared between the companies was 86 percent higher than
at last year’s Farnborough show, which alternates with the Paris
event and produced 237 orders spread more evenly between the
rivals.  Deals were dominated by 667 contracts or commitments for
Airbus’s re-A320neo as airlines seeking to cut fuel costs rushed
to buy a re-engined model claiming a 15 percent efficiency gain
over existing single-aisle models. Boeing, which hasn’t decided
whether to upgrade its 737 or build a new jet by 2020, fared
better in the wide-body market, securing 19 contracts for the
747-8 jumbo before Airbus, the No. 1 planemaker since 2003, hit
back with 12 commitments for its A380 double-decker.  “Airbus had a very good show,” said  Richard Aboulafia ,
vice president of Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based
consultant. “The success of the neo has been considerably
greater than expectations, and it’s pretty clear now that Boeing
has got to rethink its narrow-body product strategy and
timing.”  Share Performance  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the owner of
Airbus, rose as much as 53 cents, or 2.4 percent, to 22.38 euros
and was up 0.7 percent at 5:29 p.m. in Paris trading. Boeing
declined 2 percent in New York trading. EADS has gained
26 percent since the start of the year, compared with Boeing’s
8.4 percent advance.  Airbus, based in Toulouse,  France , also announced 312 order
pledges valued at $28.2 billion, versus 88, worth $14.8 billion,
at Boeing, which has its headquarters in  Chicago .  “The A320neo has effectively drawn the battle lines,”
Kenneth Herbert, an analyst at U.S.-based Wedbush Securities,
said in a note to investors. “We estimate the potential for
1,200 competitive narrow-body orders over the next five years,
based on our airline fleet composition analysis, many of which
are critical for Boeing to win.”  Airbus took months deciding whether to proceed on the neo,
after stretching its engineering resources too thinly on
previous programs. The A380, while gaining some business at this
year’s show, remains an unprofitable program that won’t break
even before 2014 at best, Airbus has predicted. The double-
decker jet was hobbled by production glitches and cost overruns.  Bombardier  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the third-biggest planemaker, won 10 firm
orders for its new CSeries plane from an undisclosed buyer,
together with 20 commitments from Korean Air Lines Co. The
Canadian company also sold 10 of its latest Global  business jets 
to VistaJet of  Switzerland  and six to  Australia ’s AvWest.  Still, Bombardier failed to secure an order from Qatar
Airways Ltd., which said it had shelved plans to buy the CSeries
while indicating that an A320 order could come before the end of
the show, which runs through the weekend.  Boeing doesn’t view air shows as competitions for orders,
said John Dern, a spokesman. The company had unfilled orders for
3,396 aircraft compared with Airbus’s 3,432 orders as of May,
according to the planemakers’ websites.  Airline executives told Boeing that they don’t mind waiting
a few years longer than a re-engined plane would take if it’s
for a jet that’s 20 percent better on an operating-cost basis,
Marlin Dailey, Boeing’s top commercial salesman, said in an
interview. Still, the message from the show has been that “they
want us to get on with the decision,” he said.  “It’s being in the grey zone that some of our customers
are uncomfortable with,” he said. “That’s the pressure I feel
more than anything else. This is a 30-year decision, so on an
intellectual level we’ve got lots of time. On a market-based
level, we need to move forward with the decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Paris via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris via   aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Paris via 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  