-- 
Maliki Says Iraq’s Poorly Performing Ministers May Be Replaced

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-23T11:24:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/maliki-says-iraq-s-poorly-performing-ministers-may-be-replaced.html
Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki
said some Cabinet ministers may be replaced because of poor
performance in the government’s first 100 days.  “Most of the levels of performance for ministries were
good or medium, but a significant number performed poorly and
below the required level,” he said in a speech. “This requires
us to take a series of measures, including changes in a number
of ministries, at the level of ministers.”  Deputy ministers, consultants and directors at several
ministries may also be replaced, Maliki said in the address
broadcast today on state-sponsored Iraqiya television. He didn’t
identify ministries that may be affected or say when the changes
will take place.  Maliki has complained in the past that  Iraq  needs fewer
ministries and that many of the more than 40 are inefficient.
His political rivals in the unity Cabinet formed in November,
eight months after elections, say he has failed to deliver on
pledges to share power. The top three security portfolios are
still vacant and have been allocated on an interim basis to the
prime minister.  “The responsibility falls on the political coalitions
participating in the national partnership government and which
are asked for their help in changing ministers and senior
officials,” Maliki said. The coalitions will be held
responsible in the future for choosing ministers who are
incompetent, he said.  The government is struggling with security breaches, weak
economic conditions and long-standing disputes over internal
boundaries and rights to domestic reserves of oil, the world’s
fifth-largest, and natural gas.  Iraq wants foreign investors to help boost oil and gas
production. Output has suffered from attacks by insurgents and a
lack of investment since a U.S.-led invasion ousted the regime
of President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003. The U.S. has pledged to
withdraw all troops from Iraq at the end of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 