-- 
Barclays, Bank of America, Morgan Keegan in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-23T11:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/altria-transocean-morgan-keegan-tata-icahn-in-court-news.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , after defeating an $11
billion lawsuit by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., seeks to
dismiss the defunct firm’s remaining claim for $500 million in
allegedly unpaid bonuses.  Lehman asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in May to
order the U.K. bank to pay the rest of the $2 billion in bonuses
it agreed to when it bought Lehman’s North American business in
2008. Barclays, which contended the $2 billion was an estimate
of both bonuses and severance payments, said it paid everything
assented to in the purchase agreement, according to a court
filing yesterday.  The bonuses were due to Lehman employees whom Barclays took
on with the purchase, the former investment bank said. The
annual bonuses for the 2008 fiscal year should have paid in full
by March 15, 2009, Lehman said in a May filing. Instead, the
employees received $1.5 billion, it said.  According to Barclays, its obligation was to pay 100
percent of “bonus pool amounts accrued” by Lehman employees it
took on with the purchase for the year 2008. Lehman said in
court last year that the amount accrued and payable was from
$700 million to $1.3 billion, or less than the $1.5 billion it
now complains was insufficient, Barclays said in the filing.  “Thus, LBHI has admitted that Barclays paid bonuses in an
amount that exceeded the amount required” by the sale contract,
it said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). Lehman’s lawsuit against Barclays is Lehman v.
Barclays, 09-01731, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Costco Women’s Bias Suit May Be Imperiled by Wal-Mart Decision  Costco Wholesale Corp. may be able to block women accusing
it of gender bias from suing as a group because of the U.S.
 Supreme Court ’s decision in a discrimination suit against Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., Bloomberg News’ Margaret Cronin Fisk and Karen
Gullo report.  The women sued Costco in 2004, accusing the largest U.S.
warehouse-club chain of limiting promotions of female employees
to assistant general manager and general manager by failing to
post such job openings. They won the right to sue as a group in
a class action in 2007. Costco’s appeal of that order was put on
hold while the Supreme Court considered Dukes v. Wal-Mart.  Parts of the Costco decision conflict with the Supreme
Court’s June 20 ruling barring women suing Wal-Mart from
pursuing their claims in a nationwide class action, according to
legal experts. Michael Harper, a professor at Boston University
School of Law, predicted the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San
Francisco  will send the Costco case back to the trial judge for
reconsideration.  “Bottom line: Under Dukes, a class cannot be certified for
this case as framed,” Harper said of the 2007 order granting
the Costco workers class status. “If I were Costco, I would be
feeling pretty good about this decision.”  The Supreme Court said lawyers for women suing Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart failed to point to a common corporate
policy that led to gender discrimination at thousands of its
U.S. stores. Lawyers for the women said they will reframe their
legal arguments and, if necessary, pursue smaller group or
individual suits.  The lawsuit against Costco features “the same lawyers
using the same theories, but more importantly, the same experts
to conjure up this guilt by statistical evidence,” Joel
Benoliel, spokesman for Issaquah, Washington-based Costco, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  “I think that our case will be dismissed by the Ninth
Circuit for exactly the same reasons,” Benoliel said, referring
to the San Francisco appeals court. “The case is fatally flawed
and has been from the beginning.”  Harper said the appeals court is unlikely to reject or
approve the 2007 decision granting the Costco women class-action
status, which makes litigation less costly for plaintiffs and
gives them more leverage in settlement talks.  “More likely they’ll remand it,” sending it back to the
trial court, he said.  The Costco women should still be able to sue as a group,
said  Brad Seligman , a lead attorney for plaintiffs in both
suits. Costco is a “much narrower case,” covering two types of
managers who were affected by decisions made above the store
level, Seligman said.  Dukes involved as many as 1.5 million current and former
workers at Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores in the U.S. The
potential class in Costco is less than 1,000 women, he said.  “We candidly conceded in Dukes that it could be
unmanageable to do individual damages hearings for every class
member,” Seligman said in an interview. Costco is “much
smaller and much more manageable of a case,” he said.  The case is Ellis v.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , 04-03341, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).
The Wal-Mart case is Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 10-00277, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  States Discuss Proposal to End Tobacco Company Payment Fight  State attorneys general are considering a proposal to end a
fight with tobacco companies over $7.1 billion in payments their
states claim under a 1998 settlement.  The accord with 46 states required the companies to pay
$206 billion to resolve any liability in health-care cost
lawsuits. The fight over $7.1 billion in payments under the 13-
year-old accord stemmed partly from company claims that market
share erosion reduced the amounts they’re required to pay.  “There is a proposed agreement,” Nanci Gonder, a
spokeswoman for Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster, said
yesterday in an e-mail. Gonder declined to provide any details.  Resolving disputed and withheld payments for 2003 through
2010 may boost profit and spur share repurchases by  Altria Group
Inc. (MO)  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , according to  Christopher Growe ,
an analyst at Stifel Nicholas & Co. in St. Louis. A settlement
may take the form of a credit against future payments, he said.  Altria, which has maintained control of about 50 percent of
U.S. cigarette sales since 2003, may recoup about $2 billion it
has disputed or withheld in annual payments, Growe said in a
note yesterday to clients.  For second-biggest Reynolds, which has lost market share,
the refund may approach $3.5 billion, he said. He rates both
stocks as “hold.”  The 1998 Master Settlement Agreement between the states and
cigarette makers called on states to pass laws requiring non-
signing manufacturers to make payments into 25-year escrow funds
comparable to the payments they would have had to make if they’d
signed the deal.  Altria declined to comment, said David Sutton, a spokesman
for the Richmond, Virginia-based company, as did Jane Seccombe,
a spokeswoman for Reynolds and Robert Bannon, a Lorillard
spokesman.  For more, click here.  Transocean Will Fight Norwegian Tax-Evasion Claim  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest offshore driller, said
it will contest charges by Norwegian authorities that it evaded
taxes on 10 billion kroner ($1.8 billion) of revenue.  “Transocean rejects all of the accusations and intends to
fully clear its name in court,” the Vernier, Switzerland-based
company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Transocean
believes the indictments are without merit and plans to
vigorously contest them.”  Transocean Inc. and Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling
Inc. are being charged with gross tax fraud and breach of the
Accounting Act, Oekokrim, the National Authority for
Investigation and Prosecution of Economic and Environmental
Crime, said in a statement yesterday. The company may face a tax
claim of as much as 5 billion kroner, including interest, said
Morten Eriksen, senior public prosecutor at the agency.  “This is definitely the biggest criminal case and I’m
assuming the biggest tax case” in Norwegian history, Eriksen
said in a telephone interview. Two advisers who worked for the
rig company’s Norway unit are also being charged with tax
evasion, the government said.  The charges relate to events from 2000 to 2002 regarding
tax dispositions in connection with the sale in 1997 and 2001 of
12 rigs by Transocean AS/ASA to affiliates in the Cayman
Islands, according to the Oslo-based agency. Transocean’s
Norwegian units have since been shut.  “The indictment is based on an inadequate comprehension of
the facts,” Erling Lyngtveit, Transocean’s defense counsel,
said in the statement. It’s based on “peculiar and original
interpretations of Norwegian and international tax legislation.
We believe we have a strong case.”  For more, click here.  Police Charge Teen With Hacking U.K. Organized Crime Agency  Ryan Cleary, the 19-year-old U.K. resident arrested June 21
on suspicion of participating in an online hacking scheme, was
charged in  London  with attacking the site for Britain’s  Serious
Organised Crime Agency .  Cleary is accused of conspiring with others “to conduct
unauthorized modification of computers” and launching so-called
denial of service attacks against the websites for SOCA and two
U.K. music-industry trade groups, Metropolitan Police said
yesterday in a statement. He is scheduled to appear today at
City of Westminster Magistrates Court.  The charges follow five months after the  arrests  of five
males, including three teenagers, as part of a U.K. police probe
of cyber-attacks related to WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group
that published U.S. military documents and diplomatic
communications on its website.  In addition to SOCA, Cleary was charged with hacking the
sites for the British Phonographic Industry and the
International Federation of the Phonographic Industry last year.  Adrian Strain, a spokesman for the IFPI, one of the trade
groups, confirmed it reported a denial of service attack that
was then investigated. He declined to comment further.  A spokeswoman for SOCA declined to comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Bank of America Sued for Foreclosure-Sale Taxes in Michigan  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and mortgage
servicers were sued by a Michigan county official who claimed
they failed to pay millions of dollars in transfer taxes on
foreclosure sales.  The banks and other defendants were part of an effort to
“inappropriately” claim state and county tax exemptions on
“improperly filed deeds,” Curtis Hertel Jr., Ingham County
register of deeds, said yesterday in a lawsuit in state court in
Lansing, the capital city.  Hertel also sued  Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) ,
 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FMCC)  and two law firms that handle
foreclosures.  “We didn’t specify damages, but I believe it’s in the
millions for the county and tens of millions for the state,”
Hertel said today in a telephone interview. “We intend to fight
for it.”  The county claims that the banks would transfer ownership
of a note to  Fannie Mae  or Freddie Mac to avoid transfer taxes
in foreclosures, Hertel said.  “Fannie and Freddie would foreclose and claim the
exemption” on transfer taxes allowed for government entities,
he said.  “At this point, we’re reviewing the complaint,”  Jason
Menke , a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said in
an e-mail. “Until that review is complete, it would be
premature for us to provide comment on this issue.”  Rick Simon, a spokesman for Charlotte-North Carolina-based
Bank of America spokesman, said in an e-mail that “the bank has
not had an opportunity to review this complaint as we have not
been served yet.”  The case is Hertel v. Bank of America N.A., 11-687-CZ,
Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan (Lansing).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Gabon Bribery Defendants Caught ‘Red-Handed,’ U.S. Tells Jury  Four security-industry executives knew they were breaking
the law when they agreed to make payments to a Gabonese
government minister, prosecutors said at the close of the
biggest U.S. trial of individuals for bribing foreign officials.  The four men, on trial in federal court in Washington, are
part of a 22-defendant kickback conspiracy case resulting from a
sting operation and a fake $15 million weapons deal. Prosecutors
showed jurors about a dozen video clips yesterday while making
their closing arguments in the case.  “The evidence is irrefutable,” Laura Perkins, a U.S.
Justice Department trial attorney, told the jury. “The
defendants were caught red-handed committing these crimes on
audio and videotape.”  Prosecutors allege the men sought to provide guns, grenades
and uniforms for the presidential guard of Gabon in violation of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The defendants -- John Wier
III, Andrew Bigelow, Lee Tolleson and Pankesh Patel -- have
denied any wrongdoing.  Defense lawyers have accused the government of engineering
the conspiracy and breaking Federal Bureau of Investigation
rules about handling informants. They will make closing
arguments to the jury today. Jurors may begin deliberating next
week.  The charges stem from a three-year investigation involving
an informant who pleaded guilty in an earlier bribery case,
recorded telephone calls and videotaped meetings with FBI agents
posing as representatives of Gabon, sub-Saharan Africa’s fifth-
biggest oil producer.  The government said the defendants agreed to pay $3 million
in kickbacks for the business, half of which they were told
would be paid to the country’s defense minister.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Viacom, Time Warner Tell Judge They’re Seeking Settlement  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  told a judge that
they’re trying to settle litigation over broadcast rights on
portable electronic devices including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The two companies, which sued each other in Manhattan
federal court in April, told U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand
that they’ve reached a so-called standstill agreement “in an
attempt to resolve this and other litigation and potential
litigation.” Their lawsuits are now on hold, they said in court
papers filed yesterday.  In its suit, New York-based Time Warner Cable, the second-
largest cable television operator in the U.S., sought a ruling
that its contract with Viacom allows it to deliver Viacom’s
programming to customers’ iPads and other devices. Time Warner
Cable, also based in New York, provides video, high-speed data
and telephone services to more than 14 million subscribers,
according to its  website .  In a separate suit, Viacom asked for damages and an order
blocking Time Warner Cable from distributing its programming,
including Black Entertainment Television, Comedy Central, CMT,
MTV, Nickelodeon, Spike and VH1, via broadband without its
permission.  Time Warner Cable released a computer application for the
iPad on March 15 that allows customers to stream Viacom’s
copyrighted entertainment programs directly to iPad tablets.  Viacom spokeswoman Kelly McAndrew declined to comment on
the status of negotiations between the companies. Time Warner
Cable spokeswoman  Maureen Huff  also declined to comment.  The cases are Time Warner Cable Inc. v. Viacom
International, 11-cv-002376, and Viacom International Inc. v.
Time Warner Cable Inc., 11-cv-02387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Winklevoss Twins Drop Supreme Court Appeal Over Facebook Case  Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, former Harvard University
classmates of Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg , said they
won’t ask the U.S. Supreme Court to undo a settlement of their
claims that Zuckerberg stole the idea for the world’s most
popular social-networking site.  The Winklevoss twins said last month they would appeal a
lower-court ruling that left the 2008 accord intact. Their
lawyers said in a filing yesterday at the U.S. Court of Appeals
in San Francisco that “after careful consideration, they have
determined that they will not file a petition” with the
nation’s highest court.  The brothers lost a bid in May to get a full appeals court
review. They argued that a three-judge panel erred in April when
it dismissed their claims that the settlement should be voided
because it was procured through fraud.  They alleged that Palo Alto, California-based Facebook
didn’t disclose an accurate valuation of its shares before they
agreed to the $65 million cash and stock settlement. The appeals
court ruled that the accord barred future lawsuits and was
“quite favorable” to the twins.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, said “We’ve
considered this case closed for a long time, and we’re pleased
to see the other party now agrees.”  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  Morgan Keegan to Pay $200 Million in SEC Settlement  Two  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  Morgan Keegan units agreed to
pay $200 million to settle claims by federal, state and industry
regulators related to subprime mortgage-backed securities.  The accord resolves claims brought last year by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and state regulators, the SEC said
yesterday in a statement. Regulators last year said the firm
misled clients about asset values and risks of bond funds that
caused investor losses during the mortgage crisis.  “The falsification of fund values misrepresented critical
information exactly when investors needed it most -- when the
subprime mortgage meltdown was impacting the funds,” said
 Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s enforcement chief, in the statement.
“Such misconduct does grievous harm to investors.”  Tata Steel Wins $130 Million Settlement in Teesside Suit  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , which shut and sold part of its Teesside
Cast Products unit after four of its largest customers halted
orders, said it received $130 million as settlement from the
violators of the 10-year contract.  An arbitration tribunal ruled the buyers unlawfully
terminated the agreements, Mumbai-based Tata Steel said
yesterday in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Tata Steel  Europe  lost about 150 million pounds ($242
million) running Teesside in northeastern England after the
buyers, accounting for about 80 percent of its business, didn’t
honor the 2009 contract. Italy’s Marcegaglia SpA, South Korea’s
Dongkuk Steel Mill Co., Luxembourg-based Ternium SA and Swiss-
Italian steelmaker Duferco Participations Holding Ltd. walked
away from taking deliveries of slab steel, which they process
into other steel products.  The company mothballed some of Teesside’s operations in
February last year. A year later, Thailand’s largest steel
producer Sahaviriya Steel Industries Public Co. agreed to buy
the unit for $469 million. The deal includes the sale of coke
ovens, power generation facilities and the Redcar Blast Furnace.  Rolls-Royce Reaches Engine Settlement With Qantas  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , the world’s second-largest aircraft-
engine maker, reached a settlement with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  over
the disruption to its fleet after a mid-air engine failure last
year.  The settlement’s “profit and loss impact” in the fiscal
year ending this month is A$95 million ($101 million), Qantas
said in a statement yesterday. The terms of the agreement are
confidential, and Qantas will drop legal proceedings, the
Sydney-based airline said.  Rolls-Royce’s total costs from the incident were 56 million
pounds ($90 million) in 2010, “with some small additional costs
in 2011,” Rolls-Royce said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “The whole industry will breathe a sigh of relief,”  Sandy
Morris , an analyst in London at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said by e-mail. “Qantas starting court proceedings was an
unusual and troubling step.”  The settlement may help ease concerns that the engine
failure would damage the company’s reputation. Rolls-Royce is
pushing to catch up on supplying engines for Airbus SAS’s A380
following the engine explosion last November, which forced
Rolls-Royce to divert engines from new customers to existing
customers, Tom Williams, Airbus’s head of programs, said in an
interview at the Paris Air Show.  The blowout was caused by the failure of a “specific
component in the turbine,” London-based Rolls-Royce said in
November. That failure caused an oil fire on the A380, which led
to the release of a turbine disc.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Icahn Can’t Sanction Law Firm for Blockbuster Insider Claim  Billionaire Carl Icahn lost his fight to punish McMillan
Law Firm APC for its work on a lawsuit alleging insider trading
in  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  securities, a bankruptcy judge ruled.  McMillan won’t have to pay attorney fees Icahn paid to
reply to allegations that he had inside information while
investing in Blockbuster, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland 
said yesterday in Manhattan. Icahn sought sanctions against the
law firm, which represented Blockbuster creditor Lyme Regis
Partners LLC in a lawsuit during the movie-rental chain’s
bankruptcy. Lifland dismissed the suit in March.  “I find that despite the many flaws in Lyme Regis’s
complaint, sanctions are not applicable,” Lifland said
yesterday in denying Icahn’s motion. “Lyme Regis’s position was
supported somewhat by case law.”  “Merely by filing motion, defendants have achieved the
punitive results they are seeking -- Mr. McMillan’s former
malpractice insurance carrier has doubled his rates for
renewal,” lawyers for the firm and partner Scott A. McMillan
wrote in court papers.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The adversary
case is 10-05524.  For more, click here.  Fourth Rothstein Associate Pleads Guilty in Investment Scam  A fourth associate of convicted fraudster Scott Rothstein
admitted to his role in a $1.2 billion investment scheme
involving fake lawsuit settlements.  William Corte, 38, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
wire fraud yesterday in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, federal court
before U.S. District Judge William Dimitrouleas.  Prosecutors say Corte and Curtis Renie, 38, worked for
Rothstein’s law firm as technology specialists and set up a fake
TD Bank website showing Rothstein had $1.1 billion in a trust
account. Renie pleaded guilty last week. Rothstein used the site
to convince potential investors their investments would be safe,
prosecutors said.  “The investors, relying on this information, ended up
investing in excess of $35 million,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Lawrence LaVecchio told the judge.  Corte’s attorney, Alvin Entin, said that while his client
didn’t know the website was being used in an investment scheme,
prosecutors would be able to prove he was part of the
conspiracy. Sentencing is set for Sept. 8.  Rothstein pleaded guilty last year to five counts of
racketeering, money laundering and wire fraud, admitting he sold
investors interests in bogus settlements in sexual-harassment
and whistle-blower suits. He was sentenced to 50 years in
prison.  Two other men, an attorney at Rothstein’s firm, Howard
Kusnick, 59, and a friend, Stephen Caputi, 53, pleaded guilty
this month to conspiracy to commit wire fraud for their roles in
the scheme.  The cases are U.S. v. Renie, 11-60123; U.S. v. Kusnick,
11-60125; and U.S. v. Caputi, 11-60124; U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  