-- 
Manchester United Signs Aston Villa’s Ashley Young on Five-Year Contract

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-23T14:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/manchester-united-signs-aston-villa-s-ashley-young-on-five-year-contract.html
Premier League soccer champion
Manchester United said it signed forward  Ashley Young  from  Aston
Villa  to a five-year deal.  United made the announcement on its  website , without
stating the transfer payment. U.K. media reports have put the
fee for the 25-year-old at about 16 million pounds ($25.6
million).  Young is expected to double his wages to about 120,000
pounds a week, the  Daily Telegraph  reported today. The England
international said the chance to play for the record 19-time
English champion was “one I couldn’t turn down.”  “It’s a prospect I always looked at from being a child, to
play for one of the biggest clubs in the world,” Young told
United’s television channel in comments posted on the club
website. “I’ve got that opportunity now so I’ve just got to
take it with two hands.”  Young, who can play on the wing or through the center,
began his career with Watford and left for Villa in January 2007
for a fee of as much as 9.7 million pounds. Since then he’s
played 157 league games, scoring 30 goals. He made his England
debut in November 2007 and has two goals in 15 matches.  Young is United’s second signing of the offseason after
defender Phil Jones joined from Blackburn in a 16.5 million-
pound move. Goalkeeper David de Gea may also join from  Atletico
Madrid  for a reported 18 million pounds.  Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson is rebuilding his
squad after the retirements of goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar,
midfielder  Paul Scholes  and defender  Gary Neville . United won
the league for the 19th time last season, taking it one ahead of
Liverpool.  ‘Terrific Contribution’  Villa last week appointed  Alex McLeish  as manager, five
days after he resigned at the Premier League team’s Midlands
archrival Birmingham.  “Ashley has made a terrific contribution for Villa over
the past 4 1/2 seasons,” McLeish said on the club’s website.
“He has become an important player in the England team during
that time and I’m sure he will be looking forward to his new
challenge.”  McLeish is the seven-time English champion’s third manager
in 10 months after  Martin O’Neill  resigned just before last
season and Gerard Houllier stepped down on June 1 because of
heart problems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  