-- 
Manhattan Landmark 70 Pine St. Said to Be Sold for $205 Million

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-23T22:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/manhattan-landmark-70-pine-st-said-to-be-sold-for-205-million.html
New York ’s landmark 70 Pine St., the
former headquarters of American International Group Inc., is
under contract to be sold to a venture including Metro Loft
Management, two people with knowledge of the transaction said.  The seller of the art deco tower is South Korea-based Kumho
Investment Bank and the purchase price was $205 million, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the the deal was
private.  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  was the broker.  Metro Loft Management, led by Nathan Berman, agreed to buy
the tower in partnership with Ron Bruckner, according to the
people. The New York City-based developers have previously
purchased similar downtown Manhattan properties, including 63
Wall St. and 20 Exchange Place, and are known for converting
former commercial buildings into residential spaces.  “Preserving and reusing landmark buildings is a great
endeavor in  New York City ,” Carl Schwartz, attorney for the
partners, said in a telephone interview. “Ronny and Nathan’s
properties are great evidence of that.”  George Shea, a spokesman for Jones Lang LaSalle in New
York, declined to comment. Jack Berman, vice president of Metro
Loft Management, didn’t return three phone messages seeking
comment on the deal, which was reported earlier today by the New
York Post.  The transaction comes two days after the 66-story tower,
completed in 1932 and formerly known as the Cities Service
Building, was  designated  a landmark by the New York City
Landmarks Preservation Commission.  Kumho Investment Bank (010050)  purchased 70 Pine St. and an adjacent
building, 72 Wall St., for $150 million in 2009. AIG sold the
property that year after being bailed out by the federal
government.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ashwin Seshagiri in New
York at   aseshagiri@bloomberg.net .
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  