-- 
Anna Nicole Smith’s Estate Loses at High Court on Fortune

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-23T22:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/anna-nicole-smith-s-estate-loses-at-high-court-on-fortune-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court upheld a
ruling that gave Anna Nicole Smith’s estate nothing from the
$1.6 billion fortune left by J. Howard Marshall II, the former
Playboy model’s late husband.  The justices, voting 5-4 in a case that limits the power of
federal bankruptcy judges, today rejected claims stemming from a
half-billion-dollar trust Smith said her husband, a Texas oil
tycoon, sought to set up for her before his 1995 death. Smith
had accused her late stepson, E. Pierce Marshall, of illegally
interfering with the trust.  Smith at one point won an $89 million award on her claim,
which she filed with the court handling her bankruptcy case. The
Supreme Court today said the bankruptcy judge lacked the
constitutional authority to issue that award.  Unlike federal district and circuit courts, bankruptcy
courts are part of the legislative branch of the federal
government, created by Congress through its power under Article
I of the Constitution.  Writing for the court, Chief Justice  John Roberts  called
the award to Smith a “prototypical exercise of judicial power”
that must be handled by a so-called Article III judge. Those
judges have life tenure, are confirmed by the Senate and are
protected from having their salaries reduced.  Ideological Lines  The case divided the justice along ideological lines, with
Roberts and the court’s other four Republican appointees in the
majority. The four justices appointed by Democratic presidents
dissented.  A federal appeals court had said that Smith’s estate
couldn’t recover the $89 million because a Texas court handling
Howard Marshall’s will had already ruled that he didn’t intend
to leave any of his $1.6 billion to her.  Smith was 26 when she married 89-year-old Howard Marshall
in 1994. She died in 2007 at age 39 of an accidental overdose of
 prescription drugs , leaving behind a daughter who is now 4 years
old. Smith’s onetime lawyer and boyfriend, Howard K. Stern, is
serving as executor of her estate.  The ruling marked the second time the nation’s highest
court has ruled in the dispute. The  high court  revived Smith’s
claim for the $89 million in 2006.  The case is Stern v. Marshall, 10-179.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 