-- 
Mao as Marilyn, Louis Kahn, Strange Plastic Garden: Chelsea Art

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/mao-as-marilyn-louis-kahn-s-sketches-strange-flower-garden-chelsea-art.html
It’s too late to get yourself a new
house designed by Louis I. Kahn, but how about a drawing?  About 60 are on view at  Lori Bookstein Fine Art . There are
mountain ridges, fishing huts on the Amalfi Coast, New  England 
churches and Egyptian granite quarries. Executed with a sure
hand, the works examine how man-made structures interact with
space and nature.  The early pieces are influenced by Kahn’s Beaux Arts
training. A 1927 pencil drawing of a castle tower in England is
so perfectly detailed it looks like a black-and-white
photograph. Later works get more abstract. “Cliff Road, No. 3,
Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia,  Canada ” conveys the space with
only a handful of lines.  The best may be several terrific pastels from the year Kahn
spent as a resident at the  American Academy in Rome .  “Louis I. Kahn: Building a View” is up through July 7.
Prices range from $8,000 to $125,000.  138 Tenth Ave.; +1-212-
750-0949;  http://www.loribooksteinfineart.co .  Tyvek Garden  The facade of the  Postmasters Gallery  half a block north is
adorned with rows of white plastic bags. Each has a central
slash within a red X with fresh grass or leaves emerging from
some of the openings.  The unusual garden is by  Natalie Jeremijenko , who uses
Tyvek bags instead of flower pots. The installation is part of
her ongoing Farmacy project designed to improve environmental
health and produce food.  Soil-filled plastic containers cost $300. They are displayed
in a shopping cart at the gallery entrance. The harvest will be
sold at the Union Square Greenmarket throughout the summer.  Mao in Drag  Inside, Chinese artist Ai Weiwei is depicted as a six-armed
Buddhist deity, brandishing an iPhone, a  Twitter  bird and a
calligraphy brush.  The collage is part of “The Travelogue of Dr. Brain
Damages,” a brash exhibition by Kenneth Tin-Kin Hung who
criticizes  China ’s censorship by ridiculing its leaders.  Mao, for instance, wears  Marilyn Monroe ’s platinum wig and
the low-cut white dress she wore in “The Seven Year Itch” (the
original garment fetched $4.6 million at a California auction
last week). The hybrid stands atop a  Campbell Soup  can next to a
furry white mammal. Surrounded by smiling babies, red lanterns,
floating hot dogs and bamboo trees, it’s a hodgepodge of
familiar Western and Eastern symbols.  Works come in editions of five, each is $8,888. (“Eight
is a lucky Chinese number,” said Magdalena Sawon, the gallery
owner.) The show runs through July 9 at 459 W. 19th St.; +1-212-
727-3323;  http://www.postmastersart.com   (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 