-- 
AOL’s Huffington Post Expands Local News Ahead of Campaign

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-06-23T20:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/aol-s-huffington-post-vies-for-major-role-in-2012-presidential-campaign.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , after buying the
Huffington Post website this year to revive sales growth, is
accelerating its expansion of local coverage to lure readers
interested in campaign news ahead of the 2012 presidential
election.  AOL is expanding its Washington news bureau and opening
news websites in  Iowa ,  New Hampshire  and  South Carolina , three
states where early voting will be held. The company plans to
have 33 local sites in those states by the end of July, said
Howard Fineman, editorial director at The Huffington Post.  “We’ve jumped the schedule to get these online,” Fineman
said in an interview, adding that the company is also discussing
whether to sponsor a presidential campaign debate. “We’re
talking about it, and we’re talking to potential partners.”  AOL, based in New York, bought  Huffington Post  for $315
million in a bid to reverse a four-year slide in revenue as its
dial-up Internet business shrinks. The expansion of the Patch
local news websites, which number more than 800, is one of the
first major initiatives by founder  Arianna Huffington  since
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  gave her control over the
company’s editorial operations.  Huffington’s election effort may help draw readers to the
company’s websites, boosting online advertising, said  Shahid Khan , chairman and chief strategist at MediaMorph Inc., a New
York-based digital media-tracking service.  “She is polarizing, it’s going to be a polarizing
election,” Khan said in an interview. “Polarizing is good for
media. It creates debate and a following. Even if people don’t
agree with Arianna they want to know what she says.”  Huffington Post Founding  The Huffington Post was founded in 2005 by Huffington, 60,
who gained prominence supporting Republican politics and later
switched to more Democratic views. She started the site as a
political forum and, after traffic grew during the 2008
election, expanded into other areas including sports, business
and entertainment.  Huffington said in an interview the company plans to
differentiate itself in this campaign by combining AOL’s local
presence with Huffington Post’s social blogging and commentary.  “Our 2012 coverage will be a unique opportunity to deploy
1000 reporters across the country and present their work on our
powerful national platform -- in conjunction with our social
engagement tools and innovative citizen journalism program,”
she said. AOL will “move beyond ‘horse race,’ commodity news
and analysis to put flesh and blood on the statistics, trends,
and events.”  Revenue Growth?  AOL’s local content business will be a driver for growth,
Armstrong, 40, said in the interview.  “People are starting to understand that AOL is a content
destination,” Armstrong said. Brand advertising, video
advertising and local advertising “should have large growth
over the next few years,” he said.  AOL’s revenue fell 17 percent in the first quarter to
$551.4 million, as advertising sales slid 11 percent and
subscription revenue tumbled 24 percent. Net income dropped 86
percent to $4.7 million.  AOL, which was spun off from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in 2009, fell
51 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $19.80 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading. The shares have lost 16 percent this
year.  The election may be an opportunity for Huffington Post to
raise its profile and boost AOL’s fortunes, said Rob Enderle, a
 San Jose , California-based consultant who follows AOL.  “Given the number of feet they’ve got on the street, they
should have a significant impact,” Enderle said. “They could
become the place you go to for the discussion and the debate. It
could be hugely beneficial for AOL in general, because it could
be a huge traffic driver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  New York  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  