-- 
Apollo Is Said to Be Final Bidder for WestLB Unit With $567 Million Offer

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-06-23T17:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/apollo-is-said-to-be-final-bidder-for-westlb-unit-with-567-million-offer.html
Apollo Global Management LLC,  Leon
Black ’s private-equity firm, is the final bidder for WestLB AG’s
real estate finance unit as German regulators force the lender
to sell assets, two people with knowledge of the process said.  Apollo-managed funds bid about 400 million euros ($567
million) for Westdeutsche Immobilien Bank AG, known as WestImmo,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations aren’t public. A deal may be signed next month.  WestLB has previously rejected bids for WestImmo as
unacceptable, causing the bank to miss a European Commission-
ordered deadline to sell the unit by the end of 2010. Buying
WestImmo would give New York-based Apollo a platform to expand
its property financing throughout Europe and the U.S.  Spokesmen for WestLB and Apollo declined to comment.  WestImmo, based in Mainz,  Germany , earned 94.8 million
euros last year, it reported in April. The company said at the
time that the forced sale process had hurt new business
development. It has offices in  London , Madrid, Paris,  Prague ,
Warsaw, New York and  Tokyo .  State-owned WestLB is selling assets to win European
Commission approval for a bailout after the company ran up
losses during the financial crisis. In May it shelved efforts to
find a buyer for the whole company and said it would sell assets
and shrink into a Verbundbank, a regionally focused lender that
serves savings banks. The European Commission must accept the
Dusseldorf-based lender’s restructuring plans, due by June 30,
to grant approval for the state aid.  Apollo went public in March, raising $565.4 million, 13
percent more than it originally sought, in an initial stock
sale. The firm also increased the number of shares sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  