-- 
Apple Gets U.S. Antitrust Approval to Bid for Nortel Assets

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-23T14:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/apple-gets-approval-from-u-s-agencies-to-bid-for-bankrupt-nortel-s-assets.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  got approval from U.S.
antitrust regulators to bid for the assets of bankrupt Nortel
Networks Corp., according to an agency statement.  The Antitrust Division of the  Justice Department  reviewed
Apple’s request to bid for a number of Nortel patents, according
to a person familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified because the process isn’t public.  While Cupertino, California-based Apple has won a green
light to participate in the bidding, the Antitrust Division will
continue to review any anticompetitive issues that could arise
once an agreement is made, the person said.  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
bankruptcy in Wilmington,  Delaware , in January 2009, agreed to
sell the patents to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for $900 million unless a
competitor bids more at a June 27 auction. Nortel delayed the
auction for a week citing a “significant level of interest” in
a June 16 statement.  “Even though these big companies are under scrutiny by
antitrust regulators, they are not routinely being slowed or
blocked in their expansive ventures,” said  Rebecca Arbogast , a
Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “The Nortel
auction is a great treasure trove, and this will help companies
gain patents for offensive expansion and as a defense against
patent suits.”  No Names  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, hasn’t identified
any of the bidders other than Google that have qualified to
participate in the auction. The company doesn’t plan to make any
information about the bidding public until after it picks a
winner, Nortel attorney Lisa Schweitzer said in an interview
this week.  The patent portfolio will give the winning bidder rights to
control and license technologies including wireless video that
may be valuable for future generations of smartphones such as
Apple’s iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry.  Software giant  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , computer maker Hewlett-
Packard Co. and phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , are among technology
companies that have objected to the sale to Google, saying in
court papers the deal doesn’t guarantee them continued access to
technologies they currently have a right to use.  RPX Corp., a San Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is
also considering a bid for the assets, Andrew Kent, an attorney
for the company, said at a bankruptcy court hearing last month.  Bloomberg reported Apple’s interest in bidding for the
patents on June 18, citing two people familiar with the matter.  Research In Motion, based in Waterloo, Ontario, and phone-
equipment supplier Ericsson AB are also weighing bids, people
familiar with those companies’ plans have said.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  