-- 
Asian Currencies Drop on Lower U.S. Growth Forecast, Greek Debt Concern

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-06-23T09:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/asian-currencies-drop-on-lower-u-s-growth-forecast-greek-debt-concern.html
Asian currencies declined, led by
 South Korea ’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, after the  Federal
Reserve  cut its growth forecast for the  U.S. economy  and concern
that  Greece  will default lingered.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares dropped by the most
in a week after the Fed said the world’s largest economy will
expand 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from April’s
forecast of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent. European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet said yesterday risk signals for
financial stability in the euro area are flashing “red” as
Greece’s debt crisis threatens to infect banks.  “The unresolved Greek debt woes and the weaker economic
outlook in the U.S. are weighing on sentiment,” said D.
Sivadass, a foreign-exchange forwards trader at EON Capital Bhd.
in  Kuala Lumpur . “In times of turmoil, the dollar is the safe
currency.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,076.80 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Philippine peso slid 0.3 percent to 43.487, the ringgit
weakened 0.3 percent to 3.0330 and China’s yuan declined 0.07
percent to 6.4676.  European leaders begin a two-day summit in Brussels today
to discuss Greece’s financing needs amid speculation Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  will face difficulty in getting
parliamentary approval next week for a package of budget cuts
and asset sales. Finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
Greece has met conditions for the next aid payment. Overseas
investors have pulled $2.9 billion from South Korean, Taiwanese
and Thai equities this month.  ‘Soft Landing’  The Fed also forecast the U.S. jobless rate will average
8.6 percent to 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with
an 8.4 percent to 8.7 percent projection in April.  The People’s Bank of  China  set the yuan’s reference rate
weaker for the first time in five days, fixing it at 6.4736 per
dollar.  China’s economy  will have a “soft landing” in the
second half, China Business News reported today, citing Chen Dongqi, deputy chief of the Macroeconomic Research Institute
under the National Development and Reform Commission.  “Right now, there’s no clear country-specific direction
for the yuan and the currency is expected to be moving in line
with what everybody else is doing,” said Joseph Lau, a Hong
Kong-based regional economist with Societe Generale SA.  Thai Elections  Thailand’s baht fell 0.1 percent to 30.51 against the
dollar as concern the July 3 elections will spark instability
was offset by stronger-than-expected export data. Overseas sales,
which account for about two-thirds of Southeast Asia’s second-
largest economy, climbed 17.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
more than the 15.6 percent gain that economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast, data showed this week.  “There is concern about protests and other chaotic
situations in  Thailand  due to the election and the baht may see
downward pressure for now,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist
at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 8,601
against the greenback. Singapore’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to
S$1.2346, Taiwan’s dollar slid 0.2 percent to NT$28.936 and
India’s rupee declined 0.1 percent to 44.9213.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net 
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  