-- 
AT&T’s T-Mobile Bid Draws Range of Comments

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-23T14:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/at-t-s-t-mobile-bid-draws-comments-from-cowboys-balloonists-1-.html
Cowboys’ mobile telephone service
out on the range will improve if  AT&T Inc. (T)  buys T-Mobile USA
Inc., according to the United States Cattlemen’s Association.  “It’s always been a joke to us: More bars in more places.
Yeah, but those bars ain’t in these places,” said Jess
Peterson, the trade group’s executive vice president, referring
in an interview to an old AT&T ad campaign.  With a filing at the Federal Communications Commission, the
cattlemen joined songwriters, balloonists, governors, labor
unions, technology companies and groups representing Hispanics
and blacks to support AT&T’s $39 billion bid, according to a
Bloomberg Government review of comments submitted to the agency.  On the other side, urging the FCC to block the deal, are
other technology companies, public-interest groups and tens of
thousands of people who are “very, very skeptical of this
merger,” according to Craig Aaron, president of Free Press, a
Washington-based policy group.  Through yesterday, the FCC had received more than 39,000
comments on the deal announced March 20, about 5,000 more than
it fielded over 10 months on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s purchase of  General
Electric Co. (GE) ’s NBC Universal unit completed in January.  “Because this deal is so big and the stakes are so high, I
think you’ll find major stakeholders reaching out as far as the
eye can see to round up support for their positions,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst for Medley Global Advisors
LLC, said in an interview. “And what you’re seeing is a
reflection of that.”  ‘Some Weight’  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless company, wants to
buy Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile, a  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
unit that is the fourth-largest, to form a new market leader
ahead of  Verizon Wireless . It needs approval from the FCC and
 Justice Department , which are conducting a review that AT&T
executives have said may last until March 2012.  Public comments carry “some weight” as the FCC completes
a review that considers statements from rival companies, pleas
by the merging entities, letters from lawmakers, views of
antitrust officials at the  Justice Department  and economic
analyses of the merger’s effect on competition, Silva said.  FCC spokesman Neil Grace declined to comment.  The FCC’s website doesn’t list deal proponents and
opponents separately. Aaron, whose group says the transaction
would erode competition and kill jobs, said comments are
“running something like 10-to-1 against the merger,” including
30,000 comments from Free Press members that weren’t all sent as
separate entries at the FCC.  Sprint Opposition  Those seeking to block the deal, saying it would lessen
competition, include  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the nation’s third-
largest wireless carrier; satellite provider  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ;
and the Washington-based Computer & Communications Industry
Association, which lists members including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  EBay
Inc. (EBAY)  Yahoo! Inc., another CCIA member, urged regulators in a
June 6 filing to approve the transaction.  “It’s clear that tens of thousands of individual consumers
and organizations across the country agree with Sprint that
AT&T’s proposed takeover of T-Mobile should be stopped,”  John Taylor , a spokesman for the  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint,
said in an interview.  The CCIA told the FCC in a May 31 filing that the deal
would wreak “competitive damage” and create “a dominant,
vertically integrated Ma Bell with a degree of network control
unprecedented in this country for 40 years.”  Cattle Producers  Most comments to the FCC that consist of more than a
cursory e-mail support AT&T, Michael Balmoris, a Washington-
based spokesman for AT&T, said in an interview.  “It is entirely natural that we would seek support for our
merger, just as our opponents have sought support for their
position,” Balmoris said in an e-mail. “The difference is that
we seem to be having success and they are not.”  In filings, rural groups including the  cattlemen’s
association , which represents cattle producers, focused on
AT&T’s pledge to extend wireless high-speed Internet to 97
percent of Americans. The Obama administration has made it a
priority to increase airwaves available for smartphones such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and other wireless devices.  “This merger can help bring the kind of communications and
infrastructure and innovation that rural America needs,” the
Washington-based cattlemen’s association said in its May 25
filing to the FCC.  “When we’re out on our horses, that’s our office some
days,” said Peterson, who herds cattle in eastern Montana when
not in  Washington . “At our ranch, we’ll use phones to
communicate, where different cattle are in different pockets.”  ‘Didn’t Pay Us’  Officials from Dallas-based AT&T brought the deal to his
group’s attention and said, “If you want to help us out, you
can write to the FCC,” Peterson said. “They didn’t pay us to
write a letter.”  The Louisiana Ballooning Foundation in a June 2 letter told
the FCC the merger will bring more high-speed  Internet access  to
 Baton Rouge , Louisiana, where the foundation stages a hot-air
balloon festival each August.  The letter was signed by George Richard, the ballooning
foundation’s executive director, who in an interview said he
read about the merger in the local newspaper.  “Our service here in  Louisiana  is not the best, there’s a
lot of dropped calls,” Richard said. “And I just personally
think the merger of those two companies will help improve
service.”  AT&T contributes $5,000 annually to the balloon festival
and didn’t contact him about the merger, Richard said.  ‘Independent Decisions’  The support from outside parties has exceeded AT&T’s
expectations and been an “extraordinarily interesting
development,” Wayne Watts, AT&T’s general counsel, said during
a news briefing June 21.  AT&T contributes to civic and charitable organizations
because it is “a socially responsible business,” Watts said.
“These entities then make their own independent decisions as to
what they want to do, whether to support or not.”  AT&T gave $148 million in philanthropic contributions
during 2010 through corporate, employee and AT&T Foundation
giving programs, the company said on its website. In its 284-
page filing to the  Internal Revenue Service  for 2009, the AT&T
Foundation reported contributions to universities, museums,
schools and United Way charities.  Sprint’s foundation has given more than $105 million  since
it was founded  in 1989, according to the company’s website.  ‘Hot Air’  Outside groups may not have fully considered the merger’s
impact, said Art Brodsky, spokesman for  Public Knowledge , a
Washington-based policy group that opposes the deal.  “Like the Louisiana balloon association, we think a lot of
these groups are full of hot air,” Brodsky said in an
interview. “Many of them have no background in
telecommunications. They have accepted AT&T’s promises at face
value without realizing how many people who belong to those
groups could suffer as a result of this deal.”  Combining the companies and removing T-Mobile as a
competitor will bring “significant consumer harms” including
higher prices and less innovation,  Gigi Sohn , Public Knowledge’s
president, told Congress on May 11.  Rick Carnes, president of the Songwriters Guild of America
in Nashville,  Tennessee , said he wrote a May 13 letter to the
FCC supporting the deal because better mobile Web service may
make it easier to listen to music streams offered by companies,
rather than relying on illegal downloads from pirate websites.  “Streaming, we feel, is going to be the answer to illegal
downloading,” Carnes said in an interview. “People aren’t
going to want to download something they can stream immediately.
So this is a two-fer for us: It makes us money and it stops the
pirates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  