-- 
AT&T Computer Hacker Pleads Guilty in IPad Case, U.S. Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-23T18:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/at-t-computer-hacker-pleads-guilty-in-ipad-data-case-u-s-says.html
A California man pleaded guilty to
hacking into  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s computer servers to steal e-mail
addresses and personal data about  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad users, federal
prosecutors in  New Jersey  said.  Daniel Spitler, 26, of San Francisco pleaded guilty today
to conspiracy to gain unauthorized access to computers and to
identity theft, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman in New Jersey said in
a press release. Spitler and Andrew Auernheimer of Fayetteville,
Arkansas, were charged in January with breaches that occurred
last year. Charges are pending against Auernheimer.  Prosecutors in Newark, New Jersey, said in January that
both men were associated with Goatse Security, “a loose
association” of hackers and so-called trolls, or people who
disrupt Internet service.  The data breach and theft were “for the express purpose of
causing monetary and reputational damage to AT&T and monetary
and reputational benefits” for Spitler and Auernheimer,
according to a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  complaint.  Susan Cassell, Spitler’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return
a call.  AT&T offered Internet connections to iPad users over its 3G
wireless network, according to the complaint. Users had to
register with AT&T, which required them to provide an e-mail
address. AT&T linked the address to a 19- or 20-digit code known
as an integrated circuit card identifier, or ICC-ID.  Hackers wrote a script known as the “iPad 3G Account
Slurper” to attack AT&T’s website and “harvest as many ICC-
ID/e-mail address pairings as possible,” according to the
complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Spitler, 11-mj-4022, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in  New York 
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 