-- 
Atlanta City Council Poised to Cut Workers’ Retirement Benefits

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/atlanta-city-council-poised-to-cut-retirement-benefits-for-city-employees.html
Atlanta’s City Council may begin
closing a $1.5 billion pension shortfall by reducing retirement
pay for current employees and allowing them to contribute to a
401(k)-style plan.  The proposed benefit reduction, which may come to a vote
today, is among several changes under negotiation. An
alternative measure would increase employee pension
contributions while keeping existing benefits.  Atlanta’s response to what Mayor Kasim Reed has called a
crisis mirrors the situation in cities and states across the
county. Benefit changes in the ninth most-populous city may help
up the ante for public workers elsewhere. Employee lawsuits
followed after  Colorado ,  Minnesota  and  South Dakota  changed
cost-of-living adjustments to retirement checks.  “We have a $1.5 billion unfunded liability that’s poised
to grow exponentially,” Peter Aman, the city’s chief operating
officer, said in an interview in his office last week. “It will
become untenable.”  Negotiations among council members and union
representatives continued into last night, Reese McCranie, a
spokesman for Reed, said in a telephone interview.  “This process is fluid,” he said.  Changes are necessary to keep Atlanta’s pension liabilities
from ballooning further, in an effort to save about $15 million
for the year beginning July 1 and $20 million in fiscal 2013,
according to Aman.  Tough Times  “We all know the impact of not acting on pension reform,”
 Yolanda Adrean , a council member, said in a statement. “The
inability to offer raises, the inability to borrow money and the
impact on services for our citizens. These are extraordinary
financial times.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates the city’s credit Aa2, the
third-highest investment grade, while  Standard & Poor’s  gives it
an A, sixth highest.  Police and fire unions, which agreed to raise employee
retirement contributions to 13 percent of salary from 8 percent,
want a compromise, said Jim Daws, president of the Atlanta
Professional Fire Fighters  Association .  “Our hope is that they come up with something,” Daws
said. “Everyone knows what our members have offered here in
Atlanta. It’s almost unprecedented.”  U.S. municipalities and states face a  $3.6 trillion gap 
between pension assets and what they’ve promised retirees,
according to an October study by Robert Novy-Marx of the
University of Rochester and  Joshua Rauh  at  Northwestern
University .  Amid the Crash  The strain of funding pensions intensified as falling
markets lowered investment returns during the 18-month economic
recession. Asset values declined to about 76 percent of
obligations in 2009 from about 82 percent in fiscal 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Atlanta’s general employee pension is funded at 59.4
percent, its fire pension at 57.6 percent and its police pension
at 58 percent, according to a Moody’s report in September.  The pensions were more than 90 percent funded in 2000, said
Aman, the city COO. The City Council added sweeteners to the
plans in 2001 and 2005, raising the size of most workers’
retirement checks and the city’s liability.  “Overnight, the contribution we had to put into the fund
went up, and with the market meltdown, it just ballooned,” Aman
said.  Today, every dollar of employee salary requires the city to
pay an additional 39 cents for retirement, or more than double
the median for the nation’s 20 largest cities, he said.  Atlanta’s Formula  One proposal would change Atlanta’s formula for calculating
benefits, delivering lower pensions than workers were promised.  The measure would close the plan to new hires, put those
workers under Social Security and replace the defined-benefit
plan with a defined-contribution plan for all workers. The city
would match contributions up to 8 percent.  “After all these months, one of the council members has
finally gotten the  labor organizations , the council and the
mayor in the same room together,” Daws said. “I don’t want to
use the kind of language right now that can be construed as
threatening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  