-- 
Bain Capital, Hellman & Friedman Buy Securitas

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-06-23T22:20:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/bain-capital-hellman-friedman-buy-securitas.html
Bain Capital  LLC and Hellman &
Friedman LLC agreed to pay as much as $3.39 billion for
Securitas Direct, a security and alarm company owned by Swedish
private-equity group EQT Partners AB.  The deal, made in partnership with Securitas management, is
valued at 21 billion Swedish kronor ($3.25 billion) in cash plus
a potential payment of 0.9 billion kronor based on performance,
EQT said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Securitas Direct provides monitored alarm systems for about
1.4 million residential and small business customers in  Europe 
and  South America , according to the statement. It was taken
private from the Stockholm Stock Exchange by an EQT-led group in
2008, and has increased customers by 45 percent since 2007.
Sales have grown by an average of 13 percent a year since then.  The company can continue to grow in an “under-penetrated
market,” Ted Berk, a managing director at Boston-based Bain
Capital, said in a separate statement. Securitas Direct has
“excellent growth prospects, attractive reinvestment
opportunities and defensive characteristics,” Stefan Goetz, a
managing director at  San Francisco ’s Hellman & Friedman, said in
the statement.  Securitas AB (SECUB) , the world’s largest security company, spun
off its alarm and security business in 2006. The EQT V fund
bought the unit for 10.1 billion kronor in 2008 after raising
the bid to overcome shareholders’ opposition.  EQT V purchases medium and large companies in growth
industries in Northern and Eastern Europe. EQT was seeking
buyers for Securitas Direct since at least March, two people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Bain Capital and Hellman & Friedman were advised by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Nomura and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The
deal will be financed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Goldman
Sachs, HSBC, Morgan Stanley, Nomura and Nordea, the buyers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  