-- 
Barclays Seeks Dismissal of Lehman $500 Million Claim to Unpaid Bonuses

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/barclays-seeks-dismissal-of-lehman-s-500-million-claim-to-unpaid-bonuses.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , after defeating an
$11 billion lawsuit by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., seeks to
dismiss the defunct firm’s remaining claim for $500 million in
allegedly unpaid bonuses.  Lehman asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in May to
order the U.K. bank to pay the rest of the $2 billion in bonuses
it agreed to when it bought Lehman’s North American business in
2008. Barclays, which contended the $2 billion was an estimate
of both bonuses and severance payments, said it paid everything
assented to in the purchase agreement, according to a court
filing yesterday.  The bonuses were due to Lehman employees whom Barclays took
on with the purchase, the former investment bank said. The
annual bonuses for the 2008 fiscal year should have paid in full
by March 15, 2009, Lehman said in a May filing. Instead, the
employees received $1.5 billion, it said.  According to Barclays, its obligation was to pay 100
percent of “bonus pool amounts accrued” by Lehman employees it
took on with the purchase for the year 2008. Lehman said in
court last year that the amount accrued and payable was from
$700 million to $1.3 billion, or less than the $1.5 billion it
now complains was insufficient, Barclays said in the filing.  Bonus Requirements  “Thus, LBHI has admitted that Barclays paid bonuses in an
amount that exceeded the amount required” by the sale contract,
it said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment after regular
business hours yesterday.  Lehman spent $1.3 billion through May on fees to managers,
lawyers and other advisers since filing for bankruptcy in
September 2008, according to a regulatory filing.  Peck ruled in February that London-based Barclays, which
bought Lehman’s business in the 2008 credit crisis, need not pay
an alleged $11 billion “windfall” made on the purchase. There
was no “deliberate withholding of material information or
willful misconduct,” as Lehman alleged, Peck wrote in his
ruling after a nonjury trial.  Separately, the Lehman brokerage sued Barclays to recover
$7 billion in margin and other assets. Earlier this month, Peck
ordered Barclays to return $2 billion in margin assets to the
trustee liquidating the remains of the brokerage, and pay about
$270 million in interest. Barclays said it would appeal the
ruling.  ‘Comp’ Category  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history,
with assets of $639 billion, is competing with two creditor
groups to devise a payment plan. The brokerage is being
liquidated separately.  The $2 billion number was listed on a financial schedule
for “Comp,” a category “broader than just bonus,” which
included severance payments Barclays had to pay, the bank said.  Also, Lehman “has failed to demonstrate that it suffered
any damages as a result of the alleged breach,” Barclays said.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ). Lehman’s lawsuit against Barclays is Lehman v.
Barclays, 09-01731, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  