-- 
Barry Bonds Demands to Know Whether U.S. Will Retry Him on Perjury Counts

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/baseball-s-barry-bonds-claims-perjury-retrial-must-happen-within-one-month.html
Barry Bonds , the Major League
Baseball player convicted in April of obstructing justice in a
U.S. steroids probe, said he expects to learn today whether the
government intends to retry him on perjury charges.  Federal prosecutors haven’t said whether they will proceed
with a new trial against Bonds, who broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of
755 career home runs in August 2007. Lawyers for Bonds said in a
court filing yesterday that, under federal law, his trial must
start in less a month if the government intends to retry him.  The former San Francisco Giants outfielder was convicted
of obstruction for giving evasive answers about whether his
trainer ever gave him anything requiring a syringe injection. A
federal jury in  San Francisco  couldn’t reach a unanimous
decision on charges that he lied about knowingly taking
steroids, using human growth hormone and receiving injections
from his trainer. A mistrial was declared on those charges.  “Mr. Bonds is entitled to be informed at tomorrow’s status
conference whether the government intends to retry him on the
mistried counts,” lawyers for Bonds wrote in yesterday’s
filing. Under federal law, the government must retry Bonds on
the perjury charges within 70 days of the April 13 mistrial
date, according to the filing.  Bonds, 46, was indicted in November 2007. He was the first
Major League Baseball player to be charged in a years-long
federal probe of steroid use in professional sports. The maximum
sentence for obstruction of justice is 10 years in prison.  Bonds asked U.S. District Judge Susan Illston to throw out
his conviction or give him a new trial, according to a June 15
court filing. A hearing on that request is scheduled for July 1.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  