-- 
Basel Capital Rules Would Have Saved RBS, FSA’s Turner Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-06-23T13:35:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/basel-levy-for-biggest-banks-is-major-step-fsa-s-turner-says.html
Global plans to force the biggest
banks to hold more capital may have saved  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  from financial ruin, a top U.K banking regulator said
today.  RBS “would be in a completely different position” if the
lender had been subject to proposed rules requiring banks to
hold more high-quality capital before its near-collapse in 2008,
 Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, told reporters in  London  today.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  meets in the
Swiss city today to discuss how much extra capital the world’s
largest and most systemically important banks will be forced to
hold to avert another financial crisis. About 25 banks may have
to hold more than the 7 percent core Tier 1 capital required by
the Basel rules, according to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts. RBS and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among banks facing the
highest levy of about 2.5 percent, Morgan Stanley said.  Turner said a report into the 45.5 billion-pound ($73
billion) bailout of RBS would show that the FSA had devoted
“insufficient resources to large, systemically important
banks.”  Proposals to force large banks to hold more capital are “a
major step forward in securing global financial stability,”
Turner said. The report on RBS will detail how the FSA “allowed
banks to operate with far too little capital.”  The Basel group is yet to agree on all the outstanding
issues of the capital surcharge plans, Turner said. Remaining
questions include how banks must assess the riskiness of their
assets for the purposes of calculating the fee, he said.  Largest Loss  RBS posted the largest loss in U.K. corporate history in
2008 and required a bailout following its acquisition of ABN
Amro Holding NV.  The FSA’s report on RBS will include an account of the
sequence of events that led to the bank’s financial
difficulties, an explanation of why the FSA didn’t bring an
enforcement action against any RBS employees and finally a
description of failures at the watchdog.  The regulator will “produce a most open, self-critical
report,” Turner said.  The FSA came under pressure from U.K lawmakers to publish
the findings of its probe into RBS’s finances after the
regulator cleared former RBS Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  and other officials of wrongdoing.  Lawmakers last month said that the report may not satisfy
public demand for answers because of confidentiality rules.  Members of parliament must specify a “proper sequence of
timing” for releasing regulatory reports, Hector Sants, FSA
chief executive, told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  