-- 
Battersea Station Owners Expect Funds in 2011

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-06-23T09:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/battersea-power-station-owners-expect-to-find-investor-in-2011.html
The owners of Battersea Power
Station are in talks with as many as 10 potential investors for
the 5.5 billion ($8.8 billion) redevelopment of the derelict
 London  landmark and expect to reach an agreement this year.  “We have a shortlist of approximately eight to 10
parties,”  Real Estate Opportunities Plc (REO)  director Rob Tincknell
said on a conference call today. Talks should conclude “over
the course of the next few months,” leading to an agreement
this year.  Irish millionaires Richard Barrett and John Ronan, whose
Jersey-registered REO owns the Battersea site, need to raise
money to finance the development and repay debt to  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency. One option is to sell the project to a group of
investors, Tincknell said.  REO had a loss of 77.1 million pounds for the year through
February after writing down the value of its properties, the
company said today in a statement. REO reported a loss of 828.6
million pounds for the 14 months through February 2010.  The company “continues to engage with prospective
investors identified during the global investment roadshow,”
REO said in the statement. The investors are likely to be from
the U.K. after foreign interest in the 78-year-old property
waned over the last 12 months, especially from the  Middle East ,
Tincknell said.  “They’ve got other things to concentrate on,” he said.
“The spread has narrowed over the course of the last year and
certain markets that used to be active in London are probably
not as active as they were.”  REO plans to build 3,400 homes and 330,000 square meters
(3.5 million square feet) of commercial space on the 38-acre (15
hectare) site in south London. The project U.K. government
approval in February and construction is expected to begin next
year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 