-- 
Bayer Drops as Rival’s Study Triggers Xarelto Estimate Cuts

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-23T16:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/bayer-shares-fall-6-5-in-frankfurt-on-rival-drug-study-results.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  fell the most in more than
two years in Frankfurt trading after a rival to its Xarelto
blood thinner outperformed in a study, prompting analysts to
slash their sales estimates for the German drugmaker’s product.  Bayer dropped 6.3 percent, or 3.63 euros, the biggest
decline since March 2009, and closed at 54.40 euros.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  yesterday
published details of a study that positions their experimental
drug apixaban, expected to lag Xarelto, as a potential leader in
the $7 billion market for warding off strokes in patients with a
condition known as atrial fibrillation. The research shifts the
balance of power among the three competitors vying to replace
warfarin, a 50-year-old medicine first used as rat poison.  “All is not lost for Xarelto,” Alistair Campbell, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , wrote today in a note to
clients. “But it seems prudent to revisit our market share
assumptions.” Campbell cut his peak annual sales estimate for
the drug to $1.9 billion from $4.3 billion. He described Xarelto
as “the most important pipeline drug and the main catalyst”
for Bayer’s share price this year.  The Leverkusen, Germany-based company’s peak sales forecast
of more than 2 billion euros ($2.85 billion) remains unchanged
and Bayer is confident that the medicine will be “an effective
option,” said spokesman Oliver Renner. Bayer markets the drug
with  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   Merger Question  “Clearly this is not a good day for Bayer, but the debate
now is about whether it becomes a very big product or merely a
big product,” said  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “It’s nothing like the kind of
terrible situation where you have thousands of reps selling a
product that suddenly turned out to be dangerous.”  It’s too early to say whether competition from apixaban
will put pressure on Bayer to use acquisitions to build its
pharmaceutical unit, Scannell said. He rates Bayer’s shares
“market-perform.”  Bayer Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said in May
the company would be open to a merger of equals to strengthen
its health-care unit without paying a premium for a large
acquisition. Bayer is relying on its two chemical units to drive
growth this year, forecasting that revenue gains at the drug
division will lag the market.  Bayer has declined 1.6 percent so far this year, trailing
the 2.2 percent rise in the Bloomberg index that tracks 18
European drugmakers.  ‘Ideal Drug Profile’  Pfizer and Bristol-Myers said that apixaban prevented more
strokes with less major bleeding than traditional treatment in a
study of patients with irregular heartbeats. Pfizer and Bristol-
Myers plan to file for regulatory approval in the U.S. and
 Europe  by year’s end, the New York-based companies said
yesterday in a statement summarizing the data.  “As it stands today, we have to assume apixaban may well
have come closest to the ideal drug profile,” Campbell said. He
cut his recommendation on Bayer shares to “hold” from “buy.”  Both Xarelto and apixaban will compete for irregular
heartbeat patients against Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa,
approved last year, in the contest to replace warfarin, a
sensitive medicine that requires regular laboratory tests to
ensure patients get the proper dose.  Xarelto awaits U.S. and European approval in atrial
fibrillation, an irregular heartbeat condition that puts
patients at a higher risk for strokes. The  Food and Drug
Administration  is expected to rule next month on the blood
thinner for orthopedic surgery patients, a smaller market.  Aristotle Study  Apixaban has been shown effective in treating the minority
of patients who aren’t candidates for warfarin, according to
results published in the March 3  New England Journal of
Medicine . It is better than aspirin in preventing strokes in
these patients, the study found.  The new study, called Aristotle, compared twice-daily
apixaban to warfarin in 18,206 patients with atrial
fibrillation, according to a March 2010 description of the trial
in American Heart Journal. The drug met its primary goal of
showing apixaban wasn’t inferior to warfarin in preventing
strokes and clots that cause blood-vessel blockages.  It also was successful in two secondary goals: the drug was
more effective than warfarin and led to fewer cases of major
bleeding, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers said in yesterday’s
statement. Pradaxa, the rival from Boehringer, was more
effective than warfarin with similar bleeding at a high dose and
as effective as warfarin with less bleeding at a lower dose.
Apixaban was more effective and safer, the companies said.  Spokesmen for Pfizer and Bristol-Myers declined to provide
additional details about the study results. The findings will be
presented at the  European Society of Cardiology  meeting in Paris
in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  