-- 
Bernanke Leaves Door Open to More Stimulus Should Economy Fail to Rebound

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-06-23T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/bernanke-leaves-door-open-to-easing-if-economy-weakens-further.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  left the door open to a fresh shot of monetary stimulus
should the economic rebound he’s predicting fail to materialize.  The Fed would be “prepared to take additional action,
obviously, if conditions warranted,” including the purchase of
more  Treasury securities , Bernanke said yesterday after U.S.
central bankers met in Washington. The economy will probably
overcome constraints from elevated energy prices and Japan-
related disruptions to manufacturing, he said. Still, declining
 home prices , high unemployment and weaknesses in the financial
system may restrain the recovery in the longer term, he said.  Policy makers in a statement yesterday acknowledged the
slowdown even as they agreed to complete $600 billion in bond-
buying as scheduled this month in the second round of so-called
quantitative easing. While the outlook for employment and
inflation is better than before the latest bond purchases,
Bernanke said he’s not sure how long the economic headwinds will
persist. Stocks fell in  New York  trading.  “Bernanke’s remarks kept that door open” to more bond
buying, said former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley , currently senior
economic adviser at Potomac Research Group in Washington. “The
hurdle for QE3 is obviously high. But if large downside risks
materialize and the economy slows enough so that the
 unemployment rate  starts to increase again, QE3 would have to be
considered.”  One of those risks is a debt default by  Greece , which could
“roil financial markets globally,” including bonds and stocks,
and potentially have a “quite significant” impact in the U.S.,
Bernanke told reporters at his second post-meeting press
conference.  Stocks Break Rally  Stocks broke a four-day rally after Bernanke spoke and Fed
governors and regional-bank presidents reduced their projections
for economic growth and employment this year and next. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to 1,287.14. Yields
on 10-year Treasuries were little changed at 2.98 percent, while
the dollar strengthened 0.4 percent against the euro.  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in
the first quarter, down from 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
and recent data have shown manufacturing and consumer and
business sentiment weakening.  “We don’t have a precise read on why this slower pace of
growth is persisting,” Bernanke said. Referring to
“frustratingly” slow job growth and weakness in the financial
and housing industries, Bernanke said “some of these headwinds
may be stronger and more persistent than we thought.”  Jobless Rate Climbs  U.S. employers added 54,000 jobs in May, down from 232,000
in April, while the jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent, the
second straight increase after dropping 1 percentage point since
November in the biggest four-month decline since 1984.  “The camel’s nose is under the tent” for additional bond
purchases, said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC in Austin,  Texas . “Bernanke acknowledged a less-than-ideal
recovery and left the door open for potentially more
accommodation should it be required.”  Bernanke said that to further stimulate the economy the Fed
could buy more bonds or cut the interest rate it pays banks on
excess reserves held at the central bank. It could also pledge
to hold interest rates at record lows for a longer period of
time, he said.  Bernanke is keeping his options open on the Fed’s next
step, said Jerry Webman, chief economist and senior investment
officer at OppenheimerFunds in New York.  ‘Wait and See’  “It’s pretty clear that they don’t see anything on the
horizon that would get them to adjust policy one way or the
other,” said Webman. “There has got to be a wait-and-see period
to see what effects some of these temporary exogenous factors
will have.”  The Fed in a unanimous decision yesterday left its
benchmark interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent,
where it’s been since December 2008.  Policy makers in a statement also repeated they will keep
borrowing costs low “for an extended period” while tweaking
the pledge to say it now depends on “low rates of resource
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run.” That compares with previous language of “low rates of
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends and stable
inflation expectations.”  Bernanke said during the press conference that an
“extended period” means the Fed would maintain rates at low
levels for at least two or three meetings. The Fed meets eight
times a year.  ‘Significantly Longer’  “The thrust of extended period is that we believe we’re at
least two or three meetings away from taking any further
action,” he said. “And I emphasize at least. But depending on
how the economy evolves, and inflation and unemployment, it
could be, you know, significantly longer.”  While Bernanke and his Fed colleagues are predicting growth
will pick up in the second half of this year, the slowdown in
the first six months forced them to mark down their projection
for all of 2011. They forecast that the rate of expansion won’t
exceed 2.9 percent this year, down from April’s top-end forecast
of 3.3 percent, based on the median range of projections.  “The language of the statement definitely opens the door”
to another round of bond purchases by saying that inflation may
fall below the rate deemed to be in line with the Fed’s mandate
from Congress, said Craig Dismuke, chief economic strategist at
Vining Sparks IBG, a broker-dealer based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .  Inflation excluding food and energy prices will range from
1.5 percent to 1.8 percent this year, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said. That’s higher than the 1.3 percent to 1.6
percent increase forecast in April.  Unemployment Forecasts  Policy makers also raised their forecast for unemployment,
predicting it will average 8.6 percent to 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter of this year. That is an increase from the
prediction of 8.4 percent to 8.7 percent in April.  At his press conference on April 27, Bernanke suggested
that the hurdle for providing additional monetary stimulus would
be high, saying the Fed had “done extraordinary things” to
spur growth and that more stimulus may fuel inflation.  Policy makers at the April gathering focused on how and
when they should begin withdrawing stimulus, according to
minutes of the meeting.  Compared with his April news conference, Bernanke talked
yesterday less about the threat of inflation and more about
forces restraining growth. He mentioned the word “inflation”
71 times in April and 33 times yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  