-- 
Blackstone’s Studzinski Backs British Museum Show of Relic Art

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-06-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/blackstone-s-studzinski-sponsors-british-museum-show-of-christian-relics.html
John Studzinski, senior managing
director of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and a cultural philanthropist,
is sponsoring the  British Museum ’s new show on the art of the
Christian relic.  The exhibition, which features elaborate containers for
sacred human remains from 1000 to 1500 A.D., runs through Oct.
9. Highlights include reliquaries said to contain pieces of the
Crown of Thorns and the Virgin Mary’s breast milk.  “If you believe in something and you have the resources to
support it, you try to bring it to other audiences,” said
Studzinski, a Catholic who has a chapel in his London home.  “People today have mixed views about religious formalism
or structure, whether it’s the structure of the Church or the
structure of other organized religions,” he said in an
interview at Blackstone’s  London  offices. The show should appeal
to visitors because “what people are really looking for is
objects or sources of energy for spiritual nurturing.”  Studzinski in May 2007 pledged 5 million pounds ($8
million) to Tate Modern for its new extension. Besides one-off
gifts and sponsorships, he spends about 1 million pounds a year
nurturing young art in the U.K. via donations to institutions
including the  Royal Court Theatre  and the  Young Vic  theater.  He regularly commissions religiously inspired music. Last
week, three choral compositions funded by his  Genesis Foundation 
were performed by Harry Christophers and the Sixteen at St.
James’s Church in London.  Riverside Mansion  Studzinski, 55, is also a collector, with a mix of old
masters and modern and contemporary art in his Chelsea riverside
mansion. The banker said he is selling “several items” at
Sotheby’s next week.  “I buy and sell art in the ordinary course of managing my
collection, setting money aside for charity, and funding my new
art purchases,” Studzinski said. He would not give any details
of the art going on sale.  In the autumn, the banker-philanthropist is selling his
collection of Chinese bronzes in  Asia  because of interest shown
by collectors from the region, he said.  Commenting on the climate for U.K. philanthropy, Studzinski
said high taxation rates led some potential benefactors to lie
low. “I know a number of very wealthy generous donors who
probably, on balance, may not give a big donation to a big
institution because they don’t want the profile,” he said.  At the same time, he said, institutions are getting much
more savvy about targeting, and retaining, benefactors.  “So much of philanthropy is being part of a tribe,” he
said. “People do want to be a part of the tribe: They have to
decide what tribe they want to be a part of.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 