-- 
Blockbuster, Canadian Unit Seek Mediation on Trademark

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-23T18:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/blockbuster-seeks-mediation-with-canadian-unit-over-use-of-its-trademark.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  and its Canadian
unit will seek mediation to resolve issues such as whether the
company in Canada can use the retailer’s trademark, which is
claimed by  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the buyer of Blockbuster Inc.’s
U.S. assets.  Blockbuster lawyers said today at a hearing in Manhattan
that the mediator also would hear the Canadian company’s request
for protection from U.S. creditors. Under Chapter 15 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code , foreign companies can block lawsuits by U.S.
creditors while they reorganize in another court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  adjourned the hearing
until July 14. The announcement of the mediator was made after
almost two hours of private talks among the lawyers and the
judge. Lifland said there were “attempts to resolve the
issues” during the talks in chambers.  Blockbuster Inc., once the largest video-rental chain, won
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  approval in April to sell its assets to
Dish for $320 million. Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, is
the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider after
DirecTV.  Blockbuster Canada was granted an extension today of its
right to use the retailer’s trademark until July 14. It was
scheduled to expire on June 30.  Dish’s threat to end Blockbuster Canada’s use of the
Blockbuster logo is part of a strategy to acquire the Canadian
unit’s assets, Blockbuster Canada said in court papers June 6.  Trademark Agreement  The U.S. Blockbuster business acquired by Dish asked for
bankruptcy court permission to end the trademark agreement with
the Canadian unit. The business, calling itself “New
Blockbuster,” said in court papers that the Canadian unit
shouldn’t be allowed to employ the U.S. bankruptcy process to
delay Dish’s use of “certain intellectual property” assets.  Blockbuster  Canada , with 400 stores and 4,000 employees,
might experience a “devastating termination” of business if
its stores were suddenly stripped of signs and other uses of the
logo, Grant Thornton Ltd., a receiver for the Canadian assets,
said in court papers.  “By seeking to threaten Blockbuster Canada with the loss
of its continued use of the Blockbuster trademarks in the
Canadian business, Dish engaged in a stratagem to improve its
position in its ongoing negotiations over the terms of acquiring
the Blockbuster Canada business and assets,” Grant Thornton’s
lawyers wrote.  Company Bankruptcy  Blockbuster Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September with
5,600 stores, including 3,300 in the U.S., citing a decline in
sales amid the growth of competitors including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,
which rents movies online and through the mail, and  Coinstar
Inc. (CSTR) , which places Redbox DVD vending machines in supermarkets
and drugstores.  Blockbuster Canada isn’t part of the U.S. case. It sought
Chapter 15 protection in Manhattan on May 20.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 