-- 
BofA’s Krawcheck Gives Sieg Expanded Wealth Duties as Kamlani Steps Down

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-06-23T19:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/bofa-s-krawcheck-gives-sieg-expanded-wealth-duties-as-kamlani-steps-down.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s wealth-
management division President Sallie Krawcheck has given
retirement services head Andrew Sieg added responsibility over a
unit managing investment products.  Sieg, 44, will be in charge of global investment solutions,
Krawcheck told employees today in a memo obtained by Bloomberg
News. Kunal Kamlani, 38, who joined Bank of America about 15
months ago, has decided to step down as the unit’s leader to
pursue a career outside the firm, Krawcheck said. He had
commuted to  New York  from  Florida , where his family resides.  Krawcheck is increasing Sieg’s duties about two months
after she picked John Thiel over him to become head of the
15,500-person Merrill Lynch brokerage, known as the “Thundering
Herd.” The investment group, with about 1,000 employees,
oversees products that are linked to nearly half of the wealth
division’s $16.7 billion in revenue last year.  “Andy has done an outstanding job leading retirement
services, which is on pace this year to surpass the record
growth achieved in 2010,” Krawcheck said in the memo.  Krawcheck, 46, hired Sieg in 2009 from  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
where he ran a subsidiary focusing on the newly affluent.
Krawcheck ran New York-based Citigroup’s wealth-management unit
before joining Bank of America in August 2009. The investment
group determines the suitability of products such as mutual
funds, private-equity holdings and hedge-fund assets for
brokerage clients.  Kamlani was chief operating officer of Citigroup’s
brokerage unit and then chief financial officer of Prestige
Cruise Holdings Inc. before joining Bank of America last year.  Susan Thomson, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, confirmed the authenticity of the memo
and said Sieg’s transition would begin immediately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  