-- 
Bond Sales Surge to Record as Spreads Shrink to 2008 Low: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-24T05:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/bond-sales-surge-to-record-as-spreads-shrink-to-2008-low-australia-credit.html
Bond sales in  Australia  climbed to a
record for the first half after banks, companies and top-rated
foreign borrowers took advantage of yields that dropped to a
three-year low relative to government debt.  Offerings totaled A$62.1 billion ($65.4 billion), the most
ever in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1999. Investors
drove securities sales up 7 percent from the year-earlier period
as commodity exports to China spur faster economic growth than
the U.S. and Europe. The developed world’s highest  interest
rates  pushed up the so-called Aussie dollar 22 percent the past
12 months as countries including Russia and  Thailand  said they
will add the currency to their foreign-exchange reserves.  “Australia is viewed as a way of investing in the  China 
story in a well-regulated form,” said  John Sorrell , head of
credit at Tyndall Investment Management Australia Ltd. in Sydney,
which manages about A$15 billion of fixed-income assets. “It’s
also attracting investors because it’s not the U.S., which is
still challenged, and it’s not Europe with a Greek debt
crisis.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold corporate notes
instead of Australian  government bonds  dropped to 157 basis
points, or 1.57 percentage points, last month, the lowest since
January 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The
gap fell to within three basis points of the spread for global
company debt in March, the smallest difference in almost two
years.  Highest Returns  Australian company debt returned 33 percent in the past
year in U.S. dollar terms, the best performance among six
developed corporate markets tracked by Merrill Lynch indexes and
outpacing the 13 percent advance for a gauge of global
debentures.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said June
15 he will probably need to raise interest rates from 4.75
percent at some stage to cool inflation as China-led demand for
the country’s commodities is expected to drive the fastest
economic growth in a decade.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said June 22 that
the U.S. economic recovery was proceeding “somewhat more
slowly” than expected, prompting the Fed to keep its balance
sheet at a record to spur slowing growth. European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet said the same day that risk
signals for financial stability in the euro area are flashing
“red” as Greece’s debt crisis threatens to infect banks.  The EU is trying to avoid a repeat of the financial crisis
that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and resulted in European governments setting aside more than $5
trillion to support banks.  Kangaroo Bonds  Bond sales in Australia in 2011 have included A$22.2
billion of notes sold by foreign issuers such as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., a record for a half-year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau is the most prolific issuer
of so-called kangaroo bonds, with  Germany ’s state-owned
development bank raising A$4.75 billion, the data show.  “Besides the constant bid from domestic banks and real
money investors, we increasingly have seen central banks
diversifying into the Australian currency,” said Klaus-Peter Eitel, vice president of capital markets at KfW, in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg. “We assume that this is a
result of increasing reserves and a diversification away from
U.S. dollars as a result of the relatively favorable Australian
fiscal and economical situation.”  Russia , Thailand  Russia’s central bank plans to hold as much as 1 percent of
its $528 billion reserves in Australian dollars and start buying
the assets as early as September, Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said June 17 in  St. Petersburg .  The Bank of Thailand bought more Australian dollar assets
recently, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said May 12.  Australia’s government plans to issue A$53 billion of
securities in the year to June 2012, according to a May 11
statement. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the
nation’s sovereign-debt burden will shrink to 21.8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2015 from 22.3 percent last year,
making it the smallest among developed nations after Estonia’s
5.2 percent.  “The Aussie dollar bond market is on the strategic radar
for a lot of issuers globally,” said James Houstone, a debt
capital markets director at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Sydney. “You’re seeing very large order books for the right
type of issuer” as investors are drawn to the strong currency,
he said.  Longest Since Lehman  Australian two-year bonds are poised for the longest rally
since Lehman collapsed in 2008, on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will derail the nation’s fastest expansion in a decade.  The yield on the securities has dropped 24 basis points
since March 31 to 4.67 percent as of 3:05 p.m. in Sydney, set
for the first consecutive quarterly declines since the final six
months of 2008. The premium over U.S. Treasuries of similar
maturity has widened 23 basis points in the period to 432 basis
points.  The RBA’s benchmark cash rate has remained unchanged for
the past six meetings, the longest stretch since 2007.  “While there had been additional evidence of the coming
strong pick-up in investment in the resources sector, activity
remained quite subdued in some other important parts of the
economy,” the RBA said in minutes of its June 7 meeting
released June 21. That reflects ”the board’s earlier actions as
well as the appreciation of the  exchange rate ,” policy makers
said.  Record Currency  The Australian currency reached $1.1012 on May 2, the
highest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983, as demand
for  iron ore  and coal from China and  India  drives the nation’s
biggest mining investment boom. It traded at $1.0538 today in
Sydney.  The central bank forecast growth in 2011 at 4.25 percent,
the fastest pace since 1999, in a May 6 report. Consumer prices
will rise 3.25 percent over the period and core inflation will
accelerate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it said.  The Fed lowered its forecast for the  U.S. economy  this year
to no more than 2.9 percent growth on June 22, down from April’s
top-end forecast of 3.3 percent. The ECB forecast the 17-nation
euro-area economy will grow 1.9 percent in 2011, in estimates
published June 9.  The gap between yields on Australian government bonds and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.75 percent for the next five years. The
central bank aims to keep inflation between 2 and 3 percent on
average.  Westfield Retail Trust sold A$900 million of 5.5-year notes
in April, a record offering in Australian dollars for a property
trust and the largest non-financial corporate debt issue in the
nation this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank Sales  Australia’s four biggest lenders sold A$14.6 billion of
notes domestically in the first half, a 31 percent increase from
the same period of 2010, the data show.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  leads the underwriter rankings with a
19 percent market share, followed by  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and National Australia Bank Ltd.  While Australia’s bond market is expanding, it remains
dwarfed by the U.S. Sales in the world’s biggest debt market
have totaled $697 billion this year, Bloomberg data show.  China surpassed the U.S. and  Japan  to become Australia’s
largest economic partner as bilateral trade quadrupled over the
past seven years to A$97.6 billion in 2010, according to
Australian government data. China took 27 percent of the
nation’s exports in January.  “Australia is well placed to leverage off the Asian growth
story through commodities,” said Scott Rundell, head of credit
research at ING Investment Management in Sydney, which manages
about A$15 billion of fixed-income assets. “That helps our
economic resilience and makes our debt market more attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 