-- 
Bristol-Myers Diabetes Drug Draws Scrutiny After Avandia

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-23T20:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/bristol-myers-diabetes-drug-draws-scrutiny-after-avandia-actos.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN) ’s new diabetes pill will probably face
increased scrutiny from regulators and doctors after two rivals
were tied to cancer and heart risks.  The drug, dapagliflozin, works differently than Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s Actos, linked to cancer last week, and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia, tied to heart risks in 2007.
While those drugs adjust the hormone that regulates sugar, the
new pill helps patients excrete sugar through their urine.  “Increasingly, people are on the lookout for problems with
these drugs,” said Laurence Kennedy, chairman of Cleveland
Clinic’s department of endocrinology, diabetes and metabolism,
in a telephone interview. “There will always be a market for
finding newer and different ways to help control blood sugar,
but the newest ways will be under increasing scrutiny.”  Some analysts say they won’t project sales for
dapagliflozin because of the risks posed by Avandia and Actos.
Even if approved after a regulatory panel next month, doctors
say they will be slow in using the new drug until more is known
about long-term safety. A one-year study reported last year
found no cancer or heart risks. Two years of data will be
reported June 26 at the  American Diabetes Association  meeting.  An estimated  25.8 million  Americans have diabetes, mostly
the Type 2 variety linked to being overweight and sedentary,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . The disease is
caused by an inability to use insulin to break down blood sugar
into energy and can increase the risk of heart disease, stroke
and kidney damage. Medicines are used to lower sugar levels.  Stock Performance  Bristol-Myers gained $1.59, or 5.7 percent, to $29.33 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The New York-
based company reported yesterday that its experimental blood
thinner apixaban beat warfarin in a study. American depositary
receipts of London-based AstraZeneca, each representing one
ordinary share, fell 30 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$48.89.  Dapaglifozin is being developed jointly by Bristol-Myers
and AstraZeneca. The earlier trial showed it worked better than
insulin plus a placebo, and that patients using it lost weight.
This is particularly noteworthy because insulin drugs frequently
trigger weight gain.  New Class  If approved, dapagliflozin would be the first in a new
class of medications, called SGLT2-inhibitors. Similar drugs are
also being developed by Johnson & Johnson, of New Brunswick,  New
Jersey , Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and the German
drugmaker Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Tokyo-based Astellas Pharma
Inc., Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc., based in Carlsbad,  California ,
and Lexicon Pharmaceuticals Inc., of The Woodlands,  Texas .  The companies, analysts and investors will be closely
watching the safety results and a panel of Food and Drug
Administration advisers that is set to review dapagliflozin on
July 19, said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller
Tabak in New York, in a telephone interview.  Concerns about potential side effects of all diabetes
medications leave analysts little room to assess the sales
potential of dapagliflozin, he said.  “With these type of drugs, we don’t model until they’re
approved because so much can go wrong,” Funtleyder said. “We
know it’s a new class in diabetes, which is often not well-
controlled. The downside is people are nervous about possible
infections and other side effects, and you have to take the good
with the bad.”  Bristol-Myers referred comment to AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca’s spokeswoman Kirsten Evraire declined to comment.  Avandia Restrictions  In May, U.S. regulators restricted use of London-based
Glaxo’s Avandia, ordering the drug to be pulled from pharmacy
shelves and made available only through a special program. Sales
of Avandia fell to $680 million last year from $1.8 billion in
2007 after a study that year showed a 43 percent increased risk
of heart attacks among patients taking the medicine.  On June 15, a five-year analysis from a decade-long
company-sponsored study of Takeda’s Actos showed an increased
risk of bladder cancer. Actos is the world’s biggest-selling
diabetes drug. The FDA had required the study under new
guidelines for diabetes drug approvals.  $1.6 billion by 2017  Bristol-Myers’s and AstraZeneca’s Onglyza and Kombiglyze, a
version of the drug combined with metformin, a standard
treatment, generated $158 million last year. Those two drugs are
projected to make $1.6 billion by 2017, according to estimates
from  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst for Leerink Swann.  Even after approval, “we still have an obligation to
conduct studies carefully and properly just to make sure nothing
major has been missed” said Kennedy, of the  Cleveland Clinic .  Since its original warning on Avandia, the FDA has
required an aftermarket study of heart risks for all diabetes
drug applications, said  Karen Riley , a spokeswoman for the FDA,
in an e-mail.  “Not all programs are identical and development isn’t
static so as these data come in, we have to apply new lessons
learned to the interpretation of risk assessment for subsequent
programs,” she wrote.  The number of Americans with diabetes is expected to rise
to as many as  1 in 3 adults  if trends continue, according to the
Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  New Drugs  This explosion in cases has spurred the development of at
least nine classes of diabetes drugs, some oral and some
injectable. Today there are more than 39 diabetes drugs on
market, generating about $16.8 billion in U.S. sales in 2010,
according to data from research firm IMS Health.  Only half of diabetes patients have their blood sugar under
control, so there’s a need for new medications, said Martin
Abrahamson, the chief medical officer of  Joslin Diabetes Center ,
an affiliate of Harvard Medical School in  Boston .  “Type 2 diabetes being a progressive disease, one drug, a
single drug, is unlikely to be a control for glucose levels over
many years,” Abrahamson said in a telephone interview.
“Usually you add more medications to achieve glucose targets.”   Metformin , approved for use in the U.S. in 1995, is almost
universally accepted as a first-line therapy for diabetes,
because it has a long safety record and is cheap, Abrahamson
said. Often, though, it’s not enough.  Many people with  Type 2 diabetes  are overweight or obese,
and have co-existing conditions such as  heart disease  and high
blood pressure, Abrahamson said. Complications associated with
the disease also make prescribing tricky, he said.  Doctors Eager  Given the difficulty in controlling the disease, doctors
remain eager for new medications, even though they are
“becoming more gun shy” as dangerous risks are uncovered after
the drugs are approved, said  Robert Rushakoff , medical director
for inpatient diabetes at the  University of California ,  San
Francisco .  “Given the reality of diabetes and how difficult it is,
endocrinologists will be using it right away,” he said in an
interview. “I know I’ll be using it right away. It’s easier
than teaching someone to inject a medication. It’s a matter of
once the drug moves out of studies, how those side-effects
appear. More common, more severe or not a big deal?”  The data presented at the American Diabetes Association
meeting in  San Diego  is expected to provide new details on
dapagliflozin’s safety profile, said  Tony Butler , an analyst
with  Barclays Capital  in  New York . He, like Miller Tabak’s
Funtleyder, is unwilling to project sales at this point.  In the one-year study, dapagliflozin was linked to an
increased likelihood of urinary tract and genital infections.
While that’s a lesser concern than heart or cancer, it has
raised red flags.  Rita Rastogi Kalyani  an assistant professor of medicine at
Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, said the infections
probably occur because the urinary tract is a more hospitable
environment for bacteria when patients excrete more sugar in
their urine.  “I think as much as we’re excited about new classes of
medications, we’re still looking at the older medications first
because they’ve been tested over time,” Kalyani said, referring
to metformin. “We’ve seen an explosion of classes but we still
don’t know about long-term risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 