-- 
Brown and California Democrats Find Budget Deal That Bypasses Republicans

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-27T22:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/brown-says-he-is-confident-lawmakers-will-reach-budget-deal.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
dropped his plan to extend expiring taxes to close a  budget
deficit  and will back a new proposal based on $4 billion in
higher-than-forecast revenue, additional spending cuts and a tax
initiative requiring voter approval next year.  The agreement between Brown and Democrats who control the
Legislature requires only a simple majority to pass, meaning
Brown doesn’t need Republican cooperation to adopt the spending
plan for the year beginning July 1.  “We’ve made good decisions,” Brown told reporters today
in Sacramento. “It’s a good budget, but it’s not the budget I
presented in January.”  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, took office on a pledge to
fix the fiscal malfunctions that have left  California  with the
lowest credit rating of any state from  Standard & Poor’s . The
Golden State, which accounts for 13 percent of the U.S. gross
domestic product, began the year with a $26 billion deficit.
Since then, spending cuts approved in March and better-than-
projected tax revenue shrank the gap to $10 billion.  Brown said the revised budget would not address the “wall
of debt” that he said has built up over the years due to
accounting maneuvers.  Brown’s plan to balance the budget by extending more than
$9 billion of expiring taxes and fees was blocked by
Republicans. Brown vetoed an alternative designed by Democrats,
saying it relied on legally questionable accounting maneuvers.  Lawmakers Forefeit Pay  Lawmakers have been forced to forfeit pay for every day
they fail to send a balanced budget to the governor past a June
15 deadline.  Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat, said
that while Republican lawmakers thwarted Brown’s plan for a
ballot measure this year on the tax extensions, the notion is
not dead.  “The conversation has been started, and we will keep that
conversation going as we move to the ballot next year,” Perez
said.  Senate Republican Leader Bob Dutton said the proposal
“does absolutely nothing to change government as usual.”  “The Democrats have said no to all of the Republican
reforms that Californians are demanding, including pension
reform, a spending cap and job creation,” Dutton, of Rancho
Cucamonga, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story: Michael B. Marois in
 Sacramento  at   mmarois@bloomberg.net  and James Nash in Sacramento at   jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  