-- 
Cameron Urges European Leaders to Cut Red Tape to Drive Growth

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-06-23T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/cameron-urges-european-leaders-to-cut-red-tape-to-drive-growth.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will ask other European Union leaders to spur economic growth by
cutting the burden of regulation on small businesses when they
meet at a summit starting tonight in Brussels.  As governments cut spending, Europe needs to make it easier
for businesses to drive the recovery to help make up ground lost
since the financial crisis, Cameron will tell his counterparts
over dinner, according to his office.  “In Britain we’re promoting growth by cutting corporate
taxes, investing in skills and transport infrastructure and
bearing down on the costs of red tape,” Cameron’s spokesman,
Steve Field, told reporters in  London  today. “The European
Union must do the same.”  European companies spend 8 billion euros ($11 billion) a
year complying with regulations, Field said. Cameron will say
such costs fall disproportionately on small businesses employing
fewer than 10 people and argue that new European regulations
should not cover smaller enterprises, which he sees as essential
to creating employment.  “As a first step, we should reverse the burden of proof so
small businesses are assumed to be outside the scope of new EU
regulations unless there’s a compelling case to include them,”
Field said. “The prime minister will make the point that  Europe 
needs to focus on growth, Europe has lost ground in the world
economy and needs to catch up.”  The 27-nation bloc’s growth strategy must run alongside
efforts to deal with structural difficulties that beset its
economies by cutting deficits, paying off debt and tackling the
cost of public-sector pensions, Cameron will say.  “If Europe fails to face up to the long-term structural
problems facing its economies it will fall further behind,”
Field said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Brussels at  gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  