-- 
Canada’s Currency Weakens Against Greenback as Crude Oil, Equities Decline

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-23T21:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/canadian-currency-weakens-for-a-second-day-as-price-of-crude-oil-tumbles.html
Canada ’s currency weakened versus
its U.S. counterpart as  crude oil  and global equities dropped on
speculation global economic growth may falter, hampering
appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The currency depreciated as much as 0.9 percent, the most
in a week, after crude oil, Canada’s largest export, plunged
more than 5 percent as the  International Energy Agency  announced
that it will release 60 million barrels of oil from emergency
stockpiles. The U.S. dollar rose against all but three of its
most-traded counterparts.  “Oil has not been well correlated with the Canadian dollar
recently but it may be more of a factor today,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto. “What has been more relevant for
the Canadian dollar is the overall level of risk appetite and,
with stocks down sharply today, I suspect that is why the  U.S.
dollar  has popped higher versus the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the aquatic bird
on the dollar coin, fell 0.5 percent to 97.90 cents per U.S.
dollar at 5:15 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.39 cents yesterday.
Earlier it weakened as much as 0.9 percent. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0215.  Canada’s dollar pared its loss versus the greenback after
European officials endorsed austerity measures proposed by Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, according to a person
familiar with the matter. That increased optimism the
Mediterranean nation’s debt crisis will be resolved.  Stocks Drop  Stocks in developed nations as measured by the MSCI World
Index declined 1.4 percent. Oil for August delivery declined as
much as $5.72 to $89.69 a barrel in electronic trading, before
rebounding to $92.35.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cut the central
bank’s growth forecast for the world’s largest economy yesterday
and didn’t signal further stimulus, sending the greenback higher
and riskier assets lower as investors sought shelter.  More Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week, showing companies are
less confident about the expansion than they were earlier this
year. Applications for jobless benefits increased 9,000 in the
week ended June 18 to 429,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. The level of claims exceeded the highest estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey in which the median projection called for
415,000 filings.  “The U.S. dollar strengthening off the back of the data
this morning in what looks like a risk-aversion trade,” said
Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holding Inc. in  New York . “The way the Canadian dollar has been
trading over the past couple of months is that it strengthens
with good U.S. data and falls on weak U.S. data, given that so
much of Canada’s exports go to the U.S., people play the trade
link between the two countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  