-- 
Canada Lawmakers Begin Debate in Ottawa on Law to End Postal Worker Strike

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-24T01:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/canada-closer-to-passing-back-to-work-law-in-strike-correct-.html
Canadian lawmakers began debating
 legislation  this evening that would end a three-week work
stoppage by postal workers, amid threats by the opposition to
delay the law by sitting through the night.  New Democratic Party leader  Jack Layton  said Thursday his
party has a number of parliamentary “techniques” at its
disposal to slow passage of the bill, which would order about
48,000 employees at government-owned  Canada  Post back to work 24
hours after it is passed into law.  The Canadian Union of Postal Workers began a series of
rotating strikes June 2, and the company locked out workers June
14. Canada Post said in a statement Wednesday that talks with
the union broke off after 72 hours of “intense” negotiations,
and that the two sides remain far apart on several issues. Union
spokeswoman Aalya Ahmad said in an e-mailed statement that talks
have “gone nowhere.”  Layton said his party could be willing to not hold up the
bill if some “egregious” sections are removed, including a
clause that sets out annual pay raises of between 1.5 percent
and 2 percent until the end of 2014. “That’s particularly
nasty, and certainly bad faith when it comes to bargaining and
discussion of workers’ standard of living,” Layton said.  The ruling  Conservative Party  used its parliamentary
 majority  to pass a motion earlier today clearing the way for
Canada’s lower house of Parliament to sit continuously until the
bill is passed. As opposition leader, Layton has unlimited time
to speak on the bill, and each of the 103 New Democratic
lawmakers can participate at all stages of the debate,
potentially delaying its passage for days.  “We’re fully intending to be here all night,” government
House leader Peter Van Loan told reporters today.  Once passed by the House of Commons, the bill would be sent
to the Senate, where the Conservatives also have a majority.
Marc Roy, a spokesman for Senate opposition Liberal leader James
Cowan, said the Liberals -- the only other major party in the
Senate -- don’t plan to stand in the way of the bill being
passed in one day once it is received.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 