-- 
Cat Food Commission No Dog’s Breakfast for Liberals: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-06-23T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/cat-food-commission-no-dog-s-breakfast-for-liberals-ezra-klein.html
Liberals rejoiced when President
 Barack Obama  dismissed his  fiscal commission  with a perfunctory
pat on the back. They had taken to calling it “the cat food
commission” in honor of its proposed cuts to Social Security and
Medicare. They wanted Obama to go public, give his trademark
speeches, make the pro-government case that they hoped would
break the anti-government wave.  Conservatives, meanwhile, were outraged. Republican
Representative  Paul Ryan  blasted the president for having
ignored the commission’s recommendations -- never mind that Ryan
had served on the commission himself and voted against its final
recommendations.  Both sides misjudged the playing field. In retrospect, it’s
clear that the  report  produced by the commission, chaired by
former Senator  Alan Simpson  and Democrat Erskine Bowles, was a
much better deal than liberals are now likely to get. And the
president’s rejection of the Simpson-Bowles report won’t, in the
end, prove so vexing to conservatives after all. Instead, it
will clear the way for a deal that conservatives will much
prefer.  To understand how far -- and how fast -- the goal posts
have moved, consider the budget the president proposed in April.
At first blush, this  deficit-reduction  plan resembles Simpson-
Bowles, albeit with a few more progressive elements. But upon
closer inspection, it becomes apparent that it falls far to the
right of the report. Most significantly,  Obama’s budget  would
cut $600 billion less from defense while raising $450 billion
less in taxes. That’s a trillion-dollar retreat on liberals’ top
budget priorities.  Conservative Victory  Having routed the White House, you would think
conservatives would have cheered their own victory. Not so much.
Ryan, who is chairman of the  House Budget Committee , instead
hammered the president’s move toward lower taxes and smaller
defense cuts. “When the president is ready to get serious about
it,” he said, “we’re going to be here working.”  Ouch. Of course, Republicans were always going to treat
Obama’s proposal as the far left end zone of the debate. What’s
puzzling is that the president opted to treat Simpson-Bowles as
the left end of the debate, rather than as the center. And he
did this even after the release of  Ryan’s budget , which wrenched
the discussion further to the right than anyone had imagined
possible just a year before.  Framing the Debate  Privately, White House officials protest that they didn’t
mean for things to turn out this way. Ryan released his budget
plan before they had laid the groundwork for their own. The
White House never had a chance to frame the  deficit-reduction
debate  on its terms.  Even so, White House officials say that Ryan ended up
helping their cause. His plan to privatize Medicare using
private insurance vouchers is wildly unpopular. Democrats across
the country are licking their chops at the prospect of running
against the  House Republicans  who voted for it before its
political toxicity became clear.  Yet any future Democratic political gains will come at a
steep policy cost. With current budget negotiations defined by
Ryan’s plan on one side and Obama’s on the other, the final
agreement will fall well to the right of the Simpson-Bowles
recommendations.  Administration officials don’t disagree with this analysis;
they merely argue that it was inevitable. Republicans won’t
agree to tax increases and won’t lift the debt ceiling without
deep spending cuts. What were they to do?  Biden Discussions  True enough. But what if Obama had embraced Simpson-Bowles
right off the bat, announcing that Vice President  Joe Biden 
would chair discussions with congressional leaders using
Simpson-Bowles as their starting point? One possibility is that
Republicans would have said no. But in practice, they’ve been
unable to do that.  After filibustering Senator  Kent Conrad ’s proposal to
create the fiscal commission, Republicans served on it anyway.
When Obama called for talks on the Bush tax cuts, averting a
government shutdown, and the debt ceiling, Republicans showed
up.  By and large, these negotiations have worked. Virtually
every time Republicans and Democrats have come together in a
secluded room, each side has emerged remarking on the
seriousness and flexibility of the other. The December 2010 tax
deal that the parties struck included more stimulus than the
Democrats had thought possible and more tax cuts than the
Republicans had deemed probable.  Private Rooms  Even now, with the terms of a  debt-ceiling deal  uncertain,
individual negotiators can’t stop remarking on how much more
productive discussions are inside the room than outside.  The past year of American politics has revealed that the
two parties tend to be far more reasonable in private than they
are able to be in public. When they go public -- as Republicans
did with the Ryan budget -- they have to play to their
respective bases and commit to positions that make a deal harder
to reach politically and worse substantively.  Back in December, when the Simpson-Bowles commission issued
a strong foundation for negotiations on long-term deficit
reduction, it might have been better had the nation’s political
leaders just adjourned to a cozy room instead of to the national
stage.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein at  wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  