-- 
Celesio Hires Beiersdorf’s Pinger to Replace Retiring CEO

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-06-23T16:38:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/celesio-hires-beiersdorf-s-pinger-to-replace-retiring-ceo-2-.html
Celesio AG (CLS1) , Europe’s biggest drug
wholesaler, hired Markus Pinger from Nivea skin-cream maker
 Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  to be its chief executive officer.  Pinger will start his new job on Aug. 15, Stuttgart,
Germany-based Celesio said today in a statement. Wolfgang Maehr
will act as interim CEO after Fritz Oesterle, the current CEO,
retires on June 30, the company said. Oesterle has managed
Celesio for 12 years.  Pinger, 47, started his career at Unilever, the world’s
second-biggest consumer goods company, and has spent 16 years at
Beiersdorf, according to a statement from Franz Haniel & Cie
GmbH, Celesio’s biggest shareholder. For the last six years,
Pinger has been on Beiersdorf’s management board, where he was
responsible for the brands and supply chain division.  “With his broad range of experience and management skills,
Markus Pinger is exactly the man we need right now to give
Celesio new momentum,” Haniel CEO Juergen Kluge said in the
statement. “He is capable of developing a business and leading
it to profitable growth.”  Celesio fell 18 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 13.05 euros in
Frankfurt trading, while the benchmark DAX Index lost 1.8
percent. The company’s stock has declined 30 percent this year.  The stock plunged the most since at least 1996 on June 17
after Celesio said that profit may drop more than forecast this
year as government measures across  Europe  and competition in
 Germany  hurt results. The drug wholesaler reaffirmed on June 17
it would speed expansion into areas with fewer government rules
and “pursue more intensively” investments in non-regulated
business, including its Lloydspharmacy in the U.K.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  