-- 
Cemex Scraps $650 Million Overseas Bond Sale as Yields Soar: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-23T22:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/cemex-topping-list-of-bond-issuers-as-loan-repayment-looms-mexico-credit.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, scrapped a $650 million bond offering today as
 Europe ’s debt crisis eroded demand for higher-yielding debt and
undermined the company’s efforts to refinance bank loans.  The company pulled the sale of eight-year bonds because of
“volatility” in global markets, said  Jorge Perez , a spokesman
for the Monterrey, Mexico-based company. The yield on Cemex’s
benchmark dollar bonds due in 2020 jumped 40 basis points, or
0.40 percentage point, to 9.74 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
the highest since October. The extra yield investors demand to
own emerging-market corporate debt instead of U.S. Treasuries
widened 9 basis points to 330, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Cemex, battered by a slowdown in the U.S., its biggest
foreign market, had planned to sell the bonds to repay debt
stemming from a $15 billion  bank loan  refinancing in 2009 that
helped it avoid default. The company needs to pay back $200
million of debt by yearend to prevent the interest rate on $7.6
billion of loans from rising by 50 basis points.  “The underlying tone that  Greece  has created and the
follow-on risk avoidance behavior has made it more difficult for
higher-yielding companies to sell bonds,”  Michael Roche , an
emerging-market strategist at MF Global in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Investors are pausing right now to go
through their portfolios and evaluate their holdings.”  The company was offering the bonds to yield 9.5 percent,
said a person familiar with sale who asked not to be identified
because he’s isn’t authorized to speak publicly. The notes would
have yielded about 581 basis points more than Mexican government
notes due in 2019, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Similar-maturity bonds sold by Holcim Ltd.’s, the world’s
second-biggest cement maker, yield 4.70 percent.  Housing Slump  “Given the current volatility and unfavorable performance
of markets, we have decided not to pursue the transaction,”
Perez said in a telephone interview. “We were prepared to
access the debt capital markets in order to continue addressing
maturities ahead of schedule.”  Cemex is the second-biggest Mexican issuer of overseas debt
this year after Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer SA, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cemex cut its forecast for growth of U.S. cement and ready-
mix concrete shipments to “low to mid-single digit” this year,
from 5 percent for cement and 6 percent for concrete in
February, Chief Financial Officer  Fernando Gonzalez  said on
April 29.  The recovery in the U.S. housing industry “remains a work
in progress,” Gonzalez said on a conference call that day.  U.S. Housing  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities fell 3.6 percent in March from a year earlier, the
biggest year-over-year decline since November 2009. Purchases of
previously owned homes dropped to a 4.81 million annual pace in
May, the slowest in six months.  Since Cemex obtained a $15 billion bank loan to head off
default in August 2009, the company has sold shares, issued
bonds and sold assets to refinance about half of the loan. In
April, the company said it needs to refinance $200 million more
of its bank financial agreement to prevent the interest rate on
the loan from rising to 500 basis points over the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor. The company is currently
paying 450 basis points over Libor.  “We thought that the steps they had taken were good ones
and are supportive of the bonds,” said Ward Brown, who manages
about $11 billion of emerging-market debt, including Cemex
bonds, at Massachusetts Financial Services.  Yield Spread  Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Zambrano, whose grandfather
founded the 105-year-old company, boosted Cemex’s debt levels
after making $29 billion in global acquisitions over two
decades. Its rating was cut seven levels by S&P in a 10-month
span ending August 2009 after Cemex boosted debt levels to pay
for the $14.2 billion acquisition of Rinker Group Ltd. in 2007.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened nine basis
points to 151, according to JPMorgan.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 11.8625 per dollar.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December fell two basis points to 4.94 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose five basis points to 115, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  ‘Frozen’  Mexico’s economy grew 4.6 percent in the first quarter,
less than the 5 percent median forecast in a survey by
Bloomberg.  “It’s not about  Mexico  or Cemex -- it’s about the global
situation,” Vinicius Pasquarelli, an emerging-market debt
trader at Tradition Asiel Securities, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “We are facing a credit crisis that
has frozen the fixed-income market.”  Federal Reserve officials yesterday cut their growth
forecasts for the  U.S. economy  this year and next and raised
their estimates for the  unemployment rate . The world’s biggest
economy, the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports,
will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from
April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based on the
median range of projections.  “For Cemex, what’s going to move it or break it is the
recovery of the construction market in the U.S.,” Jack Deino,
who oversees about $1.8 billion of emerging-market debt at
Invesco Inv. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  