-- 
Chavez May Return to Venezuela in 10 Days After Cuba Surgery

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-23T04:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/chavez-may-return-to-venezuela-in-10-days-after-cuba-surgery.html
President  Hugo Chavez  may return to
 Venezuela  in the next 10 to 12 days after undergoing surgery in
Cuba to remove a pelvic abscess, the Venezuelan leader’s brother
said yesterday.  Adan Chavez said he returned on June 21 from a visit to his
younger brother and wanted to end the “wave of rumors and
speculation” that have surrounded the president since his
operation on June 10.  “We still don’t know exactly when he’ll return -- we have
to wait for the doctors’ evaluation -- but in a few days, 10
days, 12 days, he’ll be here,” Adan Chavez, who is the governor
of Barinas state, said in comments carried on state television.  Since Chavez, 56, underwent surgery on the communist
island, a lack of official information has raised questions
about his true state of health and triggered debates about
whether he should be running  South America ’s largest oil
producer from Cuba.  Chavez is continuing a “slow recovery,” Vice President
Elias Jaua said yesterday. He isn’t fully adhering to the advice
of his doctors while he convalesces and continues to work from
his hospital bed, Jaua told Caracas-based  Union Radio . The
country is “functioning as it should” in his absence, Jaua
said.  “The country has excellent stability in its politics and
economy,” Jaua said. “There are institutions in the country
that are functioning as they should.”  Independence Celebrations  If Adan Chavez’s prediction is correct, the president will
return in time to attend Venezuela’s celebrations of  200 years
of independence  on July 5. Chavez is also scheduled to host
regional leaders including  Brazil ’s Dilma Rousseff and Chilean
President Sebastian Pinera at a Latin American summit on July 5
and July 6.  Chavez last spoke in public on June 12, when he told
Telesur television network by phone that he decided to seek
treatment in Cuba, the final stop in a tour of allied
governments in  Latin America , after feeling pain in his abdomen
while in Brazil and  Ecuador .  He gave no estimate as to how long his recovery would take,
saying only that his injury was “delicate” and that there’s
“no reason to hurry” home.  Chavez told Telesur he was “lucky” because the abscess
wasn’t infected or malignant.  Former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro  and his brother, current
President  Raul Castro , visited Chavez at a hospital on June 17,
Cuban state newspaper  Granma reported . Photographs published by
Granma showed Chavez, wearing a track suit with the colors of
his nation’s flag, talking and laughing with the Castro brothers
in a hospital room.  The silence about Chavez’s recovery has fueled disputes
among members of his government. Information Minister Andres Izarra, writing on his  Twitter account , said June 20 that claims
by lawmaker Saul Ortega that Chavez was due to return within
hours were false.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  