-- 
Cheap-Crude Bonanza in U.S. Refining May Last: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/cheap-crude-bonanza-in-u-s-refining-may-last-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. oil refiners may be able to
profit from relatively cheap crude for much longer than many
investors anticipate, according to  Paul Sankey , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, the difference in
price between benchmark U.S. and European crude for immediate
delivery has more than quadrupled this year, to $18.10 a barrel.
The move has taken place as supplies have piled up in Cushing,
Oklahoma, where oil is delivered under futures contracts.  “This differential is likely to remain very wide for the
coming years,” Sankey wrote two days ago in a report. He cited
the likelihood that oil production in the Mid-Continent region,
spanning North Dakota to north Texas, and Canada will increase
more than enough to exceed pipeline capacity through 2020.  Refinery earnings have risen this year as the gap has
widened. The chart shows the potential profit from processing
three barrels of oil from Cushing into two barrels of gasoline
and one barrel of heating oil in the Gulf Coast region. The so-
called crack spread has more than doubled to $21.47 a barrel.  Spreads may widen even more later in the year, Sankey
wrote, as the U.S. hurricane season unfolds and lower prices
spur demand for gasoline. Hurricanes typically hit the Atlantic
between June and November. Gasoline futures have lost 14 percent
in New York trading since the end of April.  The outlook prompted Sankey to raise his investment rating
on  Western Refining Inc. (WNR) , based in El Paso, Texas, to “buy”
from “hold.” He also recommended buying  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , a
Houston-based company which will spin off its refining and
marketing business next week, and  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , based in
 Sugar Land , Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  