-- 
China’s Manufacturing May Expand at Slowest Pace in 11 Months, PMI Signals

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-23T05:48:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/china-s-manufacturing-may-expand-at-slowest-pace-in-11-months-pmi-signals.html
China ’s manufacturing may expand at
the slowest pace in 11 months in June, as output growth stalls
and export orders drop, a preliminary purchasing managers’ index
showed.  The 50.1 level reported by HSBC Holdings Plc. and Markit
Economics today compares with a final reading of 51.6 in May. A
number above 50 indicates expansion.  China has paused for 11 weeks in raising interest rates,
the longest gap since increases began in October, as officials
gauge the economy’s strength amid a slowdown in the U.S. and a
debt crisis in  Europe . Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said yesterday the U.S. recovery has been slower than
anticipated and Bank of  Japan  board member Yoshihisa Morimoto
said today  Greece ’s deepening fiscal crisis is contributing to
an “uncertain” outlook for global growth.  “Demand is cooling thanks to the effect of tightening
measures and the slackness in external markets,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC. “But hard-landing
worries are unwarranted not least because the current PMI is at
a level consistent with around 13 percent industrial production
growth. The good news is that inflationary pressures started to
ease meaningfully in June amid slowing demand.”  The National Development and Reform Commission said
yesterday that inflation may accelerate this month and “remain
elevated for some months.” The China Securities Journal said in
an unsigned front-page editorial today that consumer prices may
jump by more than 6 percent this month after climbing 5.5
percent in May, adding pressure for the People’s Bank of China
to increase rates again.  Damping Growth  The central bank has raised  interest rates  four times
starting in October and boosted banks’ reserve requirements nine
times since November to a record 21.5 percent for the biggest
lenders.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has tumbled
about 13 percent from this year’s April high on concern that
higher interest rates will damp growth and hurt company profits.
The gauge was 0.4 percent higher at 1:30 p.m. local time.  HSBC’s preliminary manufacturing index, known as the Flash
PMI, is based on 85 percent to 90 percent of the total responses
to its monthly purchasing managers survey sent to executives in
more than 400 companies. The final reading will be published on
July 1.  Export Orders Drop  The output gauge showed no expansion in June, with the
reading declining to an 11-month low of 50 from 51.6 in May,
HSBC said in today’s statement. Growth in new orders moderated
and new export orders contracted at a faster pace, while output
and input prices climbed at a slower rate.  The index may drop below 50, which would indicate a
contraction, at some point in the next three months as a result
of the government’s “aggressive” tightening measures,  Paul Cavey , a Beijing-based economist with Macquarie Securities Ltd.,
said.  The HSBC PMI last fell below 50 in July 2010. The official
index released by the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing and
the National Bureau of Statistics last showed a contraction in
February 2009.  “The tightening policies have been successful and the PMI
reading confirms a slowdown in growth because manufacturing
still accounts for about 50 percent of the economy,” Cavey said.
“A contraction would reduce the likelihood of further
tightening because growth will become more of a concern than
inflation.”  Real-Estate Prices  In a sign manufacturing expansion is easing, passenger-car
sales fell for the first time in more than two years in May as
the government phased out incentives. Automakers including Honda
Motor Co. also cut production due to a shortage of components
following Japan’s earthquake.  China’s efforts to cool real-estate prices is damping
demand for housing, prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to cut the
outlook on Chinese developers to negative from stable last week.
The value of land sales in Beijing this year has dropped 75
percent, the  Securities Times  reported yesterday, citing data
from Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Still, demand for steel and cement may be sustained by
Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to start building 10 million low-
cost homes this year. Local government financing vehicles will
be allowed to sell bonds to fund the construction of such
projects, according to a notice on the website of the NDRC’s
Anhui province branch on June 16.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Huang Zhe in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery,  Michael Heath   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  