-- 
Wen Says China Succeeding in Inflation Battle With Price Gains Set to Slow

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-24T09:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/china-inflation-will-be-under-control-wen.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that  China ’s
efforts to stem inflation have worked and that the pace of
consumer-price increases will slow, an assessment that contrasts
with some economists advocating further steps.  “There is concern as to whether China can rein in
inflation and sustain its rapid development -- my answer is an
emphatic yes,” Wen wrote in an opinion piece in the Financial
Times newspaper. “China has made capping price rises the
priority of macroeconomic regulation and introduced a host of
targeted policies. These have worked. The overall price level is
within a controllable range and is expected to drop steadily.”  China has paused for 11 weeks in raising  interest rates ,
the longest gap since increases began in October, even as
analysts predict inflation will surpass 6 percent for the first
time since 2008 in coming months. Money-market rates fell and
stocks rose after Wen’s remarks, driving the country’s benchmark
stock index to its biggest weekly gain in almost eight months.  “Premier Wen’s comments appear primarily targeted at
calming inflation expectations, which continue to run high as
successive tightening measures have been met with steady
increases” in consumer prices, said Alistair Thornton, a
Beijing-based economist with IHS Global Insight. “We still
expect one more interest-rate hike.”  Stocks Advance  The seven-day repo rate fell 63 basis points to 8.41
percent as of the 4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The Shanghai Composite Index, which has tumbled about 10
percent from the year’s April peak, rose 2.2 percent to 2,746.21
at the 3 p.m. local-time close, the biggest gain since Feb. 14.  Wen pointed to evidence of a moderation in lending and
money supply, an “oversupply of main industrial products” and
“abundant” grain. A private survey of factory purchasing
managers yesterday indicated that output and input prices
climbed at a slower rate in June.  China’s M2 money supply gauge rose 15 percent in May from a
year before, the least since November 2008. Banks extended 3.55
trillion yuan ($549 billion) in new loans in the first five
months of the year, down 12 percent from the same period last
year and 40 percent smaller than in 2009, when policy makers
encouraged a record credit boom to cushion the nation from the
impact of the global financial crisis. With one-year bank
deposit rates more than 2 percentage points below the pace of
consumer-price gains, inflation continues to erode household
savings.  Back to Normal  “Growth in money and credit supply has returned to
normal,” said Wen, who is scheduled to travel to  Europe  next
week as European officials struggle to contain a sovereign debt
crisis.  The National Development and Reform Commission said this
week that inflation may accelerate this month and “remain
elevated for some months.” The China Securities Journal said in
an unsigned front-page editorial this week that consumer prices
may jump by more than 6 percent this month after climbing 5.5
percent in May, adding pressure for the People’s Bank of China
to increase rates again.  The central bank has raised rates four times starting in
October and boosted banks’ reserve requirements nine times since
November to a record 21.5 percent for the biggest lenders.  Not all analysts see further monetary tightening, given
signs of slowing economic growth prompted in part by a rising
U.S. unemployment rate, Europe’s sovereign-debt concerns and
evidence of weakening consumer demand in China.  Shift in Stance  “We think the balance of risks for the State Council has
shifted to growth from inflation,”  Tim Condon , the Singapore-
based head of Asia research at ING Groep NV, wrote in a research
note. “We view Wednesday’s comment by an NDRC official that
inflation could accelerate in June as preparing public opinion
for higher inflation,” he said, reiterating his call for no
further rate rises this year.  In a sign manufacturing expansion is easing, passenger-car
sales fell for the first time in more than two years in May as
the government phased out incentives. Automakers including Honda
Motor Co. also cut production due to a shortage of components
following  Japan ’s earthquake.  China’s efforts to cool real-estate prices are damping
demand for housing, prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to cut the
outlook on Chinese developers to negative from stable last week.
The value of land sales in Beijing this year has dropped 75
percent, the  Securities Times  reported this week, citing data
from Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Still, demand for steel and cement may be sustained by
Wen’s campaign to start building 10 million low-cost homes this
year. Local government financing vehicles will be allowed to
sell bonds to fund the construction of such projects, according
to a notice on the website of the NDRC’s Anhui province branch
on June 16.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Chris Anstey, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at +81-(0)3-3201-7553 or
 canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  