-- 
China Money Rate Reaches a Three-Year High Even After Bill Sale Suspended

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-23T10:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/china-money-rate-jumps-to-three-year-as-higher-reserve-ratio-squeezes-cash.html
China ’s money-market rate soared to
the highest level in more than three years on concern cash
supply won’t rebound before the end of this month.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, gained for a seventh day even after the
People’s Bank of China suspended a bill sale. The rate has more
than doubled since the central bank ordered banks on June 14 to
set aside more cash as reserves for a sixth time this year.  “Smaller banks are really short of money after the reserve
ratio hike,” said Peng Hao, a bond analyst at Fudian Bank Co.
in Kunming, capital of the southern Yunnan province. “Also,
banks won’t lend to each other before the end of every quarter
because they have to meet  capital requirements .”  The seven-day repo rate climbed 23 basis points to 9.04
percent as of the 4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It touched 9.13 percent, the highest level since October
2007.  The monetary authority didn’t offer any  repurchase
agreements  today, according to traders at primary dealers
required to bid at the auctions. Central banks can withdraw cash
from the financial system by selling repurchase contracts.  The central bank injected 87 billion yuan ($13.5 billion)
of capital into the financial market this week, a sixth weekly
injection, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The one-year interest rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis
points to 3.96 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 3.9750 percent, the highest level since Feb. 22. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bond due January
2021 climbed five basis points to 3.95 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  China should raise  interest rates  to counter inflation, the
China Securities Journal said in a front-page editorial today.
An increase would push inflation-adjusted interest rates toward
positive territory and drive funds back to banks, it said.
Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May from a year earlier
after having climbed 5.3 percent the previous month.  -- Judy Chen . Editor: Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 