-- 
Chrysler Looks to Expand China Sales Network

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-06-23T17:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/chrysler-to-expand-china-dealerships-next-three-years-on-expanding-economy.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , wants to expand its dealer
network in China by 39 percent over the next two to three years.  The automaker has 127 dealerships covering about 60 percent
of the market in China,  Mike Manley , head of Chrysler’s
international operations, said today. He wants to add 50 within
two to three years and hopes to double the number in more than
five years, he said.  “There are still big chunks of the market that we don’t
have dealerships in,” Manley told reporters at a Chrysler event
in Chelsea, Michigan. “We need to expand and grow.”  The effort is part of Chrysler’s drive to increase the
automaker’s Chrysler and Jeep brands outside  North America .
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler Group’s sales outside the
continent in May rose 17 percent compared with the same month
last year, Chrysler has said.  Jeep sales outside North America rose 50 percent in May,
helped by completion of a dealer restructuring in  Europe , Manley
said. Europe sales should continue to grow this year now that
new franchise contracts have been signed, he said.  “Advanced dealer orders on Grand Cherokee and Compass have
been phenomenal,” he said. “I think we’re set for a good
September.”  Fiat is buying the U.S. government’s remaining stake in
Chrysler from the 2009 bailout that made  Sergio Marchionne  the
chief executive officer of both automakers. Turin, Italy-based
Fiat ’s holding will rise to 52 percent on a fully diluted basis
after the transaction.  Compass SUV  Chrysler will begin selling the Compass sport-utility
vehicle in  China  in the next two to three months, Manley said.  The company expects full-year sales of the Compass to reach
8,000 to 10,000 in China, he said. Chrysler wants to increase
its China sales to 40,000 this year from 23,428 last year.  In September or October, Manley plans to travel to China to
hold a meeting with potential investors in dealerships, he said.  Chrysler is expected to sell “a minimum” of 500,000
vehicles in the Asia-Pacific region by 2014, Marchionne said in
a conference call on Jan. 27. Chrysler sales in the region rose
to 39,688 last year, a 17 percent increase from 2009, Chrysler
had previously said.  Fiat is in the process of building its first China factory
in a joint venture with Guangzhou Automobile Group Co.  The key to Chrysler’s volume growth in China will be
building vehicles locally, Manley said. The automaker is
exploring working with Fiat and its joint-venture partner, he
said.  “If we really want to be strong, we have to localize,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 