-- 
CIA Nominee Petraeus Vows Objective Afghanistan Assessments

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-23T20:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/cia-nominee-petraeus-vows-objective-afghanistan-assessments-1-.html
Army General David Petraeus,
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, said he’ll objectively assess the progress
in  Afghanistan , where he’s now the top U.S. and NATO commander.  “I have sought to provide the most accurate view possible.
My goal has always been to ‘speak truth to power’ and I will
strive to do that as director of the CIA,” he said in testimony
before the Senate Intelligence Committee.  Petraeus also said he would not bring “my military brain
trust with me. If confirmed, I will get out of my vehicle alone
on that day to report” to CIA headquarters.  President Barack Obama in April nominated Petraeus, 58, who
now heads U.S. and NATO Afghanistan forces, to be the 20th CIA
Director. He would replace  Leon Panetta , confirmed this week to
be defense secretary.  Petraeus, as commander in  Iraq  and later Afghanistan,
forged a close relationship with the CIA as he organized
“fusion cells” of special operations units and intelligence
analysts that launched quick raids against senior al-Qaeda and
Taliban leaders.  Petraeus said he agreed with a statement made today by
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Michael Mullen, who
testified before the House Armed Services Committee, that
Obama’s Afghanistan troop withdrawal decision was “more
aggressive” in terms of the timeline than he recommended.  “That is understandable in that there are more
considerations” than simply military plans, he said.  ‘Relentless Pressure’  Petraeus told the panel that, if confirmed, he’ll make sure
the CIA maintains “relentless pressure” on al-Qaeda.  “I have worked closely with various Agency elements” and
would continue coordination with the Joint Special Operations
Command that conducted the successful mission to kill al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden, he said.  “The Agency is specifically charged with the conduct of
covert operations,” he said. “These operations are of enormous
importance and, if confirmed, I will devote considerable
attention to ensuring that such activities are properly
conducted, resourced and coordinated.”  In a written response to committee questions, Petraeus said
that the "most serious threat to the security of the U.S. and
our allies’’ is a hostile state getting a nuclear weapon.  ‘Strategic Surprise’  The most likely “strategic surprise” may be come from
sudden regime change, he said.  “Such shifts can be difficult to predict because even the
foreign actors themselves often have not carefully planned the
course of action they will take as a crisis unfolds,” he said.  “Looking at the ongoing unrest in the  Middle East  and
North Africa, intelligence analysts may not be able to predict
precisely how and whether another government might fall, but
they can identify trends and potential outcomes,” he said.
“And they certainly can track and report indicators of possible
change.”  Petraeus advocated having intelligence analysts and field
operatives work from the same locations to spot trends related
to potential regime change. Such a system has increased the
agency’s effectiveness on issues including  Iran  and the fight
against terrorism, narcotics and the spread of nuclear weapons,
he wrote.  He also said he would expand already increasing efforts to
get more CIA analysts into the field for firsthand knowledge of
a country and the conditions on the ground, to provide
information for policy makers and war fighters.  Petraeus received praise from all committee members,
including ranking Republican Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  