-- 
Cleveland Cavaliers Take Duke’s Kyrie Irving With No. 1 NBA Draft Pick

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-24T04:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/cleveland-cavaliers-take-duke-s-kyrie-irving-with-no-1-nba-draft-pick.html
The  Cleveland Cavaliers  took Duke
University’s Kyrie Irving with the top pick in the National
Basketball Association draft as they seek to rebuild a team that
had a 19-63 record last season after losing  LeBron James .  The 6-foot-2 Irving was the third point guard taken No. 1
in the past four years, following  Derrick Rose  of the  Chicago
Bulls  in 2008 and John Wall of the Washington Wizards in 2010.
ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said Irving doesn’t have the
explosiveness of Rose or Wall, likening him instead to Chris Paul of the New Orleans Hornets, who has made four All-Star
appearances in his first six NBA seasons.  “He changes pace and direction really well, he’s got a
really good feel for the game and he’s a mature leader,” Bilas
said on a media conference call. “He’ll step in and be a really
good point guard in the league. The question is whether he’s
going to be an All-Star player. That’s still an open question
because we didn’t get a chance to see as much of him as we
expected in his freshman year.”  The  Minnesota Timberwolves  chose second, taking  University
of Arizona  forward Derrick Williams. The New York Knicks were
booed by fans at the Prudential Center in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
last night for using the 17th overall selection on Georgia Tech
guard Iman Shumpert.  Four players from outside the U.S. were among the top seven
picks for the first time in draft history.  Irving, 19, declared for the draft after his freshman
season at  Duke , where he was limited to 11 games because of a
foot injury and averaged 17.5 points and 4.3 assists.  Following LeBron  Irving is the fourth player the Cavaliers have taken with
the No. 1 pick and the first since James in 2003, when he also
was 19. James joined the Miami Heat as a free agent in 2010
after closing his seven-year tenure in  Cleveland  with two
consecutive 60-win seasons and league Most Valuable Player
awards. The Cavaliers’ other No. 1 draft picks were Brad
Daugherty in 1986 and Austin Carr in 1971.  Irving is the third player from Duke to be taken with the
top pick and the first since Elton Brand in 1999.  The Timberwolves used the second pick on the 6-foot-8
Williams, who averaged 19.5 points and 8.3 rebounds as a
sophomore at Arizona last season.  The  Utah Jazz  followed by selecting 7-foot Turkish center
Enes Kanter, who wasn’t eligible to play at the University of
 Kentucky  last season.  The Cavaliers, whose record last season was the second-
worst in the NBA, also had the fourth pick and drafted
 University of Texas  power forward Tristan Thompson, the Big 12
Conference’s freshman of the year last season.  Overseas Players  The next three picks were players from outside the U.S. The
Toronto Raptors took 7-foot Lithuanian center Jonas Valanciunas,
the  Washington Wizards  drafted 6-foot-11 forward Jan Vesely from
the Czech Republic, and the Sacramento Kings picked 6-foot-9
forward Bismack Biyombo from the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Biyombo was traded to  Charlotte  as part of a three-team
exchange in which the Bobcats sent leading scorer Stephen Jackson to  Milwaukee .  The  Detroit Pistons  took University of Kentucky guard
 Brandon Knight  at No. 8 and the Bobcats followed by taking guard
 Kemba Walker , who led the  University of Connecticut  to the
national championship last season.  The Milwaukee Bucks drafted Jimmer Fredette from Brigham
Young University with the 10th pick and sent him to Sacramento.
Fredette was college basketball’s leading scorer last season,
averaging 28.9 points a game.  ‘Extraordinary Scorer’  “He’s an extraordinary scorer,” Bilas said of Fredette.
“He’s a capable passer and can create his own shot. The
question is what he’s going to be like defensively. He didn’t
defend at all in college.”  The  Golden State Warriors  selected Washington State guard
Klay Thompson with the 11th pick. Thompson is the son of Mychal
Thompson, who played 12 seasons in the NBA after being taken No.
1 overall in the 1978 draft.  After the Jazz took University of  Colorado  guard Alec Burks
at No. 12, the Morris twins from the University of Kansas --
both forwards -- were drafted consecutively. The  Phoenix Suns 
took Markieff with the 13th pick and the  Houston Rockets 
followed by taking Marcus.  The Indiana Pacers selected San Diego State forward Kawhi
Leonard at No. 15 before the Philadelphia 76ers opted for
University of Southern California center Nikola Vucevic. The
Pacers later traded Leonard to San Antonio for George Hill.  Boos for Knicks  The Knicks’ top pick was then used on the 6-foot-5 Shumpert,
prompting a round of boos. Shumpert, who draft analysts said is
regarded as a defensive specialist, didn’t attend the draft.  “It’s understandable,” Knicks interim general manager
Glen Grunwald said of the fans’ reaction in a televised
interview. “But if we want to become a better defensive team we
have to acquire better defensive players. We love his size, his
strength, his athleticism.”  The Knicks also acquired former Kentucky forward Josh
Harrellson, a second-round pick of the  New Orleans Hornets , for
cash. The 6-foot-10 Harrellson was the 45th of 60 players
drafted over two rounds last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  