-- 
CLP May Invest in First Indian Solar Project by Next Year, Director Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-23T09:04:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/clp-may-invest-in-first-indian-solar-project-by-next-year-director-says.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , the biggest power
supplier in  Hong Kong  and  India ’s largest owner of wind farms,
may invest in its first solar project in India next year.  The Hong Kong-based company has begun collecting sun
irradiation data at Indian wind farms to also evaluate the
possibility of installing solar plants, Mahesh Makhija, director
of renewables at CLP’s India unit, said today.  “By the end of this year, we should be in a comfortable
position to pick our first sites and have an investable solar
project,” Makhija said in an interview at his office in Mumbai.  CLP aims to get 20 percent of its power from renewable
sources by 2020 and may complete its first 55-megawatt solar
plant in  Thailand  this year, according to its  website . India is
CLP’s third-largest market by revenue after Hong Kong and
 Australia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Building solar plants alongside wind farms can be more
efficient because the projects can share infrastructure, such as
 power lines  and personnel, he said.  CLP didn’t bid for licenses in India’s first solar auction
last December in part because the government limited the size of
photovoltaic projects it awarded to 5 megawatts, Makhija said.  “Five megawatts can be a demonstration project at best,”
he said. “There are no profits to be made there” though CLP
may opt with a small-scale pilot before scaling up, he said.  The Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy  said this week
that it may consider changing the rules in India’s second solar
auction, expected later this year, to lift restrictions on the
size and amount of projects awarded to companies.  ‘Create Interest’  “We’re looking at 40 to 50 megawatts, a size which creates
a lot of interest among suppliers,” Makhija said. “That’s
something they’re able to compete for and bring down their
prices for.”  Among the sites where CLP is collecting solar data is in
Jaisalmer, northwestern Rajasthan state, one of India’s most
promising for joint wind-solar projects, Makhija said.  In India, CLP has about 2,613 megawatts of capacity either
built or under construction, including a 1,320-megawatt coal
plant in Haryana. Its shares rose 0.4 percent to HK$67.25 today.
It has now gained 6.6 percent in Hong Kong compared with a 5.5
percent decline in 2011 in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  