-- 
Congress Revamp of Rules May Add Complexity, Obama’s Aide Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-06-23T17:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/congress-revamp-of-rules-may-add-complexity-obama-s-aide-says.html
The Obama administration is
concerned that Congress’s effort to revamp regulations may only
make government rules more complex, said Cass Sunstein, the
White House official in charge of regulatory actions.  “We have the tools we need,” Sunstein said today at a
hearing of the Senate  Homeland Security  and Government Affairs
Committee. “We are particularly concerned that some regulatory
reform proposals might have unintended consequences.”  Six senators are proposing legislation to change how rules
are crafted, responding to complaints from business executives
that regulations impede growth. Republican lawmakers said
regulation by the Obama administration is weakening the U.S. job
market.  “We think you are undermining the economy with rules that
are a vast overreach,” Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky
Republican, told Sunstein, director of the Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs. “We want you to be restrained. We
frankly don’t trust you.”  Congress is considering legislation, introduced by Senator
 Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, that would require agencies
to analyze costs and benefits of regulations, including the
impact on  job creation , energy and consumer prices. Most
agencies aren’t required to analyze indirect costs and benefits.  Collins’ bill also would prohibit agencies from issuing
“guidance documents” that would have the same effect as a
imposing a rule.  Senator  Olympia Snowe , also a Maine Republican, proposed a
bill to create panels at nine agencies that issue rules that
have an economic impact on small businesses, and permit court
review of proposed rules earlier in the drafting process.  ‘Unintended Complexity’  Sunstein said such legislative proposals, if passed by
Congress, “could create unintended complexity in the regulatory
system” that would block adoption of rules.  “An increase in litigation and judicial authority might
also increase regulatory uncertainty, which would be most
unwelcome in the current economic situation,” he said.  The administration said on May 26 that 30 agencies are
seeking to repeal or modify regulations to reduce reporting
requirements and reduce compliance costs for businesses and
individuals. In January, President  Barack Obama  ordered an
administration-wide review of regulations, saying he was seeking
“to remove outdated regulations that stifle job creation and
make our economy less competitive.”  Sunstein reiterated today that the administration is
willing to evaluate mistakes it has made in the regulatory
process. “We want to see where we got it wrong,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 