-- 
Congress Is Too Timid to Fight Its Libya War: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/congress-is-too-timid-to-fight-its-libya-war-stephen-l-carter.html
In late 1907, President  Theodore Roosevelt  decided to send the cream of the U.S. Navy -- known as
the Great White Fleet -- steaming around the world.  Congressional leaders, concerned about cost, warned that an
appropriation to support the show of American power might not be
forthcoming. Roosevelt replied that the money was already in
hand, and he dared them to “try to get it back.”  Congress backed down.  What brings the story of the Great White Fleet to mind is
the  lawsuit  filed last week by a bipartisan group of House
members asking the federal courts to put an end to U.S.
participation in the war in Libya, which they say is in
violation of the  War Powers Resolution . One senses in the appeal
to judges the tragic desperation of a branch of government
unwilling or unable to exercise its constitutional authority.  If Congress really wanted to end the U.S. role in the  Libya 
war, it possesses the means to do so; all that is lacking is the
political will. Indeed, there is little the president can do on
his own if a sufficiently determined Congress decides to stop
him.  As the constitutional theorist Charles Black  pointed out  35
years ago, if one actually pages through the Constitution, one
finds that Congress has far more authority than the president.
Wrote Black: “as a matter of irreducible minimum, the presidency
is an office of very little uncontrollable power.” On paper, at
least -- still quoting Black -- Congress controls “just about
everything.”  A Powerful Purse  The Founders, wary of executive authority, believed that by
granting to the House and the Senate the power of the purse,
they were providing a crucial tool for reining in the president.
James Madison, in  Federalist No. 58 , called the power of the
purse “the most complete and effectual weapon with which any
constitution can arm the immediate representatives of the
people.”  Thus today’s acid debate about the constitutional
distribution of war powers misses the more obvious point: Any
time Congress truly wants to stop the president, it is free to
cut off the money.  People of good will may differ on the wisdom of the war in
Libya (and when you fire missiles into another country you are
at war, no matter what the Obama administration says), but no
one can deny that the war is expensive. The labyrinthine nature
of the  defense budget  makes precise figures difficult to come
by, but the administration estimated that the first week of the
war cost the United States about $600 million. Even with the
reduced American participation since, the price comes to between
$9 million and $10 million a day.  Stop the Flow  This is a great deal of money, and the military can spend
it only with congressional acquiescence. If members of Congress
truly want to end American involvement, they should not go hat
in hand to the federal courts; they should fight hard, on the
floors of the House and the Senate, to cut off the money.  It is not as though Congress has never attempted such a
thing. In 1973, Congress cut off money for all U.S. combat
activities in Indochina. More recently, it adopted riders
prohibiting the use of any appropriated financing for the
transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to  United
States  soil.  But the 1973 cutoff was imposed on a weakened President
 Richard Nixon , and the Guantanamo amendment reflected public
ire. Neither represented the determination by an equal branch of
the federal government to protect its constitutional
prerogatives.  Other Branches Understand  If Congress, as a body, believes that presidents should not
go to war without its permission, the remedy is obvious: cut off
the financing every time it happens, even for wars its members
happen to support. The difficulty, as Black pointed out, is
Congress’s inability to think of itself as a branch of
government, possessing prerogatives and powers that must be
protected against encroachment.  Other branches get this point. Suppose Congress passed, and
the president signed, a law depriving the  Supreme Court  of
jurisdiction over abortion cases. The justices who support
abortion rights would be joined by those who oppose them in
striking down so blatant an intrusion into the prerogatives of
the judiciary.  Congress, too, should behave this way. The Founders saw the
separation of powers as the principal shield against the
arbitrary and uncontrolled exercise of authority. Congress is
supposed to check the president. So why doesn’t it fight back
more often?  Merely Party Functionaries  Part of the problem is the distortion of the electoral
incentive: Except for a handful of members in very safe and very
liberal districts, spending measures that can be characterized
as against our men and women in uniform are unlikely to play
well in the voting booth. Then there is the well-attested
difficulty of building legislative coalitions.  Perhaps the greatest challenge is that members of Congress
see themselves first as party functionaries, not as protectors
of their own constitutional prerogatives.  This congressional reticence is unfortunate. A president
would be ill-advised to pursue a sustained military action
without making Congress a partner; Congress would be ill-advised
to let him. But when the House and Senate refuse to do their
constitutional duty, they should scarcely act surprised if the
president ignores them. The pathetic spectacle of our elected
representatives begging the courts for help illustrates how far
we have diverged from the Founders’ design.  Congressional leaders may be moving toward a vote on
resolutions forcing members to go on the record as for or
against the Libya war.  This is all to the good.  Let’s try:
Criticizing from the sidelines while waiting to see which way
things break might present certain political advantages. But it
is constitutionally irresponsible.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 