-- 
Costco Women’s Suit May be Imperiled by Supreme Court’s Wal-Mart Decision

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/costco-women-s-suit-may-be-imperiled-by-supreme-court-s-wal-mart-decision.html
Costco Wholesale Corp. may be able
to block women accusing it of gender bias from suing as a group
because of the U.S.  Supreme Court ’s decision in a discrimination
suit against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The women sued Costco in 2004, accusing the largest U.S.
warehouse-club chain of limiting promotions of female employees
to assistant general manager and general manager by failing to
post such job openings. They won the right to sue as a group in
a class action in 2007. Costco’s appeal of that order was put on
hold while the Supreme Court considered Dukes v. Wal-Mart.  Parts of the Costco decision conflict with the Supreme
Court’s June 20 ruling barring women suing Wal-Mart from
pursuing their claims in a nationwide class action, according to
legal experts. Michael Harper, a professor at Boston University
School of Law, predicted the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San
Francisco will send the Costco case back to the trial judge for
reconsideration.  “Bottom line: Under Dukes, a class cannot be certified for
this case as framed,” Harper said of the 2007 order granting
the Costco workers class status. “If I were Costco, I would be
feeling pretty good about this decision.”  The Supreme Court said lawyers for women suing Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart failed to point to a common corporate
policy that led to gender discrimination at thousands of its
U.S. stores. Lawyers for the women said they will reframe their
legal arguments and, if necessary, pursue smaller group or
individual suits.  ‘Fatally Flawed’  The lawsuit against Costco features “the same lawyers
using the same theories, but more importantly, the same experts
to conjure up this guilt by statistical evidence,” Joel Benoliel, spokesman for Issaquah, Washington-based Costco, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  “I think that our case will be dismissed by the Ninth
Circuit for exactly the same reasons,” Benoliel said, referring
to the  San Francisco  appeals court. “The case is fatally flawed
and has been from the beginning.”  The Dukes decision provides an additional hurdle to class
actions, requiring plaintiffs to show that a common issue
“predominates,” Harper said. This will affect the Costco case
because the original decision was made under a less stringent
standard, which required only that employment lawyers show
evidence of a common issue, he said.  Corporate Culture  The Supreme Court wasn’t convinced by arguments that the
corporate culture at Wal-Mart harmed women, Harper said. That
part of the Wal-Mart ruling may doom the Costco class as well,
he said.  The Wal-Mart women’s “only evidence of a general
discrimination policy was a sociologist’s analysis asserting
that Wal-Mart’s corporate culture made it vulnerable to gender
bias,” the Supreme Court found. The plaintiffs needed to
provide significant proof that the company operated under a
general policy of discrimination, Justice  Antonin Scalia  wrote
for the majority, reversing the lower-court ruling.  “Because respondents provide no convincing proof of a
companywide discriminatory pay and promotion policy, we have
concluded that they have not established the existence of any
common question,” Scalia said.  Harper said the appeals court is unlikely to reject or
approve the 2007 decision granting the Costco women class-action
status, which makes litigation less costly for plaintiffs and
gives them more leverage in settlement talks.  Remand ‘More Likely’  “More likely they’ll remand it,” sending it back to the
trial court, he said.  The Costco women should still be able to sue as a group,
said  Brad Seligman , a lead attorney for plaintiffs in both
suits. Costco is a “much narrower case,” covering two types of
managers who were affected by decisions made above the store
level, Seligman said.  Dukes involved as many as 1.5 million current and former
workers at Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores in the U.S. The
potential class in Costco is less than 1,000 women, he said.  “We candidly conceded in Dukes that it could be
unmanageable to do individual damages hearings for every class
member,” Seligman said in an interview. Costco is “much
smaller and much more manageable of a case,” he said.  “Overall, the Costco class action and their theories look
a whole lot like the theories in the Wal-Mart case,” said
Justin Page, a lawyer with Bass, Berry & Sims in Nashville,
 Tennessee . “They use some of the exact same experts. The
evidence they used to show a common practice is very similar,”
he said.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “These plaintiffs will have an uphill battle,” said Page,
who represents corporations in employment litigation and isn’t
involved in the Wal-Mart or Costco cases.  The part of the Costco judge’s decision certifying the
class for injunctive relief under one section of the federal
rules of procedure is similar to the initial decisions allowing
the Wal-Mart class, Page said. “The Supreme Court in Dukes
rejected that 9-0, and said the request had to be evaluated
under another section that is more stringent,” he said.  In the 2007 decision that allowed the Costco class action,
U.S. District Judge Marilyn Hall Patel in San Francisco wrote
that “the court finds that plaintiffs have presented strong
evidence of a common culture at Costco which disadvantages
women.”  Central Management  Plaintiffs will need to show a direct connection to
discrimination beyond a common culture, Harper said.  “How does that common culture play out at the regional
decision-making level?” Harper asked. “It looks like central
management at Costco has little role to play” in making
decisions on promotions to assistant general manager and general
manager, he said.  “There is evidence that officers are involved but the key
question is how involved are they,” he said. Under the Dukes
decision, “you have to have some significant proof that the
problem is centralized,” he said.  All cases alleging employer bias and seeking class
certification, including the Costco suit, will be affected by
the Wal-Mart decision, said Sara Kane, a New York lawyer who
represents workers and isn’t involved in the Wal-Mart or Costco
actions.  Next Steps  “People are saying there’s no hope, but there are ways to
proceed,” she said. The appellate court will either send the
Costco case back to the trial judge or ask the parties to submit
new filings on whether the Dukes decision applies, she said.  The Wal-Mart workers complained that the company’s policy
allowing discretion to local managers over pay and promotions
harmed women. The Supreme Court found that the effect of such
discretion couldn’t be considered a common question, a
requirement for a class action.  “In a company of Wal-Mart’s size and geographical scope,
it is quite unbelievable that all managers would exercise their
discretion in a common way without some common direction,”
Scalia said.  Costco doesn’t use postings or an application process for
open assistant and general manager positions, according to court
papers. Costco contends decisions to promote a lower-level
manager to an assistant manager are made by warehouse general
managers with the involvement of district vice presidents, Patel
said in her decision approving the Costco class. The company
said upper management isn’t involved, Patel said.  Headquarters Sign-Off  The women suing the company disagree. The chief executive
officer of Costco “signs off on every store manager position,”
Seligman said. “The decisions for both positions are made at
Costco headquarters.”  The Costco plaintiffs may be able to keep their class
certification if a court agrees that “signing off” on
promotions is enough to establish centralized decision-making,
Kane said.  “The fact that the overall number is so much smaller may
make it easier to present the more rigorous statistical evidence
the Supreme Court required in Dukes,” said Page, the Nashville
lawyer. “But that may not be enough because the evidence looks
so similar.”  Costco in 2000 investigated the disparity of promotions of
women into management and began posting jobs for lower-level
manager positions. “There was a conscious decision made not to
post vacancies for GM and AGM,” Patel said in her decision
granting the class action.  Disparity’s Obligation  This gives plaintiffs an opening for winning a revised
attempt at class certification by meeting the standard requiring
predominance of a common issue, Harper said.  Recognizing disparity imposes an obligation on the company
to do something about it and could provide a common question for
purposes of a class action, he said.  The questions for Costco would be, “Did they know or
should they have known there was a problem? Did they not
properly respond to that in the central offices?” he said.  This may show negligence as a common question, he said.
Lawyers for the women would have to “talk not only about
commonality, but predominance” under the new rules, he said.  “It requires some development of the substantive law,” he
said. “But that’s their best shot.”  The case is Ellis v.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , 04-03341, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).
The Wal-Mart case is  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-00277, U.S.
Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  