-- 
Credit Suisse Starts $500 Million Systematic-Trading Group Led by Toikka

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-06-23T18:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/credit-suisse-to-start-500-million-systematic-trading-group-led-by-toikka.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, is starting a $500 million
systematic-trading group within its asset-management business
after picking Mika Toikka to lead the effort.  The group will begin with about 20 traders, analysts and
other investment employees and will trade across liquid markets,
the company said today in a statement. Large U.S. stocks and
commodity futures, where contracts are easy to sell, are among
the assets the team will trade.  “There is great demand for liquid investments with
transparency right now,” Toikka, 44, most recently global head
of risk and strategy at the investment bank’s proprietary-
trading business, said in a telephone interview. The systematic-
trading group is based in New York and has a presence in Zurich
and may expand to other locations, he said.  Systematic trading relies on computer models and technical
analysis of chart patterns to determine when to buy and sell
assets.  Hedge funds  that focus on the strategy lost 1.2 percent
this year through May, compared with a 2 percent gain for the
industry, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc., a Chicago-based
research firm.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, is hiring hedge-fund
managers and former proprietary traders from rival banks, the
company said.  “We are looking to attract top-tier talent,” Toikka said
in the interview.  Toikka has worked for Credit Suisse for 11 years, including
a stint as global head of equity derivatives strategy within the
investment bank.  Seed Capital  The $500 million comprises seed capital from Credit Suisse
and money from the bank’s existing quantitative group within its
asset-management unit, according to the statement.  Credit Suisse is also forming a systematic-trading advisory
board for the effort, according to the statement.  The board is made up of Robert Engle, a Nobel Prize-winning
economist and professor at  New York  University; Olivier Ledoit,
the former head of statistical arbitrage at Credit Suisse’s
proprietary-trading group in  Europe ; and Andrew Mullhaupt, a
research professor at  Stony Brook  University in Stony Brook, New
York, who previously worked at hedge funds Renaissance
Technologies Corp. and SAC Capital Advisors LP, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  