-- 
Cro-Magnon Camaro Goes Topless, Still Carries Club: Jason Harper

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/cro-magnon-chevy-camaro-goes-topless-still-carries-club-jason-h-harper.html
I want to like the Chevrolet Camaro.
I really do.  A 426-horsepower avatar of  Detroit ’s glory days, this
revived pony car should remind us of classic rock-and-roll and
sweet, summer evenings at the drive-in.  Only I don’t much like the Camaro coupe. Re-released in
2009 with an extremely low roof and burly body, the form ran
rampant over function. It looks thuggishly cool, but doesn’t
handle all that well and you can’t see out of it. Bombast
triumphs over substance.  American buyers disagree. Last year the Camaro outsold its
traditional rival, the Ford Mustang, and the gap is widening
this year. The Camaro is a hit.  The recently released convertible version gives me a chance
to revise my opinion. After all, the latest General Motors Corp.
products have mostly impressed me.  I tested the V-8-powered SS model with a six-speed manual,
and an automatic-equipped V-6 LT version. The SS starts at just
under $37,000, not including the $850 destination charge; the LT
at just over $29,000.  The new Camaro was originally conceived as both a coupe and
convertible, and even with the top down it’s one menacing-
looking vehicle -- bad to the bone. The oversized hood has a
massive bulge at its center and a thick, Cro-Magnon brow
cresting over the narrow grill. It might as well be carrying a
wooden club.  Roof Down  The solidity of that hood is emphasized when the canvas
roof is down. There’s no delicate sense of proportion anyhow, so
the lopsided dimensions actually work. Points scored for the
convertible.  And when the sun is shining, the convertible also solves
one of the greatest faults of the coupe: the sensation that
you’re trapped in a bomb shelter. With the roof removed, you can
see the actual width and breadth of the cockpit. Plenty of room
in there. There’s seating for two in the rear as well.  At 60 mph, the short, raked windshield gives precious
little protection, and the wind whips into one ear and out the
other. You’ll dodge bugs and won’t be able to hear your
passenger’s prattle and stray papers will fly away and you’ll
exult in the sense of old-school convertible freedom. One with
the elements. I like that.  Unfortunately, it rained the week I drove the SS model.
Which means I drove hundreds of miles with an acre of black
canvas fitted over my head, shutting out the sky, any sense of
open-air wonder and -- most importantly -- my view of stoplights
and much else of the road.  Knight Vision  Those King Arthur movies where the knights pull down their
visors just before they commence jousting, leaving them nothing
but a narrow slit to see through? Yeah, it’s like that.  Worse, when you’re relegated to a gulag gloom, you spend
lots of time considering the workmanship of the interior. The
wash of dark, cost-cutting plastic is clearly from the era of
the old, troubled GM.  The leather-wrapped shifter knob and steering wheel only
serve to highlight how soulless the rest is. The 2012 model will
get updating. Perhaps some signs of the new, more innovative GM
will seep in.  All which might have been forgivable if the SS’s 426 horses
gave me half as much joy as the Mustang GT’s 412 did. Muscle
cars are impractical by definition, so it’s really about having
a tire-shredding good time.  Shake, Rattle, Roll  I had a few moments of fun with the SS. But mostly not. The
weight of that V-8 in the schnoz upsets any hope of poise. The
steering wheel warbled alarmingly in my hands every time I
passed over a blemish in the asphalt. It almost seemed like
something mechanical had gone wrong. I kept waiting for a piece
of the car to fall off.  Chevy has made revisions to the suspension and tires since
the coupe I drove in 2009. It certainly handles better in
corners, which is especially commendable for a convertible.
Still, the latest Mustang is a better-tuned weapon. The Camaro
feels blunt in comparison.  Then I took delivery of the less-powerful V-6. The 3.6-
liter produces a still powerful 312 hp, and my test car had an
automatic transmission (an extra $1,185) and the $1,500 RS
sports package.  This time the sun was out. That helped. So did the overall
handling and feel of the lighter, more nimble car. Less weight
in the front means the entire car is better balanced. Narrow
lanes still gave me pause -- you can’t actually see the front
edges of the car given the oversized hood -- but it blew through
off-ramp curves. The brakes were also fabulous, giving me great
confidence.  Give Me Sunshine  I missed the manual, but the automatic worked just fine.
The V-6 doesn’t sound as gruff as the V-8, but it makes a nice
buzz when you stand on the pedal. And the steering wheel no
longer felt like it was suffering from restless leg syndrome.  I had a decent time, especially on the highway with a
flood of sunshine pooling into the cabin. I’m not sure it was
$36,000 worth of fun -- the price as tested -- but it clarified
my opinion. The Camaro with a V-6, top down, in a state where
the sun shines.  Chevrolet’s 2011 Camaro 2LT and 2SS Convertibles at a Glance  Engines: 3.6-liter V-6 with 312 horsepower; 6.2-liter V-8  with 426 hp (400 hp with automatic).  Transmissions: Six-speed manual or optional six-speed  automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6.2 seconds; 4.9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: city 18, highway 29 (with  automatic); 16, 24 (manual).  Price as tested: $36,185; $41,700.  Best feature: Feeling of freedom with top down.  Worst feature: Feeling of imprisonment with top up.  Target buyers: The pony-car fan who doesn’t care for the  Mustang.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 