-- 
Oil Erases 2011 Gains as Reserves are Tapped

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-06-23T20:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/crude-oil-tumbles-to-a-four-month-low-after-iea-says-it-will-tap-reserves.html
Oil tumbled in New York, erasing its
gains for the year, after the  International Energy Agency  said
its members would release crude from strategic reserves.  Oil fell 4.6 percent as the agency announced the release of
2 million barrels a day for 30 days beginning next week to help
make up for a Libyan supply disruption. Commodities and equities
dropped after U.S. jobless claims rose and the  Federal Reserve 
cut its economic growth outlook yesterday.  “The big driver is the IEA number,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .
“There’s been a constant string of negative news about the
economy and a lack of direction from  Washington , which makes for
a very volatile market.”  Oil for August delivery dropped $4.39 to $91.02 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Feb. 18. Prices have slipped 0.4 percent this year.  Brent crude for August delivery fell $6.95, or 6.1 percent,
to $107.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the lowest price since Feb. 22. Prices have risen 13
percent this year.  Brent may “stabilize” around $90 a barrel for the rest of
2011 following the IEA release and increased output from Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, according to
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. analysts  Edward Morse  and Aakash Doshi.  Goldman Sachs analysts  David Greely  and  Jeffrey Currie 
forecast the move could reduce their three-month Brent price
target by $10 to $12 a barrel to $105 to $107.  Brent Premium  Half of the 60 million barrels of crude from the IEA
release will come from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve,
according to the IEA and the U.S. Energy Department. Republicans
joined the oil industry in criticizing the move by the Obama
administration as political and said the release wasn’t needed,
though more drilling is.  Brent, the European benchmark contract, traded at a premium
of $16.24 a barrel to U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures
today. The difference between the front-month contracts reached
a record $22.79 a barrel last week amid a surplus of oil at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the U.S. midcontinent hub.  “Brent is going to take a bigger hit than WTI because the
SPR barrels are on the Gulf Coast, not the midcontinent,” said
 Sarah Emerson , managing director of Energy Security Analysis
Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.  It’s only the third time in the history of the IEA the
global reserves have been tapped. The first was during the 1991
Persian Gulf War, and the second was after Hurricane Katrina in
2005. The Paris-based IEA is an energy policy adviser to 28
industrialized nations including the U.S.,  Japan  and  Germany .  ‘Different Game Plan’  “Markets get very nervous when a non-commercial player
comes into the market, and you’re seeing that today,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “It’s
a little bit like introducing a new player on the playing field
who has a different game plan completely.”  IEA Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka  said at a press
conference in Paris that the agency was in touch with producing
nations before making its decision to tap reserves. Tanaka said
he expects  Saudi Arabia  to increase production.  The kingdom indicated two weeks ago that it would boost
output amid concern that rising prices would derail the global
economic recovery. The Saudi decision came after a June 8
meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries at
which it failed to push through a production increase.  “It would appear that officials in the main oil exporting
and importing countries are combining their efforts to replace
the 132 million barrels of light, sweet, Libyan crude lost since
late winter,” Morse and Doshi said in their report.  Jobless Claims  Prices also fell after the U.S. Labor Department said
applications for jobless benefits increased 9,000 in the week
ended June 18 to 429,000. The level of claims exceeded the
highest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The median
projection called for 415,000 filings.  Fed officials yesterday cut their forecasts for growth and
employment this year and next in the world’s largest oil-
consuming country.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities
declined 2.3 percent to 330.21, the lowest level since January.
Sixteen of the commodities retreated.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3 percent to
1,283.5, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 59.67 points,
or 0.5 percent, to 12,050.  Weaker Euro  The euro decreased against the dollar as European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the debt crisis
threatens to infect banks. A weaker euro and stronger dollar
curb the appeal of commodities as an alternative investment.  The currency slipped 0.8 percent to $1.4236. Earlier, it
touched $1.4127, the lowest level since June 16.  “There’s a lot of scary news in  Europe  and it’s looking
like the  U.S. economy  will be growing at an anemic rate through
the summer,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “This is not
good for the demand outlook.”  Gasoline for July delivery plunged 13.57 cents, or 4.6
percent, to settle at a three-month low of $2.8376 a gallon on
the Nymex. Gasoline prices at the pump slipped 1.4 cents
yesterday to $3.612 a gallon, the lowest level since March 30.
They have fallen 9.4 percent since peaking at a 33-month high of
$3.985 on May 4.  Oil  volume  in electronic trading on the Nymex was 918,190
contracts as of 3:21 p.m. in  New York , 69 percent above the
543,548 contracts in total electronic and floor trading
yesterday. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 