-- 
Czech Policy Makers Voted 5-2 to Leave Rates Unchanged; See Risks Balanced

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-23T12:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/czech-policy-makers-voted-5-2-to-leave-rates-unchanged-see-risks-balanced.html
Czech policy makers voted 5-2 today
to leave the benchmark two week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent
for a 13th month.  The two votes were cast in favor of raising the rate by a
quarter of a percentage point, Vice Governor Vladimir Tomsik
said at a press conference in  Prague  today.  The Czech monetary authority has kept the main rate steady
since May 2010 as central banks across  Europe  lifted borrowing
costs to curb inflation. Poland increased its benchmark rate for
a third month and the fourth time this year on June 8. Czech
policy makers weigh differing signals from the economy as
overall output growth and headline inflation accelerated, while
government spending cuts continue to hinder domestic demand.  Inflation and the central bank’s monetary policy inflation
rate are expected to remain close to the central bank’s targets,
the central bank said today. The prognosis is consistent with
short-term stability of market interest rates and a “gradual”
rise beginning in the fourth quarter, the central bank said.  Risks are balanced to the central bank’s inflation forecast
from the standpoint of its monetary-policy inflation target.  Main pro-inflation risks include faster inflation than
expected, a decrease in anti-inflationary trends coming from the
domestic economy and an increase in value-added taxes beginning
in 2012.  Anti-inflationary risks include a lower outlook for
 interest rates  abroad and debt problems in various eurozone
countries, it said.  Today’s decision on rates was in line with forecasts of all
23 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  