-- 
Czech Policy Makers Keep Record-Low Interest Rate on Inflation, Greece

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-23T13:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/czech-policy-makers-keep-record-low-rate-on-inflation-greece.html
The Czech central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate at a record low for a 13th month as
government spending cuts curb domestic demand and the euro
area’s debt crisis is a risk to an economic recovery.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the two-week repurchase rate
today at 0.75 percent, a half-point less than the  European
Central Bank ’s main rate, in line with forecasts of all 23
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Five policy makers supported
stable rates, while the remaining two board members voted for a
quarter-point increase. The bank will publish individual votes
in the minutes from the meeting July 1.  The Czech monetary authority has kept the main rate steady
since May 2010 as central banks across  Europe  lifted borrowing
costs to curb inflation. Poland increased its benchmark rate for
a third month and the fourth time this year on June 8. Czech
policy makers are weighing differing signals from the economy as
output growth and headline inflation accelerated, while state
spending cuts continue to hinder domestic demand.  “The question we are asking is whether growth is pro-
inflationary or not,” Vice-Governor Vladimir Tomsik told
reporters after the decision. “Because growth was driven
primarily by net exports, the structure is not pro-inflationary.
It’s not driven by domestic demand, which  remains weak.”  Inflation accelerated to 2 percent in May, matching the
central bank’s target, from 1.6 percent the previous month,
driven mainly by higher food prices, the statistics office said
on June 9. Housing and energy costs, as well as more expensive
oil, also helped spur inflation above the central bank’s 1.7
percent forecast for May.  Government Austerity  Gross domestic product grew 2.8 percent in the first
quarter on the year, compared with 2.7 percent in the final
three months of 2010, with exports and a revival in investments
contributing the most to the expansion. Household and government
consumption declined as the Cabinet of Prime Minister Petr Necas
trims state spending.  The Czech koruna was little changed at 24.358 to the euro
as of 3:39 p.m. in  Prague . The koruna has gained 2.7 percent to
the euro since the start of the year, the second-best
performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, after the Hungarian forint.  The main inflationary risks include current faster price
growth driven by food costs, a possible revival in domestic
demand and the government’s plans to raise the value-added tax
from next year, Tomsik said.  The main anti-inflationary risks are a lower outlook for
market rates in the euro area and the debt problems in some of
the monetary-union members. Interest rates in the euro region
are among the variables the Czech central bank applies in
modeling its forecasts. It is currently using a forecast of the
three-month Euribor at 2 percent next year, compared with the
previous forecast of 2.6 percent.  “When it was communicated that the developments with
Euribor rates is among the anti-inflationary risks, then, all
things being equal, it may be expected that the path of Czech
market  interest rates  may change in this respect,” Tomsik said.  The assumption of a gradual increase in market interest
rates starting in the fourth quarter, included in the latest
forecast from May 5, is still valid, Tomsik said.  Czech policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some central bank board members advocating higher
borrowing costs.  Eva Zamrazilova  and Kamil Janacek voted for
higher borrowing costs at previous meeting on May 5, while the
remaining 5 policy makers voted for stable rates.  Export-Driven  The Czech economy is driven by foreign demand for its
goods, including Skoda Auto AS cars, as exports account for
about 70 percent of GDP. Companies also supply parts to German
manufacturers, which then sell their products outside the
European Union.  The economic recovery is facing risks of a potential
negative impact of the-area’s sovereign debt crisis as  Greece 
seeks to push through 78 billion-euro ($111 billion) of budget
cuts to secure more international financial aid.  The  International Monetary Fund , contributor of a third of
bailout money for Greece and the two other euro-area countries
that have received bailouts, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned EU
leaders that a failure to take decisive action on the debt
crisis risks triggering “large global spillovers.”  The Czech central bank forecasts GDP growth of 1.5 percent
in 2011. It sees the inflation rate at 2.2 percent in the second
quarter of next year and at 2.1 percent in the third quarter,
which is the boundary of what it calls the monetary-policy
horizon.  Policy makers moved forward the timing of a rate increase
to the fourth quarter from the first quarter in 2012, reflecting
expectations of more monetary tightening in the euro area, the
central bank said on May 5.  Forward-rate agreements locking in three-month interest
rates in three months dropped to 1.38 percent from 1.42 percent
before the news conference. The three-month Prague Interbank
Offered Rate, or Pribor, was at 1.18 percent.  “Even with inflation currently a little higher than what
the central bank expected, the Czech National Bank certainly has
time to wait because demand-driven inflationary pressures are
not appearing and the koruna is still relatively strong,”
 Michal Brozka , an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said
in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  