-- 
Discover Posts Record Net as Card Use Rises, Defaults Ease

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-23T15:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/discover-posts-record-profit-on-card-use.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the
credit-card issuer and payments network that outperformed three
bigger rivals in the past year, posted a record second-quarter
profit as consumers spent more and defaulted less.  Net income for the three months ended May 31 more than
doubled to $600 million, or $1.09 a diluted share, from $258
million, or 33 cents, in the same period a year earlier, the
Riverwoods, Illinois-based company said today in a statement.
The average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for adjusted earnings per share of 75 cents. Results were aided
by a $401 million release from loss reserves.  Chief Executive Officer David Nelms is boosting dividends
and buying back stock as Discover benefits from fewer soured
loans and expands beyond card-lending. Losses on uncollectible
card loans narrowed to 4.82 percent in May from 8.82 percent a
year earlier, Discover said in regulatory filings.  “It certainly is a story of improving quality, that’s been
the main theme of the last few quarters,” said  Michael Taiano ,
a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst, who recommends that
investors “hold” Discover shares. “The revenue side is really
where the questions exist. That’s really where Discover needs to
demonstrate an ability to grow.”  Stock Price  Interest income rose 1 percent to $1.57 billion from a year
earlier, and credit-card loans fell 1 percent to $45 billion,
even as purchases made with Discover cards increased 9 percent
to $25 billion, the firm said.  “We’re still waiting for improving  consumer confidence  and
retail and job growth to drive a more normal growth trend in the
industry,” said Christopher Brendler, an analyst with
Baltimore-based Stifel Nicolaus & Co. who has a “hold” rating
on Discover shares. “Once we get into a stronger job market
when consumer confidence picks up, people will be more willing
to front load their spending.”  Discover rose 17 cents to $23.76 as of 11:17 a.m. in New
York composite trading, the only firm in the 82-company Standard
& Poor’s Financials Index showing a gain today. The stock had
risen 27 percent this year through yesterday, compared with
advances of 21 percent for Purchase, New York-based  MasterCard
Inc. (MA)  and 16 percent for New York-based  American Express Co. (AXP)  San
Francisco-based  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest bank-card
network, has risen 6.1 percent.  The $401 million release from reserves to cover bad loans
compared with $277 million in the same quarter last year, as
overdue loans dropped to a 25-year low, Discover said.  “Sustained improvements in credit performance have driven
substantial releases of credit-loss reserves, a portion of which
has been reinvested for growth,” Nelms said in the statement.  Broader Reach  Nelms, 50, has been increasing the firm’s student-loan
portfolio and broadening its payment-processing network to
compete worldwide with Visa, MasterCard and AmEx.  In January, Discover acquired Citigroup Inc.’s Student Loan
Corp. in a $600 million deal that made it the third-biggest U.S.
provider of private  student loans . The purchase helped to boost
the firm’s overall loan portfolio by 5 percent to $52.5 billion.  The company said in February that it will buy about
$1.1 billion of deposits from  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , and last month
announced it would buy Tree.com Inc.’s home-lending business for
$55.9 million.  Discover tripled its quarterly dividend to 6 cents a share
in March and said last week that it may repurchase $1 billion of
stock through June 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 