-- 
Dixons Posts Loss on One-Time Costs

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-06-23T09:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/dixons-earnings-decline-as-britons-pare-spending-on-electronics.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , Europe’s second-
largest electronics retailer, posted a full-year loss after one-
time charges of 309.4 million pounds ($496 million) and said
Finance Director Nicholas Cadbury is leaving.  The net loss for the year ended April 30 was 239 million
pounds, the Hemel Hempstead, England-based company said today in
a statement. The charges were mostly for the closure of its
Spanish operations and writedowns of the PIXmania online
business and Greek unit Kotsovolos, it said.  Dixons fell as much as 4.4 percent in London trading. The
loss is the third in four years for the retailer, which hasn’t
paid a dividend since 2008. Chief Executive Officer John Browett
forecast a “flat or slightly difficult year” on a conference
call, particularly in the first half as sales from the 2010
 World Cup  and introduction of Apple Inc.’s iPad aren’t repeated.  “It’s enough to try anyone’s patience, which may be why
the respected finance director Nick Cadbury has decided to
leave,”  Nick Bubb , an analyst at Arden Partners in London, said
in a note. Cadbury is joining  Premier Farnell Plc (PFL) , a U.K.
supplier of electronic components, as chief financial officer.  Dixons fell as much as 0.72 penny to 15.81 pence in London
trading and was at 16.29 pence as of 9:43 a.m. The shares have
fallen 29 percent this year and have lost 88 percent of their
value since the end of 2006.  Best Buy Speculation  Browett downplayed speculation that Dixons may be a target
for Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer. Best Buy, which has opened 10 large-format outlets in
the U.K., may be interested in acquiring the retailer, the
London-based Times reported yesterday, without citing anyone. A
bid is “unlikely,” the CEO said on a conference call.  Underlying pretax profit in the year ended April 30 fell to
85.3 million pounds, from 90.9 million pounds a year earlier,
Dixons said. That matched the company’s own forecast of about 85
million pounds, which it lowered in March.  “There are no positive catalysts from today’s statement,”
John Baillie, an analyst at  Societe Generale , said by phone.  Dixons, which owns more than 1,200 outlets across Europe
including U.K. chains PC World and Currys, is adding services
such as laptop and television repairs to differentiate itself
from low-priced online retailers and supermarkets. The
retailer’s other service offerings include customer advice, and
delivery and installation of items like dishwashers.  Shrinking Markets  The CEO said he expects both the U.K. and European
electronics markets to shrink by about 5 percent this year.  The reformatting of Dixons’ stores and focus on service
will help the retailer outperform the market, he said. Mass
merchants like supermarkets are more exposed to consumer
electronics, which is the “weakest” part of the market and
where service of higher-priced products is needed, Browett said.  Southern  Europe  will be very difficult this year, the
executive said, while  France  and  Italy  will also suffer as the
digital switchover, which prompted sales of televisions last
year, won’t be repeated. The retailer owns the Unieuro brand in
Italy, Kotsovolos in  Greece , the ElectroWorld chain in the  Czech
Republic , Slovakia and  Turkey , and a Nordic business that
includes Elkjop group and Dixons Travel Denmark.  The U.K. won’t be “disastrous, it will be just a flat or
slightly difficult year,” the executive said.  Cadbury will be succeeded by Humphrey Singer, the former
finance director of Dixons’ U.K. and Ireland unit, Dixons said.
Singer is a “good replacement,” Baillie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  