-- 
Stocks Drop on Economy Concern as Euro Falls; Oil Slumps on IEA

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-23T21:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/dollar-gains-as-asia-stocks-commodities-slide-after-fed-cuts-u-s-outlook.html
Global stocks slid for a second day
and the euro weakened as U.S. jobless claims rose and European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the debt crisis
threatens banks. Oil fell as the  International Energy Agency 
planned to release emergency stockpiles.  The MSCI All-Country World Index dropped 1.2 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York , trimming a decline of as much as 2.2 percent,
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent. Crude
dipped to a four-month low and gold plunged the most in seven
weeks. The euro lost 0.7 percent to $1.4260. Gains in Treasuries
sent the 10-year yield down six basis points to 2.92 percent,
while Portuguese, Greek and Irish yields jumped and costs to
insure European sovereign debt from default surged to a record.  Equities and the euro pared their losses in the final hour
of regular U.S. trading amid reports Greece reached an agreement
with the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  on an
austerity plan that would help it win more financial aid. Risk
signals for financial stability in the euro area are flashing
“red,” Trichet said yesterday in  Frankfurt .  “Everything continues to revolve around the Greek
situation and getting them through this crisis,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.7 billion at Oakbrook
Investments in Lisle,  Illinois . “If we can get some visibility
on that, the U.S. stock market will have room for a rebound.
Otherwise, it will still be an overhang.”  Jobless Benefits  Stocks fell early on Trichet’s remarks and as U.S. Labor
Department figures showed applications for jobless benefits
increased 9,000 in the week ended June 18 to 429,000. The S&P
500 was down as much as 1.9 percent. It erased much of that on
afternoon reports of the austerity agreement with  Greece .  Measures proposed by Greek Finance Minister Evangelos
Venizelos to complete a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion) austerity
package required to win a bailout were endorsed by officials
from the EU and IMF, said a person familiar with the matter.
Greek lawmakers must approve the measures in a vote next week, a
condition for receiving a fifth loan payment under an existing
EU-led bailout and for future financing. Failure to secure aid
would push Greece to the brink of default.  The S&P 500 pared losses after approaching its average
price over the last 200 days of about 1,262, a level monitored
by investors whose decisions are influenced by chart patterns. A
decline below the 200-day moving average could have heralded
more losses, according to Schaeffer’s Investment Research and
other analysts.  Reduced Forecasts  U.S. stocks broke a four-day rally yesterday as the  Federal
Reserve  reduced projections for U.S. economic growth. The S&P
500 is down 5.9 percent from an almost three-year high at the
end of April. For the year, the index is up 2.1 percent.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday the recovery is
progressing “more slowly” than expected as policy makers
confirmed plans to complete a $600 billion bond-purchase program
this month. Central bankers cut forecasts for economic growth to
2.7 percent to 2.9 percent for this year, down from April’s
forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based on the median
range of projections. Growth in 2012 will range from 3.3 percent
to 3.7 percent, compared with forecasts of 3.5 percent to 4.2
percent in April, the Fed said.  Stocks in the U.S. and  Europe  may drop as much as 11
percent over the next 12 months as growth slows and earnings
weaken, according to equity strategists at Exane BNP Paribas.  “Earnings and  interest rates , two key drivers for
equities, are as good as they are likely to get,” Bert Jansen,
a stock strategist at Exane in Paris, wrote in the report.
“With bond yields, interest rates and inflation near record
lows and profit margins close to record highs, it is difficult
to see what will drive equity markets higher beyond 2011, amid
slowing growth.”  Broad Decline  Energy, raw-material and financial companies led losses in
global stocks. Eight of 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500
retreated as three stocks fell for every two that rose on U.S.
exchanges. About 8.3 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, 17 percent more than the three-month average.  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and Exxon Mobil Corp. slid more than 1.6 percent to help
lead losses in 20 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average .  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest seller of supplemental health
insurance, fell 0.7 percent after saying it may issue as much as
100 billion yen ($1.24 billion) in debt as it records losses
tied to investments in banks from Greece, Ireland and Portugal.
The second-quarter losses on the assets will probably be about
$610 million, the insurer said today.  Sinking Oil  Oil for August delivery in New York sank 4.6 percent to
$91.02 a barrel, the lowest settlement since Feb. 18. The S&P
GSCI index of commodities dropped as much as 4.7 percent, the
most since May 5. Energy products accounted for the three
biggest losses among the 24 materials tracked by the index.  The IEA announced that it will release 60 million barrels
of oil from emergency stockpiles to alleviate possible shortages
following the loss of Libyan crude. It is the third time the
Paris-based agency has coordinated the use of emergency
stockpiles since the agency was founded in 1974. Half of the 60
million barrels of crude from the IEA release will come from the
U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve, according to the IEA and the
U.S. Energy Department.  Gold Declines  Gold futures plunged 2.1 percent to $1,520, after yesterday
reaching the highest level since touching a record on May 2. The
slowing economy and rising dollar erode the appeal of
commodities as an investment and ease the risk of accelerating
inflation.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1.4 percent, with
almost 23 shares slipping for each that gained. European
services and manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in June, a report by London-based Markit Economics
showed today.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  plunged 6.3 percent as a rival to its Xarelto
blood thinner prevented more strokes with less major bleeding
than an older medicine in a study.  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster
controlled by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, sank 6.7
percent after forecasting that advertising will decline.  The euro slid against 15 of its 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg, depreciating 0.3 percent versus the yen.
The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those
of six trading partners, climbed 0.7 percent as the U.S.
currency strengthened against all 16 major peers except the
Swiss franc. The pound weakened 0.4 percent to $1.6006 after
earlier falling below $1.60 for the first time since April 1.  Greek Yields  The yield on the Greek two-year note jumped 76 basis points
to 28.64 percent, climbing for the second consecutive day.
European ministers meet in Brussels today and tomorrow to debate
the size of new loans to Greece and how to get holders of the
nation’s debt to contribute.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of default
swaps on 15 governments jumped 18 basis points to 241.7. Default
swaps on Greece rose 89 basis points to 2,282.075, according to
CMA as of the close in  London , near an all-time high reached on
June 20. Portugal’s swaps climbed 38 basis points to 821.6 and
contracts on  Spain  rose 22 to 303, while those for Ireland
increased 40 basis points to 795 and Italy’s were 18 basis
points higher at 197.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks fell 0.9 percent,
its first decline in three days. Russia’s Micex Index slipped 2
percent, South Africa’s benchmark gauge lost 1.5 percent and
South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  and  Brazil ’s Bovespa slipped 0.4
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  