-- 
Draw Down Troops, Boost Diplomacy in Afghanistan: Vali Nasr

-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 
2011-06-23T00:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/drawdown-troops-step-up-diplomacy-in-afghanistan-commentary-by-vali-nasr.html
President  Barack Obama  will want
Americans to see his announcement of upcoming U.S. troop
withdrawals from  Afghanistan  as proof that we are defeating the
Taliban. But for many, his decision will only confirm that 10
years of war, more than 1,600 American lives and $444 billion of
taxpayer money have been wasted. The verdict need not be so
dire.  It is possible to get to an acceptable outcome, but only if
future troop drawdowns are tied to a clear plan for ending the
war. Otherwise, a unilateral decision to withdraw will set the
U.S. up for failure and spell disaster for Afghanistan.  Americans are ready to wash their hands of Afghanistan.
It’s difficult to justify a war without end at a staggering
price of $2 billion a week. Military victory against the Taliban
has been elusive. A recent  Senate report  concluded that costly
state-building efforts have achieved only modest success that
could unravel once we leave. With  Osama bin Laden  out of the way
and al-Qaeda hobbled, many would argue, it’s time to declare
victory and get out. The idea is that reconciliation talks with
the Taliban could end the war, the Afghan National Security
Forces could keep the peace, and a small contingent of U.S.
special operations forces, backed by drone attacks, could guard
against terrorist threats.  No Incentive  This scenario, however, is somewhat simplistic. Announcing
our intention to leave altogether takes away the Taliban’s
incentive to seriously negotiate a political settlement. What’s
more, a quick withdrawal of all U.S. troops could provoke
Afghanistan’s skittish neighbors, in particular  Pakistan  and
 Iran , to complicate our plans. A policy of “withdraw first, end
the war later” will be read as “cut and run,” with chaos and
instability expected to follow.  Those in the region with vital interests in Afghanistan
will look past U.S. strategy and hedge against it. Without
regional support for our plan, there will be no pressure on the
Taliban to honor a final settlement. And if every player in the
region follows its own strategy, any deal we make to justify our
departure will quickly collapse, provoking a new civil war in
Afghanistan.  Meager Resources  Neither the Taliban nor Afghanistan’s neighbors see the
Afghan military and police -- numbering about 297,000 and
scheduled to grow to 305,000 by October -- as a credible force.
Given its meager resources, Afghanistan can’t afford to support
the security forces. Even if  Washington  were to convince Afghans
and their neighbors that it will pay for the military and police
indefinitely, doubts persist as to whether they will remain
unified after the U.S. leaves. It’s more likely that they will
break up into myriad militias and that our efforts to train and
arm young soldiers and police will have only laid the grounds
for a civil war to come.  Instead of touting the Afghan forces as the solution, the
U.S. should announce that its future troop drawdowns will be
tied to progress on a political settlement. Our
counterinsurgency is unlikely to win the war, but our continued
military footprint is a menace to the Taliban. Even if the
Taliban think we cannot win, our presence means they cannot
either. The price for our departure should be a lasting deal. We
should not give away this trump card for nothing.  Diplomatic Effort  At the same time, the U.S. should embark on a serious
diplomatic effort to end the fighting. It should start, before
we talk to the Taliban, with intense engagement of all
Afghanistan’s neighbors. It is in the interest of the Taliban to
talk to the U.S. directly -- if only to hasten our departure.
They could even agree to a quick deal if they see no regional
mechanism to enforce it once we’re gone. But the region’s
backing would deny the Taliban the support they need to continue
fighting. And it would make clear that a final agreement would
be protected by a broad international coalition.  There will be little chance of success if we ignore the
fact that the neighbors have interests in the negotiation
process. For the 2002 Bonn Agreement that shaped the new Afghan
state after the fall of the Taliban, the U.S. secured Iran’s
support but not Pakistan’s. In response, Pakistani President
 Pervez Musharraf  lost no time rearming the Taliban to undo the
agreement. This time, the U.S. must have both problematic
neighbors on board. That means mending fences with Pakistan over
counterterrorism efforts and setting aside the impasse over the
nuclear issue to talk to Iran about Afghanistan.  Dark Days Feared  Many Afghans are wary of a deal with the Taliban. They fear
a return to the dark days of the 1990s. There are once again
murmurs that Tajik and Hazara communities that once formed the
anti-Taliban Northern Alliance will pursue armed resistance to a
Taliban push to the north. Afghan factions opposed to a faulty
peace deal and backed by skeptical neighbors could spell another
civil war in which Iran, India and  Russia  would once again arm
resistance to the Pakistan-backed Taliban.  Getting to peace in Afghanistan will require U.S.
leadership and a significant diplomatic push to bring together
various Afghan parties, and regional and international actors.
The process should culminate in an international conference that
would include all stakeholders. The timetable for U.S. troop
withdrawal should be tied to the outcome of such a conference,
which would lay the foundation of final status talks with the
Taliban. Diplomacy did not feature in the president’s 2009
decision to send a surge of 30,000 troops to Afghanistan. Making
diplomacy possible should be at the heart of his decision to
take those troops out.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the author of this column:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer2@bloomberg.net  