-- 
Dutch Regulator to Ease Price Controls on KPN Consumer Services

-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 
2011-06-23T12:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/dutch-regulator-to-ease-price-controls-on-kpn-consumer-services.html
The Dutch telecommunications
regulator plans to ease price controls on Royal KPN NV that were
imposed to limit its dominant position with consumers, as
competition has increased.  “Due to the process of digitization, electronic-
communication markets” are increasingly competitive, the
regulator, known as Opta, said today in a  statement . “For this
reason, Opta will impose less strict rules on KPN in the
consumer segment and, for the time being, will not intervene in
the developing television market.”  KPN, the former phone monopoly based in  The Hague , has the
most customers in the country’s fixed-line and mobile markets.
Barriers to competition are being lowered, and operators are
developing new services, because of digitization and the
convergence of networks, Opta said in the statement, which
accompanied a report describing the measures it deems necessary
from 2012 until 2014.  Price controls “imposed on KPN during the previous
regulatory period are no longer necessary” in the consumer
markets for telephony and the Internet, Opta said. The situation
is different in the business segment for those services, where
KPN still has a dominant position because competition is less
strong in this market and rivals still depend on the company’s
country-wide infrastructure, making continued regulation
necessary, Opta said.  The regulator invited responses within the next eight weeks
to the draft decisions. The new measures will come into force on
Jan. 1, 2012, Opta said.  KPN shares fell 0.9 percent to 10.045 euros at 2:01 p.m. in
Amsterdam trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 