-- 
Hedge Registry, FSA Bribe Scrutiny, U.A.E. Repo: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-23T11:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/hedge-registry-fsa-bribe-scrutiny-u-a-e-repo-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will require private-fund advisers to register with
the agency, opening  hedge funds  and private-equity funds to
unprecedented scrutiny.  SEC commissioners voted 3-2 yesterday to approve a Dodd-
Frank Act measure calling for about 750 advisers to disclose
“census-like data” about their investors and employees, the
assets they manage, potential conflicts of interest and their
activities outside of fund advising. The advisers must register
by March 30, and all of the information they disclose will be
public.  “Many of these private fund advisers will now not only
register with the commission, but be subject to its rules, its
regulatory oversight and its examination program,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said before the vote in  Washington . “Today’s
rules will fill a key gap in the regulatory landscape.”  The registration system exempts as many as 2,000 venture
capital fund advisers, foreign advisers without a U.S. business
and advisers with less than $150 million in assets under
management. Those exempted are still obliged to file a portion
of the information required of the registered advisers.  The SEC is seeking data “that would aid investors and
assist our regulatory and examination efforts without requiring
any disclosure that could inadvertently harm the interests of
private fund investors,” Schapiro said.  Private-fund registration was included in the Dodd-Frank
Act after hedge funds pushed for the requirement, which was seen
as less burdensome than the regulations being imposed on banks.
In lobbying Congress, representatives of the private pools of
capital argued that they shouldn’t be heavily regulated because
they didn’t cause the financial crisis.  “We are optimistic that the Commission’s actions today
will provide greater clarity and sufficient time for our members
as they work to fully comply with these rules,” said Richard
Baker, president and chief executive officer of Washington-based
lobbying group Managed Funds Association, in a statement.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  British Investment Banks to Face Bribery Scrutiny From FSA  The U.K.’s finance regulator will examine whether
investment banks have systems and controls in place to prevent
their employees from paying bribes to win business.  Investment banks will be the subject of a future review,
Tracey McDermott, the acting head of enforcement for the
Financial Services Authority, said yesterday at a financial-
crime conference in  London .  The  Financial Conduct Authority , one of the agencies that
will take on the FSA’s duties when it is broken up, will
continue to focus on “the use of firms as a conduit for
financial crime,” McDermott said.  The U.K. Bribery Act, considered by some lawyers to be the
strictest anti-corruption laws in the world, will take effect
July 1. Under the law, U.K. companies without adequate controls
to prevent corruption may be prosecuted if a bribe is paid by
third parties on their behalf anywhere in the world, even if
company officials didn’t know. The Serious Fraud Office, which
will be responsible for enforcing the law, has never prosecuted
an investment bank for overseas corruption.  Firebreaks May Cost $16 Billion for U.K. Banks, Analysts Say  Firebreaks to protect U.K. depositors at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
may cost the banks as much as 10 billion pounds ($16 billion),
according to analysts at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The costs would be caused by a combination of “multiple-
notch ratings” downgrades for the three banks, which will push
up funding costs, and lost profit as units outside the firebreak
require more capital support, analysts led by Peter Toeman wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. The estimate didn’t include the
costs to HSBC or other British banks.  The analysts’ total contrasts with that of the British-
government appointed  Independent Commission on Banking , which
said in its April interim report that the annual cost of what it
termed retail ring-fencing would be “significantly” lower than
12 billion pounds for all the affected banks.  The commission’s interim report offered proposals to
increase the stability of the banking system and to lessen the
support required from taxpayers in a crisis. The final report is
scheduled to be published on Sept. 12.  Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne said last week he would support ring-
fencing.  The isolation of retail banks will mean ratings companies
will likely cut the credit ratings of U.K. banks by between two
and five grades, HSBC estimated, once the assumption of
government support is removed from units outside the firebreak.  Basel Levy for Big Banks Is ‘Major Step,’ FSA’s Turner Says  Global plans to force the biggest banks to hold more
capital are “a major step forward” in protecting the financial
system from another crisis, a top U.K banking regulator said
today.  Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, welcomed efforts by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision to rein in risk at lenders whose failure could
endanger the world economy. He said his own agency had devoted
“insufficient resources to large, systemically important
banks,” referring to a report on the near-collapse of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   The Basel committee meets in the Swiss city today to
discuss how much extra capital the world’s largest and most
systemically important banks will be forced to hold to avert
another financial crisis. About 25 banks may have to hold more
than the 7 percent core Tier 1 capital required by the Basel
rules, according to Morgan Stanley analysts.  The Basel group is yet to agree on all the outstanding
issues of the capital surcharge plans, Turner said.  For more, click here.  Trichet Says Risk Signals ‘Red’ as Crisis Threatens Banks  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
risk signals for financial stability in the euro area are
flashing “red” as the debt crisis threatens to infect banks.  He made the remarks late yesterday in Frankfurt after a
meeting of the  European Systemic Risk Board , referring to the
group’s planned “dashboard” to monitor risks. “The message of
the board is that” the link between debt problems and banks
“is the most serious threat to financial stability in the
European Union.”  Trichet, who chairs the ESRB, spoke about the topic as
European leaders meet in Brussels to discuss how to stave off a
Greek default, while preparing a second bailout. The EU is
trying to avoid a repeat of the financial crisis that followed
the 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and resulted
in European governments setting aside more than $5 trillion to
support banks.  While Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou earlier this
week won a vote of confidence, bolstering his new government’s
chances of pushing through austerity measures to secure further
financial aid, European finance ministers said earlier this week
they would hold off on approving a 12 billion-euro ($17 billion)
payment to the country promised for July until passage of the
plans to cut the  budget deficit  and sell state assets.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Regions Explores Morgan Keegan ‘Alternatives’ After Settlement  Regions Financial Corp. said it will consider “strategic
alternatives” for its Morgan Keegan division after the unit
resolved claims by federal, state and industry regulators over
subprime mortgage-backed securities.  The bank, based in Birmingham, Alabama, hired  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  to evaluate options for Morgan Keegan, ways to manage
capital and increase shareholder value, it said yesterday in a
statement. Two Morgan Keegan units reached a package of
settlements with regulators that may total $210 million in
payments, the company said.  The strategic review doesn’t include Morgan Asset
Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust, the firm said.  The accord resolves claims brought last year by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and state regulators, the SEC said
yesterday in a separate statement. Regulators last year said the
firm misled clients about asset values and risks of bond funds
that caused investor losses during the mortgage crisis.  The SEC and Finra said the settlement amounts to $200
million. Regions, Alabama’s biggest bank, said it may also have
to pay as much as $10 million to states that join the accord.
Five states involved in the case initially included Alabama,
Kentucky, Mississippi,  South Carolina  and Tennessee, according
to the company.  The company said it already set aside funds to cover the
settlement payments.  For more, see Interviews section, below.  U.A.E. Central Bank to Offer Repo Facility for Islamic Banks  The United Arab Emirates central bank will begin offering
an Islamic facility today that accepts Islamic certificates of
deposit as collateral, according to a circular sent to banks
yesterday.  The facility is being offered “to provide a source of
liquidity to banks,” according to the bank’s circular. Banks
wishing to participate will be asked to sign a “collateralized
murabahah facility agreement,” the bank said. A murabahah
transaction is a sale and deferred-payment agreement based on an
asset in which the cost and profit margin are agreed in advance
between a bank and its customer.  Short-term liquidity management at Islamic banks and other
financial institutions is a challenge, central bank Governor
Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi said at an Islamic-banking
conference in  Singapore  last year. With the new facility, banks
will be able to use their excessive liquidity to invest in
dirham instruments, Saif al-Shamsi, senior executive director at
the U.A.E. central bank’s treasury department, said Nov. 8.  Shaw Urges CRTC to Reject Blanket Ban on Exclusive Media Deals  Canada’s broadcast regulator should reject proposals for a
blanket ban on telecommunications companies exclusively
distributing the media content they own over their own networks,
 Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B)  said.  Shaw, which acquired the television assets of  Canwest
Global Communications Corp. (CGS)  last year and which plans an
announcement during the next month about starting wireless
service, allied itself with  BCE Inc. (BCE)  in arguing that new rules
on exclusive content will restrict consumer choice.  The CRTC  is examining  if new rules are needed to rein in
companies that both produce and distribute broadcasting content.
BCE, which offers wireless services under the Bell brand,
acquired CTVglobemedia Inc. in April.  The regulator is holding four days of hearings into whether
“vertically integrated” companies should be allowed to
restrict distribution of their TV programming to their own
mobile customers.  Telus Corp. (T) , the only company among Canada’s four biggest
telecom companies by market value not to own a broadcaster,
urged the CRTC June 21 to require all telecom companies to make
their broadcasting content available to competitors.  The hearings have pitted integrated companies such as BCE
and Shaw against Telus and a host of smaller Internet service
providers, wireless companies and broadcasters.  Interviews/Speeches  Schapiro Tells Investors to Aid Credit-Rating Competition  As regulators remove references to credit-rating firms from
federal rules, institutional investors should also rethink how
they use the ratings, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Mary Schapiro said.  “If your documents require a specific rating by a specific
rating agency I urge you to revisit it,” Schapiro said
yesterday at a meeting of the  American Securitization Forum  in
Washington. If investors can’t buy securities rated by new
firms, she said, “how will more competition that may improve
the quality of ratings develop?”  Last year’s Dodd-Frank Act required government agencies to
rid their regulations of references to credit raters after the
firms were accused of contributing to the 2008 credit crisis by
giving top ratings to mortgage-linked bonds that later collapsed
in value.  Schapiro also said that investors are waiting for reforms
in the securitization market “before they are willing to wade
back in.”  Pozen Says U.S. Needs 2-Tier Taxation on Profits Abroad  Robert Pozen, chairman emeritus of MFS Investment
Management, talked about the need to change the U.S. tax system
relating to U.S. multinationals’ foreign profits.  Pozen, who spoke yesterday with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg
Television’s “Taking Stock,” said corporations that do
business in places such as Germany and  Japan  where they are
taxed, “should be free to bring the money back” and invest it
in the U.S. in plant facilities, stock dividends and other ways.  For the video, click here.  SEC’s Hicks Says Morgan Keegan Settles Fraud Allegations  William Hicks, associate regional director at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, speaks on a teleconference
about the agreement by  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ’s Morgan Keegan
unit to pay $200 million to settle fraud allegations related to
subprime mortgage-backed securities.  Joseph Borg of Alabama’s  Securities Commission , Barbara
Doak of Tennessee’s  Department of Commerce and Insurance , South
Carolina Assistant  Attorney General  Tracy Meyers, Shonita
Bossier of Kentucky’s  Department of Financial Institutions  and
Gino Ercolino of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
also speak.  For the audio, click here.  U.S. May Bar Foreign Banks Over Tax Violations, Prosecutor Says  The U.S. could try to bar certain foreign banks from the
federal banking system for helping American citizens evade taxes
through offshore accounts, a prosecutor said.  Kevin Downing, who led the prosecution of  UBS AG (UBSN)  in 2009,
said the Justice Department’s tax division is reviewing
correspondent accounts used by foreign banks without a presence
in the U.S. Prosecutors could take action against some of those
banks, Downing said yesterday at a New York City Bar Association
event.  Downing, one of two speakers on offshore tax evasion,
oversaw the case against UBS, the largest Swiss bank by assets.
UBS was charged in February 2009 with helping U.S. citizens
evade taxes. The bank avoided prosecution by paying $780
million, admitting that it fostered tax evasion, and agreeing to
give data to the IRS on more than 250 accounts. UBS later handed
over data on an additional 4,450 accounts to resolve an IRS
lawsuit.  Prosecutors said UBS violated its so-called qualified
intermediary agreement with the Internal Revenue Service after
promising to give tax information to the IRS about American
clients holding securities in Swiss accounts. UBS was supposed
to withhold taxes at a 28 percent rate if clients didn’t declare
their accounts to the IRS. Downing said UBS is not alone.  “A lot of these banks are in violation of those agreements
with respect to their cross-border banking,” Downing said. “In
such a case, the IRS is in a position where they could pull the
QI agreement, which is financially devastating for a foreign
financial institution.”  Foreign banks seeking to avoid indictment must disclose its
own wrongdoing to the Justice Department, Downing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 