-- 
Telstra to Get $11.6 Billion Compensation for National Fiber Network Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-06-23T08:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/telstra-to-get-a-11-billion-under-national-fiber-network-plan.html
Telstra Corp., Australia’s biggest
phone company, agreed to hand over its fixed-line assets in
exchange for A$11 billion ($11.6 billion) to clear the way for
the rollout of a government-owned high speed internet network.  NBN Co., the government-owned national broadband network
builder, will lease access to carriers on the fiber system to be
completed in 2018 with Telstra to receive its compensation over
three decades, the Melbourne-based carrier said in a statement
today.  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , owner of second-ranked
Optus, will get about A$800 million under a similar agreement.  Telstra, which also rents its network to other carriers,
will give up its slower copper-wire assets to focus on selling
voice and Internet services over the NBN system, according to
the statement. The agreement, signed 21 months after the
government first demanded Telstra be broken up, enables Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  to build the A$36 billion network that
helped her win the support of independent lawmakers in last
year’s election.  “There will be some relief the deal has been done,” said
Will Seddon, who helps oversee about $350 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney and owns shares of Telstra.  The carrier said it may return the government cash to
shareholders when the phase out of its copper network is
completed. Telstra will spend about A$2 billion to switch
customers and maintain its copper network while the fiber system
is being built, according to the statement.  Stock Performance  Telstra fell 2.3 percent to A$2.96 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of trading in Sydney. The stock has gained 6.1 percent this year
compared with a 5.2 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  The deal, which requires Telstra shareholder approval,
won’t significantly affect the carrier’s finances in fiscal
2012, the company said in a statement.  Telstra’s A2 credit rating was put on review for a possible
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the risk of
reduced profitability from the loss of its monopoly position
through ownership of the copper network.  “The company will start operating on the same footing as
other alternate network providers, substantially lessening its
current fully integrated nature,” Ian Lewis, a senior credit
officer at the credit rating company, said in a statement today
“The current A2 rating incorporates the beneficial impact of
maintaining the network business and its high profit margin.”  Telstra will get about A$4 billion in disconnection
payments over a 10-year period with about A$5 billion to be
gained in infrastructure payments over 30 years, it said.  Satellite, Wireless  The company will continue to provide pay television
services over its cables and the mobile networks are unaffected.  NBN will  lay fiber  to 93 percent of the population by 2018.
The rest will be served by wireless and satellite connections.  As a former state-owned monopoly, Telstra owned  Australia ’s
only national fixed-line phone network, while Optus built its
own cable assets in metropolitan areas. That enabled them to
keep almost all the revenue from services they sold.  Opposition lawmakers have said the government is spending
too much money by replacing existing cable with new fiber.  ‘No Question’  “There’s no question of anything being destroyed or ripped
up or terminated,” opposition spokesman  Malcolm Turnbull  told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “What we should be
doing is identifying those areas where the service is
inadequate, moving swiftly to upgrade them so that the service
is adequate, and then over time upgrading the national
network.”  The agreement has a A$500 million break fee that may be
paid if the deal is changed by a new government, Finance
Minister  Penny Wong  told reporters in Canberra today.  “The Telstra Board expects to recommend that shareholders
approve a proposal to participate in the NBN rollout, subject to
the conditions precedent being satisfied,” Telstra Chairman
Catherine Livingstone said in the statement.  The agreement requires antitrust approval and will need
majority support from Telstra investors, who will gather at the
company’s annual meeting on Oct. 18.  The plan to bring high-speed Internet to some of
Australia’s remotest corners drew fire ahead of last year’s Aug.
21 general election for its cost. Gillard clung to power by
forming a minority government with independent lawmakers from
rural regions who welcomed improved services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  