-- 
Emerging-Market Industry ETF Line Opens as Traders Sharpen Focus

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-23T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/emerging-market-industry-etf-line-opens-as-traders-sharpen-focus.html
Emerging Global Advisors LLC opened
eight exchange-traded funds, creating the broadest series of
industry-specific emerging-market ETFs as investors seek more
specialized index-based trading options.  The 10 ETFs, including two that started in 2009, buy shares
across emerging-market countries and focus on industries
including energy, financials, telecommunications and basic
materials, the New York-based money manager said today in a
statement. The funds, tracking the Dow Jones Emerging Markets
Titans Index series, are listed on the NYSE Arca exchange.  Assets in U.S.-domiciled ETFs surged 15-fold to $992
billion in the decade ended Dec. 31, and the number of products
expanded to 923 from 80, according to the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute . Investors can use ETFs, which hold
baskets of securities and trade throughout the day like stocks,
to track indexes ranging from the  Standard & Poor’s 500  to the
Solactive Waste Management Total Return Index.  “There’s a progression toward investors using more precise
tools as research is more readily available,” Robert Holderith,
president of Emerging Global, said in an interview.  BlackRock Inc.’s IShares ETF lineup includes emerging-
market funds tracking the financial, materials and
infrastructure industries, according to the New York-based
company’s website.  Among ETFs that invest in the U.S., about $148 billion, or
30 percent of assets, is dedicated to industry-specific funds,
Emerging Global said. Industry ETFs capture less than $2
billion, or 1.4 percent, of emerging-market ETF assets, the
company said.  The company, which is marketing the new line as Global
Emerging Market Sectors, or GEMS, manages about $531 million in
ETF assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
financial and energy emerging-markets ETFs, which both opened
two years ago, hold about $30 million combined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 