-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall, Snapping Two-Day Advance, on Fed Forecast

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-06-23T15:02:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/emerging-stocks-fall-snapping-two-day-advance-on-fed-forecast.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
snapping a two-day gain, after the  Federal Reserve  cut estimates
for U.S. economic growth and after jobless claims rose more than
forecast, raising concern the global recovery will stall.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 1 percent to
1,105.21 as of 10:35 a.m. in New York. The gauge has fallen 5.7
percent this quarter, headed for its first three-month retreat
since the period ended June 30, 2010.  Mexico ’s IPC index dropped
for the first time in four days, declining 0.9 percent. The
Micex Index slid 1.9 percent in Moscow and Taiwan’s Taiex Index
dropped 0.6 percent and  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.4
percent.  The U.S. economic recovery is progressing “more slowly”
than expected, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday. The Fed’s Open Market Committee said it will complete
a $600 billion bond-purchase program, known as “QE2,” as
scheduled this month. European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said risk signals for financial stability in the
euro area are flashing “red” as the debt crisis threatens to
infect banks.  “The FOMC meeting left a pretty downbeat impression and
indeed we seem to be in something of a sour spot whereupon U.S.
growth is feeble, but not bad enough for a bout of QE3,”
Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note. “This
means a combination of less liquidity plus weaker global growth,
which is not particularly appealing.”  Fed officials lowered their forecasts for U.S. growth and
employment this year and next, projecting the economy will
expand by between 2.7 percent and 2.9 percent this year, down
from forecasts ranging from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April.  Jobless Claims  Applications for jobless benefits increased 9,000 in the
week ended June 18 to 429,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. The level of claims exceeded the highest estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey in which the median projection called for
415,000 filings.  The lira weakened for a fourth day, depreciating 1 percent
against the dollar, after the central bank left the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at a record-low 6.25 percent, in line
with the forecast by 12 of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Czech koruna fell 0.3 percent against the euro after
the local central bank left the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75
percent, also a record low, for a 13th month.  The ruble weakened by 1.3 percent against the dollar as oil
slid as much as 6 percent in  New York . The South African rand
depreciated 1.3 percent against the dollar, the most in a month.
The price of gold, a key South African export, fell from a
seven-week high.  BUX Drops  Hungary’s BUX Index tumbled by 1.6 percent after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its price target for Mol Nyrt., the
country’s largest oil refiner, and the telecommunications
watchdog issued a decree calling on Magyar Telekom Nyrt. to
change the terms of its contracts with mobile phone clients to
avoid “shocking bills.”  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.5 percent, the most
since March 7. Anhui Conch Cement Co. and Sany Heavy Industry
Co. led increases after China Business News reported the
government may release a five-year development plan for the
construction machinery industry and the China Daily said the
dams. China Shenhua Energy Co. jumped 2.9 percent on the
nation’s plan to build more coal-fired  power plants .  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
advanced 1 percent in Mumbai as some investors judged recent
losses as excessive. The gauge has dropped 14 percent this year.
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s most valuable company,
increased 2.9 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 326, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose three basis
points to 205.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  