-- 
Lennar Climbs After Homebuilder’s Quarterly Earnings Top Analyst Estimates

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-06-23T20:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/lennar-earnings-beat-analyst-estimates-as-distressed-asset-unit-sales-rise.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates on higher  house prices  and rising earnings
at its distressed-investing unit.  The shares rose 41 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $18.51 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the
biggest gain in almost a month.  Net income was $13.8 million, or 7 cents a share, for the
three months through May, compared with $39.7 million, or 21
cents, a year earlier, the Miami-based company said in a
statement today. Analysts expected earnings of 4 cents a share,
the average of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. homebuilders are being hurt by weak demand as
unemployment hovers around 9 percent and foreclosures drive down
prices for existing houses. Lennar has reported five straight
quarterly profits amid the slump after cutting costs and
generating more revenue from its Rialto Investments unit, which
manages and trades distressed property assets.  “It was a nice, solid quarter,” Megan McGrath, a
homebuilder analyst at MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s a flat housing market, yet
they are still able to show some level of profitability. That’s
not something a lot of builders are able to do.”  New-Home Sales  Purchases of new U.S. houses fell in May for the first time
in three months, the Commerce Department said today. Sales
dropped 2.1 percent to a 319,000 annual pace.  Lennar’s second-quarter home orders were little changed at
3,204, with the average price climbing to $245,000 from
$240,000. The 2010 orders were boosted by a federal tax credit
for homebuyers that required contracts be signed by April 30.  “While it’s now well-documented that the expected spring
selling season of 2011 simply did not materialize, it is
beginning to feel like the worst days of the housing market are
getting behind us,” Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said
during a conference call with analysts today.  Banks are unloading an increasing number of troubled
assets, giving Rialto more opportunities, according to Miller.  “We’re underwriting a pipeline of new potential deals that
is much larger than we’ve seen over the past quarters and we
expect this activity to continue for some time,” he said.  Revenue Declines  Lennar’s total revenue fell to $764.5 million from $814.5
million in the second quarter of 2010. Home deliveries decreased
to 2,682 from 2,912 a year earlier.  The company had an order backlog of 2,470 homes, 1 percent
lower than a year earlier and 27 percent higher than the first
quarter. Lennar’s cancellation rate remained at 17 percent.  The Rialto unit had operating earnings of $9.8 million,
compared with $5.1 million a year earlier.  “Lennar has got one of the best homebuilding operations in
the industry,” Michael G. Smith, an analyst with JMP Securities
LLC, said in a telephone interview from  San Francisco  before the
report. “Then you add to that this whole separate business that
acts as a hedge against continuing weakness in housing.”  Lennar shares climbed 26 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, compared with a 7.5 percent advance in the 12-member
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  