-- 
EU May Import Up to 500,000 Tons of Sugar Through Tenders

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-06-23T13:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/eu-may-import-up-to-500-000-tons-of-sugar-through-tenders-1-.html
The European Union may import as
much as 500,000 metric tons of sugar under a tender system
approved last month, according to the European Commission, the
bloc’s executive arm.  “If the market determines, we could go up to 500,000 tons,
but that will depend on imports from APC and EBA,” Lars Hoelgaard, the commission’s deputy director-general of
agriculture and rural development, said today in an interview at
a conference in Brussels. “It could be anything between zero
and 500,000 tons.”  The EU last month allowed additional duty-free imports of
200,000 tons of sugar and backed a proposal for more shipments
via tenders at reduced tax to increase supplies after raw sugar
reached a 30-year high in February in  New York . Prices were
higher on international markets than in the EU, prompting some
exporters that usually ship to the bloc to deliver elsewhere.  “The EU balance sheet shows we expect rather low stocks at
the end of the season,” Hoelgaard said.  APC denotes the countries, ranging from  Angola  to  Zimbabwe ,
that belong to the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of
States and are permitted to export some sugar to the EU free of
duty. EBA refers to the 49 nations, including Bangladesh and
 Uganda , that also enjoy preferential access under the  Everything
But Arms  initiative.  Import Proposals  The EU will run a series of tenders from July to September
in which market participants including traders and producers can
propose imports at reduced duty. The commission will decide
which bids to accept.  Sugar beet has escaped a drought that hurt crops in the EU
earlier this year, Hoelgaard said at the conference. “Sugar
beet seems to be doing OK,” he said.  Asked whether the bloc would raise exports to 700,000 tons
from the 650,000 tons approved in March to be exported in the
2011-12 season, he replied, “If things go normal, where we have
a better balance internally as well as a better balance
externally, I don’t see why we shouldn’t be able to do 1.35”
million tons.  Hoelgaard was referring to the amount the  World Trade
Organization  allows the bloc to export. It’s too soon to say how
much EU producers may be allowed to export, he said.  Raw sweetener reached 36.08 cents a pound in February on
ICE Futures U.S. EU refiners will face “somewhat of a
challenge” in maintaining profitability while global prices
remain elevated, Hoelgaard said.  European refiners had difficulty securing raw sugar earlier
this year. The European Sugar Refiners’ Association urged the
commission to restrict duty-free imports to raw sweetener, while
the bloc’s additional inbound deliveries were for both raw and
refined sugar.  “Our primary responsibility is to supply the market with
sugar,” Hoelgaard said. “Whether that be in the form of white
sugar or raw sugar is for the market to determine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida at  ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 