-- 
EU Stress Tests Updated for Worse Losses on Sovereign Debts

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-06-23T16:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/eu-stress-tests-updated-for-worsening-sovereign-debt-situation.html
The European Banking Authority
updated its stress tests to take into account extra trading
losses that banks may face on their holdings of sovereign debt
from crisis-hit European Union countries including Greece.  Rules for how banks should write down the value of
 government bonds  they plan to trade “have been adjusted, in
some cases, to reflect market developments,” the EBA said in an
e-mailed statement today. The writedowns should “reflect actual
losses that are related to market values.”  The changes are an attempt to give a more realistic picture
of banks’ vulnerability after European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that risk signals for
financial stability in the euro area are flashing “red.”  “Clearly they have to make these tests credible and
credibility means you have to stress relative to current market
conditions,” Neil Smith, a banking analyst at WestLB AG, said
in a telephone interview today. If the Greek situation has
deteriorated “then it’s sensible in my view to add a bit more
stress for  Greece ,” Smith said.  The EU has failed to tame a sovereign debt crisis that is
entering its 21st month and has included bail-outs of Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal . At a Brussels summit tonight and tomorrow,
the region’s leaders will debate the size of new loans to the
Athens government and how to get holders of Greek bonds to
contribute.  The EBA “is closely monitoring the situation and the
difficult financing circumstances in Greece,” it said. “The
stress test results will allow an assessment of potential
systemic impacts stemming from the current market conditions on
sovereign risk and banks’ cost of funding.”  Stricter Capital Measure  Under this year’s EU stress tests, 91 banks will be
expected to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5
percent. That capital measure is stricter than last year’s
assessment, which had a pass rate of 6 percent Tier 1 capital, a
measure of financial strength that encompasses a broader range
of securities. Last year’s tests were criticized for not testing
how banks would fare against a sovereign default -- a factor
that hasn’t been changed in this year’s scenario.  Extra guidance was sent to banks at the beginning of the
month “to reflect the worsening of the sovereign situation,”
EBA spokeswoman Franca Rosa Congiu said in a phone interview
today. This was required because of “inconsistencies” in data
submitted by lenders and because some of it was deemed by the
 EBA  to be “too optimistic,” she said.  “This helps explain the delay to July, from the initial
mid-June deadline, for publication of the stress test results,”
Michael Symonds, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets, said in an
e-mail.  Presumed Losses  Banks were told to adjust the presumed losses they will
face on government bonds that they intend to trade. The London-
based EBA also changed the rules for how banks should calculate
their provisions against a default on sovereign debt they will
hold to maturity, said Congiu.  This year’s tests will include a review of how banks would
handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area in
2011 as well as a 15 percent drop in European equity markets.  The EBA tests will also examine the effect of a 75 basis-
point jump in  interest rates  on European sovereign bonds and an
increase in short-term interbank financing costs of 125 basis
points.  While the stress tests don’t assume a government default,
they do require banks to “assess risks against sovereign debt”
by measuring the probability that a nation fails to meet its
obligations, the EBA said.  The new guidelines seek to prevent inconsistencies or
“excessive optimism” in how these risks are calculated, the
EBA said, including by restricting assumptions that banks can
make about changes to credit ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  