-- 
EU Should Take Steps to Boost Sugar Supplies, Nordzucker Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-06-23T11:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/eu-should-take-steps-to-boost-sugar-supplies-nordzucker-says.html
The European Union should increase
sugar supplies in the bloc for the season starting in October,
according to Germany’s sugar refiner Nordzucker Gmbh & Co.  The Brussels-based European Commission should allow more
duty-free imports and increase the amount of out-of-quota sugar
that EU producers can sell domestically, Mats Liljestam, chief
marketing officer at the company, said in an interview at a
conference in the Belgian capital today. Under EU rules, local
producers can supply a limited amount of sugar to the domestic
market, and any surplus must be exported or put to non-food use.  “The commission should take proactive actions to support
the market instead of repeating the mistake of last year, when
they waited too long to react,” Liljestam said.  Sugar shortages in the bloc led member states to approve
500,000 metric tons of duty-free imports for the 2010-11 season
earlier this year. The group also allowed domestic producers to
sell an additional 500,000 tons in the EU to increase supplies
after prices rose to a 30-year high in February.  Higher prices for the sweetener in the international market
compared with EU quotes prompted some of the least developed
nations and some countries in the African, Caribbean and Pacific
group, which usually ship their sugar to the bloc, to export to
other destinations. These countries have preferential access to
the EU market because they don’t need to pay import duty for
fixed amounts.  “The EU sugar market is under-supplied,” Liljestam said.
“The situation of preferential import situation won’t change
for next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 