-- 
EU Vows to Rescue Greece in Exchange for Papandreou’s $111 Billion Savings

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-24T12:51:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/eu-vows-to-rescue-greece-in-exchange-for-cuts.html
European Union leaders vowed to
stave off a Greek default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of budget cuts next week,
pledging to do whatever it takes to stabilize the euro economy.  “We have agreed that there will be a new program for
Greece,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters at an
EU summit in Brussels today. “This is an important decision
that says once again we will  do everything  to stabilize the euro
overall.”  Greece’s next hurdle is to shepherd 78 billion euros ($111
billion) of austerity measures through parliament, after
yesterday’s endorsement of the program by experts from the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Europe’s latest attempt to stem the debt crisis came after
bonds of debt-strapped euro nations slumped and officials in the
U.S. and  China  warned that the euro area’s failure to restore
confidence threatened the world economy.  Greece’s Papandreou called the commitment to a new three-
year aid program “not only a green light but also a positive
sign for the future of Greece.”  The summit ended today with leaders endorsing  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi  as the next president of the ECB after a last-minute
dispute threatened to overshadow the efforts on Greece. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  held up the confirmation of Draghi,
63, until another Italian on the ECB’s board, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, offered to step down to make way for a Frenchman.  ‘New Job’  Bini Smaghi promised to move to a “new job” by the end of
the year, Sarkozy said in Brussels. Draghi is slated to take
over the ECB helm from  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Nov. 1.  Yesterday’s discussions were dominated by  Greece , which is
drawing on 110 billion euros of loans pledged last year. The
leaders paired their show of solidarity with pressure on the
Greek opposition party to fall in line with the savings program.  Opposition leader Antonis Samaras refused to commit in
meetings with fellow European conservatives in Brussels. While
backing budget cuts, he lashed out at the “current policy mix”
for too much reliance on tax increases.  The euro trimmed its decline against the dollar, on course
for a third weekly drop. It was down 0.2 percent at $1.4223 as
of 1:50 p.m. in  London . The yield on the 10-year Greek bond
declined by five basis points to 16.82 percent.  ‘Worrisome Days’  Papandreou offered an assurance that he would deliver the
budget cuts demanded in exchange for the 12 billion-euro
installment of emergency loans due in July and a new rescue
package, a Greek government official said.  Speaking of “difficult and worrisome days,” EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  said Greek belt-tightening is “absolutely
necessary to restore confidence and over time foster economic
growth.”  Already at a European record of 142.8 percent of gross
domestic product, Greek debt is set to rise to 166.1 percent
next year, the EU predicts. The effort to cut a  budget deficit 
that is about 10 percent of GDP has helped deepen a third year
of recession.  In  Athens , Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, in office
since a June 17 cabinet revamp, yesterday announced measures
including a 5 percent tax on lawmakers’ incomes, a levy on self-
employed professionals and a reduction in the tax-free income
allowance. Greek lawmakers will vote on the package on June 30,
in time for a July 3 meeting of European finance ministers to
agree to pay the next installment.  Coupon Payments  Greece needs to cover about 4 billion euros of bills
maturing between July 15 and July 22 and faces about 3 billion
euros of coupon payments in the month, according to Bloomberg
calculations. A bigger test comes on Aug. 20 when it must redeem
6.6 billion euros of bonds.  Papandreou said a European commitment to aid Greece will
make it easier for him to sell the Greek people on austerity
measures that have provoked strikes and riots.  “If there is a strong commitment from the European Union
there will be a strong commitment from Greece,” Papandreou
said.  The EU sweetened the offer by pledging to increase its
contribution to Greek infrastructure projects and provide more
“technical assistance” to enable the Greek government and
companies to tap European subsidies.  Europe  will “look at how we can use existing European
structural funds in Greece so that they have an immediate impact
on growth and jobs,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
said.  ‘Informal and Voluntary’  Leaders of the euro area’s six AAA rated countries have
said the key ingredient of a second package must be a pledge by
banks, insurance companies and asset managers to maintain their
holdings of Greek bonds.  An EU statement spoke of the need for “informal and
voluntary rollovers of existing Greek debt at maturity,”
avoiding a coercive exchange that would lead credit-rating
companies to declare Greece in default.  To make the rollover voluntary, talks with Greek
bondholders must be held on a country-by-country basis, not
organized from Brussels, an EU official told reporters
yesterday. The EU wants national central banks and finance
ministries to speak to financial institutions in their
countries, the official said.  “We don’t see any way that investors are going to come out
being paid on time and in full,” said  Sean Egan , president of
Egan-Jones Ratings Co. in Haverford,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  