-- 
Euro Pares Decline as Greece Is Reported to Reach Agreement on Austerity

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-23T21:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/euro-falls-versus-dollar-yen-before-eu-ministers-meet-on-greece-financing.html
The euro pared losses against the
dollar after European officials endorsed austerity measures
proposed by  Greece ’s finance minister, increasing optimism the
nation’s debt crisis will be resolved.  The shared currency earlier dropped the most in more than a
week against the greenback after European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said the debt crisis threatens to infect
banks. The dollar rose against most of its 16 major counterparts
after the  Federal Reserve  signaled yesterday it won’t add to
stimulus measures that could erode the value of the currency.  “The issue is whether the Greek parliament will vote for
it or not,” said Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York. “It tells you that the market got
very short euros, and trading the headline is an excuse to cover
short positions.” A short position is a bet that a currency
will weaken.  The euro declined 0.7 percent to $1.4256 at 5 p.m. in  New
York , from $1.4357 yesterday. Earlier it fell as much as 1.6
percent, the biggest intraday drop since June 15. The euro
dropped 0.4 percent to 114.78 yen, from 115.28. The dollar
strengthened 0.3 percent to 80.51 yen, from 80.29. It reached
80.80 yen, the highest level since June 16.  The shared currency earlier dropped to a record versus the
Swiss franc, falling as much as 1.7 percent to 1.1846. It traded
at 1.1957 francs after the report on Greece, down 0.8 percent.  Endorsed by Officials  Measures proposed by Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
to complete a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion) austerity package
required for Greece to win a bailout were endorsed by officials
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund , said a
person familiar with the matter.  The program faces a vote in parliament next week, and
passage is a condition for receiving a fifth loan under an EU-
led bailout and for future financing. Failure to secure aid
would push Greece to the brink of default. The country needs the
funds to cover 6.6 billion euros of maturing bonds in August.  EU leaders urged Greece to pass the new package of budget
cuts and vowed to do what’s needed to meet the country’s
financing needs in July, the group said in a statement after the
first session of a summit in Brussels. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  earlier assured them he would deliver cuts, a
Greek government official said.  Dollar Gains  The dollar advanced for a second day against the yen after
U.S. policy makers said yesterday they’ll keep the Fed’s balance
sheet at a record high to spur the economy after the bank ends
$600 billion in Treasury purchases on schedule this month. The
program is the second round of quantitative easing to stimulate
growth. The Fed cut growth forecasts for this year and next.  “The market had gone overboard with expectations for
QE3,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for the
Americas at Standard Chartered Plc. in New York. “It does look
like the market had been positioned for the Fed to open the door
to QE3.”  Canada ’s dollar and Norway’s krone dropped after the IEA
said its members will release 60 million barrels of oil from
emergency stockpiles to alleviate possible shortages following
the loss of Libyan crude.  “We have seen commodity currencies weaken across the
board, and this will certainly play into that theme,” said  Lena Komileva , head of Group-of-10 strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in  London . “The Canadian dollar and Norwegian
krone are sharply down.”  Canada, Norway  The Canadian currency dropped as much as 0.9 percent to
98.25 cents per  U.S. dollar  before trading at 97.90, down 0.5
percent.  Norway ’s krone tumbled 2.1 percent to 5.5535 per dollar
before trading at 5.46, down 0.4 percent. Crude oil slumped as
much as 6 percent to $89.69 a barrel in New York, the lowest
level since Feb. 22.  The British pound slumped below its 200-day moving average
for the first time since January as the Confederation of British
Industry’s retail gauge fell to minus 2 in June from 18 in May,
the weakest in a year. Stores expect demand to be flat in July.  Sterling depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.6006, dropping below
$1.60 for the first time since April. It gained 0.3 percent to
89.06 pence per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  