-- 
European Stocks Tumble to Three-Month Low as Fed Cuts Forecast

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-23T16:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/european-index-futures-drop-as-fed-cuts-growth-forecast-holcim-may-fall.html
European stocks sank, falling to
their lowest level since March, as banks led a selloff after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cut his growth forecast
for the world’s largest economy.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  led a gauge of banks to
its biggest drop in four months.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  slumped the most in
more than two years after a rival to its Xarelto blood thinner
outperformed the traditional treatment in a study.  Mediaset SpA (MS) ,
the broadcaster controlled by Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , sank 6.7 percent after forecasting that advertising
will decline.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 1.4 percent to 264.31 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the gauge’s lowest level since
March 16. The gauge has tumbled 9.2 percent from this year’s
peak on Feb. 17 as U.S. economic data trailed forecasts and
concern mounted that Greece will fail to repay all its debt. The
measure is on course for an eighth consecutive week of losses,
the longest stretch of declines since 1998.  Bernanke’s “providing a strong message; we are seeing a
very slow second half of the year recovery,” Patrick Legland,
the global head of research at Societe Generale SA in Paris said
in a Bloomberg Television interview with Francine Lacqua.
“Markets are extremely worried because we lack the political
will at this stage” to solve the debt crisis in  Europe .  Fed Forecasts  The Fed yesterday reiterated a pledge to keep  interest
rates  near zero and said it will complete a $600 billion bond-
purchase program as scheduled this month, even as Bernanke said
the recovery is progressing “more slowly” than expected.
Officials at the central bank lowered their predictions for U.S.
growth and employment this year and next.  U.S. reports today showed that sales of new homes declined
in May for the first time in three months and more Americans
than forecast filed first-time claims for unemployment insurance
last week.  European services and manufacturing growth slowed in June
more than economists had forecast, adding to signs that the
economy is losing momentum. A composite index based on a survey
of euro-area purchasing managers in both industries fell to 53.6
from 55.8 in May, London-based Markit Economics said.  European Union leaders began a two-day summit in Brussels
today to discuss  Greece ’s financing needs as the nation attempts
to avert a default. European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday said danger signals for financial stability in
the euro area are flashing red as the debt crisis threatens to
infect banks.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes retreated in every western
European market open today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slumped
1.7 percent, Germany’s DAX declined 1.8 percent and France’s CAC
40 Index fell 2.2 percent. Austria and Luxembourg were closed
for a public holiday.  Stocks in the U.S. and Europe may drop as much as 11
percent over the next 12 months as growth slows and earnings
weaken, according to equity strategists at Exane BNP Paribas.  “Earnings and interest rates, two key drivers for
equities, are as good as they are likely to get,” Bert Jansen,
a stocks strategist at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris, wrote in the
report. “With bond yields, interest rates and inflation near
record lows and profit margins close to record highs, it is
difficult to see what will drive equity markets higher beyond
2011, amid slowing growth.”  Banks Tumble  Banks were the worst performing of the 19 industry groups
in the Stoxx 600, sliding 2.6 percent. BBVA, Spain’s second-
largest lender, declined 5.5 percent to 7.57 euros. Italy’s
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  dropped 5.1 percent to 54.7
euro cents and  Dexia SA (DEXB)  lost 5.4 percent to 2.06 euros.  Bayer slumped 6.3 percent to 54.40 euros, its largest drop
since March 2009. The results position Pfizer Inc.’s and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s apixaban ahead of Bayer’s Xarelto in
a race to win approval to provide new stroke-preventing drugs to
patients with the condition known as atrial fibrillation,  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group Inc., wrote.  Mediaset tumbled 6.7 percent to 3.10 euros, the lowest
close since its initial public offering in 1996. The company
said advertising sales in Italy will decline as much as 5
percent in the first six months.  Energy shares slumped, with every company in the Stoxx 600
Oil & Gas Index falling.  Total SA (FP)  sank 1.6 percent to 37.97
euros and  BP Plc (BP/)  dropped 2.2 percent to 435.5 pence.  Crude plunged to a four-month low of $90.65 a barrel in New
York. The  International Energy Agency  said it will release 60
million barrels of oil from emergency stockpiles, the third time
the agency has coordinated the use of emergency reserves since
its founding in 1974.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  tumbled 5.6 percent to 6.44 euros as
its chipmaking joint venture with Ericsson AB, ST-Ericsson,
pushed back the date at which it expects to become profitable.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  slid 4.3 percent to 24.35 Swiss francs
after CA Cheuvreux cut its recommendation on the shares to
“underperform” from “outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  