-- 
Euro Set for Third Weekly Drop Versus Dollar as EU Discusses Greece Rescue

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-06-23T23:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/euro-set-for-third-weekly-drop-versus-dollar-as-eu-discusses-greece-rescue.html
The euro was set for a third weekly
decline against the dollar, the longest streak in four months,
before European Union leaders conclude a summit in Brussels
today on financing needs for debt-saddled  Greece .  The shared currency depreciated against most of its major
peers this week before a report that economists say will show
German business confidence fell. The dollar was poised for its
first weekly gain versus the yen in five before U.S. data
economists say will show orders for durable and capital goods
increased in May.  “On a six-month view I’m looking for much lower levels in
the euro,” said  Michael McCarthy , the Sydney-based chief market
strategist at CMC Markets. “On the Greek situation, one of the
problems for markets is that the solution is going to take
months and years to come through.”  The euro traded at $1.4275 as of 8:20 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
$1.4256 in  New York  yesterday, set for a 0.2 percent weekly
decline. The common currency was at 114.83 yen from 114.78 yen.
The dollar bought 80.44 yen from 80.51 yen, poised for a 0.5
percent climb this week.  European finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
Greece has met conditions for its next aid payment. EU leaders
urged Greece to pass a package of budget cuts and vowed to do
what’s needed to meet the country’s financing needs, the EU said
in a statement in Brussels yesterday.  German Confidence  The Ifo institute’s German business climate index for June,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, declined to the lowest
level since October, the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News showed before the data’s release today.  U.S. orders for durable goods, those designed to last at
least three years, increased 1.5 percent in May after dropping
3.6 percent the prior month, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
said ahead of the Commerce Department data. Bookings for non-
defense capital goods excluding aircraft gained 1 percent last
month after falling in April, a separate survey showed.  The  Federal Reserve  decided on June 22 to keep the central
bank’s balance sheet at a record to support an economic recovery
after completing $600 billion of bond purchases this month.  “What we’re seeing is a recovery in the  U.S. economy  and
at some stage the huge stimulus will be withdrawn,” said CMC’s
McCarthy. “The risks in the dollar now go to the upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 