-- 
Europe Services, Manufacturing Weaken More Than Forecast

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-23T09:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/europe-services-manufacturing-growth-weakens-more-than-forecast.html
European services and manufacturing
growth slowed more than economists forecast in June, adding to
signs that the economy is losing some momentum.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 53.6 from 55.8 in May,
London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists had
forecast a drop to 55.2, the median of 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey showed. A reading above 50 indicates growth.
Output growth weakened to the slowest in almost two years.  European leaders at a meeting in Brussels today are seeking
ways to contain a worsening debt crisis, which has prompted
concerns that  Greece  may default on its debt and is clouding
growth prospects. In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, investor
confidence dropped more than economists forecast in June.
Volkswagen AG Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said on
June 17 that global conditions remain “challenging.”  “The big picture is that we expect gross domestic product
growth to slow down in the coming quarters,”  Aline Schuiling ,
an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam, said in an e-
mailed note. “From the autumn, it should regain some traction
as world trade should pick up somewhat.  The euro was lower against the dollar, trading at $1.4281
at 10:43 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.5 percent on the day.  ‘Serious Threat’  The euro-area services indicator fell to 54.2 this month
from 56 in May, Markit said in the initial estimate. That’s the
weakest in six months. The manufacturing gauge decreased to 52
from 54.6 in the previous month, the lowest in 18 months.  The  European Central Bank  on June 9 lowered its growth
forecast for next year to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent, partly
on cooling export growth. In 2011, the economy may expand 1.9
percent, the Frankfurt-based central bank said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that risk
signals for the region’s financial stability are flashing
‘‘red,” with the link between debt problems and banks being
“the most serious threat.” U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said the impact of a Greek default on lenders in
the world’s largest economy would be “very small.”  While Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday won
a vote of confidence, bolstering his new government’s chances of
pushing through austerity measures to secure further financial
aid, European finance ministers said earlier this week that they
would hold off on approving a 12 billion-euro ($17 billion)
payment to the country promised for July until passage of the
plans to cut the  budget deficit  and sell state assets.  ‘Debt Pile’  European finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
Greece has met conditions for its next aid payment.  “Most analysts remain skeptical that Greece will be able
to reduce its vast public debt pile,”  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in an e-mailed
note. “But for now, both markets and European policy makers are
willing to give Athens the benefit of the doubt.”  In Europe, companies may struggle to maintain their sales
growth as the global economy shows signs of cooling and
governments toughen spending cuts. In the U.S., manufacturing in
the Philadelphia region unexpectedly contracted in June.  China ’s manufacturing probably expanded at the slowest pace
in 11 months in June as output growth stalls and export orders
drop, a preliminary purchasing managers’ index showed today.  German Growth  German manufacturers such as Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, have helped drive the region’s expansion by stepping
up output and adding shifts to meet Asian export orders. Surging
company investment and quickening export growth fueled the euro
region’s 0.8 percent expansion in the first quarter. The German
economy grew 1.5 percent in that period.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars based in Munich, said on June 8 that deliveries
jumped 22 percent last month. That’s making it the “most
successful May the company has ever reported,” sales chief  Ian Robertson  said in a statement on that day.  A gauge measuring new business had the weakest gain since
November 2009, with an indicator of new export orders for
manufactured goods rising “only modestly,” Markit said.
 Service industries  also reported a slowdown in new business and
German manufacturing growth weakened, today’s report showed.  Adding to signs of slowdown, European economic confidence
weakened in May, industrial orders rose less than economists
forecast in April and German investor sentiment dropped to the
lowest in 2 1/2 years in June. German executives probably also
grew more pessimistic this month, a Bloomberg survey shows. The
Ifo institute in Munich will release the figures tomorrow.  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said euro-
region growth probably weakened to 0.6 percent in the current
quarter.  “The euro area’s economic growth surge has lost momentum
at a worrying rate in the past two months,” Williamson said in
the report. “Even German manufacturing, the driving force of
the region’s recovery, has seen a marked deterioration in output
and new orders growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  