-- 
Mexico’s $8 Billion Power Projects May Cut California Emissions

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-06-23T14:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/mexico-s-8-billion-power-projects-may-cut-california-emissions.html
Mexico expects foreign investment in
renewable energy to almost triple this year to $8 billion,
helping U.S. states such as California to slash  carbon
emissions , said the head of the Latin American nation’s
investment promotions agency.  ProMexico, as the agency is known, is in talks with
European and U.S. wind and solar-power companies for four to
five projects this year, compared with four projects totaling $3
billion in 2010, agency chief Carlos Guzman said in an interview
in London today. Companies with operations in Mexico, such as
Italy’s Enel SpA, Spain’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Acciona SA (ANA)  or Abengoa SA
could make additional investments, he said.  Countries including Spain are taking advantage of Mexico’s
mountain ranges and a 3,000-kilometer (1,800-mile) border with
the U.S. to build wind, solar and small hydroelectric plants,
Guzman said. Mexico could help  California  meet a requirement for
state utilities to get a third of their power from renewable
sources by 2020, the U.S.’s most ambitious standard, he said.  “It’s very difficult for California to achieve that in
such a short period,” said Guzman. “So many of the projects
we’re generating in Mexico have in mind that they could serve
the Californian market. We still have to work on the regulatory
side, but it’s a possibility.”  Mexico’s proximity to the U.S. is a “tremendous asset”
that facilitates the supply of power as well as trade, according
to Guzman. The southern neighbor helped maintain U.S.
electricity supply by selling it additional energy after forest
fires and snowstorms affected output in the past year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in  London  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  