-- 
Facebook Appoints Netflix Chief Reed Hastings to Its Board

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-06-23T20:26:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/facebook-appoints-netflix-chief-reed-hastings-to-its-board.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social-networking website, appointed  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief
Executive Officer Reed Hastings to its board, adding expertise
in the distribution of digital entertainment.  Hastings becomes the sixth director at Facebook, the
company said in a statement today. Existing directors include
venture capitalists  Marc Andreessen  and Jim Breyer and
Washington Post Co. chairman  Donald Graham .  Fast-growing Facebook is deepening its board while
preparing to disclose financial data or hold an initial public
offering by April. Hastings co-founded Netflix in 1997 before
taking it public in 2002. Netflix rallied amid speculation that
his presence at Facebook may foster cooperation between the
movie-rental business and the social network, which has more
than 500 million users, said Atul Bagga with ThinkEquity LLC.  “One leg of growth for Netflix will be tighter integration
with Facebook,” said Bagga, a San Francisco-based analyst who
recommends buying Netflix and doesn’t own the shares. A tighter
partnership between the sites could improve Netflix’s movie
recommendations and help bring it more users, he said.  Netflix shares rose $7.06, or 2.8 percent, to $255.72 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has
climbed 46 percent this year.  Streaming Video  Facebook is adding a veteran of digital entertainment to
its board as it prepares to compete more aggressively in video
offerings. This year, Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. studio
announced plans to offer movie rentals on Facebook for $3, while
Facebook and Netflix have discussed incorporating more social
features into the online video-streaming service.  “Reed is an entrepreneur and technologist who has led
Netflix to transform the way people watch movies and TV,” said
 Mark Zuckerberg , founder and CEO of Facebook, in the statement.
“He has built a culture of continuous rapid innovation,
something we share and work hard to build every day.”  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook is valued at $71.3
billion on  SharesPost Inc , a secondary exchange for shares of
private companies.  Steve Swasey , spokesman for Los Gatos, California-based
Netflix, declined to make Hastings available for comment on the
appointment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  