-- 
Fidelity National Is In Negotiations to Acquire U.K. Software Maker Misys

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-06-23T10:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/fidelity-national-information-services-is-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-misys.html
Fidelity National Information
Services Inc. (FIS) , a Florida-based provider of banking and payment
technology, is in talks to buy U.K. software maker  Misys Plc. (MSY)   Fidelity National made a “preliminary approach regarding a
possible cash offer for Misys,” it said today, without giving
details. An agreement may be reached in weeks, two people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Misys rose as much as 2.6 percent in London trading and has
jumped more than 8 percent since the company said June 21 it had
received a takeover approach. The provider of software for the
financial industry, with a market value of 1.4 billion pounds
($2.2 billion), would help Fidelity National reduce its reliance
on the U.S., where it derives more than 80 percent of revenue.  “Much of the bid premium was already in the price,” Peel
Hunt analysts Alex Jarvis and  Paul Morland  wrote in a note
today. “While we have been expecting an uptick in bank spending
on IT, we have seen little evidence to date and recent events
may mean that any recovery is further delayed.”  Misys climbed as much as 10.6 pence to 421 pence and traded
at 416.5 pence as of 11:02 a.m. in London. Fidelity National
dropped 0.6 percent to $31.10 on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday.  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,200
customers including Credit Agricole CIB, Nordea Bank AB and the
financing arm of PetroChina Co. Ltd., according to its website.  Multiple Trails  The company is trading at 15.6 times trailing earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. In 16
enterprise software transactions that exceeded $1 billion,
buyers paid a median of 18.9 times Ebitda, according to
Bloomberg data.  Misys is worth about 5 pounds a share, or a total of about
1.8 billion pounds, divided into 600 million pounds for the
banking software unit and 1.2 billion pounds for the capital
markets business, according to estimates by Milan Radia, an
analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in  London .  U.S. software vendors such as Fidelity National and Fiserv
Inc. “will be keen to internationalize their businesses,”
Radia said June 21.  Fidelity National’s first-quarter revenue climbed 12
percent to $1.38 billion, driven by a 49 percent increase at the
International Solutions unit, the Jacksonville, Florida-based
company said May 3.  Last Year, Blackstone Group LP, Thomas H. Lee Partners LP
and TPG Capital dropped a $15 billion buyout bid for Fidelity
National after the company sought a higher price.  In 2006, software and technology services provider SunGard
Data Systems Inc. dropped a bid for Misys after its indicative
offer was not high enough, the London-based  Times newspaper 
reported at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 Lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  