-- 
Toyota Rebounds to Pre-Recall Level in U.S. J.D. Power Auto-Quality Survey

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-06-24T05:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/ford-plunges-to-23rd-in-auto-quality-survey.html
Akio Toyoda is making good on his
pledge to restore  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s reputation for quality.  The Japanese carmaker’s luxury Lexus line retook the top
spot among all auto brands in  J.D. Power  & Associates’ Initial
Quality Study, advancing from fourth last year, the market-
research company said yesterday. Toyota’s namesake brand ranked
seventh, up from 21st a year ago.  The performance matched Toyota’s results in J.D. Power’s
2009 survey, before the first recall of its vehicles for floor
mats at risk of jamming accelerator pedals late that year.
Toyoda, the carmaker’s president and grandson of its founder,
formed a global quality committee last year to tackle defects
following recalls of more than 10 million vehicles.  “It shows the true quality of Toyota without bias and that
the users re-appreciated the value of Toyota after it was proven
it didn’t have quality problems,”  Mamoru Kato , a Nagoya, Japan-
based auto analyst at Tokai Tokyo Research Center, said of the
survey result. “The company has overcome the bad image created
by the series of recalls.”  Toyota was the only large automaker to post a sales decline
last year in the U.S., historically its most profitable market.
The company’s deliveries fell 0.4 percent to 1.76 million Toyota,
Lexus and Scion vehicles, contrasting with an industrywide
increase of 11 percent, the first since 2005.  Lexus ES, GS and LS models topped all “premium car”
segments in the J.D. Power survey, which measures consumer
complaints in the first 90 days of vehicle ownership.  2010 Decline ‘Unique’  Toyota rose as much as 1.7 percent in  Tokyo  trading, the
biggest intraday gain in two weeks, and was up 1.2 percent at
3,290 yen as of 2:07 p.m., compared with a 0.9 percent advance
in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Toyota’s decline in the survey last year “was largely
driven by consumers being concerned that they might have a
problem on their vehicle and it was unique to the 2010 model
year,” David Sargent, J.D. Power’s vice president for global
vehicle research, said in an interview.  Following the record recalls, Toyota added 40 engineers
last year in Toyota City, where the company is based, and
created teams to scrutinize the designs of components. With its
heightened focus on quality, Toyota also reduced the number of
new development projects, according to the company.  ‘Extreme Efforts’  In the U.S., Toyota hired additional engineers at its
technical center in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , as the facility plays a
bigger role in developing models for the American market.  “Toyota has been making extreme efforts on quality,” said
Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in
Tokyo. The J.D. Power results are “very positive for Toyota,”
he said.  In the 2011 survey, Toyota brand owners reported 101
problems per 100 vehicles, an improvement from 117 last year.  “The results point out that our quality really hasn’t gone
away,”  Mike Michels , Toyota’s vice president of U.S. external
communications, said in an interview. “It was there before, and
it’s there now.”  Lexus had 73 problems per 100 vehicles and had four models
rank highest in their respective vehicle categories. The Lexus
LS sedan had the fewest defects of any model, with 54 problems
per 100 cars. Lexus factories in Canada and  Japan  received J.D.
Power’s highest award for plant quality.  “Toyota has rebounded with its steady efforts, and having
it on top of the ranking is a source of comfort for investors,”
said Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which owns Toyota stock.  Ford, Honda  Ford Motor Co. (F)  fell to 23rd place in the survey from fifth
last year, the result of gripes about the Dearborn, Michigan-
based company’s dashboard touch-screens, while Seoul-based
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  dropped to 11th from seventh. Honda Motor Co.
replaced Ford as the top mass-market brand in this year’s study,
jumping to second place from sixth last year.  Honda’s highest ranking ever was helped by having seven
models rated best in their vehicle categories, J.D. Power said.
The previous highest ranking for Tokyo-based Honda was third in
1997, Sargent said.  “Honda benefited from having mostly vehicles that carried
over from the previous model year and there were no big new-
model launches,” Sargent said. “It’s unusual for any brand to
win seven awards, but they’ve just done a lot of hard work.”  Vehicle Defects  Acura, Honda’s premium line, ranked third, followed by
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s namesake
brand, Power said. Porsche AG’s brand fell from first overall to
sixth.  Ford models had 116 problems per 100 vehicles in the survey,
ranking it behind 12 other below-average brands. Last year, Ford
ranked fifth with 93 problems per 100 vehicles. The company’s
Lincoln luxury models, which also have new touch-screens, fell
to 17th from eighth and went from above average to below.  “Ford’s decline in the study is primarily driven by
consumers reporting both usability problems and actual
functionality problems with the MyFordTouch system,” Sargent
said. “Some consumers are saying the system is, let’s be kind
here, more complex than they would like.”  Hyundai,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, fell to 11th
place, just below the industry average, from an above-average
seventh place last year. Its affiliate,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , rose
to 19th from 26th last year.  General Motors Co. (GM) , which reorganized in bankruptcy in 2009,
was the only U.S. automaker to have brands rank above average in
this year’s survey. Detroit-based GM’s Cadillac luxury line
ranked 9th, up from 13th last year, and the GMC truck brand
moved up to 10th from 25th last year.  J.D. Power, a unit of McGraw Hill Cos, said its study was
based on surveys of about 73,000 buyers of 2011 model-year
vehicles. Participants were asked 228 questions about their
first 90 days of ownership. The study was conducted between
February and May this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  