-- 
Former Lazard Banker Buys Spanish Solar Plant for Clean Utility

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-06-23T16:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/former-lazard-banker-buys-spanish-solar-plant-for-clean-utility.html
Solar Opportunities SL, the
investment firm owned by the  Low Carbon Group , is building a
clean energy utility in  Spain  as the photovoltaic industry
consolidates following cuts in government subsidies.  Solar Opportunities on acquired an 8.7-megawatt solar park
in Navarra for 36 million euros ($50.9 million) on June 22,
bringing its investment in Spanish plants to 157 million euros
and 32 megawatts of capacity, managing partner Jose Kabana said
in an interview today. The Madrid-based company plans to add as
much as 150 million euros of arrays by the end of the year.  Kabana, a former  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  investment banker, is looking
to capitalize on the government’s decision to lower the above-
market rates earned by solar plants last year, which reduced
returns to investors. Solar Opportunities, which was already
planning investments when the government said it was considering
the cut, changed its plans to dodge turbulence caused by the
decision and is benefiting from lower prices.  “There is nobody buying right now, at least that I know
of,” Kabana said by phone. “Deals can be done at sensible
prices.”  The Spanish government capped the number of hours that
photovoltaic plants can earn above market rates for the next
three years in December to save an estimated 740 million euros
from power bills over the period. The decision ended months of
negotiations that froze investment in the industry.  10% Return  Solar Opportunities expects to earn about 10 percent a year
from its investments initially and plans to boost returns by
leveraging the plants with debt when the cost of financing
becomes cheaper. That will increase returns to about 13 percent,
Kabana said.  The group, which has more than $350 million to under
management, expects to buy three additional solar parks with 9
megawatts for about 40 million euros by the end of August, the
manager said.  Investors scaled back holdings in Spanish solar assets last
year, saying the government had broken its pledge to pay
subsidies for 25 years. Three Danish pension funds told Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  the decision would jeopardize the
government’s ability to finance itself.  Kabana is betting investors are over-estimating the risks
associated with the Spanish government even as European Union
officials battle to prevent a default by  Greece  which threatens
to send shockwaves through the rest of the region.  “The credibility damage to the regulatory environment has
been an order of magnitude greater than the financial damage to
investors,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  