-- 
Former Union Leader Stern Says Obama Ultimately May Ease Tax Rule

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/former-union-leader-says-obama-ultimately-may-ease-tax-rule.html
Andy Stern , former head of the
fastest-growing U.S. labor union and a close ally of President
 Barack Obama , predicted the White House will drop its opposition
to the easing of tax rules to encourage companies with overseas
profits to return the cash to the U.S.  In the same way that Obama switched positions to support
the extension of President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts, Obama will
accept repatriation legislation “when it’s time,” Stern, the
former president of the 2.2 million member  Service Employees
International Union , said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” to be
broadcast this weekend. “This is where Washington makes
decisions.”  Stern said Congress should avoid the pitfalls of similar
2004 legislation that resulted in some companies taking the
repatriation tax break and shedding jobs. “That was wrong. I
don’t think we should let that happen again,” he said, adding
that the breaks shouldn’t go to companies that cut jobs.  Legislation introduced in the  House of Representatives 
would let U.S.-based companies repatriate, for one year, income
earned overseas at a 5.25 percent rate instead of the 35 percent
statutory corporate rate. The measure would penalize companies
that take the holiday and reduce their workforces.  Money ‘Sitting Overseas’  Stern’s support of repatriation legislation puts him at
odds with most of the leaders of organized labor.  “The money is sitting overseas, and I still don’t
understand how people think $1 trillion in foreign banks is
better than $1 trillion in the  United States ,” he said. Stern
also said he expects the administration and Republicans to reach
a deal on a payroll tax holiday.  “Something can happen because I think the Republicans
always like tax cuts,” he said, while opposing including
employers in the holiday. “The people who go to work every day
would love to see 2 percent more in their pocket. And if the
price of that is doing something on the business side as well,
we may very well see it.”  As a labor leader, Stern, 60, kept his union’s profile high
with attacks on big business, including banks and  Wall Street .
That’s a technique he now says he could have done differently.  “I was awfully tough on the private equity and the
banks,” he said. “Some of it was totally appropriate; others
of it was probably a little bit out of hand.”  ‘Better Friend’  Looking ahead to Obama’s 2012 re-election bid, union
members will likely feel “generally positive” about the
president’s record on labor issues, Stern said.  Obama “has been a better friend” to the labor movement
than the previous Democratic president,  Bill Clinton , he said.
“They both did a fairly decent job,” Stern said. What Obama
“did in the long run about health care” is “good for working
people in this country. Clinton tried. He wasn’t successful.”  Still, union members may feel less enthusiasm for Obama in
2012 than when they first helped elect him in 2008, Stern said.  “Some of the change that we hoped would have happened by
now has not happened,” he said. “People feel that at times the
president needs to stand up more for working people.”  Stern said the  labor movement  itself needs to make some
changes in strategy to reverse the decades-long slide in union
membership. “It’s going to take a very long time,” he said.
“It’s probably going to take another generation.”  Unions must become stronger advocates for efficiency in
government and public pension plans, Stern said. Also, the must
find better ways to “align ourselves with businesses,” he
said.  Union membership fell to 11.9 percent of the U.S. workforce
last year from a high of 28.3 percent in 1954. Unions
represented a record low of 6.9 percent of all non-government
workers last year, down from 36 percent in 1955.  The primary government agency that mediates union
elections, the  National Labor Relations Board , is “rather
outdated” and also needs to change, Stern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 