-- 
China, India, Brazil Back France’s Plan to Tackle ‘Plague’ of Food Prices

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-23T09:51:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/france-s-proposal-to-reduce-food-prices-receives-backing-from-china-india.html
China, India and  Brazil  were among
Group of 20 countries that backed new rules for global
agriculture at a meeting in Paris today,  France  said.  Farm ministers from the U.S., the U.K., Australia and
 Argentina  hadn’t stated their positions on the plan yet, French
agriculture ministry spokesman Bertrand Sirven said in a
briefing at a meeting of G-20 agriculture ministers in Paris.  France, the current G-20 president, has proposed a central
database on crops, limits on export bans, international market
regulation, emergency stockpiles and a plan to raise global
output. Food price swings are a “plague” on farmers and
consumers that cause poverty and hunger, French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said yesterday.  Sarkozy called on G-20 farm ministers to act in unity,
saying “the world can wait no longer” after the surging cost
of food “plunged 44 million people into poverty.” World food
prices tracked by the United Nations’  Food and Agriculture
Organization  have risen 37 percent in a year.  Agriculture ministers from  Mexico ,  Japan ,  South Korea ,
 Canada , as well as the European Union also agreed to the
proposals, according to Sirven.  Proposals  French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said before the
meeting he wouldn’t sign a deal that didn’t agree on the five
main points. The proposals to limit export curbs and start a
database would be “especially sensitive,” Le Maire said.  Wheat as much as doubled in the past year as Russia and
Ukraine curbed exports after drought decimated crops, adding to
record global food prices the  World Bank  says put 44 million
more people into poverty since June last year. Nations will
spend $1.29 trillion on food imports this year, the most ever
and 21 percent more than in 2010, the  United Nations  estimates.  “Volatility is a plague on farmers and consumers,”
Sarkozy said in a speech to the ministers yesterday. Surging
commodity prices “can plunge entire populations into famine and
poverty,” he said.  A lack of transparency in agricultural markets is
exacerbating price swings, threatening economic recovery and
food production, Sarkozy said. World leaders risked making this
“the century of hunger” unless they could agree to new rules
on food supply, Le Maire said before the meeting.  Price Surge  “A market that is not regulated is not a market, it’s a
lottery in which fortune smiles on the most cynical, instead of
rewarding hard work, investment and the creation of value,”
Sarkozy said yesterday.  The last time prices surged, from 2007 to 2009, more than
60 food riots occurred worldwide, according to the U.S. State
Department. The G-20 countries account for 65 percent of all
farmland and 77 percent of global grain output, according to a
statement on the G-20 presidency website.  Corn futures advanced 77 percent in the past 12 months in
Chicago trading, a global benchmark, rice gained 39 percent and
sugar jumped 64 percent. There will be shortages in corn, wheat,
soybeans, coffee and cocoa this year or next, according to
Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank Groep. Prices also rose
after droughts and floods from  Australia  to Canada ruined crops
last year. European farmers are now contending with their driest
growing season in more than three decades.  Growth in agricultural output will slow to 1.7 percent a
year through 2020, compared with 2.6 percent in the previous
decade, the FAO and Paris-based  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  said in a report this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  