-- 
France to Start Afghan Troop Pullout Later This Year

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   S t e v e   R h i n d s
-- 
2011-06-23T15:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/france-to-start-afghan-troop-pullout-later-this-year-1-.html
France  will start pulling troops out
of Afghanistan this year in line with the withdrawal timetable
for U.S. forces, Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said.  The withdrawal “will be substantial over 2011 and will be
consolidated in 2012,” Longuet said in an interview with radio
station France Info today in Paris. The pullout will be
completed in 2014, as agreed at a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization summit last November, he said.  The French announcement follows last night’s speech by
President  Barack Obama  in which he said the U.S. will withdraw
10,000 troops before the end of this year and an additional
23,000 -- the remainder of last year’s troop surge -- by
September 2012, when the U.S. presidential election campaign
will be fully under way.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who has doubled the
number of French troops in Afghanistan since his 2007 election
and who also faces re-election next year, spoke with Obama last
night before the speech, Sarkozy’s office said in a statement.  “Considering the progress that has been made, France will
start a progressive withdrawal of the reinforcements it has sent
to Afghanistan, in a proportional manner and at a comparable
rate to the withdrawal of American forces,” the statement said.
“This withdrawal will be done in agreement with our allies and
the Afghan authorities.”  A poll last year showed 70 percent of French voters opposed
to the Afghan war. The July 2010 Ifop poll for French newspaper
Humanite surveyed 955 people and had a 3.2 percentage point
margin of error.  France has about 4,000 troops in  Afghanistan , the fourth
largest contingent in NATO’s Afghan mission. French forces are
mostly based east of Kabul to shield the capital from insurgents
operating along the Pakistan border. A soldier killed in a
firefight last week was the 62nd French soldier to die since
they arrived in late 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rhinds at 
 srhinds@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  