-- 
‘Whitey’ Bulger Is Bound for Massachusetts

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-06-24T16:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/fugitive-james-bulger-arrested-in-california.html
James “Whitey” Bulger , the accused
Boston-based murderer and racketeer among the FBI’s 10  most-
wanted  fugitives, is headed for  Massachusetts  after his arrest
in Santa Monica,  California , with a stash of cash and guns.  Bulger, 81, and his girlfriend,  Catherine Greig , 60, were
caught June 22 by  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents after a
tip, the agency said in a statement. Bulger appeared yesterday
in federal court in Los Angeles and was ordered sent to
Massachusetts, where he was indicted.  Bulger has left California, Brandy Donini-Melanson, a
spokeswoman for Carmen M. Ortiz, the U.S. attorney for
Massachusetts, said in a telephone interview. Donini-Melanson
declined to say when Bulger is scheduled to arrive in Boston,
citing security reasons.  If Bugler arrives as scheduled, he is set to appear in
federal court in  Boston  at 4 p.m. local time before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Leo T. Sorokin and then before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Marianne Bowler, according to a court document. Greig is
slated to appear afterward before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jennifer Boal.  U.S. District Judge Mark L. Wolf was assigned to preside
over Bulger’s case. It was in Wolf’s courtroom in 1998 that
Bulger’s partner, Stephen Flemmi, revealed that he and Bulger
were FBI informants and had been promised immunity from
prosecution.  ‘A Great Day’  The arrest represents “the end of a long and exhaustive
hunt, and a great day” for  law enforcement , Ortiz said
yesterday at a press conference in Boston. “They never gave
up.”  Barry Slotnick, a defense lawyer who represented mobster
Joseph Colombo, said the government may have a hard time proving
Bulger’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.  “The crimes are so old, the proof may be difficult,”
Slotnick said in an interview. “Are the witnesses still around?
Are they still available?” said Slotnick, of Buchanan Ingersoll
& Rooney PC in New York.  Myra June Sun, identified by the  Justice Department  as
Bulger’s public defender in Los Angeles, didn’t immediately
return a phone call yesterday seeking comment.  Winter Hill Gang  In a 111-page  indictment  dated May 23, 2001, and provided
by federal prosecutors in Boston, Bulger is described as a
leader of a criminal organization known as the “Bulger Group”
and “Winter Hill Gang.”  The gangs committed extortion, loan sharking, bookmaking,
narcotics trafficking and murder, beginning about 1972, the
government said. Bulger was wanted in connection with 19
murders.  The group is also linked to illegally shipping arms to the
 Irish Republican Army  and importing about 36 tons of marijuana
into the U.S., both in 1984, prosecutors said.  Bulger and accomplices that year allegedly buried three
murder victims in the basement of a South Boston home, then dug
them up a year later when it was being sold.  The group maintained contacts with police officers to get
information on investigations, according to the indictment.  FBI Informant  Bulger, a onetime FBI informant, used disguises and
traveled in  Europe ,  Canada  and  Mexico  after fleeing, the FBI
said. His aliases included Harold Evers and Ernest E. Beaudreau.  Bulger and Greig, both represented by public defenders,
didn’t challenge the government’s request to keep them detained
at yesterday’s hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Dugdale
told reporters outside the courthouse in downtown  Los Angeles .
They were ordered transferred to Boston “forthwith” where they
will be arraigned, Dugdale said.  The arrests came a day after the FBI’s Boston office was to
air public-service announcements about Greig, who fled with
Bulger in 1995. She was wanted for harboring a criminal and
isn’t accused in any of his crimes, the FBI said in a June 20
statement about the ad campaign.  The agency aired the 30-second public-service announcements
in 14 U.S. cities, including  San Diego  and  San Francisco ,
according to the statement. Los Angeles wasn’t among them. The
ads targeted women who are Greig’s age and who might be her co-
worker, hair-stylist or neighbor, according to the statement.  Surveillance, Arrest  FBI agent  Richard DesLauriers  and other officials said at
the press conference that agents and Los Angeles police put a
 Santa Monica  building under surveillance, lured Bulger out with
an undisclosed ruse and arrested the two without incident.  Inside the apartment were “a variety of weapons and a
large amount of cash,” Ortiz said.  Bulger may face life in prison or the death penalty if he
is convicted of the murders, depending on the jurisdiction, the
prosecutor said.  Greig was charged in an April 1997 complaint in federal
court in Boston with harboring and concealing Bulger from
arrest. If convicted, she may face a five-year prison term.  Officials said the disposition of a possible $2 million
reward for Bulger and $100,000 reward for Greig is undetermined.  Bulger, who was born in Boston, was known to frequent
libraries and historic sites, the FBI said. He carried a knife,
has a violent temper and kept physically fit by walking on the
beach, the agency said.  Reward Doubled  The FBI’s $1 million reward for Bulger’s capture was
doubled in 2008, a year after he and Greig were believed to have
been spotted in Taormina, in Sicily, according to the FBI’s
website.  His “Wanted” posters were printed in Italian, German,
Portuguese and Spanish, according to the agency. The FBI
released recordings of Bulger and a grainy black-and-white
surveillance video of him walking from a vehicle and talking
with another man at a hotel garage in Boston in the 1980s.  In the 1980s and early 1990s, Bulger worked as an informant
on mob activities for the FBI in Boston, according to the
agency. He was indicted in January 1995 for racketeering
violations, including activities while he was an informant. Five
years later he was indicted for multiple murders.  The 1997 FBI affidavit in support of a criminal complaint
against Greig said that another girlfriend of Bulger’s
cooperated with the government in trying to track down the
fugitive in 1996. The woman, who told the FBI she had been
Bulger’s girlfriend for 20 years, found out in 1994 that he had
been involved with Greig as well during that time.  The former girlfriend told the FBI in 1996 that, after
Bulger was charged in January of 1995, he returned to
Massachusetts and picked up Greig, according to the affidavit.  The case is U.S. v. Bulger, 94-10287-MLW, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 