-- 
G-20 Agrees to Exempt Food Aid From Export Bans, Vilsack Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-23T11:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/g-20-agrees-to-exempt-food-aid-from-export-bans-vilsack-says.html
Group of 20 agriculture ministers
agreed to exempt food purchased for humanitarian purposes from
export bans, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack said.  The ministers also underlined their opposition to general
export bans and urged more research and development in the
agriculture industry, Vilsack said today in a statement at the
ministers’ meeting in Paris. Innovations in the development of
grain used to feed animals and in biofuel production will help
distance agriculture markets from those for crude oil and
gasoline, according to the statement.  “We recognize that food export bans restricting
humanitarian aid penalize the most needy,” Vilsack said. “Our
work to support innovation in the development of non-food
feedstocks and next generation renewable fuels will continue to
help offset instability in the energy markets, which accounts
for the bulk of food and commodity price fluctuations.”  Corn futures have surged 76 percent in the past year and
wheat gained 41 percent partly because  Russia  and  Ukraine  curbed
exports after drought decimated crops, adding to record global
food prices the  World Bank  says put 44 million more people into
poverty since June. Russia is a G-20 member. Nations will spend
$1.29 trillion on food imports this year, the most ever and 21
percent more than in 2010, the United Nations estimates.  The G-20 agriculture ministers also said they support
establishing an agricultural market information system, or AMIS,
to reduce volatility by making food-production and pricing data
more transparent, Vilsack said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  