-- 
G-20 Ministers Agree to Limit Crop-Export Bans, Start Agriculture Database

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-23T16:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/g-20-ministers-agree-to-limit-crop-export-bans-start-agriculture-database.html
Group of 20 farm ministers agreed to
a plan to set limits on export bans and create a crop database
to tackle what French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called the 
“plague” of rising food prices.  The agreement includes a call for international market
regulation, more agriculture production and the development of a
proposal for emergency food reserves, the ministers said in a
declaration after a two-day meeting wrapped up in Paris today.
Food for humanitarian purposes will be exempt from export bans,
they said.  “The plan agreed this morning is a victory against hunger
in the world, a victory for farmers in the world,” French
Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said at a press conference
after the meeting.  Wheat as much as doubled in the past year as Russia and
 Ukraine  curbed exports after drought decimated crops, adding to
record global food prices, which according to the  World Bank 
have put 44 million more people into poverty since last June.
Nations will spend $1.29 trillion on food imports this year, the
most ever and 21 percent more than in 2010, the United Nations
estimates.  The G-20 countries account for 65 percent of all farmland
and 77 percent of global grain output, according to a statement
on the website of the G-20 presidency.  Food Database  The database on food stocks and production forecasts will
be developed “rapidly” within the UN’s  Food and Agriculture
Organization , Le Maire said.  “Volatility is a plague on farmers and consumers,”
Sarkozy said in a speech to the ministers yesterday. “It can
plunge entire populations into famine and poverty.”  More information on physical markets may allow policy
makers to predict the next food crisis, and give a signal to
farmers to lift production, according to Shenggen Fan, director
general of the  International Food Policy Research Institute ,
which aims to end hunger and poverty.  “Without transparent information the market will never
work,” Fan said in an interview after today’s meeting.  The last time prices surged, from 2007 to 2009, more than
60 food riots occurred worldwide, according to the U.S. State
Department.  Volatility  “The lack of information about stocks and availability can
lead to price spikes,”  Robert Zoellick , the president of the
World Bank, said in a press conference after the meeting.
“Uncertainty feeds volatility.”  Corn futures advanced 77 percent in the past 12 months in
Chicago trading, a global benchmark, rice gained 39 percent and
sugar jumped 64 percent.  The planned information system might have avoided the jump
in rice prices in 2008, after the  Philippines  failed to fill a
tender for the grain, Zoellick said.  China and  India , which had considered information on
stockpiles and production as “national security information,”
are now willing to develop the capacity to make data available,
Zoellick said.  “This information is particularly important for the most
vulnerable,” Zoellick said, adding those countries can find
themselves shut out of international markets.  Regulation of financial markets for agricultural
commodities will be deferred to a meeting of the G-20 finance
ministers this year, Le Maire said. The farm ministers in their
declaration said they “strongly encourage” their finance
colleagues to move ahead with regulation.  Biofuels  “We all recognize, on the G-20 country level, the need to
have regulated agricultural markets,” Le Maire said. “Strong
encouragement, that is the term we used in the framework of this
action plan.”  Ministers should have addressed biofuels policies and steps
to help poorer countries build up inventories, Oxfam
International said. Le Maire said last week the subject of
biofuels “isn’t ripe” for agreement between G-20 countries.  “Biofuel definitely affects food prices,” Fan at IFPRI
said, adding the topic is controversial and will continue to be
studied.  The G-20 agreement lacks measures that would have an
immediate effect on reducing hunger, Thierry Kesteloot, a policy
adviser at Oxfam, an international charity, said on the phone
from Brussels. The market-information system will require grain-
trading companies to share data to be reliable, he said.  “The grain market, especially wheat, is a very
concentrated market,” Kesteloot said. “We won’t have
transparent information without including the private sector,
and there a simple invitation is probably not enough.”  The World Bank’s Zoellick said the agreement is a “very
good start” to tackling the food-security issue. “It’s too
early to make a victory lap,” he said. “Today is about solid
progress. The world is hungry for food, but it’s also hungry for
action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  