-- 
GE-Safran Beats Pratt on A320Neo Engines Behind AirAsia’s 200 Plane Order

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-24T16:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/ge-safran-s-a320neo-orders-pass-pratt-as-engine-race-heats-up.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s jet-engine
venture with  Safran SA (SAF)  grabbed the lead on orders for Airbus
SAS’s A320neo during the  Paris Air Show , upending a head start
by Pratt & Whitney on history’s fastest-selling aircraft.  The CFM International venture, winless until June 15, has
now racked up orders for 455 of the upgraded Airbus single-aisle
jets, surpassing Pratt & Whitney’s 270. Airbus has booked orders
and commitments for more than 1,000 A320neos, which offer
customers more  fuel efficiency  with the choice of Pratt’s geared
turbofan or CFM’s  Leap-X  model.  CFM surged past its rival yesterday with a 200-plane order
from Air Asia Bhd., larger than the 150-jet order from Air
Indigo that was Pratt’s opening volley on the A320neo. At the
time, the plane order was the biggest ever.  “We’re right where we want to be,” CFM Executive Vice
President Chaker Chahrour said during a celebration of the
AirAsia order yesterday.  CFM’s and Pratt’s new engines both have an estimated list
price of about $12 million, and top executives from each side
implied this month that the other offered incentives beyond the
usual discounts to win orders.  “Bottom line is, this is a tough fight between Pratt and
GE and the margins of both may suffer for a while versus prior
expectations as they duke it out,” Nicole Parent, co-founder of
Vertical Research Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
note to investors.  ‘Price Wars’  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is the world’s largest
maker of  jet engines  for airplanes. Its GE Capital Aviation
Services unit is the world’s largest aircraft lessor and
provides financing for planes.  Prior to the air show, when  Pratt & Whitney  was still
leading on A320neo orders, GE Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin told investors of Pratt’s initial contract wins that
“you wouldn’t go there based on what the dynamics were.”  Engine makers typically make little or no profit on the
engines themselves, and instead line up decades-long revenue
streams for parts and service contracts after spending more than
$1 billion developing new technology.  “All engine wars lead to price wars,” said  Richard Aboulafia , an analyst at Teal Group in  Virginia . “Engine wars
with new products produce even worse up-front price wars.”  Pratt & Whitney’s  geared turbofan  uses a gear to slow the
outer fan, adding efficiency and reducing noise, while CFM’s
Leap-X incorporates new materials in the engine’s hot-section,
or core, to cut fuel consumption.  ‘Throwing Money’  CFM also made adjustments to the fan of its engine, and
both power plants offer about a 15 percent improvement in fuel
burn over current A320 models.  Pratt spent a decade developing its technology after
missing the market surge 30 years ago when  Boeing Co. (BA)  launched
the 737, which became the world’s most widely flown aircraft.
That jet offers only an engine from CFM.  “We believe you cannot overcome our technology by throwing
money at customers,” said Louis Chenevert, who ran Pratt before
becoming chief executive officer of the engine-maker’s parent,
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   “If you assume oil’s going to be $70 a barrel, maybe it’s
doable,” he said at a lunch this week with reporters. “If you
assume oil is over $100 it gets really hard. We’ve invested a
long time in this game-changing technology.”  ‘Technology Evolution’  Pratt & Whitney President David Hess said in an interview
at the show that the company thinks it can keep more than 50
percent of the A320neo market. He has said he’s pleased with
pricing.  “The kind of technology evolution the GTF brings fits in
perfectly with what our objectives were with fuel burn,
emissions, et cetera,” said Aditya Ghosh, president of Indigo,
the first carrier to order the geared turbofan. “We had certain
objectives internally and Pratt & Whitney met them.”  CFM maintained at the show that the reliability of its
fleet -- the world’s biggest -- is what’s drawing customers, not
discounts.  “We don’t do dumb deals,” CFM’s Chahrour said yesterday.
“We don’t do deals that don’t make any sense. We’re happy with
the price we got.”  ‘Short-Sighted’  AirAsia Chief Executive Officer Tony Fernandes said he
chose CFM in part because of his long relationship with GE,
beginning when the airline started with two planes in 2005. More
important than price, he said, was his perception that GE had
matured its technology in existing engines over the years.  “We know the supply chain of GE and we know the
capabilities with GE,” Fernandes said. “Pricing’s important.
But I think pricing’s short-sighted. You can pay for a cheap
engine and have a nightmare later on.”  Rolls-Royce, the second-largest aircraft-engine maker,
elected not to offer an engine for an upgraded A320neo, saying
it couldn’t justify the business case.  CFM is currently the sole provider of engines for the
Boeing 737 model, while it competes with  International Aero
Engines , a group led by Rolls-Royce and Pratt, on existing A320
models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Paris at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  