-- 
Generic-Drug Makers Shielded From Lawsuits, Top Court Says

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-23T18:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/generic-drug-makers-shielded-from-lawsuits-top-court-says-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that
generic-drug companies, unlike their brand-name rivals, can’t be
sued for failing to warn patients about the risk of dangerous
side effects.  The 5-4 ruling bars two women from suing units of Mylan
Inc. and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  over
metoclopramide, a stomach drug they say caused them to contract
a severe neurological disorder.  The decision limits the reach of a 2009 Supreme Court
ruling that required brand-name drugmakers to defend against
failure-to-warn suits filed under state product liability law.
Generic-drug companies successfully argued that they shouldn’t
be held to the same standard because federal law requires them
to copy the packaging inserts used by brand-name manufacturers.  “If the manufacturers had independently changed their
labels to satisfy their state-law duty, they would have violated
federal law,” Justice  Clarence Thomas  wrote for the court.  The ruling divided the court along familiar lines, with
Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Samuel Alito  joining Thomas in the majority.  Patient advocates argued that a decision shielding generic-
drug companies would leave many injured people with little
recourse. Generic drugs are used to fill 75 percent of U.S.
prescriptions, according to the lawyers pressing the suit.  ‘Makes Little Sense’  Thomas said the court recognized that it “makes little
sense” to bar suits against generic-drug makers while allowing
cases against brand-name drugmakers. Mensing and Demahy would
have been able to sue had they taken Reglan, the brand-name
version of metoclopramide, he said.  “We acknowledge the unfortunate hand that federal drug
regulation has dealt Mensing, Demahy and others similarly
situated,” Thomas wrote. “But it is not this court’s task to
decide whether the statutory scheme established by Congress is
unusual or even bizarre.”  The ruling leaves open the possibility that the  Food and
Drug Administration  could change its regulations in a way that
would open generic-drug companies to suits. Thomas’s opinion
relied on the agency’s interpretation of its rules as barring
those companies from unilaterally changing their warnings.  “As always, Congress and the FDA retain the authority to
change the law and regulations if they so desire,” Thomas
wrote.  ‘Absurd Consequences’  In dissent, Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said the ruling “leads
to so many absurd consequences that I cannot fathom that
Congress would have intended to preempt state law in these
cases.”  She said the ruling “could have troubling consequences for
 drug safety ” by eliminating “the traditional state-law
incentives for generic manufacturers to monitor and disclose
safety risks.”  Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Stephen Breyer  and  Elena Kagan  joined Sotomayor in dissent.  The ruling “creates an absolutely untenable distinction in
the law between name-brand and generic drugs,” said Louis
Bograd, who argued the case on behalf of the women. “Three out
of four patients in America have just lost the right to sue for
inadequate warnings.”  Bograd, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional
Litigation in Washington, said that in some states patients who
suffer injuries stemming from generic drugs may be able to sue
the brand-name company that manufactured the original medicine.
He said 1,000 lawsuits are pending over metoclopramide alone.  ‘Nail on the Head’  Mensing was suing privately held Actavis Group as well as
units of Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan and  Petah Tikva ,
Israel-based Teva. Demahy was suing an Actavis unit.  Teva’s lawyer, Jay Lefkowitz of Kirkland & Ellis LLP in
 Washington , said the court “hit the nail on the head today by
making clear that federal law does not permit states to hold
generic-drug manufacturers liable for using the very warnings
federal law required of them.”  Actavis’s chief executive officer, Doug Boothe, said the
ruling “furthers meaningful consumer protection while also
safeguarding against lawsuits that threaten the availability of
safe and affordable pharmaceutical products by misconstruing the
labeling responsibilities of generic manufacturers.”  The cases are Pliva v. Mensing, 09-993; Actavis Elizabeth
v. Mensing, 09-1039; and Actavis v. Demahy, 09-1501.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 