-- 
Georgia’s Former Defense Minister Planned May Coup, Police Say

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-06-23T10:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/georgia-s-former-defense-minister-planned-may-coup-police-say.html
Former Georgian Defense Minister
Irakli Okruashvili, who was granted asylum by  France  in 2008,
planned a military coup in his homeland last month, police said.  At least eight people linked to Okruashvili were detained
and charged with being part of the plot,  Interior Ministry 
spokesman Giorgi Bukhrashvili told reporters in Tbilisi today.
The people said they were acting under instructions from the
former minister, who was traveling to  Georgia  via the separatist
region of South Ossetia to take part in anti-government protests
in May, Bukhrashvili said.  “We are speechless,” said Erosi Kitsmarishvili, political
secretary of the Gogelia’s Georgian Party that Okruashvili co-
founded and a former ambassador to  Russia . “This isn’t serious.”  Okruashvili, once an ally of President Mikheil Saakashvili,
canceled plans to join last month’s demonstrations in Tbilisi
due to a disagreement among opposition groups, protest organizer
 Nino Burjanadze  said May 24. Okruashvili was convicted in
absentia of extortion and sentenced to 11 years in prison in
March 2008. He says the case is politically motivated.  Police released today recorded conversations and
confessions where the suspects say Okruashvili traveled with 200
militants to the Russian city of Vladikavkaz, which borders
South Ossetia.  “Okruashvili hasn’t been anywhere near Vladikavkaz,”
Kitsmarishvili said.  A demonstrator and a police officer were killed during five
days of rallies in Tbilisi last month. At least 19 people were
injured May 26, when police used water cannons, rubber bullets
and tear gas to disperse protesters seeking to oust Saakashvili.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  