-- 
German Business Confidence Likely Declined

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/german-business-confidence-probably-declined-in-june-on-worsening-crisis.html
German business confidence probably
declined to the lowest level in eight months in June as  Europe ’s
worsening sovereign-debt crisis and a faltering global recovery
clouded the economic outlook.  The  Ifo institute’s  business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 113.4 from 114.2 in
May, according to the median forecast of 39 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. That’s the lowest since October. The
institute releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  Europe’s largest economy may struggle to maintain its
growth momentum as the region’s governments seek to avert a
Greek debt restructuring and the  U.S. economy  shows signs of
cooling, eroding confidence among executives and investors.
Still, the Bundesbank raised its 2011 economic growth forecast
on June 20, calling the recovery “broad based.”  “The economy has definitely peaked, but then there were
already signs of overheating,” said Tobias Blattner, an
economist at Daiwa International in  London . “The outlook for
growth is still excellent but it’s no wonder executives got a
bit spooked by the Greek crisis which is dragging on.”  The sentiment indicator had reached 115.4 in February, the
highest since records for a reunified Germany began in 1991. In
June, Ifo’s gauge measuring the assessment of the current
situation probably fell to 120.8 from a record 121.4, while an
index of executives’ expectations dropped to 106.3 from 107.4,
the Bloomberg survey shows.  ‘Contagion Risk’  The Bundesbank forecast economic growth of 3.1 percent this
year after a record 3.6 percent in 2010. In 2012, the expansion
may weaken to 1.8 percent, it said.  The  International Monetary Fund  on June 17 lowered its
forecast for global growth to 4.3 percent from 4.4 percent,
citing concern about a setback in the U.S. recovery and
potential contagion from Europe’s fiscal crisis. IMF Chief
Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said there’s a risk of defaults.  European authorities are still bickering over ways to
support Greece and prevent the spillover to other markets. The
 European Central Bank  and the German government have clashed
over how much investors should contribute to alleviating
Greece’s debt load, which reached 143 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010.  “We’re still at a point of actually dealing with contagion
risk,”  Bill O’Neill , chief investment officer for Europe at
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management, told Bloomberg
Television’s  Andrea Catherwood  on June 22 from Dublin. “I
certainly don’t see a Greek involuntary default in the near
term. It simply is too high a risk.”  Domestic Demand  Some companies have already signaled concern about tougher
austerity measures hurting earnings.  “The worsening debt crisis in several European countries
is affecting our business more and more strongly,” Fritz Oesterle, chief executive officer of Stuttgart-based  Celesio AG (CLS1) ,
Europe’s biggest drug wholesaler, said on June 16.  The German economy is showing signs of slowdown after
expanding 1.5 percent in the first quarter. Manufacturing growth
weakened this month and investor confidence dropped to the
lowest in 2 1/2 years. German exports fell in April.  With governments stepping up budget cuts and cooling global
growth hurting exports, companies may rely on reviving domestic
demand to bolster sales. Unemployment declined for a 23rd month
in May, lowering the jobless rate to 7 percent. That’s the
lowest since records for a reunified Germany began.  ‘Pretty Solid’  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  are poised
for further “distinct growth” even with global conditions
“challenging,” CEO Martin Winterkorn said on June 17.
Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, may have another “very
successful” year in 2011, he said.  Services growth unexpectedly accelerated in June,
indicating “German demand could serve as an anchor of the wider
euro-zone economy,” said Christian Schulz, an economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London.  “Domestic demand in  Germany  remains pretty solid,” said
 Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “Germany is one of the few large European economies to
have the potential for broad-based growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  