-- 
German Stocks Decline for Second Day; Bayer Shares Tumbles on Drug Study

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-06-23T15:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/german-stocks-drop-for-second-day-bayer-tumbles-after-rival-drug-study.html
German stocks fell for a second day
after the  Federal Reserve  cut its growth forecast for the  U.S.
economy  and failed to signal further stimulus measures.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  plunged the most since March 2009 after a study
showed that a competing blood thinner prevented more strokes in
patients with irregular heartbeats than the traditional
treatment.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  fell after Exane BNP Paribas cut its
forecast for European building-materials companies.  Merck KGaA (MRK) 
advanced 1.4 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  tumbled 128.75, or 1.8 percent, to 7,149.44
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge has fallen 5
percent from this year’s high on May 2 as investors speculated
that the U.S. economic recovery is slowing and that Greece will
fail to repay all of its debt. The broader HDAX Index slid 1.7
percent.  “There was the hope that the Fed would say there was
downside pressure on growth, but they would support the
market,” said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at  City
Index  in London. “But we didn’t get that. It’s natural to take
profits off the table now.”  Fed officials lowered their forecasts for U.S. growth and
employment this year and next, predicting that the economy will
expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent in 2011, down from an
earlier projection of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent.  Declining house prices, high unemployment and weaknesses in
the financial system may restrain the economic recovery in the
longer term, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
yesterday that risk signals for financial stability in the euro
area are flashing red as the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
threatens to infect banks.  Bayer, ThyssenKrupp  Bayer sank 6.3 percent to 54.40 euros, its biggest drop in
more than two years. A study showed that Pfizer Inc.’s and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s experimental blood thinner apixaban,
a rival to Bayer’s Xarelto, prevented more strokes with less
major bleeding than the half-century-old drug warfarin in
patients with atrial fibrillation.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, sank 3.4
percent to 34.20 euros. The stock was cut to “neutral” from
“buy” at Oddo Securities.  Hochtief lost 2.3 percent to 58.46 euros. Exane cut its
2011 European building materials forecast for earnings before
interest taxes depreciation and amortization by 3.4 percent, and
its 2012 EBITDA estimate by 3.3 percent.  Merck KGaA gained 1.4 percent to 74.01 euros after the
stock was raised to “outperform” from “market perform” at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  