-- 
German E. Coli Strain Joined Two Deadly Traits in Outbreak, Study Finds

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-23T20:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/german-e-coli-strain-joined-two-deadly-traits-in-outbreak-study-finds.html
The German E. coli epidemic was more
deadly than previous outbreaks because it combined dangerous
characteristics of two different strains of the bacteria,
researchers said. U.S.  health officials  today said the death of
an Arizona man may be linked to the outbreak.  The bacteria produced a poisonous by-product called Shiga
toxin and had the ability to stack together and stick to the
gut, researchers led by Helge Karch, director of the Hygiene
Institute at the University of Muenster, said in an  article
published  online today in The Lancet Infectious Diseases
journal. Karch’s team found both characteristics in all 80
patients they tested.  The unusual combination of traits made it more likely for
infected people to develop a potentially fatal kidney
complication called hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, the
researchers said. As of yesterday, the outbreak had sickened
3,601 people, including 815 with HUS, and killed 39, according
to the Robert Koch Institute. About 1,000 Shiga toxin-producing
E. coli infections and 60 HUS cases typically occur in Germany
each year, the researchers said.  An Arizona resident who died in mid-June may be the first
U.S. death from the outbreak. The man, who was older than 65,
recently had visited Germany, according to Arizona health
officials. He experienced a high fever shortly after returning
to the U.S., and suffered from the same type of  kidney failure 
associated with the European strain of E. coli, Catherine Foley,
an Arizona health department epidemiologist, said today in an
interview.  Awaiting Test Results  “It’s suspected that it was E. coli tied to the outbreak
in Germany,” Laura Oxley, a spokeswoman for the Arizona
Department of Health Services, said today in an interview.
“We’re waiting on definitive testing.”  Karch and colleagues “speculate very reasonably” that the
blending of the two traits could explain why so many of the
infected people developed the kidney disorder, Hugh Pennington,
an emeritus bacteriology professor at the University of
Aberdeen, wrote in a comment published today alongside the
research. To find out how likely it is that the strain will
emerge again, health officials must try to determine how
prevalent it is in farm animals and how widespread it is around
the world, he said.  “It’s really moved into a new kind of era for these kinds
of organisms,” Pennington said in a telephone interview.
“Let’s hope we won’t see it again, but it’s too early to
tell.”  The combination cropped up in  Germany  10 years ago, in a
child with HUS, the researchers said.  German authorities determined this month that organic
sprouts from a farm about 35 miles (56 kilometers) southeast of
Hamburg were the likely culprit. Produce from the property,
Gaertnerhof Bienenbuettel, was recalled, and its customers were
informed. Authorities had initially blamed Spanish cucumbers for
the outbreak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  