-- 
Gillard Stares Down ‘Electoral Annihilation’ With Carbon Tax

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-24T00:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/gillard-stares-down-electoral-annihilation-with-carbon-plan.html
A year after ousting her predecessor,
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is counting on the same political
skills she used then to hold her party together as she pushes a
climate-change plan opposed by 60 percent of Australian voters.  With the least-liked government in almost four decades and
the lowest personal popularity in 13 years, Gillard is wooing
legislators across  Australia  for the package.  “Anyone who thinks I am going to fold because it’s tough
out there has got me wrong,” Gillard told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “We are doing these tough
reforms because they are right for the country’s future.”  Graham Perrett, a member of parliament in Gillard’s  Labor
Party , backs her plan to cap  carbon emissions  even though voters
in his  district  near Brisbane oppose it by what he says is a 3-
to-1 margin. Gillard has visited his district five times since
taking office on June 24, 2010.  “If anyone can get us out of this hole it’s her,” Perrett
said in an interview. “There is no move to swap leaders.”  Gillard’s own support in polls is the lowest for any prime
minister since  John Howard  proposed a tax increase in 1998 that
saw his majority cut in the next election. At the same time,
failing to proceed with the measure that the opposition says
will boost electricity bills by A$700 ($732) a year risks losing
the Greens and independents she needs to retain her government.  “The polls seem to show electoral annihilation but the
government will still get the climate laws through parliament,”
said Ian McAllister, a professor at  Australian National
University  in Canberra who specializes in voter behavior.
“There is no clear alternative as leader other than Gillard.”  No Rudd Redux  Gillard may need the loyalty of so-called backbenchers like
Perrett, who won his district of Moreton by only about 1,800
ballots last year, to avoid the fate of  Kevin Rudd . She defeated
him after corralling support among Labor’s conservative faction
and unions. Poll numbers for Rudd, now foreign minister, had
tumbled over an earlier carbon proposal and a 40 percent
resource tax opposed by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group.  The first woman to lead Australia, Gillard is seeking to
start an emissions trading system next July in the world’s
biggest coal exporter. The  Minerals Council of Australia  says
the plan would destroy 126,000 jobs and threaten company
investment. It would be the world’s third emissions-trading
system after the European Union and  New Zealand .  A report is scheduled by month’s end by the Multiparty
Climate Change Committee on proposed legislation to go to
parliament in the next three months.  Carbon Price  The group, which the opposition has declined to join, will
work out a fixed price per ton of carbon in an emissions system
that would move to open trading as early as 2015. Also to be
decided is aid to businesses and consumers to offset the impact.  Coal & Allied Industries Ltd., a unit of Rio Tinto, and
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. may see earnings fall by as much as 10
percent should a carbon tax be put in place, Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by Elaine Prior said in a June 16 research note.  The Australian Coal Association says 18 coal mines may
 close  in the next decade if the system is introduced and that it
will be harder to attract investment.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the
third-largest producer of steelmaking coal, said it will
struggle with a $4 billion Australia expansion because the
climate plan would slash its investments there by 45 percent.  Gillard, 49, began courting backbenchers as soon as she
took office. Perrett said part of her internal appeal is that
“if you want to talk with Julia, you knock on her door -- that
has been her bread and butter since she took the leadership,”
in contrast with Rudd.  Minority Government  The August 2010 election delivered the closest result in 70
years and cost Labor its majority. Gillard formed a minority
government after signing an agreement with three independents as
well as the Greens, who have one member in the lower house and
will have the control of upper house Senate votes beginning in
July, when new members take their seats.  The premier’s personal support rose as high as 50 percent
in polls in February, days before she announced the carbon
proposal. Since then, it has fallen to a record low of 30
percent. Posters on opposition Liberal-National coalition office
doors in parliament house say ‘Ju-Liar,’ referring to what they
call a broken promise.  “Before the election the prime minister said there’d be no
carbon tax and there is,” opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said in
a June 16 interview. “We couldn’t believe her before the
election. Why should we believe her now?”  His coalition will repeal the carbon plan if it wins
government, Abbott said.  In a Basket?  “I’m not going to put the nation’s future in the too-hard
basket,” Gillard told parliament on June 22. “That means we do
have to step up and deal with the challenge of  climate change .”  Independent and Green lawmakers said they would reconsider
their support for Labor if Gillard quit. Members of the caucus
including Perrett said there was no move to oust her.  An election is due between August and November of 2013 and
that’s when Gillard may pay the price for her climate initiative,
said Monash University politics professor  Nick Economou  from
 Melbourne .  “A climate plan of some sort will pass and there will be
one of two results at the next election: a landslide or an uber-
landslide,” he said. “She’s gone and she’s taking Labor with
her.”  Approval Rating  The poll showing Gillard’s personal approval at 30 percent
was published in the Australian newspaper on June 15, of 1,150
people had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage
points. A May Newspoll survey found 60 percent of voters opposed
to her climate plan.  Still, no poll has shown that a majority prefer Abbott as
prime minister since he was elected coalition leader in December
2009. His satisfaction rating has been between 33 percent and 48
percent in that time.  “Julia will win the fight,” said Shayne Neumann, a Labor
parliament member from the Queensland district of Blair who also
backs Gillard’s climate-change efforts. “We have to transition
the economy to a low pollution champion of clean energy and
people will come to understand that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  