-- 
Gold May Advance on Europe Debt Woes, Fed Policy, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/gold-may-advance-on-europe-debt-woes-fed-policy-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain as concern about
 Europe ’s debt woes and sustained record-low  interest rates  in
the U.S. spur demand for the metal as an alternative investment,
a survey found.  Twelve of 16 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 75 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Two
predicted lower prices and two were neutral. Gold for August
delivery was down 1.3 percent for this week at $1,519.70 an
ounce by 11 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It reached
a record $1,577.40 on May 2.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  this
week said danger signals for financial stability in the euro
area are flashing “red” as the debt crisis threatens to infect
banks. Policy makers decided to keep the  Federal Reserve ’s
balance sheet at a record to spur the economy after completing
$600 billion of bond purchases this month and repeated they will
keep borrowing costs low “for an extended period.”  Gold will be supported “due to continuing sovereign-debt
and currency risk,” said Mark O’Byrne, executive director of
brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin. The Fed’s “ultra-loose
monetary policies and zero percent interest rates are to
continue for the foreseeable future,” he said. “This is a
continuing positive for  gold prices .”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of June 17.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 212 of 368 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 12 Bearish: 2 Neutral: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 