-- 
Greece Resolution Efforts Risk Wider Contamination, Pimco’s El-Erian Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-06-23T17:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/greece-resolution-efforts-risk-wider-contamination-pimco-s-el-erian-says.html
European leaders’ efforts to resolve
 Greece ’s crisis risk contaminating the entire system because
they don’t address the nation’s inability to pay its debts, said
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  Officials are treating the country’s problem as a liquidity
issue rather than addressing the conditions behind the crisis,
El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pimco, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.  “Greece has two fundamental issues: it has too much debt,
and it cannot grow enough,” El-Erian said from  Newport Beach ,
 California . “Recognize that the problem is a solvency issue,
address it, and then try to safeguard other parts to minimize
fundamental contagion.”  Greece’s debt reached 143 percent of gross domestic product
last year.  The  European Central Bank  and  Germany  have clashed over how
much bondholders should share in the burden of a Greek rescue.
The German government argued for requiring an extension of Greek
bonds’ maturities, while the ECB said it opposed anything that
could be interpreted as a default. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  retreated last week, saying she’d still like voluntary
investor participation.  “What  Europe  should be doing and working very hard at is
minimizing fundamental contagion,” El-Erian said.  Austerity Package  European finance ministers are holding off on a 12 billion-
euro ($17 billion) payment to the country for July under last
year’s rescue until new austerity measures are taken. While
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote of confidence
June 21, he must still secure parliamentary approval of a 78
billion-euro package of budget cuts and state asset sales.  Euro-area finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
Greece has met conditions for its next aid payment.  The euro weakened to a record versus the Swiss currency
today, depreciating as much as 1.7 percent to 1.1846 francs. It
declined 1.2 percent to $1.4190.  The yield difference, or spread, between 10-year German
bunds and Greek securities of a similar maturity was 14
percentage points today, down from 15 a week ago.  “The critical thing is not to contaminate the whole
system, and that’s what we’re risking day in and day out if we
continue with a liquidity approach for a solvency issue,” El-
Erian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 Bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  