-- 
Greece’s Budget Cuts for Austerity Package Are Said to Be Backed by EU-IMF

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-23T20:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/greece-sets-solidarity-levy-on-wages.html
Measures proposed by the Greek
government to complete a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion)
austerity package required to win a bailout were endorsed by
officials from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund , said a person familiar with the matter.  Greek lawmakers must approve the measures in a vote next
week, a condition for receiving a fifth loan payment under an
existing EU-led bailout and for future financing. Failure to
secure aid would push Greece to the brink of default, with the
country needing the funds to cover 6.6 billion euros of maturing
bonds in August.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will discuss the measures
at a summit of European leaders in Brussels today and tomorrow,
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said. There was
general agreement on the main points of the austerity program
with officials from the EU, the IMF and the  European Central
Bank  in Athens, he said.  The new budget measures include a “solidarity levy” of
between 1 percent and 5 percent that would apply to all Greek
wage earners, with members of parliament paying the top rate,
Venizelos said at a news conference in Athens today. Self-
employed Greeks will have to pay a separate charge estimated at
around 300 euros a year on average, he said.  Income Tax  Other changes include reducing the threshold for paying
income tax to 8,000 euros from 12,000 euros, with people under
the age of 30 exempt from the lower threshold. A small increase
in heating-oil taxes will also be brought in, Venizelos said.  While discussions have ended, technical details remain to
be resolved, a Greek official said.  The euro pared losses after Reuters reported that  Greece 
had reached an agreement with the EU-IMF mission regarding the
austerity plan. The euro was down 0.7 percent at $1.4254 at 3:57
p.m. in  New York  after weakening as much as 1.6 percent earlier.  “The precondition for the vote of the medium-term plan is
for this to be finalized and this was the matter for today,”
Venizelos said. “All these days we have been working to make
decisions that are fair and acceptable to our partners.”  Venizelos said he encouraged Greek banks to roll over Greek
bonds already held when they mature. That element will be a key
part of how much future aid Greece is granted, he said, along
with the country raising 50 billion euros in state asset sales.  The law on the medium-term package and accompanying bill
must be voted on by June 30, Venizelos said, before EU partners
make a decision to pay the fifth 12 billion-euro loan payment
under last year’s bailout. He said he received a “very
positive” response from socialist party lawmakers today after
he briefed them. They are “fully aware of the situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  