-- 
Li & Fung Says Wal-Mart May Gain Market Share Amid Weakening U.S. Recovery

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-06-23T09:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/li-fung-says-wal-mart-may-gain-amid-weakening-u-s-recovery.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s
biggest supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, said Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. may benefit from a flagging U.S. economic
recovery.  Wal-Mart’s focus on low-priced products may help the
retailer amid a slower-than-expected economic recovery,
Deputy Chairman  William Fung  said in an interview in Hong
Kong today. The world’s biggest retailer is expected to
become one the five biggest of Li & Fung’s 2,000 clients this
year, he said.  “I think they actually might be gaining,” Fung said of
Wal-Mart. “The last three years, the American economy has
not been great but now it’s recovering, though slowly.  Europe 
still has some debt crisis and other fiscal problems.”  Li & Fung rose the most in almost a year in  Hong Kong 
trading yesterday after saying the division that handles
sourcing for Wal-Mart will grow and may be profitable as
early as this year. The Hong Kong-based outsourcer, which
announced the purchase of five companies yesterday to expand
its trading and distribution businesses, made 65 percent of
its $16 billion in 2010 revenue in the U.S.  U.S., Europe  “Because the US economic environment is tougher, Wal-
Mart is under increasing pressure to gain any advantage it
can on the cost side, including potentially accelerating the
flow through Li & Fung’s specialist sourcing capabilities to
reduce costs,” said  Matthew Marsden , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Samsung Securities Co. He upgraded the company’s
stock to “buy” from “sell” today.  Li & Fung rose 2.44 percent to close at HK$15.96
in Hong Kong today, boosting its gain this week to 13 percent.
The stock has lost 29 percent since the start of the year,
compared with a 5.5 percent loss for the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Deutsche Bank AG raised the supplier’s rating to “buy”
from “hold.”  The supply agreement with Wal-Mart may contribute $2
billion in revenue this year, Li & Fung has said.  Declining home prices, high unemployment and weaknesses 
in the financial system may restrain the U.S. economic recovery 
in the longer term, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said yesterday. The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 
1.8 percent in the first quarter, down from 3.1 percent in the 
fourth quarter.  Li & Fung’s LF Asia division aims to achieve sales of more
than $1 billion by 2013, Jason Rabin, the president of the
company’s Asia hard- and soft-goods division, said yesterday.
More than half of that revenue will come from  China , Fung said
today.  Batman, Ben 10  “The acquisition strategy has always been one part of
Li & Fung’s strategy, beside strong organic growth, we are
also looking for acquisitions to supplement that,” Fung said.  The purchases announced yesterday were made at a price-to-
earnings ratio of about 6.5 times, Bruce Rockowitz, the
company’s chief executive officer, said yesterday, declining
to provide more details.  Li & Fung acquired TVMania, a European supplier of
branded products whose character licenses include Hello Kitty,
 Mickey Mouse  and Batman and Ben 10 as well as Hampshire
Designers, the women’s division of Hampshire Group Ltd.  The three other companies are clothing supplier Loyaltex
Apparel, color cosmetics maker Collection 2000 and Thailand-
based furniture trading company Exim Designs, according to an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  