-- 
Li Na Heading Home After Lisicki Serves Her Out of Wimbledon With 17 Aces

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/li-na-heading-home-to-china-after-lisicki-serves-her-out-of-wimbledon.html
Sabine Lisicki  kept hitting aces
past  Li Na , each serve eroding her opponent’s chances of adding
the Wimbledon tennis title to her Roland Garros championship.  Li, who became the first Chinese player to win a Grand Slam
singles title almost three weeks ago in Paris, was ousted
yesterday by the German wildcard, 3-6, 6-4, 8-6 on Centre Court
in the second round.  Serving at 5-3 down in the final set, Lisicki saved two
match points with the two fastest serves of the match, at 122
and 123 miles-per-hour (197 kph) She then produced two aces --
out of a total of 17 -- to hold serve. When third-seeded Li’s
wide forehand gave her the victory, the 21-year-old put her head
in her towel and cried.  “From the first point till the end of the match, every
serve was like around 117 miles-per-hour,” Li said in a news
conference. “This is impossible for the women.”  Lisicki was simply too good, said Li, who hit 4 aces.  “I have two match points, but I can do nothing for these
two match points,” Li said. “Both players were playing
unbelievable. Nothing wrong. Just unlucky.”  Today, top seeded  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  meets Gilles Muller
of Luxembourg on Court No. 1 and Britain’s Laura Robson takes on
fifth seed  Maria Sharapova  of Russia. American  Andy Roddick 
opens Centre Court play against Spain’s  Feliciano Lopez  and
 Victoria Azarenka , the No. 4 seed from  Belarus , faces Slovakia’s
Daniela Hantuchova.  Earlier this month, Li had changed sports history by
winning the French Open. Her victory over defending champion
Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  was watched by as many as 116
million people in  China , according to the WTA Tour. Li, 29, had
started the season by reaching the Australian Open final, where
she lost to Kim Clijsters of Belgium.  Media Attention  Li’s progress in Paris and London had been closely followed
by Chinese media and state-run China Central Television. After
beating three-time Grand Slam champion Sharapova in the
semifinals in Paris, the Shanghai-based Oriental Daily said she
was the “No. 1 Sister” of Chinese sports. Her semifinal win
was watched by as many as 65 million viewers in China, according
to the  French Open  website.  Li’s Australian Open run in January led to sponsorship
deals with watch brand Rolex, ice-cream maker Haagen-Dazs and
medical tape developer SpiderTech. She signed an accord with
German car brand Mercedes-Benz shortly before Wimbledon.  “Now is my holiday,” Li said. “So week off, just enjoy
the day. I don’t even want to think about tennis.”  Celebrations  Li said in an interview in Eastbourne, England, last week
that she had celebrated her French Open victory with the Chinese
consulate in Paris. She had decided not to go home to China
because of the long flight and also to keep her focus on playing
on the grass courts of Wimbledon.  “I didn’t feel different,” Li said. “I didn’t feel more
pressure. The only change is right now that opponents see you
differently. So everyone who plays against you, they feel like
they have nothing to lose. So they can play their best tennis.”  Lisicki, who had been given a wildcard by Wimbledon after
she won a grass-court event in Birmingham shortly after the
French Open, had 32 winners and 21 unforced errors. Li produced
24 winners and made 20 mistakes.  Starting From Zero  The 21-year-old Lisicki, who trains at the IMG Bollettieri
Tennis Academy in  Florida , missed five months of the 2010 season
with an ankle injury.  “It’s been such a long and hard road to come back from my
injury,” Lisicki, a quarterfinalist at Wimbledon two years ago,
said. “I really had to start from zero. In the last two-and-a-
half months, I just started to play step by step better and
better. So my game was coming together.”  The 62nd-ranked German plays  Misaki Doi , a qualifier from
 Japan , in the next round.  If Lisicki continues to play like she did in the second
round, “she will be No. 1 in the world,” Li said. “But I
don’t think the player can stay at same level like today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  