-- 
IAEA to End Fukushima Meeting Without Agreeing on New Nuclear Safety Rules

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-06-24T10:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/iaea-to-end-meeting-on-nuclear-safety-without-agreeing-new-rules.html
The United Nations atomic agency
missed a chance to strengthen international nuclear safety today
when delegates concluded a meeting on  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
reactor meltdowns without implementing new policies.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 151-nation
ministerial meeting ended today in Vienna with countries
delaying further negotiations until September, when the IAEA
holds its annual general conference alongside a separate high-
level UN summit called by Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon.  This week’s closed-door meeting featured the release of an
IAEA fact-finding mission report on the stricken Fukushima
nuclear plant, where investigators found inadequate earthquake
and tsunami defenses. Delegates were split on proposals to allow
the agency to carry out random safety checks at plants and on
the extent to which nuclear technologies will be shared.  “There are reasons that states don’t want to have
deficiencies revealed,” London-based  International Institute
for Strategic Studies  analyst Jasper Pandza said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “States don’t want to have international
pressure exerted on them. If nuclear deficiencies are revealed,
states don’t want to risk their nuclear programs.”  Countries talked about ways to improve safety standards,
increase transparency and review nuclear plant reviews, said
Mike Weightman, the U.K. nuclear inspector who led the UN review
of the Fukushima disaster in March. An IAEA proposal to subject
all of the world’s 440 reactors to random safety checks was
sidelined after most participants favored focusing on older
reactors, Weightman said at the conference’s final session.  No Global Oversight  The U.S. was among countries that objected to IAEA Director
General Yukiya Amano’s calls to subject all of the world’s
reactors to the checks. The agency should “narrow down the
number of facilities” it proposes to look at, U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said June 21.  Brazil , a growing nuclear nation with two reactors in
operation and plans to build as many as four more, said
international oversight would be ineffective.  “In our view, the application of international safety
standards by the national regulatory authorities is more
efficient and effective than its application by an international
entity,” said Brazil’s radiation protection director Laercio
Antonio Vinhas.  Building Bombs  Other countries, like  India  and  Pakistan , want to boost
safety by freeing up the international trade in nuclear
technology. The IAEA should “facilitate access to utilities,
without extraneous considerations, to the best nuclear safety
technology,”  India ’s Atomic Energy Commission Chairman Srikumar
Banerjee said in a June 20 statement.  The  Indian  and Pakistani requests underline concerns about
giving outsiders access to sensitive nuclear information because
both countries used international atomic aid meant for civilian
use to build bombs. The two neighbors have fought three wars
with each other since they gained independence from Britain in
1947.  “IAEA inspectors, even though they are bound to keep
information confidential and to be objective, are of varying
nationalities,” said Pandza, the IISS analyst. “Countries may
feel uncomfortable letting other nationalities into their
nuclear plants on national security grounds.”  Decades of Resistance  There has been resistance for decades to mandatory safety
standards and IAEA-led checks, said Trevor Findlay, director of
the Canadian Center for Treaty Compliance.  “One difference this time is that  Russia , traditionally
the greatest obstacle, is actually proposing mandatory
inspections,” Findlay, a former Australian diplomat, said by e-
mail. “Japan would also be hard-pressed to oppose them. The
high-level meeting in  New York  will add further political
pressure.”  The Fukushima disaster exposed weaknesses in nuclear
safety, Richard Meserve, a former chairman of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, said today in Vienna. "We have the
opportunity to advance safety at this moment. It is our
obligation to seize that opportunity for all of humankind."  The IAEA’s failure to agree on new measures casts doubt on
the future of the agency, set up by U.S. President Dwight
Eisenhower in 1957 with the moniker “Atoms for Peace,” said
nuclear physicist Nils Bohmer, who attended the public portions
of the meeting with the environmental group  Bellona .  “The public believes that the IAEA should be a strong,
independent nuclear watchdog but it may be too hard for the
agency to be a watchdog over safety,” Bohmer said by phone
yesterday. “There are too many powerful countries whose
interests run contrary to this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  