-- 
Micron Technology Shares Plunge After Chip Prices Drag Down Sales, Profit

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-06-24T20:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/micron-sales-profit-miss-estimates-on-weak-demand-for-computer-components.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, declined the most in two
and a half years after third-quarter sales and profit fell short
of analysts’ estimates.  Net income was $75 million, or 7 cents a share, compared
with $939 million, or 92 cents, a year earlier. Revenue in the
period that ended June 2 fell 6.5 percent to $2.14 billion,
Micron said in a statement. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey
estimated profit of 18 cents and sales of $2.38 billion.  The price of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, for
personal computers dropped as supplies increased and demand from
makers of consumer laptops and desktop PCs remained sluggish,
the Boise, Idaho-based company said. Orders are also slowing for
chips used in inexpensive mobile phones, pushing down prices,
Micron Chief Executive Officer Steve Appleton said.  “We’ve had some inventory accumulation in the channel, and
desktop and notebooks continue to be weak,” Appleton said on a
conference call with analysts. “We can also add wireless to the
list of weak markets.”  Micron fell $1.22 cents, or 14 percent, to $7.21 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest
decline since Dec. 1, 2008. DRAM prices have already fallen by a
percentage in the “high single digits” this quarter, the
company said.  No Sugar Coating  “It’s a disappointing quarter,” said Alex Gauna, a San
Francisco-based analyst at JMP Securities, who has a “buy”
rating on the stock. “There’s no way to sugar coat this.
There’s clearly been an unanticipated further slowing in the
market.”  The company is the only remaining U.S.-based maker of DRAM
after Asian manufacturers forced out the pioneers of the
industry, such as  Intel Corp . and Texas Instruments Inc.
Producers’ inability to match supply to demand in DRAM has hurt
earnings as prices for the chips, which are traded on commodity
exchanges in  Asia , often fell below the cost of production.  Micron has reported an annual profit in only four of the
past 10 years. The company goes head-to-head with  South Korea ’s
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest chipmaker
behind Intel.  Micron aimed to lessen its dependence on DRAM by following
Samsung and Toshiba Corp. into the market for Nand  flash memory ,
chips that provide the storage in portable electronics such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad.  In the third quarter of 2010, Micron’s net income was
boosted by a one-time $488 million gain from the acquisition of
Numonyx BV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 