-- 
IEA Stock Release Mostly Crude; Market to Decide Destination

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-06-23T16:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/iea-stock-release-mostly-crude-market-to-decide-destination-1-.html
The  International Energy Agency  said
most of its announced 60 million-barrel oil stockpile release
will be in the form of crude, which should reach markets at
about the end of next week.  IEA members will inform the agency tomorrow of the
composition of crude and oil products held in their emergency
inventories, Aad van Bohemen, Paris-based head of the IEA’s
Emergency Policy Division told reporters on a conference call
today. The details will be posted on the agency’s website on
June 27, he said.  “Most of that will be crude oil,” Bohemen said. “All the
countries committed to a barrel number and they will inform us
tomorrow of exactly of what that breakdown will be,” he said.  “The U.S. has only crude in its Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, so that’s definitely crude that’s coming from there.
But in  Europe , the countries are holding mixtures of crude and
products,” Bohemen said. “These countries will now look at
what is most needed in that region.”  The distribution of supplies will vary by country,
depending on market needs, he said. Member states are likely to
offer additional oil domestically before selling it elsewhere,
Bohemen said.  “The oil will be made available in the countries where it
is released and then this oil is available for the global
market,” he said. “Whether this will be actually shipped from
one country to another is, of course, for the market to
decide.”  The IEA’s 28 member countries will release stockpiles
proportionate to their share of consumption, the IEA said.  North
America  will release 50 percent of the total, with European
countries releasing some 30 percent and Asian countries
providing the remaining 20 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  