-- 
IEA Announces Emergency Oil Stockpile Release; Crude Plunges

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-23T13:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/iea-will-release-60-million-barrels-of-oil-in-emergency-offset-from-libya.html
The U.S. and 27 allies will release
emergency oil stockpiles through the  International Energy Agency 
for only the third time in more than three decades as the war in
Libya chokes global supplies.  The release of 60 million barrels, or 2 million barrels a
day of oil within the first 30 days, will be coordinated by the
IEA, the Paris-based agency said in a statement today. The move
comes 15 days after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries met in Vienna and kept production quotas unchanged as
 Saudi Arabia  didn’t find enough support from other members to
boost supply amid oil prices above $100 a barrel in London.  “The consumer-producer dialogue is going to run into some
troubled waters” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “Stocks are only
a short term bridge to supply outages. If Saudi is prepared to
fill the gap, the need for a stock released is lessened. This
reduces Saudi incentive to increase production.”  Nobuo Tanaka , the IEA’s executive director, told reporters
in Paris today that high oil prices damage the economy of every
country. U.S. Federal Reserve officials yesterday cut their
forecasts for growth and employment this year and next, pushing
oil prices lower earlier today.  Oil futures fell further after the IEA announcement. Brent
crude for August settlement tumbled as much $6.11, or 5.4
percent, to $108.10 a barrel, the lowest since May 17, on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  It is the third time the IEA has coordinated the use of
emergency stockpiles since the agency was founded in 1974.
The first occasion was during the 1991 Persian  Gulf War , and the
second when Hurricane Katrina damaged oil rigs and refineries in
the Gulf of Mexico in 2005.  The IEA is an energy policy adviser to 28 industrialized
nations including the U.S., Japan and Germany.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  