-- 
Life Technologies Chief Sees 20%-30% Growth in DNA Testing

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-06-23T20:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/life-technologies-chief-sees-20-30-growth-in-dna-testing-2-.html
The market for using genetic
scanning machines to analyze large swaths of DNA will grow by 20
percent to 30 percent annually, and is likely to reach $10
billion in the next few years,  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  Chief
Executive Officer Greg Lucier said.  “Theoretically, it could be tens of billions,” Lucier
said today in an interview in New York. “If every cancer
patient in the future is going to get genetically tested on
their genome, that’s $50 billion right there. It’s an enormous
market.”  Currently at “several billion” a year, the genetic-
testing market is divided among Carlsbad, California-based Life
Technologies and competitors including  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , in  San
Diego , and  Pacific Biosciences of California Inc. (PACB) , in  Menlo
Park ,  California . Life Technologies gained new technology with
its $375 million purchase last year of Ion Torrent Systems Inc.,
the maker of desktop-sized machines.  “This first generation Ion Torrent machine is selling
faster than any sequencer I think ever historically,” Lucier
said. “That’s because it’s cheap. The typical sequencer machine
has been half a million to $800,000. This costs $50,000, and
it’s fast -- 2 hours -- and it’s really simple.”  Drug companies and research laboratories use the machines
to create a precise map of the billions of data points that make
up the DNA of cells from blood, saliva, cancerous tumors or
bacteria. Now, hospitals are increasingly buying the new, lower-
cost machines in order to devise new tests to personalize care
for patients with cancer and inherited diseases.  Hospital Opportunities  “When these hospitals see the future of genetic testing in
a big way, they’re saying, ‘Wow, I could create a heck of a lot
of business for myself if I do this right,’” Lucier said.
“There’s an opportunity to bring back in revenue, revenue that
will be created, and keep it inside the hospital.”  Life Technologies’ Ion Torrent machines will face
competition from Illumina’s MiSeq systems in the next few
months, said Ross Muken, an analyst with Deutsche Bank
Securities in  New York .  “Both technologies look promising,” Muken, who recommends
buying Illumina shares and holding Life Technologies, said today
in a telephone interview. “Based on the simplicity of the
workflow and the scalability of the box, we think the MiSeq will
be a superior offering.”  Life Technologies gained 33 cents to $53.11 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares are down
4.3 percent this year. Illumina fell 47 cents to $74.13, and has
gained 17 percent this year.  Gene Machine Market  Muken said the market for genetic scanning machines is
about $1.5 billion to $2 billion now, and estimates it could
reach Lucier’s $10 billion projection in 15 to 20 years. Growth
will come from new adoption of the technology in hospitals,
clinical laboratories and diagnostics researchers, he said.  Life Technologies also makes tools for use in laboratories,
including cell-culture agents and protein-separation products,
and for forensic and food-safety work. Lucier said he plans to
grow the company partially through acquisitions.  “We’re looking more for tuck-in acquisitions, up to a
couple hundred million” dollars, he said. “That’s simply
because we were and are very focused on rolling out this Ion
Torrent technology. But in time, there’s no reason we wouldn’t
do larger deals.”  Lucier said the company is considering purchases that would
fit into its genetic-analysis strategy.  “There are a lot of start-ups in that space doing sample
preparation, how you deal with the DNA, a lot of IT companies
coming up that are thinking about how to analyze this data,” he
said. “That whole workflow of where a patient comes in and you
take a sample, to all the way out, you give them an answer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 