-- 
High-Yield Checking Account ‘Slam Dunk’ for Cash, Bankrate Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-06-23T12:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/high-yield-checking-account-slam-dunk-for-cash-bankrate-says.html
Consumers may earn as much as 6
percent on certain U.S. checking accounts, a Bankrate.com survey
found.  The so-called high-yield checking accounts earned an
average 2.56 percent compared with 3.3 percent last year,
Bankrate.com said today.  “It’s a slam dunk,” for savers who can meet the
requirements, said  Greg McBride , senior financial analyst at
Bankrate.com, a unit of Bankrate Inc. “It’s an easy way to
raise the yield on some of the cash portion of your portfolio.”  To earn the top interest rate, consumers generally must
meet monthly requirements such as one direct deposit or
automated payment and 10 debit-card transactions, according to
the study. The required debit-card purchases are the “biggest
hurdle,” for consumers, McBride said. Savers who don’t meet the
requirements in a given month earn an average of 0.11 percent,
he said.  Banks also generally limit the balances in a checking
account that earn the highest yield. The most common cap is
$25,000, while others set it at $10,000 or less, McBride said.
The highest yield found in the survey was 6.17 percent on up to
$500, from  Boeing Employees’ Credit Union  in  Seattle , with
excess balances receiving a rate of 0.1 percent, he said.  Bankrate, based in North Palm Beach,  Florida , surveyed 155
banks and credit unions in May and found  57  high-yield accounts,
of which 27 were available to consumers nationwide. While the
average interest rate has declined, it’s still higher than the
earnings from money-market funds and traditional checking and
 savings accounts , McBride said.  Debit-Card Caps  Top-yielding nationally available savings accounts yield
1.1 percent and the average traditional checking accounts earn
0.07 percent, Bankrate.com data show. The seven-day compound
yield of the average taxable money fund was 0.02 percent during
the week ended June 14, according to IMoneyNet Inc., a research
firm based in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  High-yield checking accounts are offered predominantly by
smaller community banks and  credit unions , McBride said. Banks
offering nationally available checking-account yields of more
than 3 percent include Ouachita Independent Bank in  Louisiana ,
BankTexas in  Texas , Danversbank in Massachusetts and Atlantic
Coast Bank in Florida and Georgia.  The  Federal Reserve  in December proposed capping debit-card
swipe fees charged to merchants at 12 cents a transaction,
replacing a formula that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase
price. The caps, scheduled to take effect July 21, won’t apply
to banks and credit unions with less than $10 billion in assets.  Routine Purchases  Banks may increase the number of required debit-card
transactions in order to earn the higher yield because of the
debit-card reforms, McBride said. High-yield checking accounts
often have no monthly fees or balance requirements, and may
refund ATM fees.  To maximize the higher interest on these checking accounts,
consumers should hit their required debit-card transactions each
month through routine purchases such as lunch or gas expenses
and not deplete the balance in large numbers, said McBride.  “If you’re earning the higher rate of interest you
probably don’t want to be pulling money out,” McBride said.  Bankrate Inc. is an online publisher of consumer interest-
rate information. The company had its first day of trading on
June 17 after its initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 