-- 
Lilly CEO Says Immigration Boosts Innovation

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-06-23T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/lilly-ceo-blames-immigration-and-tax-laws-for-slower-innovation.html
The U.S. government needs to open
its borders to attract and retain talented scientists for
drugmakers to employ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Chief Executive Officer
John Lechleiter plans to tell a technology conference today.  The pharmaceutical industry faces $1.3 billion in
development costs for a single drug and had 95 Food and Drug
Administration clearances in the past five years, the lowest in
such a span since the late 1970s. The industry is in a six-year
window when products that make up 40 percent of pharmaceutical
sales lose patent protection, equivalent to a $100 billion loss
in annual revenue, he said.  Lechleiter will call for U.S. immigration officials to
issue more green cards, formally called permanent resident
cards, for highly skilled immigrants along with adopting a
shorter, simpler process to obtain the proof to live and work in
the U.S. His remarks were part of a five-point proposal to
reinvigorate U.S. innovation at a  Washington  conference.  “To those that argue that these immigrants are taking jobs
from Americans, I say baloney,” according to a draft of
prepared remarks provided to Bloomberg. “And it surely beats
the alternative: talented people trained in the U.S. returning
to their native country or going elsewhere to start or help a
foreign firm to compete against us.”  He added: “You want a job killer? That’s a job killer.”  Waiting Years  Employees of Indianapolis-based Lilly sponsored by the
company wait an average of five years to obtain a green card.
The uncertainty and frustration drives away promising potential
candidates for employment, Lechleiter said in his remarks.  He also called for bigger tax breaks and an FDA approval
process that more evenly weighs safety and benefits. The
corporate  tax rate  should be dropped as low as 20 percent and
the U.S. shouldn’t tax the overseas earnings of U.S. companies,
he said.  The U.S. corporate tax rate was  40 percent  in 2009,
according to KPMG LLP, a tax firm based in  New York . The U.K.’s
rate was 28 percent and  China ’s was 25 percent in the same year.  The  Biotechnology Industry Organization , a Washington
lobbying group that represents manufacturers of biologic drugs
made from living organisms, plans during its annual conference
next week to introduce legislative proposals aimed at spurring
innovation as well.  BIO President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Greenwood
said in a telephone interview the proposals won’t address
immigration even as he acknowledged green-card access is an
industry concern.  Drafting Proposal  “Congress should be running to us asking, ‘What do you
need?’” he said. BIO will be ready with a proposal, once it is
adopted by its board June 27 at the Washington conference, that
will include legislative recommendations for Congress, much like
Lechleiter’s suggestions, on tax incentives and regulatory
changes at the FDA, Greenwood said.  He didn’t specify the tax stimulants the trade group would
seek or the regulatory changes except to say that “the risk-
benefit ratio or consideration isn’t there” at the FDA.  Greenwood said he came up with the idea for the proposal
last year following passage of the health law and the 10th
anniversary of the sequencing of the human genome. He sought
help from former National Institutes of Health Director Elias Zerhouni, who now is president of research and development at
Sanofi.  The FDA drug review process must be more systemic,
Lechleiter said.  “There is much greater pressure on regulators to identify
and avoid risks of new medicines than to balance those risks
against the potential benefits to patients,” he said in his
remarks.  Lechleiter wants the FDA to document the basis of putting
off decisions or erring on the side of avoiding risk.  The FDA and industry held talks on enhancing communication
as part of negotiations over user fees that drugmakers pay to
speed product approvals that must be reauthorized in 2012. The
agency  said  on its website it proposed to create liaisons to
meet more often with industry about drug applications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 