-- 
India Said to Plan Raising Fuel Cost

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-06-23T18:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/india-said-to-plan-raising-fuel-cost-to-cut-5-3-billion-subsidy.html
India  may raise fuel prices when a
ministers’ panel meets today, seeking to trim fuel subsidies
that threatens to exceed the government’s forecast of $5.3
billion this year, an oil ministry official said.  The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has recommended
higher diesel prices, and lower taxes on crude oil and fuels,
the oil ministry official said yesterday, declining to be
identified before a public announcement. The panel led by
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee will meet at 1 p.m. in New
Delhi, a finance ministry official said yesterday.  An increase in fuel costs may spur inflation in  Asia ’s
second-largest energy consumer, where diesel and cooking-fuel
prices are capped to protect livelihoods of three-quarters of
the population the  World Bank  says survives on less than $2 a
day. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government is raising
prices to keep its pledge of narrowing the budget deficit.  “In the long run, it is very good for the market,” Gopal
Agrawal, the Mumbai-based chief investment officer at the local
unit of Mirae Asset Financial Group, said in a telephone
interview. “It will improve government finances and free up
more money to be spent on development programs and
infrastructure.”  India’s inflation is running at 9.06 percent, more than
twice the rate in the U.S. and almost four times  Germany ’s.
Raising diesel prices may increase transportation costs stoking
prices from cars to food.  Reserve Bank  Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said yesterday
food inflation remains “uncomfortably high” and that farm
output needs to rise. Food inflation accelerated to a two-month
high of 9.13 percent in the week ended June 11 from a year
earlier.  Refiners’ Loss  State-run refiners such as Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s
largest, are losing 4.6 billion rupees a day by selling diesel,
kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas below cost, according to
the petroleum ministry. Indian Oil boosted the price of gasoline
by 5 rupees a liter to 63.37 rupees on May 15, the biggest raise
since June 2008.  The government gives the refiners subsidies as compensation
for selling fuels below market prices. Minister Mukherjee, in
his Feb. 28 budget, estimated a spending of 236.4 billion rupees
($5.3 billion) on fuel subsidies in the year to March 31, less
than the 383.8 billion rupees spent in the previous 12 months.  India aims to narrow the  budget deficit  to 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product in the current fiscal year from 4.7
percent of gross domestic product in the previous 12 months.  Crude oil for August delivery dropped $4.29, or 4.5
percent, to $91.12 a barrel at 12:54 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices have gained 19 percent in the past
year.  Diesel has a 4.7 percent weighting in India’s benchmark
wholesale-price index and gasoline 1.1 percent.  India’s central bank, which last week raised  interest rates 
for the 10th time since the start of 2010, expects inflation to
stay at elevated levels until September. The  Reserve Bank of
India ’s repurchase rate is 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  