-- 
India Said to Plan $557 Million Overseas Ports Company Modeled on DP World

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-06-23T05:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/india-said-to-plan-557-million-overseas-ports-company-modeled-on-dp-world.html
India  plans to set up a 25 billion-
rupee ($557 million) state-owned company to invest in overseas
ports and terminals to help boost international trade, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Indian Ports’ Global will be established within a month,
using funds collected from federal government-run ports, said
the people, who declined to be identified before an official
announcement. The new company will also sell bonds, they said,
without specifying an amount.  The company, modeled on Singapore’s  PSA International Pte 
and Dubai’s  DP World Ltd. (DPW) , may help Indian shipping lines win a
greater share of international trade by giving them easier
access to overseas facilities, the people said. State-controlled
Shipping Corp. of India, the nation’s biggest shipping line,
also plans to buy as many as 110 vessels during this decade to
benefit from rising global trade.  “It will no doubt help India increase its influence,”
said  Anand Sharma , director of Mumbai-based Mantrana Maritime
Advisory Pvt., which provides consulting to shipping lines and
port operators. “The world is moving toward cross-border
acquisitions to ease logistics bottlenecks.”  The Ministry of Shipping’s New Delhi-based spokesman Manoj
Gupta declined to comment.  India is also planning to form Maritime Finance Corp.,
which will sell 50 billion rupees of tax-free bonds in the year
ending in March to help pay for projects in ports run by the
federal government, the  shipping ministry  said in March.  About 90 percent of India’s international trade by volume
is carried through sea, according to the ministry.  Asia ’s third-
largest economy aims to more than double its merchandise exports
in three years to March 2014 from $246 billion last year,
according to the Department of Commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  