-- 
India’s Bonds Decline a Third Day as Food Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-06-23T13:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/india-s-bonds-decline-a-third-day-as-food-inflation-accelerates.html
India ’s 10-year bonds dropped a
third day on concern quickening inflation will erode the value
of fixed-income notes and prompt investors to pare their
holdings.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products rose 9.13 percent in the week ended June 11 from a year
earlier, the highest level in two months, the commerce ministry
said in a statement today. It gained 8.96 percent the previous
week. India’s monsoon will be below normal this year, Science
and Technology Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal said on June 21.  “Inflationary pressures continue to worry bond
investors,” said Killol Pandya, head of fixed income at Daiwa
Mutual Fund. “The progress of the monsoon will also be keenly
watched as it will have an effect on food prices as well as the
entire economy.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.27 percent as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system.  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said
today food inflation remains “uncomfortably high” and that
farm output needs to rise.  India’s monsoon rainfall, the main source of irrigation in
the country, will be 95 percent of the 50-year average in the
June-September season, Minister Bansal said. That compares with
an earlier prediction of 98 percent made in April.  The Indian Meteorological Department defines normal
rainfall as between 96 percent to 104 percent of the long-term
average.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
fell four basis points to 7.99 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  