-- 
Rise in U.S. Jobless Claims, Drop in Confidence Point to Slowing Recovery

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-23T20:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/initial-jobless-claims-in-u-s-rose-9-000-last-week-to-429-000.html
More Americans than forecast filed
first-time jobless claims last week and  consumer confidence 
fell, highlighting Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
concern that the slowdown in the economy may persist.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  increased 9,000 in
the week ended June 18 to 429,000, Labor Department figures
showed today. The level of claims exceeded the highest estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey in which the median projection called
for 415,000 filings. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
dropped to minus 44.9 last week from minus 44.  Stocks fell and  Treasury securities  rose as the figures,
combined with a drop in new-home sales, showed the recovery was
struggling to gain momentum. Bernanke said yesterday that
joblessness above 9 percent and weakness in housing show the
economy’s “headwinds” may be stronger than Fed policy makers
initially estimated.  “The jobless claims numbers are troubling,” said Maxwell Clarke, chief U.S. economist at IDEAglobal in  New York . “The
Fed is a little nervous,” he said, and the economy is “going
to start next quarter out on a weak note.”  Purchases of new homes dropped 2.1 percent in May to a
319,000 annual rate, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in Washington. The median price of new properties sold
declined from a year earlier.  ‘Weak for a While’  “Things are still going to be weak for a while,” said
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “We need to see much better job
growth and more confidence in general,” he said, adding that
new-home sales are “still sort of bouncing around the bottom.”  After dropping as much as 1.9 percent earlier in the day,
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended down 0.3 percent to
1,283.5 at the 4 p.m. close in New York on a report that  Greece 
had reached an agreement with the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  regarding a five-year austerity
plan. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to
2.92 percent from 2.98 percent late yesterday.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped as American
grew more concerned about the economy. The decrease from the
previous week, within the survey’s margin of error of 3
percentage points, left the gauge close to its average for the
year. The report showed an index of consumers’ views of the
economy fell to the worst reading since April.  Worse Off  The data buttress the results of a separate Bloomberg
National Poll conducted June 17-20. It found that two years
after the start of the recovery, 25 percent of those surveyed
worried the economy was getting worse, while 23 percent said
they were hopeful the recovery was improving. By a 44 percent to
34 percent margin, Americans said they believed they were worse
off than when President  Barack Obama  took office in early 2009.  Estimates for first-time applications for jobless benefits
ranged from 400,000 to 425,000 in the Bloomberg survey of 47
economists. The claims data coincide with the week the
government surveys employers every month for the monthly jobs
report. The Labor Department will issue the June employment
count on July 8.  The four-week moving average, a less-volatile measure of
initial claims, held at 426,250.  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
dropped by 1,000 in the week ended June 11 to 3.7 million. The
figure does not include the number of workers receiving extended
benefits under federal programs.  Emergency Claims  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by about
68,000 to 3.95 million in the week ended June 4.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  After improving at the beginning of the year, labor market
conditions have deteriorated. Payrolls grew by 54,000 workers
last month, the smallest gain in eight months, after increasing
by 232,000 in April, Labor Department data showed June 3. The
jobless rate rose to 9.1 percent, the highest since December,
from 9 percent.  Fed officials yesterday lowered their projections for
employment, predicting the jobless rate will average 8.6 percent
to 8.9 percent in the final three months of 2011, compared with
8.4 percent to 8.7 percent projected in April.  ‘Slow’ Progress  “We expect the  unemployment rate  to continue to decline
but the pace of progress remains frustratingly slow,” Bernanke
told reporters following the monetary policy meeting.  Gannett Co., publisher of 82 newspapers including  USA
Today , is cutting about 700 jobs at its community-newspaper
unit.  Gannett is reducing staff because the economic recovery is
not happening “as quickly or favorably as we had hoped,” Bob Dickey, president of Gannett’s U.S. community publishing
division, said in a memo. The division includes the Cincinnati
Enquirer and Indianapolis Star.  “While we are seeing improved circulation results and
audience growth, weakness in the real estate sector, slow  job
creation  and now softer auto ad demand continue to challenge
revenue growth in the division,” Dickey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  