-- 
Innkeepers Judge Says She Will Approve Bankruptcy Reorganization, Sale

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-24T19:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/innkeepers-judge-to-approve-reorganization-plan-with-sale-of-64-hotels.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  will win
approval for a plan to exit bankruptcy that includes a sale of
64 of the company’s hotels to Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) , a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in Manhattan
yesterday said she intended to sign an order approving the hotel
company’s restructuring plan once she reviews final
documentation.  The deal returns Chatham Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Fisher to Innkeepers, which he founded in 1994 with seven
hotels, he said in an interview today. The company was acquired
by  Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV)  in 2007.  “When you know your assets, as long you know the pricing
you think is right, it’s better than buying the unknown isn’t
it?” Fisher said.  Innkeepers owns 71 hotels in 20 U.S. states, including
Residence Inns by Marriott and Hampton Inns. Lehman Ali, a unit
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , helped finance the buyout of
Innkeepers with a $1.2 billion loan. The company’s bankruptcy
petition listed assets of $1.5 billion against debt totaling
$1.52 billion.  At an auction in May, Cerberus and Chatham placed a winning
bid of $1.1 billion for the largest group of hotels, topping an
offer from Lehman Ali and Five Mile Capital Partners. Chatham, a
real estate investment trust based in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , has
10 percent of the joint venture formed with Cerberus, Fisher
said.  In addition to the 64 hotels, Chatham won another group of
five hotels with a bid of $195 million. Two other hotels will be
turned over to lenders, according to court papers. Most of
Innkeepers’ hotel portfolio is made up of extended-stay hotels,
according to court papers.  Fisher said Chatham was drawn to the Innkeepers properties
because they are in strong markets: the Northeast, the mid-
Atlantic and  California . As the economic recovery proceeds, the
values of the hotels will rise, Fisher said.  “The Innkeepers deal just looked great to us, and in fact
we think is going to add a lot of value over time,” he said.  Midland Loan Services, the special servicer of an
$825 million mortgage loan, and Lehman filed objections to
Innkeepers’ bankruptcy plan. Anup Sathy, an Innkeepers lawyer,
said at yesterday’s court hearing they would withdraw their
objections under an agreement announced in court. All except one
objection to the plan was resolved, he told Chapman.  Chapman said she appreciated the work of lawyers in the
case to achieve “truly global peace.”  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  