-- 
Lira Weakens to Two-Year Low After Central Bank Stays on Hold

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-23T14:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/lira-weakens-to-two-year-low-after-central-bank-stays-on-hold.html
The lira declined to the weakest
level in more than two years against the dollar after the
Turkish central bank left  interest rates  unchanged for a fifth
month at a record low.  The lira fell 1 percent to 1.6337, the lowest on a closing
basis since April 2009, at 5 p.m. in Istanbul. Yields on two-
year bonds rose one basis point to 9.17 percent.  Turkey ’s currency has slumped 5.4 percent this year, the
worst performance among more than 20 emerging markets, as the
current-account deficit widened to $7.7 billion in April, the
second-biggest gap on record, and inflation accelerated to a
six-month high of 7.2 percent last month. The central bank kept
its benchmark rate at 6.25 percent today, saying there was no
change in its policy stance.  “This decision is going to undermine investor confidence
when domestic macro conditions would warrant tighter policies,”
 Benoit Anne , head of global emerging-markets strategy at Societe
Generale SA in  London ,  France ’s second-biggest bank, said via e-
mail. “I see further risk of a lira sell-off in the near term,
as investors may now risk voting with their feet, and that means
outflows.”  The euro weakened and stocks fell worldwide, sending the
MSCI All-Country World Index down 1.7 percent, after U.S.
jobless claims exceeded estimates, European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the region’s debt crisis
threatens to infect banks and the  Federal Reserve  cut estimates
for America’s economic growth.  Reserve Requirements  Turkey’s central bank Governor Erdem Basci is trying to
curb lending without raising the benchmark rate, by increasing
reserve requirements for lenders four times since December. The
industry regulator took action this week against banks that
issue large amounts of consumer loans.  Policy makers said inflation will slow and made no mention
of any further increases to reserve requirements, according to a
statement on the bank’s website. The central bank forecast
inflation of 6.9 percent for 2011.  “This is a pretty dovish commentary,” Tim Ash, head of
emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London,
said in an e-mailed report to investors today. “It seems to be
a pretty relaxed view from the central bank in terms of lira
weakening.”  Bank shares rallied, with the ISE Banks index jumping 1.7
percent, more than four times the benchmark  ISE National 100
Index (XU100) ’s 0.4 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  