-- 
Irish Economy Grows Fastest in Three Years

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-06-23T11:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/irish-economy-grows-fastest-in-three-years.html
Ireland’s economy expanded the most
in more than three years in the first quarter as export growth
offset a continued slump in  consumer spending .  Gross domestic product rose 1.3 percent from the previous
three months, when it fell 1.4 percent, the  Central Statistics
Office  said in a report in Dublin today. The increase was the
most since the fourth quarter of 2007 and exceeded the 0.5
percent median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. From a year earlier, GDP rose 0.1 percent.  Ireland is struggling to emerge from a recession after a
decade-long real-estate bubble burst and its banking system came
close to collapse. As its government tries to secure a reduction
in the rate on bailout loans it received last year, European
Union governments are working on a plan to prevent a default in
 Greece  that could send shockwaves across the region.  “The bounceback largely reflects the erratic fourth
quarter,” said Conall MacCoille, an economist at Dublin-based
securities firm Davy. “Growth is likely to be weak in the
remainder of the year, as the government’s fiscal plans are
implemented and consumer spending remains weak as real incomes
are squeezed.”  Bonds Decline  Irish bonds declined today, pushing the yield on the
country’s 10-year debt up 7 basis points to 11.78 percent. The
yield premium over benchmark 10-year German bond rose 10 basis
points to 887 basis points. The premium on the bonds of Greece
was 1,394 basis points.  Exports rose 3.8 percent on the quarter, as companies with
operations in Ireland such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  helped
revive an economy battered by a collapse in the construction
sector. Imports slipped 0.3 percent, while consumer spending and
government spending both dropped 1.9 percent. Investment rose
1.1 percent.  “The overall domestic economy is weak while the export
economy remains quite strong,” Eoin Fahy, chief economist at
Kleinwort Benson Investors Dublin Ltd., said in a phone
interview. “With the quarter-on-quarter figures moving so
wildly, year-on-year is the one to look at and they’re telling
you that the Irish economy is flat to down a bit.”  Gross national product fell 4.3 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months. The difference between
GDP and GNP is partly due to net factor outflows. These
increased by almost 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in the first
quarter as foreign companies repatriated profits.  Ireland’s economy has shrunk about 15 percent since 2007,
unemployment has tripled to 14.8 percent and house prices have
plunged. The government was forced to seek a bailout from the EU
and the  International Monetary Fund  last year to help pay bank-
rescue costs.  European Affairs Minister Lucinda Creighton said today she
is “optimistic” Ireland will be able to obtain a cut in the
rate on its bailout loans. Domestic political concerns in  France 
are blocking the move, Creighton said in an interview with
national broadcaster RTE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in London at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  