-- 
Israeli Unemployment Rate Fell to Record Low 5.8% in April

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-06-23T14:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/israeli-unemployment-rate-fell-to-record-low-5-8-in-april-3-.html
Israel ’s  unemployment rate  declined
to 5.8 percent in April, a record low according to the
government, as the economy expanded.  The jobless rate dropped from 5.9 percent in the previous
month, preliminary  data  released today by the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  in Jerusalem showed. Unemployment in April last year
was 6.7 percent.  The economy grew an annualized 4.8 percent in the first
quarter, following an expansion of 7.6 percent in the previous
three months, the fastest face in four years. The Bank of Israel
raised its 2011 growth forecast to 5.2 percent on June 1, from
4.5 percent, and predicted the jobless rate would drop to 5.8
percent this year.  “The rate is an indicator for high demand in the
economy,” said Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at Tel Aviv-
based DS Securities & Investments Ltd. “It is unlikely that it
will move below the April low in coming months, as most recent
leading economic indicators point to a less favorable
environment mainly due to a slowdown in the global economy.”  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  has been gradually
raising the benchmark interest rate from a record low of 0.5
percent in August 2009, stepping up the pace since the beginning
of the year, as inflation remains above the government’s 1
percent to 3 percent target. Fischer increased the rate for the
fourth time this year at the end of May, boosting it by a
quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent.  Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said in an e-mailed
statement that the unemployment rate was the lowest ever. “In
April 2009, I declared a historic target of unemployment of
under 6 percent within four years,” he said. It “was achieved
in only two years, despite the high jobless rate in Europe and
the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 