-- 
ISS Debt Deal Buys Time for Next IPO

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-06-23T09:23:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/iss-debt-deal-buys-time-for-ipo-in-weak-market-chief-says-1-.html
ISS Holding A/S, which pulled its
initial public offering in March, won’t try another attempt yet
as markets are weak and a refinancing of its debt has bought the
company time to wait, its chief executive officer said.  “We’ve been following the market to see if we should do it
again, but we’re not in a hurry,” Jeff Gravenhorst, CEO of the
Copenhagen-based company, said yesterday in an interview. “I’ve
got to admit it has not been great. The markets are bleak now.”  ISS, owned by Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and EQT
Partners AB, withdrew the listing on March 17, citing a slump in
global equity markets. ISS, the world’s largest cleaning-service
provider, said yesterday it agreed with banks to extend the
maturity of debt of about $3.43 billion.  “We bought ourselves even longer time,” said Gravenhorst.
“You don’t want to get in a position where you are forced to do
an IPO. It just gives us more flexibility.”  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA this week pulled an IPO of its
packaging unit, which was to bring in at least at least 785
million euros ($1.1 billion). At least 20 IPOs have been pulled
or postponed in western  Europe  this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a gauge of equity-market volatility that
measures the cost of protecting against declines in the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, rose 7.2 percent to 25.03 at 9:53 a.m. in  London 
today. The gage jumped to an eight-month high of 35.2 the day
before ISS pulled its IPO as political unrest in northern  Africa 
and  Japan ’s nuclear disaster rattled markets.  ‘Worst Timing’  “It was the worst timing I’ve ever experienced,”
Gravenhorst said. “We did the right thing postponing it.”  ISS, which is the world’s fourth-largest private employer
with more than 500,000 workers, said yesterday it has extended
the maturity of 17.9 billion kroner ($3.43 billion) of debt to
either December 2014 or April 2015. The company also expanded
its revolving credit facility by 1.5 billion kroner.  ISS had  net debt  of 31.5 billion kroner at the end of March
as the company has grown through acquisitions. ISS has bought
154 companies since 2000, making it the Nordic region’s most
active buyer the past decade, according to Bloomberg data.  The company has now reached a size where it doesn’t need to
make more acquisitions, and will target purchases
“selectively,” favoring emerging markets, Gravenhorst said.  While an IPO is still the owners’ preferred exit, a sale to
another company or fund can’t be ruled out, Gravenhorst said.
Apax Partners LLP dropped in January a 6.4 billion-euro ($9.1
billion) bid for ISS, according to two people familiar with the
talks. That would have been the biggest acquisition by a
European private equity firm since the credit crisis.  “You’re always for sale at the right price, so it could
happen, but it’s not something I know is happening,” he said.  Gravenhorst said ISS and its owners are talking with IPO
managers  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  on a
“weekly” basis.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Nordea Bank AB were the other banks hired for
the March IPO.  “We’re ready, so we could move quickly, but it won’t be
right now,” Gravenhorst said. “We don’t need to prepare very
much to go ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  