-- 
Italian Consumer Confidence Falls as Weak Growth Fuels Rising Unemployment

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-23T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/italian-consumer-confidence-falls-as-weak-growth-fuels-rising-unemployment.html
Italian  consumer confidence  declined
in June as households turned pessimistic about the outlook for
employment and economic growth.  The sentiment index fell to 105.8 from 106.5 last month,
national statistics office Istat said in Rome today. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had predicted a decline to 105.3,
according to the median of 9 forecasts.  Italy’s exports failed to offset weak domestic demand in
the first quarter as the euro region’s third-biggest economy
expanded 0.1 percent, compared with 0.8 percent for the euro
zone. Moody’s Investors Service put the country’s credit ratings
under review last week for a possible downgrade because of
challenges to growth. In a similar move last month,  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered  Italy ’s credit-rating outlook to negative from
stable, citing the nation’s slowing recovery.  On June 17 the  International Monetary Fund  forecast Italy
would expand 1 percent this year, down from 1.3 percent in 2010,
lagging behind euro-aeco rea growth amid a weak recovery and
poor competitiveness. Unemployment in the $2.3 trillion economy
fell in April to 8.3 percent, close to the highest since monthly
record began in 2004.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, plans to
close as many as 400 branches as part of a plan to cut costs,
the lender’s unions said in a June 16 statement.  To revive  consumer spending  and growth the government led
by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  plans to overhaul the
country’s tax system and the premier said he will present a bill
before Parliament recesses for the summer, including three tax
brackets down from the current five, with a lower maximum rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  