-- 
Japanese Stocks in U.S Rise, Australian Futures Little Changed

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-06-23T23:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/japanese-stocks-in-u-s-rise-on-greece-australian-futures-little-changed.html
Japanese stocks traded in the U.S.
rose after European Union leaders vowed to rescue  Greece , easing
concern the region’s debt crisis will spread. Australian stocks
futures were little changed.  The Bank of New York Mellon  Japan  ADR Index gained 0.1
percent yesterday. American depositary receipts of  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
which gets more than 20 percent of its sales in Europe,
increased 0.3 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo.
Those of Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s No. 3 carmaker by revenue,
were little changed even after the company forecast profit will
fall this year. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest
mining company and  Australia ’s No. 1 oil producer, lost 0.3
percent after commodity prices dropped.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,580 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with
9,600 in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,570
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index were little changed today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
was little changed in Wellington.  “The fact that  Europe  is coming to the aid of Greece is a
positive for the market,“ said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist
at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “It means there’s less of
chance that the crisis spills over into neighboring countries.”  In Europe, measures proposed by Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos to complete a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion)
austerity package required to win a bailout were endorsed by
officials　from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund , said a person familiar with the matter.  Debt Levy  A “solidarity levy” of between 1 percent and 5 percent
would apply to all Greek wage earners, with members of
parliament paying the top rate, Venizelos told reporters in
Athens yesterday. Self-employed Greeks will have to pay a
separate charge estimated at around 300 euros a year on average,
he said.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4
percent today. In  New York , the index declined 0.3 percent to
1,283.50 yesterday after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said risk signals for financial stability in the
euro area are flashing “red” as the debt crisis threatens to
infect banks. An increase in U.S. jobless claims added to signs
the world’s biggest economy is slowing.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  increased 9,000 to
429,000 last week, Labor Department figures showed yesterday,
exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Home Sales  Purchases of new homes in the U.S. fell in May for the
first time in three months, showing the industry is struggling
to gain momentum. Sales dropped 2.1 percent to a 319,000 annual
pace, figures from the Commerce Department showed.  “If the number of applicants for jobless benefits remains
near the current level, the jobless rate won’t drop and U.S.
economic growth may decline further,” Nomura Holdings’s Wako
said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week
that joblessness above 9 percent and weakness in housing show
the economy may be facing stronger “headwinds” than Fed policy
makers initially estimated.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 5.1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.1 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 4.2 percent the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13 times for the S&P 500 and
10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Nissan Profit  Nissan Motor  expects its full-year profit will drop 15
percent after the March earthquake and tsunami disrupted
production and sales, and as the yen appreciated. Net income may
fall to 270 billion yen ($3.36 billion) in the 12 months ending
March 31 from 319.2 billion yen a year earlier, the company said
in a statement. That would be higher than the 237 billion yen
average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the
past 28 days.  Crude oil for August delivery tumbled 4.6 percent to $91.02
a barrel in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement since Feb.
18. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial
metals including copper and aluminum fell 0.7 percent yesterday.  The IEA announced that it will release 60 million barrels
of oil from emergency stockpiles to alleviate possible shortages
following the loss of Libyan crude. It is the third time the
Paris-based agency has coordinated the use of emergency
stockpiles since the agency was founded in 1974.  Half of the 60 million barrels of crude from the IEA
release will come from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
Strategic Petroleum Reserve, according to the IEA and the U.S.
Energy Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 