-- 
JPMorgan Gets a Break Where Goldman Got Nailed: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/jpmorgan-gets-a-break-where-goldman-got-nailed-jonathan-weil.html
Once again the Securities and
Exchange Commission has filed a complaint against a too-big-to-
fail bank that hinges on the meaning of one word: “selected.”
Last year, the bank was Goldman Sachs, which the SEC accused of
intentional fraud. This week, the defendant was JPMorgan, which
got far easier treatment.  Why the different approaches? The agency isn’t saying.
Judging by the allegations, both companies in essence did the
same thing. Yet JPMorgan caught a break, and Goldman didn’t.  The SEC says the securities arm of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
defrauded investors in a $1.1 billion bond deal called Squared
CDO 2007-1. The SEC didn’t accuse the bank of defrauding anyone
intentionally, however, only negligently. One quirk of the
 Securities Act  of 1933 is that the courts have said the SEC need
only show negligence to establish violations of the statute’s
less-serious antifraud provisions. Hence, one of the great
oxymorons of American legalese: “negligent fraud.”  The critical misrepresentation JPMorgan made was that the
portfolio of mortgage-related investments underlying Squared was
“selected” by a collateral manager named GSCP, according to
the SEC’s  complaint . That statement, contained in JPMorgan  sales
materials , wasn’t true, the SEC said.  In fact, a hedge fund that shorted more than half of
Squared’s portfolio,  Magnetar Capital , had a significant role in
selecting the collateral. That was something JPMorgan knew and
that other investors weren’t told, the SEC  said .  Making a Killing  Squared defaulted in January 2008, eight months after the
deal closed. Magnetar made a killing. JPMorgan lost $880 million
on its holdings and would have lost more had it not sold $150
million of Squared’s notes to institutional investors, including
a nonprofit insurance group for Lutherans. Their stakes became
almost worthless. The SEC didn’t sue anyone who worked for
JPMorgan and said it doesn’t expect to.  Compare that with the regulator’s  lawsuit  against  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s securities arm last year over another
synthetic collateralized debt obligation tied to the housing
market, called Abacus 2007-AC1. In that case, the SEC said
Goldman committed fraud with  scienter , meaning with intent or
knowledge of wrongdoing.  The agency said Goldman’s main offense was telling
investors that the underlying collateral for Abacus had been
“selected” by an independent company called ACA Management.
That wasn’t true, the SEC said, because Goldman knew the hedge
fund Paulson & Co., which was shorting the deal, had helped pick
the collateral. The Abacus notes that Goldman sold to investors
lost almost all their value. Paulson made $1 billion.  Change of Heart  The SEC also sued an individual, low-level Goldman
executive, Fabrice Tourre, accusing him of the same misconduct
as Goldman. Tourre has denied the allegations in court, while
Goldman, after initially vowing to fight the SEC,  settled  last
year for $550 million, without admitting or denying the fraud
claims.  Why did the SEC decide that JPMorgan’s actions amounted
only to negligent fraud and not fraud with scienter? The head of
the SEC’s enforcement division,  Robert Khuzami , didn’t answer
that question when I put it to him in a conference call with
reporters this week. I also asked him if JPMorgan’s willingness
to settle the case played a role in the SEC’s decision. He said
it didn’t.  Under the accord, JPMorgan will pay $153.6 million, pocket
change for a bank that earned $17.4 billion last year. The
agreement includes a $27.7 million fine, as well as restitution
for harmed investors, who the SEC says will be made whole.  No Obligation  The SEC did sue one individual in the Squared matter,
Edward Steffelin. He worked for the collateral manager, GSCP,
which filed for bankruptcy last year. The SEC said he was
seeking employment with Magnetar at the time in question.
Steffelin’s attorney,  Alex Lipman , told Bloomberg News he didn’t
understand “how the SEC can charge Mr. Steffelin with a failure
to disclose in the case where he didn’t even work for the
underwriter, who has the responsibility for the disclosure.”  As for Magnetar, the SEC said it wasn’t sued because it
didn’t have any disclosure obligations to other investors. The
SEC gave similar reasons last year for why it didn’t sue Paulson
over the Abacus transaction.  In an interview this week with Bloomberg Television,
Khuzami said the SEC had sent a message to  Wall Street : “If you
mislead investors, you’re going to pay a fine or a penalty
that’s a multiple, in some cases many times a multiple, of the
money that you thought you made in the deal.”  That’s not quite what happened at JPMorgan, though. Perhaps
if “you” are a bank, then you might pay a fine. However, if
“you” are a banker who did the misleading that caused your bank
to be fined, there’s a good chance you’ll get off scot-free.  In Name Only  The SEC can boast it filed a fraud claim against a Wall
Street powerhouse, though it’s fraud in name only. JPMorgan,
without admitting or denying the SEC’s claims, gets to say it
wasn’t accused of any intentional violations of the law, or even
any reckless ones. And aside from the SEC’s unproven
allegations, the public has little idea what really went on.  There’s still a chance we’ll find out more. Sometime in the
coming weeks the U.S. district judge assigned the case, Richard Berman of  Manhattan , will have the opportunity to hold a hearing
on the SEC’s proposed settlement, if he wants to, before
deciding whether to approve it. And maybe if we’re lucky he
won’t be a rubber stamp. Too many unanswered questions remain.
Here’s to hoping he puts the SEC through the wringer.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 