-- 
JPMorgan, Credit Suisse Top Greenwich’s List of Equity Research, Services

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-06-23T16:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/jpmorgan-credit-suisse-top-greenwich-s-u-s-equity-broker-list.html
U.S. equity research and related
services from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest American
bank by assets, was voted the most valuable to asset managers
surveyed by Greenwich Associates, a  report  yesterday said.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  won the most U.S. equity trading
volume based on commissions spent, the survey from the Stamford,
Connecticut-based research firm said. The two brokers, along
with Morgan Stanley,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , placed in the top five in both categories. The
responses from 217 fund managers and 304 equity traders were
weighted by the dollar value of the commissions spent.  Asset managers decided how much to pay brokers from a
commission pool that shrank 12 percent in the year that ended in
mid-February to $11.6 billion, Greenwich said in another  report 
on U.S. equities earlier this month. The contraction occurred as
trading volume on American exchanges declined about 14 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Customers depend on research for their investment
decisions,” said Joseph Cangemi, managing director at BNY
ConvergEx Group LLC and chairman of the  Security Traders
Association , both based in  New York . “If there’s less trading
commissions available, firms will be forced to spend a greater
percentage of their commission dollars on research.”  Commissions paid for research and advisory services,
including access to executives at companies, rose to a 10-year
high of 59 percent of the total from 53 percent a year earlier,
Greenwich said. The dollar amount spent remained about the same
at $6.8 billion, compared with $7 billion a year earlier,
according to  John Feng , Jay Bennett and John Colon of Greenwich.  Protecting Access  “Firms spent more proportionally for research services
because they needed to protect their access to that advice,”
Feng, a managing director at Greenwich, said in an interview.
“Commissions are the currency to access those insights.”  Institutional brokerage commissions shrank and trading
volume slowed as the U.S. stock market produced smaller gains.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark measure of U.S.
equities, surged 32 percent between Feb. 13, 2009, and Feb. 16,
2010, recovering from the subprime-mortgage crisis that saddled
banks worldwide with $2.06 trillion in losses and writedowns. In
the next year, it gained 21 percent.  Greenwich said the nine biggest brokers, which it didn’t
identify, got 68 percent of U.S. equity commissions, up from 65
percent last year, while mid-size and regional brokers got 18
percent. Securities firms that execute orders for institutional
clients without engaging in proprietary trading or offering
investment banking services received 13 percent.  Goldman Sachs  The largest brokers, including Goldman Sachs in New York
and Bank of America in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , offer more
services than other securities companies. They can provide
access to initial public offerings, company research and
analysis, meetings with management, capital to help clients
execute larger trades without swaying stock prices, and
investment services.  When the commission pool shrinks, firms often concentrate
their commissions with the bigger firms to remain valued clients
and get the services they deem important. That puts more
pressure on smaller brokers that struggle to maintain their
level of trading and commissions to help fund their businesses.  The best brokers providing research and related services
according to votes by fund managers aren’t necessarily the ones
that get the most commissions in trading volume, Feng said.
Factors such as the willingness to commit capital for a firm’s
transactions and traders’ assessment of how well the securities
company handles orders play into the decision.  Correlations  “There is a push-pull between the vote a broker earns and
the commissions paid,” Feng said. “The results are highly
correlated but not proportional.”  Of the amount paid for research and advisory services, 21
percent was used to compensate brokers for access to management
at companies the firms may want to buy or sell, up from 19 the
previous year, the Greenwich report said. Payment for analyst
services decreased to 24 percent from 27 percent.  Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
all based in New York, were ranked the top brokers based on the
quality of their U.S. research. The ranking based on research
and advisory votes includes the quality and breadth of a firm’s
offering, Feng said.  Credit Suisse in Zurich was also the top broker for North
American trading of baskets of stock. That result was based on
interviews with 109 firms, weighted by the dollar amount they
trade, the Greenwich report said.  May 2010 Crash  In addition to needing to pay for research and investment
services, asset managers and hedge funds became more concerned
about electronic trading after the May 6, 2010, plunge that
briefly erased $862 billion in equity value, Feng said.  That prompted them to pare back the use of electronic
trading, including algorithms that break up orders into smaller
pieces and dark pools, to 40 percent of the total dollar value
of transactions from 45 percent the previous year, he said.
Algorithmic trading claimed 19 percent of dollar volume, the
same as the prior year. For dark pools, or private venues, the
proportion slipped to 8 percent from 10 percent.  The average commission paid to brokers for algorithmic
trading was 1.3 cents a share across asset managers, with  hedge
funds  paying 1 cent, Greenwich said. Dark pools charged an
average 1.4 cents. For direct  market access , in which clients
trade on exchanges themselves, brokers charged 1.2 cents on
average, the report said.  Picking Brokers  The share of U.S. asset managers using so-called client
commission arrangements increased to 64 percent from 54 percent
the previous year, Greenwich said. These offerings allow mutual
funds and asset managers to trade with brokers they want and add
money to the commission paid to compensate other firms whose
research they use. Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Instinet Inc.,  Capital
Institutional Services Inc.  and BNY ConvergEx have offered
access to research from other firms for years.  The results of the U.S. equities survey may not indicate a
shift in the longer-term trend toward more electronic trading by
mutual funds, pensions and hedge fund clients, Feng said.  “If the commission pool goes back up next year, the
percentage spent for research may revert to a historical norm,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 