-- 
JPMorgan to Return $800 Million to Clients of Bankrupt Lehman Brokerage

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-23T14:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/jpmorgan-to-return-800-million-to-clients-of-bankrupt-lehman-brokerage.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will return
$800 million in cash and securities belonging to customers of
bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage under a
settlement approved by a judge.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James M. Peck today approved the
accord, struck in April between the second-biggest U.S. bank and
the trustee liquidating the remains of the brokerage,  Lehman
Brothers Inc .  JPMorgan was the main clearing bank for the Lehman
brokerage, processing billions of dollars of transactions and
lending it tens of billions of dollars daily, according to court
filings. While some loans were secured by securities in the
brokerage’s accounts, the bank didn’t have a valid lien on the
$800 million in customer property that is being returned,
according to filings.  “Customer property held by the LBI estate available for
distribution will increase by more than $800 million,” the
trustee, James Giddens, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“This is a significant and positive result from two years of
investigation and close cooperation with JPMorgan.”  Consenting to return the assets in April, the bank said the
settlement would have “no material financial impact,” as most
of the assets had already been set aside to satisfy potential
claims by the trustee.  Separately, JPMorgan is seeking dismissal of an $8.6
billion lawsuit by the Lehman parent.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 