-- 
Kenya’s Three-Month Bill Bids Exceed Supply by 5.8 Times on Yield Allure

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-23T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/kenya-s-three-month-bill-bids-exceed-supply-by-5-8-times-on-yield-allure.html
Investors in  Kenya  bid for 5.8 times
the amount of 91-day bills on offer as yields at an almost nine-
year high attracted demand for the debt.  The central bank accepted 5.8 billion shillings ($64
million) of the 11.5 billion shillings of bids received, it said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. It originally offered 2
billion shillings. The average yield on accepted bids fell to
8.995 percent, compared with 9.006 percent at last week’s sale.
The yield is within two basis points of a nine-year high reached
on June 9.  Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of black tea, is
grappling with 13 percent inflation, up from 3.2 percent in
October, as corn, the nation’s staple food, soared 31 percent.
The shilling is the world’s third-worst performer against the
dollar this year, depreciating 10 percent.  “The central bank is determined to cap the yields and will
keep taking bids that are within its desired levels, an
indication that the market will have to factor in their
pricing,” Karanja Ndung’u, a fixed-income dealer at Nairobi
based Tsavo Securities Ltd., said by phone today.  The central bank will “consider further tightening of
monetary policy to tame future inflation and stabilize the
 exchange rate ,” Governor Njuguna Ndung’u told reporters
yesterday in Nairobi. “Once we analyze the inflation crisis and
see that it is not subsiding, we have room to take monetary
policy further.”  Kenya’s monetary policy committee raised the benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 6.25 percent and
the  cash reserve ratio  by the same amount to 4.75 percent,
central bank said on May 31.  East Africa’s biggest economy will boost spending by 15
percent to 1.15 trillion shillings in the year through June
2012, increasing spending on roads and energy, Finance Minister
 Uhuru Kenyatta  said in his budget speech on June 8.  The deficit will widen to 7.4 percent of gross domestic
product. Domestic borrowing is targeted at 119.5 billion
shillings in the next financial year, down from 125 billion
shillings this year, Kenyatta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  