-- 
Kenya Shilling Gains for 2nd DayBefore Governor Ndung’u Speaks on Currency

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-23T10:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/kenya-shilling-gains-for-2nd-daybefore-governor-ndung-u-speaks-on-currency.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for a
second day against the dollar after the central bank said
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u will hold a briefing on “current
concerns” as the currency slipped to a 17-year low this week.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.8 percent to 90.18 per dollar and was trading 0.7
percent stronger at 90.25 by 1:31 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi
from yesterday’s close of 90.88.  The briefing will start at 3 p.m., Samson Burgei, head of
communications at the bank, said by e-mail today. The
announcement follows a report in Business Daily, a Nairobi-based
newspaper, that the central bank plans to take regulatory action
against three lenders to curb speculative trading in the
 currency market .  “The recovery is due to the central bank’s indication that
it will intervene to stop the weakening” of the shilling,
Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of
Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview.  The shilling has depreciated 11 percent against the dollar
this year, making it Africa’s worst-performing currency over the
period. It reached 92.05 per dollar on June 22, the weakest
intraday level since March 1994, when the central bank abolished
control of the currency.  Investors didn’t bid for any of the 500 million shillings
($5.5 million) of  repurchase agreements  the central bank offered
today, a third consecutive sale where no bids were received,
according to the bank’s data on Bloomberg. The bank has bought
23.8 billion shillings of so-called repos to curb supply of the
currency in the market since May 11.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  