-- 
Kenya May Tighten Policy to Stabilize Shilling, Inflation, Governor Says

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-23T14:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/kenya-may-tighten-policy-to-stabilize-shilling-inflation-governor-says.html
Kenya ’s central bank said it may
tighten monetary policy further to stabilize the shilling and
announced measures aimed at making the East African nation’s
 currency market  more competitive.  The bank will “consider further tightening of monetary
policy to tame future inflation and stabilize the  exchange
rate ,” Governor Njuguna Ndung’u told reporters today in Nairobi.
“Once we analyse the inflation crisis and see that it is not
subsiding, we have room to take monetary policy further.”  Kenya’s shilling has depreciated 10 percent against the
dollar this year, ranking it as the world’s third-worst
performing currency after Suriname’s dollar and Maldives’
rufiyaa. The East African nation is grappling with 13 percent
 inflation , up from 3.2 percent in October, as the price of corn,
the nation’s staple food, soared 33 percent in the period.  The central bank cut  interest rates  to a record low in
January, before raising them by a total of a half a percentage
point at the following two monetary policy meetings in March and
May. Among other monetary policy tools at the central bank’s
disposal are the liquidity ratio, Ndung’u said. The bank may
consider changing what qualifies as liquidity at commercial
banks, reducing their ability to speculate in the currency
market, he said.  “They will have less power to play in the market,” he said.
“That can be more effective, maybe before we go to the next MPC
meeting.” He didn’t provide further details.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee is scheduled
to meet again next month. At its last meeting in May, the
central bank also raised its  cash reserve ratio  by a quarter of
a percentage point to 4.75 percent.  ‘Appropriate Action’  The central bank has already taken “appropriate action” to
stem speculative trading in the currency market after four
“large” banks were found to be holding “very large” overseas
positions, Ndung’u said, without naming them.  “Their positions are largely associated with their group
companies overseas,” he said. “We will restrict them from any
arbitrage using the domestic currency.”  The bank will also in future allow all institutions
licensed to trade in foreign exchange to make bids when it buys
or sells currency. “This will remove the dominance in the market
and make forex trading competitive,” Ndung’u said.  The shilling traded at a 17-year-low of 92.05 against the
dollar yesterday. It was trading 0.9 percent stronger at 90.03
at 4:42 p.m. in Nairobi today. The currency may strengthen once
the debt crisis in the eurozone and domestic supply constraints
ease, Ndung’u said.  “The current level of the shilling does not reflect the
true value of the Kenya shilling, so it will still recoup its
true value once the crisis is over,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 