-- 
Kenya’s Central Bank Governor to Address Press Briefing on Exchange Rate

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-06-23T08:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/kenya-s-central-bank-governor-to-address-press-briefing-on-exchange-rate.html
Central Bank of  Kenya  Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u will address a media briefing today about
developments in the foreign-exchange market, said Samson Burgei,
head of communications at the bank.  The announcement follows a report in Business Daily, a
Nairobi-based newspaper, that the central bank plans to take
regulatory action against three lenders to curb speculative
trading in the  currency market .  “The purpose of the press conference is to address the
current concerns regarding developments in the Kenya shilling
 exchange rate ,” Burgei said in an e-mail today from Nairobi. The
briefing will start at 3 p.m. in the capital, he said.  The shilling, Africa’s worst-performing currency this year,
has depreciated 11 percent against the dollar since Jan. 1. It
traded 0.5 percent stronger at 90.40 at 11:02 a.m. in Nairobi.  The central bank plans to rid the market of the notion that
nothing can be done to stop speculative activity, the Nairobi-
based Business Daily newspaper reported today, citing Ndung’u.
It didn’t name the banks.  “Our aim is to ensure that the forex interbank rate is
truly driven by market events and fundamentals as is always the
case and as the euro crisis gets closer to resolution,” the
newspaper quoted Ndung’u as saying.  Kenya should tighten monetary policy in order to stem the
shilling’s decline to a 17-year low and curb inflation that may
quicken to 22 percent later this year,  Razia Khan , head of
African research at Standard Chartered Bank Plc, said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 