-- 
Korea Express Jumps in Seoul as Samsung SDS Studies Joint Bid With Posco

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-06-23T07:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/korea-express-jumps-in-seoul-as-samsung-sds-studies-joint-bid-with-posco.html
Korea Express Co., the logistics
company put up for sale by its biggest shareholders, surged the
most in more than nine years in  Seoul  trading after Samsung SDS
Co. said it will make a joint bid with steelmaker  Posco. (005490)   Samsung SDS aims to get a 5 percent stake in Korea Express
by teaming up with Posco, the closely-held information-
technology unit of the nation’s largest industrial group said in
a regulatory filing today. The deadline for submitting bids is
June 27, said Cho Won Kang, a spokesman for Samsung SDS in Seoul.  Shares of Korea Express rose 15 percent at the 3:00 p.m.
close of Seoul trading, their biggest gain since November, 2001,
while the benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.4 percent. Samsung SDS is
seeking to buy the Korea Express stake for business partnerships,
according to the filing.  “The reported interest by SDS, whose parent group needs a
huge amount of logistics services as the nation’s top group, is
enough to trigger excitement,” said Kang Shin Woo, chief
investment officer at Seoul-based Korea Investment Management
Co., which oversees $17 billion. “Investors appear to be
betting that if Korea Express can have Samsung and Posco as its
captive customers, it’s definitely positive.”  Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. and  Asiana Airlines (020560) 
Inc. aim to raise as much as 2 trillion won ($1.9 billion) from
the sale of a controlling stake in Korea Express, a person
familiar with the situation said in March. Posco, Lotte Group
and CJ Group submitted preliminary bids in March for Korea
Express.  The company has terminals in  South Korea ’s busiest ports, a
nationwide network of about 10,000  express-delivery outlets  and
a fleet of more than 5,000 trucks. 