-- 
Tripoli Running Out of Gas as Qaddafi Bets on NATO Divisions for Survival

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-06-27T10:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nato-led-forces-carry-out-air-strikes-on-qaddafi-loyalists-near-misrata.html
Mohammed leans his bicycle against
the wall of a café on Tripoli’s Green Square, opposite the
city’s red-stone museum and Roman walls. Six months ago, he
would have left his Volkswagen Passat for valet parking.  “The boys would take it and wash it while I was here,” he
says. The oil-company engineer asked to be identified by one
name because of the security situation.  Libyans in the capital are getting on their bikes to avoid
the hundred-meter lines and weeklong waits at gas pumps --
evidence that the rebellion against  Muammar Qaddafi , backed by
NATO warplanes and international sanctions, is applying a
squeeze on the territory that remains under his control.  The U.S. and its European allies say the leader’s four-
decade grip on the country that holds  Africa ’s biggest oil
reserves is nearing its end, as economic pressure and strikes on
troops and communication centers erode his capacity to resist a
spreading insurgency. Qaddafi is betting that he can survive
longer than the coalition against him can stay united.  Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  on June 22 called
for a “humanitarian suspension” of hostilities. The  House of
Representatives  refused on June 24 to authorize President  Barack Obama  to continue American involvement in the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization’s aerial combat missions, while declining to
restrict funding for the operation.  There are signs of opposition to Qaddafi even within the
zone he controls. Drivers in Azzawiya, 100 kilometers (62 miles)
west of Tripoli, are stopped by soldiers every five minutes at
checkpoints amid searches for rebel weapons.  Covered Graffiti  Patches of fresh paint on some walls in the capital show
where anti-government graffiti has been covered up, while
slogans denouncing “the rats,” Qaddafi’s term for the rebels,
are left alone. In the center of Tripoli, a city of 2 million
people that is shaken almost daily by NATO bombs, unexplained
bursts of gunfire sound at night.  The government claims it has widespread support. “We are
not the Taliban in  Afghanistan , we are a state, there are people
standing behind their leader,” said government spokesman Moussa Ibrahim in a June 23 interview in Tripoli. “We will stay
steadfast, because we have no other option. Their resolve and
unity will falter, because they are aggressors.”  Oil rose more than $25 a barrel in the first two months of
the Libyan conflict. The  International Energy Agency  in Paris
said last week that the U.S. and 27 other countries will release
60 million barrels of emergency stockpiles, only the third such
action in more than three decades, to offset the loss of 132
million barrels of Libyan output. The move helped push crude for
August delivery below $90 a barrel in  New York .  Talking Together  Talks between the Libyan government and insurgents have
taken place via intermediaries in  South Africa  and Paris,
Mahmoud Shammam, a rebel spokesman, told  France ’s Le Figaro
newspaper last week. Qaddafi’s government portrays the rebels,
who control the east of the country from their base in Benghazi,
as a blend of Islamic extremists and corrupt defectors used by
Western powers seeking to control Libyan oil.  It’s hard to tell how much support such views have in
Tripoli. Reporters aren’t allowed to move around without
government minders -- officially, to protect them from locals
hostile to the international media because of its alleged pro-
rebel bias.  In Green Square, Randa Mukhtar was taking part in a
demonstration of women against NATO. Dressed in army-style
fatigues, she said she was a member of one of the Revolutionary
Committees, paramilitary units set up by Qaddafi.  ‘Don’t Exist’  “There is no internal problem, there is a foreign
aggression,” said Mukhtar, 30. “It’s you, the journalists, who
are telling lies, fabricating stories that don’t exist.”  Mohammed, the engineer, spoke in English to make it harder
for those around him to listen.  “Put aside petrol, we don’t really lack things,” he said.
“But we are worried because we don’t know what to expect, we
don’t know when this will finish and how it will finish.”  Fuel shortages are a novelty in a country where gasoline
costs 0.15 dinar a liter. The official  exchange rate  is 1.20
dinars per dollar and in the black market it trades at about
1.70. Most Libyans are limited to 1,000 dinars a month in bank
withdrawals.  The 120,000 barrel-a-day  oil refinery  in nearby Azzawiya
can supply up to 30 percent of the needs of the territory
controlled by Qaddafi, said the chairman of the Union of Libyan
Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Abdulmagid Elmansuri, in a
June 22 interview. No cargoes of imported oil products are
reaching ports under government control, he said.  Power Functioning  Water and electricity are still available round the clock.
NATO has mostly avoided hitting civilian infrastructure. A stray
missile on June 19 was the first bombing acknowledged by the
coalition to have caused civilian deaths in more than 5,000
sorties.  Libya ’s government said nine people died in the Souk El
Gomaa district of Tripoli and maintains that civilians and their
institutions are being targeted.  The bombings may have persuaded Qaddafi to consider
relocating outside the capital, the Wall Street Journal reported
June 24, citing an unidentified U.S. official.  While Tripoli’s supermarkets are well stocked with food,
prices have increased to reflect higher transport costs for
imported goods. A 680-gram (24-ounce) bottle of tomato paste, a
key ingredient in the local dish of couscous, was on sale at one
grocery store for 3.5 dinars, compared with 2.5 dinars before
the conflict. A Kitkat chocolate bar was priced at 2 dinars,
compared with 1 dinar in February.  Price Increases  While the chamber of commerce has no estimate for the
increase in consumer prices, twelve shoppers interviewed in
three grocery stores said they had seen rises of between 30
percent and 100 percent, depending on the goods.  The government on June 25 said it had ordered $3 billion of
food supplies to cover local needs for at least six months, and
was planning to add milk, bottled water, juices and dried beans
to the list of food products that are subsidized. Subsidies
already exist for some basic commodities such as wheat and
pasta.  It is unclear how long the government can support Tripoli’s
inhabitants. A sea blockade to prevent weapons and fuel from
reaching Qaddafi’s troops, and European Union sanctions
targeting ports, have reduced maritime traffic to the capital.  Tripoli’s only road link with the outside world is the
coastal highway running west to the Tunisian border, a three-
hour drive. The airport stopped operations because of the no-fly
zone enforced by NATO, acting under a United Nations Security
Council mandate to protect civilians from the conflict.  Cash Crisis  Qaddafi will also face a cash crisis, said Farhat Bengdara,
the former central governor, who estimates the government had
about $500 million at the end of February. “It’s almost run
out,” he said in a June 14 interview in Dubai. “They have no
fuel or tanks. It’s a matter of weeks.”  Qaddafi, who turned 69 this month, said on June 22 that the
fight will continue “until doomsday.” He was speaking to mark
the death of three grandchildren of Khweildi Hmeidi, one of the
army officers who helped Qaddafi seize power in a 1969 coup.
They were killed in an airstrike on a compound west of Tripoli
that NATO said was a command and control center. The government
said it was a farm.  There are signs that the fighting is moving closer to the
capital. On the 100th day of the uprising, rebels clashed with
Qaddafi loyalists about 80 kilometers (50 miles) southwest of
Tripoli, the  Associated Press  reported today, citing Guma al-
Gamaty, a rebel spokesman. The fighting began yesterday near the
town of Bir al-Ghanem as the rebels attempted to push out of the
Nafusa mountains toward Zawiya, a western gateway to Tripoli,
the AP said.  The Libyan rebels have adopted the red-green-black flag of
the monarchy that Qaddafi and Hmeidi overthrew. Pro-government
graffiti in Souk El Gomaa, a working-class neighborhood, is
scrawled in the olive-green of the flag Qaddafi introduced. “No
to the rats,” one wall says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Tripoli at  mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 