-- 
NBA Union’s Fisher Says Owners, Players Have Never Been Business Partners

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nba-union-president-derek-fisher-criticizes-league-s-salary-cap-proposal.html
The  National Basketball
Association ’s description of its salary cap proposal as a
flexible plan is “a total distortion of reality,” said players
union President Derek Fisher, who also rejected the idea that
owners and players are business partners.  Fisher, a 15-year NBA veteran and head of the National
Basketball Players Association, spoke a day after NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  disclosed a salary cap plan that
targets player salaries at $62 million per team per season, with
a firm ceiling on what franchises could pay with salary
exceptions.  Fisher and  Billy Hunter , executive director of the union,
said they hadn’t heard the $62 million figure until Stern
offered specifics to the media.  “It’s not a flex cap. It’s a hard cap,” Fisher, who plays
for the  Los Angeles Lakers , told a group of invited reporters
yesterday. “It’s flexible as long as you’re below the hard
level.”  The union is scheduled to brief its player representatives
today in  New York , where owners and players tomorrow are
scheduled to hold another bargaining session aimed at preventing
a work stoppage. The league’s collective bargaining agreement
with its players expires June 30.  “Guys asked us, point blank, why are we even meeting,”
Fisher said. “Everybody’s at a loss as to how we even begin to
close this gap.”  Not Partners  Fisher reserved some of his most critical comments for
Stern’s long-held notion that owners and players are partners in
the business of basketball.  “We haven’t been partners in this venture. Haven’t been
partners since day one,” he said. “We’re the talent. We’re the
product. It’s difficult for us, as players, to be asked to be
partners in the recovery process.”  Stern responded in an e-mail statement that “players have
benefited from the current system more than the teams.”  “ For them it has been a much better partnership,” he
said. “We are sorry that the players’ union feels that way,
since it doesn’t seem designed to get us to the agreement that
is so important to the teams, and we had hoped, the players.”  The league’s most recent proposal calls for a 10-year
contract that guarantees the players at least $2 billion a year.
The players have offered a five-year contract.  “Most businesses,” Fisher said, “it doesn’t make sense
to lock in on a 10-year term.”  $7 Billion Gap  Under terms of the league’s plan, Hunter said owners and
players would be more than $7 billion apart. Stern said two days
ago that management doesn’t have much more wiggle room for
compromise, saying the cupboard is almost bare.  Hunter declined to say whether the players would offer a
counterproposal at the next meeting.  Stern has said the league’s 30 teams combined to lose about
$300 million this past season. Hunter challenged that assertion,
saying a more robust revenue-sharing plan would aid the seven or
eight teams that are losing money.  The owners are negotiating a new revenue-sharing agreement
apart from their talks with the players.  “They haven’t disclosed an iota of what their revenue-
sharing plan would look like,” Hunter said. “Their demands are
gargantuan.”  The players have offered to surrender $100 million annually
over their five-year offer. Stern has called the concession
“modest.”  Fisher also took issue with the league’s demand to keep 8
percent of player salaries from this past season currently held
in an escrow account. The money, under terms of the existing
contract, is scheduled to be returned to the players in August.  ‘Arrogance’  “It speaks to the arrogance they feel with their proposal
to go back and reach for those dollars,” Fisher said.  Owners are scheduled to meet in  Dallas  next week, at which
time Hunter said he expects them to vote on whether to authorize
a lockout if no agreement is reached. Asked whether he expects
owners to offer more concessions in the next meeting, Hunter
said, “I’m not very hopeful.”  The NBA locked players out during the 1998-99 season,
resulting in lost regular-season games for the first time in
league history.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  