-- 
NBA Hasn’t Wavered From Its Plan to Break Players Union, Billy Hunter Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-23T21:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nba-hasn-t-wavered-from-its-plan-to-break-players-union-billy-hunter-says.html
The  National Basketball
Association  has long held a goal to “lock us out in order
to break the union,” players association Executive
Director  Billy Hunter  said today.  Hunter, flanked by about 50 players in New York for
the  National Basketball Players Association ’s offseason
meetings, said the NBA has threatened for two years to
impose a lockout when the current labor contract expires
one week from today, and that little has changed over that
period despite several proposals by both parties.  “I think their real intentions are still what they
were before, which is to lock us out in order to break the
union and achieve what they want to achieve,” Hunter said
at a news conference.  Mike Bass, a spokesman for the NBA, said in an e-mail
that the league was “dismayed by the union’s unfortunate
rhetoric.”  “A lockout is something that we are trying to avoid
by making multiple offers that treat our players fairly,”
Bass said.  Hunter’s comments came a day after Derek Fisher, the
union’s president and a guard for the  Los Angeles Lakers ,
said the two sides “haven’t been partners in this
venture.”  NBA Commissioner David Stern outlined a new proposal
to the union two days ago that calls for a 10-year contract
guaranteeing players at least $2 billion a year. Hunter
said under those terms, the owners and players would be
more than $7 billion apart.  The groups will continue negotiations tomorrow and
Hunter declined to say whether the players will offer a new
plan.  “It will probably take on its own life once we get in
there depending on what the atmosphere is in the room,” he
said.  NFL Impact  A preliminary ruling by a  U.S. Court of Appeals  panel
in  St. Louis  allowing the  National Football League  to lock
out players while their case proceeds has influenced the
NBA’s level of confidence in its own labor fight, Hunter
said.  “At this stage, they feel as though they have the
upper hand, particularly in view of the current state of
bargaining between the NFL and the NFLPA,” he said.  Kevin Garnett , a 16-year NBA veteran whose six-year,
$123 million contract helped bring about a 1998 work
stoppage that led to the league’s only lost games, said
today that the NBA’s main interest is in controlling the
players.  Garnett, a forward for the  Boston Celtics , cited
unilateral decisions by the NBA in recent years, including
increases in amounts of fines against players, changing the
ball used in games and increased intrusiveness of NBA
Entertainment camera crews.  “At the end of the day, it’s about control,” said
Garnett, 35. “It’s the domination of the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 