-- 
Nestle, Dassault Executives Tell Congress to Simplify Tax Laws

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-23T17:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nestle-dassault-executives-tell-congress-to-simplify-tax-laws.html
Executives from  Nestle SA (NESN)  and
Dassault Falcon Jet Corp. told lawmakers that the U.S. tax
system is too complex and creates disincentives for companies
based overseas to invest in the U.S.  Testifying before a House Ways and Means  subcommittee 
today, the executives focused their attention on a provision in
the  tax code  that limits the deductions companies can take on
loans. Alexander Spitzer, senior vice president of taxes at
Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle, said such tax provisions hinder
investment in U.S. operations by non-U.S. companies.  “The ability of the inbound business community and Nestle
itself to deduct ordinary and necessary business expenses
related to investment such as interest and royalties for both
federal and state purposes is of great concern and weighs
heavily on our investment decisions,” he told the panel.  After months of hearing testimony from U.S. companies,
including  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , on how lawmakers should restructure the tax code, the
hearing offered an overseas perspective on a proposed overhaul.
A priority for U.S. companies -- repatriation of overseas
profits at a low  tax rate  -- wasn’t addressed.  Among the concerns shared by the overseas firms and their
U.S. counterparts is a desire to simplify U.S. tax laws.  ‘Complex and Difficult’  “The U.S. tax code is so complex and difficult,” Spitzer
said. “One of the reasons is because we try to do so many
things with it. It’s not just a revenue raiser. We do political
things and economic things with it.”  Claude Draillard, the chief financial officer for Dassault
Falcon Jet Corp., which is part of Paris-based  Dassault Aviation
SA (AM) , echoed the frustration expressed by many U.S. companies
about the research and development tax credit. He said the
company wasn’t able to claim a credit for new equipment that was
manufactured in the U.S. and installed on airplanes.  “Development is poorly defined in the U.S. tax code,” he
said. “This hinders us from a number of issues that we thought
were eligible for the tax credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  