-- 
Dutch Court Acquits Freedom Party Leader Geert Wilders of Defaming Muslims

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-06-23T10:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/netherlands-court-acquits-freedom-party-leader-wilders-of-defaming-muslims.html
Dutch  Freedom Party  Leader  Geert Wilders  was acquitted by a court of charges that he made remarks
defaming Muslims, ending a three-year prosecution that he
described as a bid to restrict his freedom of speech.  Wilders, 47, was charged with inciting hatred and
discrimination and insulting Muslims for calling the Koran
“fascist” and comparing it to  Adolf Hitler ’s book “ Mein
Kampf ” in a 2007 Dutch  newspaper  editorial. A year later, he
released his movie “ Fitna ,” in which he urged Muslims to rip
out “hate-preaching” verses from the book.  “You have spoken in a hurtful and also shocking way,”
Presiding Judge Marcel van Oosten said in the Amsterdam district
court today. Even so, “the court finds, in the broadest
context, that you have to be able to propagate the message of
such a film.”  The movie led to protests in Islamic-majority countries
including Indonesia and  Pakistan  and prompted Malaysians to call
for a boycott of products from the euro area’s second largest
exporter. Wilders, whose party backs the minority Dutch
coalition government, has been under constant police protection
since a Muslim radical murdered filmmaker Theo van Gogh in 2004.  ‘Speak Critically’  “Today is a victory for freedom of speech,” Wilders said
on its  website  today. “The Dutch are still allowed to speak
critically about Islam, and resistance against Islamization is
not a crime.”  Prosecutors, who were forced to file charges against
Wilders by a higher court, also called for the politician to be
cleared, saying his criticism was aimed at Islam as a religion
and not at Muslims.  The minority government of Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
Liberals and  Christian Democrats  relies on Wilders’s Freedom
Party to pass legislation. It plans to cut immigration, a key
issue for Wilders’s party, which more than doubled its
representation in parliament in last year’s elections and is now
the third largest group of the 10 in the lower chamber.  “The ruling is clear and in line with the prosecutors’
demands,” Rutte said in a  Twitter  posting. “It’s great news
for Geert Wilders, with whom we’re cooperating well.”  The Netherlands has about 850,000 Muslims, according to
Dutch statistics bureau data from 2006. Most are of Turkish or
Moroccan origin. The country’s population is 16.7 million.  The case is no.  425046-09  in the Amsterdam district court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 