-- 
India Sensex Gains Most in Three Weeks; Reliance, ITC Lead Rally

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-06-23T11:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nifty-stock-futures-drop-on-food-inflation-concerns-u-s-growth-outlook.html
India’s benchmark stock index rose
the most in three weeks as some investors judged recent losses
as excessive.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s most valuable company,
advanced 2.9 percent, paring this year’s loss to 18 percent.  ITC
Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-largest cigarette maker, climbed the most in
about four months.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the biggest
carmaker, fell after its parent cut the sales forecast.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose
176.86, or 1 percent, to 17,727.49 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, its steepest increase this month. Its 14-day relative
strength index, which measures how rapidly prices increased or
fell during the specified period, has been near 30 for the past
three day. Some investors see readings below 30 as a signal to
buy. The Sensex fell to a four-month low on June 20, driving
valuations for its 30 members to the lowest in two years.  “Some valuation comfort is emerging” after the recent
declines, Navneet Munot, chief investment officer at SBI Funds
Management Pvt., said in an interview. The fund, which manages
$9.3 billion in assets, is advising clients to focus on stocks
over sectors, he said, without naming any.  The Sensex has lost 13.5 percent this year, the most among
Asian benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg, on concern rising
borrowing costs will hurt corporate profits. Sensex companies
are valued at 14.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 10.8
for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange
increased 0.8 percent to 5,320 and its June futures settled at
5,319. The BSE 200 Index added 0.6 percent to 2,191.50.  ‘Technical Bounce’  Reliance, which fell to a 26-month low on June 20, climbed
2.9 percent to 870.5 rupees. The stock’s 14-day RSI was at 30
yesterday, a buy signal for some investors.  “Technically, it was oversold and some bounce back was
expected,” Avinash Gupta, vice-president for equity research at
Globe Capital Market Ltd., said from  New Delhi . “Investors are
getting good value at these prices.”  Reliance is headed for its worst monthly decline this year
after the government auditor said in a draft report this month
the company inflated expenses at its biggest natural gas block
off the nation’s east coast. Billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani 
is struggling to raise production from that deposit, resulting
in Reliance’s slowest profit growth in six quarters.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the largest state oil explorer,
rose 1.5 percent to 264.65 rupees and its June futures settled
at 264.40 rupees. Indian Oil Corp., the country’s biggest
refiner, surged 2.8 percent to 328.8 rupees.  India’s petroleum ministry sought an increase of 4 rupees a
liter on diesel and 150 rupees a cylinder on cooking fuel, CNBC-
TV18 television channel reported today, citing NewsWire18
agency. The ministry sought a ministerial panel’s approval to
remove excise levy on diesel, according to the report.  Cheaper Oil  Investor confidence in India’s state-owned oil refiners is
improving the most in a year as the 8 percent decline in crude
prices this month boosts the companies’ profit outlook.  “Cheaper oil relaxes the mind a little,” said Mahendra Jajoo, the Mumbai-based head of fixed-income investments at
Pramerica Asset Managers, a unit of Prudential Financial Inc.
“It will reduce uncertainty on the inflation front and losses
for refiners.”  Asia ’s third-biggest economy caps diesel and cooking-fuel
prices to shield 66 percent of the population that lives on less
than $2 a day from price pressures. India’s inflation is running
at 9.06 percent, more than twice the rate in the U.S. and almost
four times  Germany ’s.  Maruti Suzuki sank 2.1 percent to 1,099.3 rupees, falling
for the ninth day. Suzuki Motor Corp. cut its India full-year
sales forecast to 5 percent from 8 percent and expects a drop in
profit at its India unit, President  Osamu Suzuki  said today.  Food Costs  India’s food inflation reached a two-month high, adding
pressure on the central bank to raise  interest rates  further.
The  Reserve Bank  of India raised the repurchase rate to 7.5
percent from 7.25 percent on June 16, extending the longest run
of tightening in a decade and joining its peers from  China  to
 South Korea  in stepping up the fight against surging prices.  “The outlook for Indian equities looks quite hazy on the
domestic and the global front,” SBI Fund’s Munot said.  Rising borrowing costs have begun to crimp demand. India’s
$1.4 trillion economy expanded 7.8 percent in the three months
through March, the slowest pace in five quarters, data show.
Some 33 percent of companies in the Sensex reported profits that
missed analysts’ estimates in the March quarter, compared with
less than a quarter last year.  Overseas investors sold a net 5.51 billion rupees ($123
million) of Indian equities on June 21, increasing their total
withdrawals from stocks this year to 21.5 billion rupees, data
 from  the Securities and Exchange Board of  India  show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  