-- 
Nigeria Ends 1-Year Restriction on Government Bond Holdings, Sanusi Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-23T17:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nigeria-ends-1-year-restriction-on-government-bond-holdings-sanusi-says.html
Nigeria will lift a requirement for
foreign investors to hold local-currency investments in
 government securities  for at least one year, Lamido Sanusi,
governor of the  Central Bank of Nigeria , said.  The restriction, which will be removed on July 1, had
impeded capital inflows since the 2008 global economic crisis,
 Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-market strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an earlier e-mailed note to
clients. Sanusi confirmed the decision in an e-mailed response
to queries after Gadio said he had spoken at a Standard Bank
event in  London .  “We see this development as a positive breakthrough that
should further integrate Nigeria into the global financial
system and allow foreign investors to take advantage of
attractive double-digit yields,” Gadio said. “Few
international investors were ready to be locked into a naira-
denominated position for such a time frame.”  Nigeria  had a total of 4.87 trillion naira ($31 billion) of
 outstanding domestic debt stock  as of March 2011, according to
the  Debt Management Office , based in the capital, Abuja.  Yields on 70 billion naira of four-year and three-year
bonds rose this month at the latest debt auction held by the
West African country, according to the DMO. The yield on the 4
percent debt due April 2015 rose to 12.75 percent compared with
12.23 percent at last month’s sale. The yield on the 10.5
percent bonds due March 2014 climbed to 11.69 percent from 11.04
percent a month earlier.  Naira Appreciation  The naira may appreciate in response to the lifting of the
capital control, Sanusi said by e-mail.  “With controls removed and positive  interest rates  a 145
naira to the dollar midpoint is possible by year end,” he said.
The interbank rate of the currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer was 156.7875 per dollar as of 4:42 p.m. in Lagos,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This move is likely to trigger a short-term rally in the
naira, though actual portfolio flows will only be forthcoming
from July, when the restriction is eased,” Citigroup Inc.
analysts, including Johannesburg-based  Leon Myburgh , wrote in a
e-mailed note. “This decision is another constructive policy
decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  