-- 
Nigerian State Oil Company Probably Won’t List Until Petroleum Bill Passed

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-23T15:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nigeria-petroleum-corp-may-not-list-until-law-passed-sec-head-oteh-says.html
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. ,
the state-owned  oil company , probably won’t list on the local
bourse until lawmakers pass a petroleum bill to regulate the oil
industry, the country’s Securities and Exchange Commission said.  The potential listing of the oil company, known as NNPC,
may not happen “immediately because it will be better to have
the petroleum bill enacted,” SEC Director-General Arunma Oteh
said in an interview in London. “Then there are stages that any
company goes through to prepare itself for listing if you are
going to report on international financial reporting standards.
It’s a big deal for a large company.”  A law to reform the way the oil industry is funded and
regulated has been in the legislature for more than two years.
Oil exploration in  Nigeria  slumped to the lowest in a decade
after producers including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP) 
backed away from investment. Parliament is in recess and will
June 28, Senate President David Mark said on June 6.  Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan has asked the
commission to get oil exploration and telecommunications
companies to list their shares on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange ,
Oteh said. The benchmark All-Share Index has tumbled 62 percent
from its peak in March 2008 amid a national banking crisis
caused in part by loans to equity speculators.  “We’re very delighted the president himself has determined
this is an important issue,” said Oteh, a former vice president
at the  African Development Bank . “It will help democratize the
success of these companies and we feel that it would also help
having a much more transparent way of understanding the
valuation of these companies.”  Joint Ventures  The NNPC, which Oteh said in February was in talks with the
commission over possible public offerings, holds an average 57
percent stake in joint ventures with companies including Shell,
Total, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp. and  Eni SpA. (ENI)  The West
African nation is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  “Right now most of the transactions are joint ventures
between the NNPC and the international  oil companies ,” Oteh
said. The regulator is “encouraging” the Nigerian bourse to
focus on the getting small and medium-sized companies to list on
its second tier, or alternative investment market, she said.  “It fits very well with the president’s job creation
agenda since most jobs are created by small and medium scale
enterprises essentially,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  