-- 
Nissan Aims to Double China Infiniti Sales in Luxury-Car Push

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-06-24T00:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nissan-expects-to-double-infiniti-sales-in-china-correct-.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-
largest carmaker, aims to double sales of Infiniti-brand
vehicles in China this year as demand for luxury cars grows in
the world’s biggest automobile market.  Nissan will also unveil a strategy for boosting luxury-car
sales in other emerging markets as part of its mid-term business
plan next week, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  told
reporters yesterday at the carmaker’s headquarters in Yokohama.
He said Nissan sold about 160,000 Infiniti cars globally last
year, compared with rival Toyota Motor Corp.’s 400,000 Lexus
deliveries.  “Infiniti has big potential for growth,” Ghosn said.  Nissan aims to tap growing private wealth in China, where
the number of millionaire households jumped 31 percent last year
to 1.11 million, according to the  Boston Consulting Group . The
carmaker’s total vehicle sales in China may grow 12 percent in
the fiscal year started April 1 as global deliveries rise 9.9
percent to 4.6 million, the company said yesterday.  China’s economy will expand 9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5
percent next year, the fastest rate among major emerging markets,
according to International Monetary Fund projections.  Nissan predicted yesterday that full-year profit will fall
15 percent after Japan’s record earthquake in March disrupted
production and sales while the yen strengthened. Net income may
decline to 270 billion yen ($3.4 billion) in the 12 months
ending March 31 from 319.2 billion yen a year earlier, the
company said.  Emerging Markets  “Nissan can’t expect much profit from Japan because of the
quake, or from  North America , because the major indicators like
GDP and the  unemployment rate  aren’t very positive,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in  Tokyo .
“Nissan should try to expand in China,  Russia  and other
emerging markets.”  Ghosn, 57, said Nissan’s mid-term plan will cover a six-
year period and also outline a strategy for expansion in  Brazil .
The carmaker expects “balanced growth” globally through higher
sales of compact cars such as the Micra and luxury cars, in
addition to continued strength in mid-segment models, he said.  The automaker’s sales in China may rise to 1.15 million
vehicles this year, while North American deliveries may gain 6.8
percent to 1.33 million, Nissan forecast yesterday. Sales in
Japan are expected to grow 1.7 percent to 610,000, while those
in  Europe  may gain 10 percent to 670,000, it said.  Nissan aims to increase its share of the U.S. market to 10
percent, Ghosn said, without providing a timeframe.  Earthquake Recovery  Nissan fell 0.7 percent to 833 yen as of 9:41 a.m. in Tokyo
trading, trimming its gain this year to 7.8 percent. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.4 percent.  Japanese automakers are boosting production as they recover
from the March 11 natural disaster that damaged car factories
and parts plants, leading to a 60 percent plunge in domestic
vehicle output in April. Nissan expects to resume full
production globally by October.  The company plans to increase Japanese production of
higher-value models including the Infiniti brand, electric cars
and light commercial vehicles to help cope with the yen’s
appreciation, Ghosn said. It will also use more parts from  China 
and Thailand in its Japanese plants, he said.  A stronger yen reduces Nissan’s repatriated earnings from
overseas sales. The Japanese currency advanced 15 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  last year and reached a postwar record
of 76.25 on March 17. Nissan is basing its profit forecast on an
exchange rate of 80 yen to the dollar and 115 yen to the euro
this fiscal year, it said yesterday.  Operating Profit  Full-year operating profit is expected to drop 14 percent
to 460 billion yen, Nissan said. Higher selling expenses and
marketing may cut operating profit by 112 billion yen, while the
strengthened yen may trim the figure by 135 billion yen.  Nissan and its partner  Renault SA (RNO)  expect to reach agreement
on acquiring an additional 25 percent stake in Russian carmaker
OAO  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ)  by the end of the year, Ghosn said. The two
companies were in talks with the AvtoVAZ shareholders to
increase their holdings and secure control of the company,
 Troika Dialog , one of the investors in the Russian company, said
in March.  Nissan plans to modernize an AvtoVAZ plant in Russia to
increase production capacity, Ghosn said. The alliance, which
aims to focus on Renault’s expansion in Russia, also hopes to
benefit from AvtoVAZ’s supplier network, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  