-- 
Nokia-Apple, Abbott, 3M: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-23T19:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nokia-apple-abbott-3m-intellectual-property-correct-.html
(Corrects amount of settlement in fourth paragraph and date
of court order in ninth paragraph of News Corp. item in report
published June 15.)  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  won an almost two-year
patent dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , as the world’s largest mobile-
phone makers reached a settlement that awards a one-time payment
and royalties to the Finnish handset maker.  The agreement will bolster the Devices & Services unit’s
second-quarter profitability, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said in
a statement yesterday. The details of the contract, under which
Apple will pay Nokia an undisclosed sum and royalties for the
term of the agreement, are confidential, the Finnish company
said.  The two mobile-phone makers have been in litigation since
October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Cupertino,
California-based Apple of infringing patents. The Finnish
company also demanded royalties on the millions of iPhones sold
since the device’s introduction in 2007. Nokia said in March it
has 46 patents asserted against Apple in civil lawsuits and
complaints lodged with the U.S. International Trade Commission.  “Nokia emerges as a clear winner from the fight,” Sami
Sarkamies, analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki, said in a note
to clients yesterday. The initial payment will likely be in the
range of hundreds of millions of euros related to about 200
million Apple devices delivered to date, Sarkamies said. Nokia
stock had lost more than three quarters of its value since Apple
introduced the iPhone in June 2007.  “This frees up resources for both Apple and Nokia,” said
Florian Mueller, a Munich-based consultant and an opponent of
software patents. “Other companies whom Nokia will ask to pay
royalties will have to think very hard whether to pay or pick a
fight.”  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is readying a
line of phones based on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7
operating system to replace the company’s own Symbian line,
which is losing market share to Apple’s iPhone and Android
handsets based on Google Inc.’s Android system.  “We’re glad to put this behind us and get back to focusing
on our respective businesses,” said Apple spokesman Steve
Dowling.  In a statement yesterday, the Cupertino, California-based
company said that that Nokia will have a license to some
technology, “but not the majority of the innovations that make
the iPhone unique.” Apple gets a license to some of Nokia’s
patents, including ones that were deemed essential to industry
standards on mobile phones.  As is the general practice in technology industries, the
royalty amount won’t be disclosed  Nokia’s first claims covered technology for wireless data,
speech coding, security and encryption. Subsequent claims
asserted rights to wiping gestures on a touchscreen and on-
device application stores, both of which Nokia said it filed to
patent more than 10 years before the iPhone launch.  The Finnish company also broadened its claims to cover
Apple’s iPad and iPod Touch.  Abbott Overturning of $1.67 Billion J&J Verdict to Stand  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ victory in overturning a $1.67 billion
patent-infringement verdict won by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will stand,
a U.S. appeals court said yesterday.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  denied a petition to reconsider a Feb. 23 decision
that threw out the biggest patent-related damages award in U.S.
history, according to a notice on the court website. J&J had
claimed Abbott’s Humira arthritis drug infringed its patent, and
the appeals court said the patent was invalid.  The case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, 10-1144,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories,
07cv139, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Texas 
(Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  3M Sues Gambling Websites, Domain-Name Owners for Infringement  3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of Scotch tape and  Post-it Notes , filed a
trademark-infringement lawsuit against 13 domain name
registrants, eight website-hosting service providers and 46
Internet domain names.  According to the complaint filed June 10 in federal court
in Alexandria,  Virginia , the defendant registrants operate
online gambling websites. They own the websites that are also
named as defendants, 3M said in court papers.  The registration services 3M sued are accused of providing
Internet hosting services to the registrant defendants. The
website domain names to which 3M objects all carry either “3M”
or “MMM” as an element in the name.  3M says the unauthorized use of its trademarks can confuse
and deceive the public into believing wrongly that there is some
connection between those sites and the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based
company. 3M said the use of its marks in those domain names
tarnish its trademarks, and unjustly enriches the alleged
infringers.  The company asked the court to bar unauthorized use of its
marks by the defendants, and to order that it be transferred all
the allegedly infringing names. Additionally, 3M seeks awards of
attorney fees, litigation costs and money damages and asked that
the damages be tripled to punish the defendants for their
actions.  3M also requested an award of the defendants’ profits
attributable to the alleged infringement.  The company is represented by  Timothy J. McEvoy  and  Sean
Patrick Roche  of  Cameron McEvoy PLLC  of Alexandria and  William
G. Barber  and  Wendy C. Larson  of  PirkeyBarber LLP  of Austin,
Texas.  The case is 3M Co. v. Name.com, 11-cv-00627, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  ConAgra Buys Marie Callender’s Trademarks for $57.5 Million  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , the maker of Banquet frozen dinners,
Slim Jims and Orville Redenbacher popcorn, acquired the
trademarks of Marie Callender Pie Shops Inc. for $57.5 million.  ConAgra will no longer pay license fees to Mission Viejo,
California-based Marie Callender, the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company said in a statement. ConAgra in 2004 acquired a license
to sell Marie Callender’s frozen dinners and pot pies. Last
year, ConAgra acquired the Marie Callender’s license for frozen
dessert pies from American Pie LLC.  The 63-year-old Marie Callender chain, with outlets in
seven western states, will receive a license to continue using
the name for its bakery and restaurant operations, according to
the statement.  Carp, Beans, Apricots Win EU Protected Name and Origin  The European Union extended protected name and geographical
indications to three more agricultural commodities.  The three newly protected items are beans from a specific
area of  Italy , carp from a region of  Poland  and a specific
variety of Hungarian apricots.  The  Fagiolo Cuneo  is a dried bean with a high iron content
grown in Italy’s province of Cuneo. The bean has a thin skin,
and is dried off the plant.  Poland’s  Karp Zatorski  is an olive green fish found in the
“Valley of the Carp” in western Poland. The  Gonci kajszibarack 
is an apricot often used to make brandy.  For more trademark news, click here. For copyright news, click
here.  Trade Secrets /Industrial Espionage  Woodchuck Cidery Claims Ex-Employee Stole Hard-Cider Recipes  Woodchuck Cidery , a maker of hard cider, sued a former
employee for allegedly stealing trade secrets, the WCAX.com news
website  reported .  The Middlebury, Vermont-based company claimed the ex-
employee stole recipes and left to begin a competing hard-cider
company, according to WCAX.com.  Woodchuck seeks a court order requiring the former employee
to release personal files on his own computer, WCAX.com
reported. The company also claimed the former employee copied
ingredients and nutrition facts directly from its label,
according to the website.  Ex- News Corp. (NWSA)  Employee Beats Trade-Secrets Claim on Verb Tense  A former employee of a News Corp. unit, whose testimony
against his ex-employer played a key part in antitrust
litigation, defeated a trade-secrets case because of an error in
verb tense in his employment contract.  Robert T. Emmel was accused of making improper disclosures
of News Corp.’s News America Marketing In-Store unit. He was a
former account director for retailers who was fired in 2006.  Emmel allegedly brought confidential information to a
number of state and federal offices, including the New York
Attorney General’s Office, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the U.S. Senate Finance Committee.  News America agreed in February to pay $125 million to
settle a suit from  Insignia Systems Inc. (ISIG)  accusing the company of
anti-competitive behavior. It earlier agreed to pay $500 million
to  Valassis Communications Inc. (VCI)  on similar claims, and $29.5
million to settle a claim from Floorgraphics Inc.  In the suit filed in April 2007 in federal court in
Atlanta, Emmel was accused of “the devious and unauthorized
retention” of computer data and hard-copy documents. News
America said he gave this information to a competitor and
indicated he would supply it to others.  Emmel responded by telling the court that he was convinced
his ex-employer “was engaged in widespread illegal activity
against its customers, competitors and shareholders” and that
News America management refused to do anything about it. He
described the information he took as evidence of News America’s
“extensive billing and revenue-sharing fraud against its
customers,” and “predatory and anti-competitive schemes
against competitors.”  The data also proved that News America engaged in
“fraudulent inflation of its reported earnings,” he said.  When Emmel left News America in December 2006, he signed an
agreement not to disclose his employer’s confidential data or to
disparage the company. That agreement was signed on Dec. 21.  The day before he signed the agreement, he sent a package
of News America’s confidential documents to a staffer for the
U.S. Senate’s Finance Committee. He said later in a deposition
that his goal “was to make sure the information got out before
I would be signing an agreement.”  The court issued an order in March 2009 barring further
disclosures of the confidential information. Emmel then
appealed.  The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals looked at the
language of the agreement and said that because all the promises
Emmel made when he signed the contract were in future tense,
they wouldn’t apply to his actions before the signing date.  “The specific promises undertaken were couched in language
that applies only prospectively,” the court said in its June 8
ruling. “The simple past tense” could have been used in the
contract to capture Emmel’s pre-contract actions, the court
said.  The lower court case is News America Marketing In-Store
LLC, 1:07-cv-00791-TCB, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  Georgia  (Atlanta). The appeal is News America Marketing v.
Robert T. Emmel, 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 