-- 
Noonan Says He May Print ‘Ireland Is Not Greece’ T-Shirts

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-06-23T14:12:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/noonan-says-may-print-ireland-not-greece-portugal-t-shirts.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said he’s considering getting T-shirts printed that say
“Ireland is not Greece” in an attempt to distance Ireland from
other debt-burdened nations.  “We won’t give them away, we’ll sell them,” Noonan said
at an event in Dublin today. He also said Ireland is “on
track” with budget measures under its bailout agreement with
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Having spent the early part of the financial crisis trying
to distance itself from  Iceland , Ireland is now emphasizing its
differences with Greece, which is fighting to stave off a
default. While Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s budget
cuts have led to street protests, cabinet changes and rebellion
within his political party, Noonan is pressing ahead with his
austerity plans.  “We have a very strong mandate and we have the support on
issues from the opposition,” Noonan said on June 16, referring
to Ireland’s coalition government. “ Greece  is entirely
different. There seems to be no cross-party support.”  Noonan’s pleas have so far not been heard by investors. The
yield premium on Irish 10-year debt and German bunds,  Europe ’s
benchmark, widened to a record 894 basis points today. The
premium on Greece’s debt is at 1,398 basis points.  Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny yesterday showed his
frustration at constant questions about why Ireland isn’t
pressing French President Nicolas Sarkozy about getting a
reduction in the rates on its bailout loans.  “What do you want me to do? Ring up the Elysee and say,
‘I’m here, I need to speak to you,’” he told reporters.  European leaders meeting in Brussels today and tomorrow
will try to resolve the Greek crisis after bickering among
countries and the  European Central Bank  over plans to get
investors to share in the cost of a second bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simone Meier at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net  