-- 
NRC Doesn’t Need Immediate Steps on Safety, Official Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-23T21:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nrc-doesn-t-need-immediate-steps-on-safety-official-says-1-.html
The U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  doesn’t need to take immediate action to ensure the
safety of the nation’s atomic reactors after a tsunami in  Japan 
crippled a reactor northeast of  Tokyo , an official said.  “We continue to have confidence in the safety of the U.S.
fleet without question,” Martin J. Virgilio, the agency’s
deputy executive director for operations, said today at a
meeting of an independent committee that provides guidance to
the NRC on issues including Japan’s nuclear crisis. The meeting
was at NRC headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  Regulators and lawmakers are evaluating the safety of 104
U.S. reactors in the wake of the Japanese disaster, which
started when a March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out
cooling systems and led to meltdowns at Tokyo Electric Power Co.
Inc.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear facility.  An NRC task force is scheduled to report its findings to
the commission by July 12. The report is to be made public at an
NRC meeting July 19.  The NRC said it has received “thousands of nearly
identical” messages from nuclear-power opponents voicing
concerns about the safety of U.S. nuclear plants.  “The NRC believes that it is highly unlikely that a
similar combination of events such as those which occurred in
Japan could occur in the  United States ,” the agency said in a
statement today.  “We recognize that at some point in time new requirements
will likely be imposed as part of this,” Virgilio told the
advisory committee. “But right now, the new operating reactor
licensing programs continue on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  