-- 
NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Settle Shareholder Suits Over $9.53 Billion Buyout

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-24T16:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/nyse-deutsche-boerse-settle-delaware-lawuits-over-9-53-billion-buyout.html
NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
settled shareholder lawsuits challenging the $9.53 billion
buyout of the parent company of the  New York  Stock Exchange by
offering earlier this month to pay $910 million in dividends,
court papers show.  The agreement to pay the dividends helped to resolve suits
in Delaware and New York alleging the all-stock deal provided
too little for investors, according to a filing in Delaware
Chancery Court. The payout totals about 620 million euros, equal
to 2 euros a Deutsche Boerse share or $1.37 a NYSE share,
company officials said June 7.  “We are pleased with the result here, because this
dividend will give shareholders a quantifiable and immediate
payment,” Mark Lebovitch, a New York-based lawyer for NYSE
shareholders, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , owner of the
New York Stock Exchange and the Liffe derivatives market, for
$9.53 billion in February.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  dropped a competing bid last month after
the U.S. Justice Department threatened an antitrust lawsuit.  ‘Avoid Expense’  “The settlement allows us to avoid the expense and
distractions litigating would have presented to our company and
our shareholders,”  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for New York-
based NYSE Euronext, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our sole
focus remains on our upcoming shareowner vote, and working
toward the successful conclusion of the merger.”  Tim Lynch, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse,
declined to comment.  The exchanges agreed to pay the dividends and settle the
suit in hopes of winning support for the deal in a vote next
month. Deutsche Boerse needs 75 percent of shareholders to
approve its purchase of NYSE Euronext by July 13.  Investors can opt to “terminate the settlement” if the
exchanges decide against paying the dividends, according to
court papers.  NYSE Euronext investors sued in  Delaware  in February,
calling Deutsche Boerse’s offer “grossly inadequate.” The
shareholders alleged the bid valued NYSE Euronext at less than
targets in similar deals, such as London Stock Exchange Group
Plc’s purchase of Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  ‘A Factor’  Officials of both exchanges acknowledged the lawsuits
“were a factor” in the decision to pay the dividends, lawyers
for NYSE Euronext investors said in court papers. The suits also
helped persuade NYSE officials to give investors an opportunity
to have the value of their shares appraised, according to the
June 17 filing.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine must decide
whether to give the accord final approval. He hasn’t yet set a
hearing date on the matter. If the settlement is approved,
investors’ lawyers will file papers to dismiss the New York
suits, court filings show.  NYSE Euronext fell 45 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $32.31 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 11:52 a.m.  Deutsche
Boerse  dropped 67 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 50.18 euros in
German trading.  The case is In re NYSE Euronext Shareholders Litigation, CA
No. 6220, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  