-- 
Tobacco Bonds Gain Favor on Potential Steady Income: Muni Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/tobacco-bonds-gain-favor-on-potential-steady-income-muni-credit.html
Ending a $7.1 billion dispute
between states and cigarette makers may prevent future
litigation and provide tobacco-backed bonds with more
predictable income streams.  The bonds rallied yesterday after reports that  tobacco
companies  tentatively agreed to settle a disagreement dating to
2003. The fight stemmed partly from company claims that market-
share erosion reduced the amounts they’re required to pay 46
states under a 1998 agreement tied to medical-related expenses.  “If there’s a settlement, that alone will be positive,
because it will put an end to that open-ended question -- are
states going to lose $2 billion, $3 billion or $7 billion?”
said Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at Herbert J.
Sims & Co. in Iselin,  New Jersey . “Most people have had to
assume that all this money is at risk.”  States have more than $107.6 billion of outstanding bonds
backed by the payments, made annually in April, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Tobacco companies made $6 billion in
annual payments this year, down from $6.4 billion in 2010 and
$7.6 billion the year before, said Alan Schankel, director of
fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, in a research note yesterday.  If a settlement occurs, it means tobacco companies are
unlikely to withhold anything from their annual payments in the
future, Schankel said in a telephone interview. The agreement
would set rules on how states collect fees and taxes from
manufacturers that didn’t participate in the 1998 accord.  ‘More Predictability’  “It gives a little more predictability to future revenue
streams,” Schankel said.  State attorneys general discussed the dispute yesterday at
a meeting in  Chicago . Nanci Gonder, a spokeswoman for Missouri
Attorney General Chris Koster, said an agreement has been
proposed, declining to provide details.  Tim Pynchon, who oversees $3 billion of municipal bonds for
Pioneer Investment Management Inc. in  Boston  said yields on
tobacco bonds were down as much as 25 basis points yesterday. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  California tobacco bonds maturing in June 2045 yielded an
average of about 6.2 percent yesterday, down from 6.5 percent
June 20. Similar  Ohio  securities due June 2024 yielded an
average of about 7.9 percent, down from 8.1 percent.  “This event today is mostly positive,” Pynchon said. “I
want to see the details, but I do think it will act towards
freeing up the sector to see better prices over the near or
midterm.”  Longer Maturities  Long-dated tobacco bonds have been trading to yield around
9 percent, as prices fell following the market selloff that
started in mid-November, Pynchon said. A year ago the debt
traded around 8 percent, he said.  The participating states claimed the money after tobacco
companies agreed in 1998 to reimburse them $246 billion for
treating smoking-related illnesses. Since 2005,  Reynolds
American Inc. (RAI)  and  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  have put a portion of their
payments into an escrow fund, saying that they’re entitled to
refunds because they’ve lost market share to other producers
such as National Tobacco Co., which didn’t sign the 1998 accord.  If an agreement enables companies to take money out of the
escrow fund, states will receive the balance, Larkin said.
Including 2010 payments into the escrow account, a settlement
would affect about $3.47 billion, he said.  States may get about $1 billion from the escrow fund,
Schankel wrote. California, Virginia and Ohio, who said last
month that they planned to use reserves to make December
interest payments on their tobacco debt, may not have to if an
agreement is reached, he said.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  CITIZENS PROPERTY INSURANCE CORP.,  Florida ’s state-run
property and casualty insurer, plans to sell $900 million in
tax-exempt bonds as soon as Monday to finance claims for
hurricane damage. This year’s storm season has the greatest
chance since Katrina struck in 2005 of producing a cyclone
capable of causing at least $18 billion in damage, according to
natural catastrophe research firm Kinetic Analysis Corp. The
bonds are rated A+, fifth-highest, by  Standard & Poor’s .
Citigroup Inc. is leading underwriters in marketing the issue,
which may include short-term notes as well as floating-rate
securities. (Added June 23)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 