-- 
Obama’s Withdrawal Timing May Ease Impact of Afghanistan Troop Cutback

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-23T17:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/obama-s-timing-may-ease-impact-of-afghanistan-troop-cutback.html
The withdrawal of 33,000 U.S. troops
from Afghanistan over the next 15 months probably will be
manageable for commanders on the ground, who will have 90
percent of their force through this year and can increasingly
fill the gaps with Afghan troops.  The planned drawdown provides “enough resources, time and,
perhaps most importantly, flexibility to bring the surge to a
successful conclusion,” Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in
a statement last night after President  Barack Obama  announced
that he will pull out 10,000 of the roughly 100,000 U.S. troops
this year and 23,000 more by next summer.  Still, the reduction increases the risk that advances made
against the Taliban in the past year will be reversed, Admiral
Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the
House Armed Services Committee today.  “The president’s decisions are more aggressive and incur
more risk than I was originally prepared to accept,” he said.
“While there’s more risk, I don’t consider it significant.”  The U.S.-led NATO coalition aims to convert what commanders
have described as “fragile and reversible” progress into
enough of a rout to force the Taliban to the peace table. That
means front-line fighting for the remaining North Atlantic
Treaty Organization-led troops as increasing numbers of Western-
trained Afghan forces begin to take control in quieter areas.  Fighting Seasons  “What we have is the vast majority of our forces for the
next two fighting seasons,” Mullen told the panel. By the end
of 2014, when the North Atlantic Treaty Organization agreed
would mark the handover of control to Afghan forces, the number
of U.S. and other coalition troops will be “dramatically
reduced,” he said.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said today he was “generally
supportive of the plan because there is enough flexibility” to
“take into consideration” the conditions on the ground the
ground.  “The top brass at the Pentagon are comfortable with the
president’s strategy,” Boehner said.  Success also may depend in part on whether Afghans see a
continued U.S. commitment or sense a repeat of the  Soviet
Union ’s withdrawal two decades ago that led to the rise of the
Taliban.  Gates, who leaves office at the end of this month, said
during his last visit to the war zone two weeks ago that
military pressure might persuade Taliban leaders to negotiate by
the end of this year.  Looking East  The surge of troops that Obama ordered in late 2009 has
pushed the Taliban from its heartland of Kandahar and Helmand
provinces in the south. The coalition plans to turn more
fighting attention to the country’s eastern region on the border
with  Pakistan  during the next 12 months.  Unlike the desert south, the east’s mountainous terrain
makes for a short warm-weather fighting season. That may
alleviate some of the risk of removing 23,000 U.S. forces by
next summer, rather than waiting until winter sets in.  “That’s the part that’s probably a little more problematic
than it needed to be,” said retired Army Lieutenant General
David Barno, a senior adviser at the Center for a New American
Security, a defense-oriented policy center in Washington.  U.S. Commander  Minimizing the risk will be the challenge of the successor
to Army General David Petraeus, the top U.S. and NATO commander
in Afghanistan, who is appearing before a Senate committee today
for a hearing on his nomination as the next director of the
Central Intelligence Agency.  Petraeus will be succeeded by Lieutenant General  John
Allen , who has been deputy commander for U.S. Central Command,
which oversees U.S. forces in the  Middle East  and central  Asia .  At the same time, more than 100,000 Afghan soldiers and
national police officers have been trained and fielded over the
last 18 months. The  NATO Training Mission  aims to have 305,000
Afghan security forces trained by October and add 50,000 more
over the following 12 months.  A separate project has trained and equipped 6,000 local
Afghan police officers and is growing. The coalition also has
begun to support Afghan tribal resistance to the Taliban, said
 Seth Jones , a senior political scientist at the Rand
Corporation, a research institute in Alexandria, Virginia.  “That’s got the potential to make up for a downsizing of
forces” in the  48-nation  coalition, said Jones, an expert on
 Afghanistan  and Pakistan who worked as a special operations
adviser and liaison for the Pentagon until earlier this year.  Long-Term Commitment  The U.S. and its coalition partners must follow through
with promised financial support and equipment until Afghanistan
has the means to shoulder such costs itself, said Eklil Ahmad Hakimi, the country’s ambassador to Washington. Jobs for
insurgents who give up the fight and development aid that gives
citizens hope for the future also is critical, he said.  “The president was clear in his message that he will have
a long-term commitment and the  United States  will remain a
partner with Afghanistan,” he said. “This partnership should
be strengthened.”  Afghans may not trust Obama’s promises of a long-term U.S.
commitment, said  Jeffrey Dressler , a senior research analyst at
the Institute for the Study of War in  Washington , who has
consulted for Petraeus. Afghans may hesitate to back the
government for fear the Taliban will return and exact
retribution, he said.  Exit Strategy  Ahmad Majidyar , a native of Afghanistan and a senior
research associate at the  American Enterprise Institute , a
Washington-based policy center, agreed. He was in the country in
October.  “People saw the July 2011 deadline for the beginning of a
withdrawal of troops as an exit strategy, that the U.S. has
given up the fight against the Taliban and is now finding a way
to just abandon Afghanistan once again,”  Majidyar said. “They
don’t see it as a transition of security responsibility to the
Afghan forces.”  NATO nations and other contributors to the coalition may
also begin withdrawing their forces, possibly affecting the U.S.
timetable. Other countries added almost 10,000 troops to match
the U.S. surge.  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who has said
there would be no race for the exits, last night reiterated
alliance support for the planned transition to Afghan
responsibility nationwide in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 