-- 
Obama Says Withdrawal From Afghanistan Will Aid ‘Nation-Building at Home’

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-23T19:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/obama-says-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-will-aid-nation-building-at-home-.html
President  Barack Obama , announcing a
reduction of 33,000 troops in Afghanistan by September 2012,
said it was “time to focus on nation-building at home” and
offered a “centered course” for U.S. military engagement that
he said would be rooted in pragmatism.  In a nationally televised speech, Obama sought to balance
the demands of the military, which wanted to avoid a rapid
withdrawal, and the sentiments of many Americans, who polls show
think the war is no longer worth waging.  “We are starting this drawdown from a position of
strength,” Obama said last night in the East Room of the White
House. “The tide of war is receding.”  Obama’s plan would withdraw 10,000 troops before the end of
this year and an additional 23,000 -- the remainder of last
year’s troop surge -- as the 2012 presidential election campaign
kicks into high gear.  The president in 2009 ordered deployment of the additional
forces to quell a growing Taliban insurgency, and he said last
night that the goals set out then largely have been
accomplished. Even with the withdrawals, the U.S. will have
roughly 68,000 troops in  Afghanistan , about twice as many as
were there when Obama was elected in 2008. Also in the country
are more than 40,000 personnel from 48  other nations , which are
making plans to pull back as well.  A Middle Path  Stephen Biddle, senior fellow for defense policy at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington, said Obama’s
withdrawal plan parallels how he dealt with the surge.  “It isn’t everything the military appeared to ask for, but
it’s much of it,” he said. “He’s apparently doing neither what
the military wants nor what progressives in the Democratic Party
want. It may very well satisfy people in the middle.”  Obama, 49, said the nation has gone through a “difficult
decade” with wars in  Iraq  and Afghanistan. He said the U.S.
must take a different approach to exercising military power.  “We must be as pragmatic as we are passionate; as
strategic as we are resolute,” he said. “When threatened, we
must respond with force. But when that force can be targeted, we
need not deploy large armies overseas.”  The president didn’t give a timetable for withdrawing
additional troops except to say it would continue at a “steady
pace” until Afghan forces take full responsibility for their
nation’s security.  Flexibility  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who is retiring at the end
of this month, said in a statement after the speech that the
president’s decision “provides our commanders with enough
resources, time and, perhaps most importantly, flexibility to
bring the surge to a successful conclusion.”  Obama consulted with allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and members of Congress before the speech. He said
the next phase for the transition in Afghanistan will be shaped
at a NATO meeting next May in his adopted hometown of  Chicago .  The president went to  Fort Drum ,  New York , today to meet
with soldiers from the 10th Mountain Division, which was one of
the first units deployed in Obama’s surge.  “We have turned a corner where we can begin to bring back
some of our troops,” Obama told them. “We’re going to do it in
a steady way to make sure the gains all of you have helped bring
about can be sustained.”  Support on Wane  War weariness has been reflected both in surveys that show
a growing desire among Americans for troops to be brought home
and in pressure from Congress, including from Obama’s fellow
Democrats.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20 found almost
one-third of Americans want an immediate withdrawal; 53 percent
support withdrawal over the next couple of years.  Republican congressional leaders offered tempered support
for Obama’s announcement, saying that a withdrawal was
appropriate while warning the president against rushing the
process.  “We all want to bring our troops home as quickly as
possible, but we must ensure that the gains we’ve made are not
jeopardized,” House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  said in a
statement. “Congress will hold the administration
accountable.”  Fewer Troops  Other Republicans and some Democrats said Obama hadn’t gone
far enough.  Republican presidential candidate  Jon Huntsman , a former
Utah governor who until recently was Obama’s envoy to  China ,
said the U.S. should remake the Afghanistan operation “to a
focused counterterror effort which requires significantly fewer
boots on the ground than the president discussed tonight.”  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said
that much of the public and many in Congress won’t be satisfied
with Obama’s plan, and that she would push for a quicker
withdrawal.  “It has been the hope of many in Congress and across the
country that the full drawdown of U.S. forces would happen
sooner than the president laid out, and we will continue to
press for a better outcome,” she said in a statement.  Some Republicans said Obama was rushing the withdrawal
based on waning public support, and was potentially undermining
chances for success in Afghanistan.  “I think we have undercut a strategy that was working,”
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  said last night on CNN.
“I think the 10,000 troops leaving this year is going to make
this fighting season more difficult. Having all of the surge
forces leave by next summer is going to compromise next summer’s
fighting season.”  War Costs  War costs, which have contributed to a federal  budget
deficit  that both Congress and Obama have promised to cut, also
have figured in the debate.  “Over the last decade, we have spent a trillion dollars on
war, at a time of rising debt and hard economic times,” Obama
said. “It is time to focus on nation-building here at home.”  The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan together have cost
the lives of 6,089 U.S. personnel and more than $1 trillion,
according to Defense Department figures. That figure doesn’t
include as much as $100 billion the Pentagon lists as not war-
related, such as spending on intelligence, or the long-term
costs of care and disability payments for the 44,266 veterans
who were wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The government’s fiscal 2011 budget includes $113.5 billion
for Afghanistan operations, up from $56.1 billion in 2009, and
$45.8 billion for Iraq.  Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the Center for American
Progress, a Washington-based public policy institute with close
ties to the White House, said that while Obama may be expecting
a political boost from the withdrawals in time for next year’s
presidential election, “I don’t this is a big enough withdrawal
to satisfy the people who are concerned about the costs.”  Katulis said the pace of troop withdrawals is only part of
what is important from a policy perspective. “The bigger
questions are what’s our strategy to help stabilize not only
Afghanistan, but  Pakistan , which is a nuclear power,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  