-- 
Obama’s Hasty Afghan Exit Puts U.S. Military Gains at Risk: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-23T00:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/obama-s-hasty-afghan-exit-puts-u-s-military-gains-at-risk-view.html
On  Afghanistan ,  Washington ’s
military and political leadership is divided into two camps.
Neither is likely to be fully satisfied with President Barack Obama’s decision to bring the conflict to “a responsible end” by
bringing home 10,000 U.S. troops by the end of this year and
23,000 more before the end of next summer.  The first camp argues that the war has become too costly in
terms of casualties, money and voter opinion, and that special
operations forces, drone strikes and the like can keep al-Qaeda
at bay. They will likely urge the president to stick to his plan
no matter what and even to speed up the drawdown for the other
65,000 Americans in the field.  The other side insists that continued military pressure can
give Afghan security forces the time they need to take over
their country’s defense, allow the civilian side of the Western
effort to improve governance and public services, and perhaps
lead to a political settlement with the Taliban and its allies.
They will try to persuade the president to allow the military to
continue to take the fight to the enemy, and to show flexibility
on troop reductions based on military developments.  While the former camp seems now to have the upper hand, we
side with the latter. Not because we think that classic victory
-- whatever that might look like -- is an attainable goal. The
issue, at least for the U.S., is what would constitute an
acceptable outcome to the decade-long war.  The cost of the conflict is staggering: More than 2,500
U.S. and allied troops killed and more than 10,000 wounded,
nearly half a trillion dollars of taxpayer money gone -- not to
mention the many thousands of Afghan forces and civilians dead
and injured. The big beneficiary has been the corrupt and
ungrateful government of  Hamid Karzai  in Kabul.  Yet President Obama was correct on Wednesday night when he
said “we are starting this drawdown from a position of
strength.” The “surge” of 2009 resulted in measurable gains in
southern Afghanistan, routing Taliban forces in their spiritual
capital of Kandahar. The Afghan National Security Forces now
number 300,000, and contributed half of the troops involved in
clearing Helmand and Kandahar Provinces. There has been marked
political progress in the former Taliban stronghold of Marjah
and other places that have gained some independence from the
Kabul government. An effort to target the insurgency’s midlevel
field commanders has thinned their ranks and led some to lay
down their arms.  The greatest risk of the president’s announced drawdown is
that it might break the momentum of the allied effort and
embolden war-weary insurgents to keep up the fight.  We are not naive enough to think that a workable truce with
the Taliban, Haqqani Network and other extremist factions is a
sure thing, or even likely. Certainly, the Quetta Shura of
Mullah Omar and other hard-core Islamists can never be part of a
liberal political order. Yet both the allies and the Karzai
government have been negotiating at some level with insurgents
who seem open to compromise, and we feel it is worth letting the
process play out.  We understand that allowing former Taliban, even those who
have given up their weapons and agreed to abide by the  Afghan
constitution , into the political arena risks setbacks to goals
Americans hold dear, such as  women’s rights , protection of
minorities and equal justice. That may be the price we have to
pay for leaving behind an Afghanistan that is reasonably secure,
is unlikely to become a haven for al-Qaeda and other terrorists,
and is politically stable enough to survive the effect of
reactionary Islamist politicians.  That is hardly an ideal outcome. But it is far better than
what a hurried American pullout would leave behind.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  