-- 
Obama Says New York’s Marriage Debate Is Example of Democracy

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-06-23T23:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/obama-says-new-york-s-marriage-debate-is-example-of-democracy.html
President  Barack Obama  told gay
rights activists and supporters that he believes New York is
doing “exactly what democracies are supposed to do” by
considering legislation to allow gay couples to wed.  Obama said he believes gay couples “deserve the same legal
rights as every other couple in this country,” stopping short
of endorsing same-sex marriage. He didn’t respond to a member of
the audience who yelled, “Say yes to marriage.”  The president was speaking to more than 500 Democratic
Party donors from the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
community at a Manhattan fundraiser.  While Obama has backed civil unions, he hasn’t endorsed gay
marriage. At a news conference last December, Obama said his
views on the issue “are constantly evolving. I struggle with
this.”  His stance has prompted criticism from some supporters in
the gay community. That was highlighted by the situation in  New
York , where legislation to let gay couples wed is stalled in the
Republican-run state Senate. The measure passed last week in the
Assembly, where Democrats have a majority.  “Its a little weird for Obama to be there in New York and
not support gay marriage, it’s the pink elephant in the room,”
said John Aravosis, the founder of the AMERICAblog website and
an Obama supporter in 2008.  Aravosis said he raised $43,000 for Obama during the 2008
campaign and that he’s undecided about whether he will do the
same in 2012.  Voter Enthusiasm  “Enthusiasm matters even if a significant number of gay
people end up voting for Obama, you need turnout, you need
donors,” Aravosis said in a telephone interview. “We’ve had to
spend far more time fighting for him to do what he promised.”  Obama asked for patience, saying “slowly but surely we
find the way forward,” and asked the audience to commit to
helping him win re-election next year.  Actor Neil Patrick Harris of CBS television’s “How I Met
Your Mother” helped introduce the president where tickets
started at $1,250. He listed some of the issues where Obama has
supported gay rights issues since taking office.  In February, the administration said it will no longer
oppose court challenges to the Defense of Marriage Act, a 15-
year-old law that prohibits the federal government from
recognizing same-sex marriages for purposes of taxes, social
security and other programs.  Action in States  Since the law was enacted, five states and the  District of
Columbia  have approved gay marriage, while others allow civil
unions. New York would be the largest state to legalize same-sex
marriage.  “Part of the reason DOMA doesn’t make sense is that
traditionally marriage has been decided by the states,” Obama
said tonight.  In December, Obama signed into law  legislation  lifting the
ban on gays serving openly in the military. As a candidate,
Obama campaign on a promise to repeal the policy, known as
“don’t ask, don’t tell,” saying it as a civil rights issue.  The Obama campaign was seeking to raise at least $3 million
while the president was in New York, the third time in four
months that Obama went to the city to collect donations.  Later tonight, Obama was going to a $35,800-per-plate
dinner with Wall Street bankers followed by a performance of the
musical “Sister Act,” where he will be joined by the producer,
actress  Whoopi Goldberg . The last event targets young Democratic
donors, with tickets starting at $100 per person.  The president has appeared at 27 fundraisers since January,
helping the  Democratic National Committee  outpace its Republican
counterpart. Through May 31, the DNC has taken in $45.5 million,
compared with $30.5 million collected by the  Republican National
Committee , according to the  Federal Election Commission .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in New York at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 