-- 
Oil Rises on Concern IEA Emergency Crude Release May Limit Future Supplies

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-24T07:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/oil-climbs-in-new-york-after-plunging-on-iea-plan-for-emergency-release.html
Oil rose in  New York , reversing
yesterday’s plunge, on concerns that stockpile releases by
consuming nations may limit the ability to respond to supply
disruptions in future.  Crude climbed as much as 1.5 percent after sliding 4.6
percent yesterday. The  International Energy Agency  agreed to
release 60 million barrels to buyers starting next week. Oil
stockpiles among the 28 member-countries of the IEA declined by
340,000 barrels a day during the first quarter of this year, the
Agency said in its monthly Oil Market Report on June 16.  “People are concerned that if we use that last bullet then
what’s going to happen as we go through the year and things get
tighter?” said  Anthony Nunan , assistant general manager for
risk management at Mitsubishi Corp. in Tokyo. “That’s going to
be bullish in the long run. We’re rebounding because you get
this knee-jerk reaction and then cooler heads prevail.”  Crude for August delivery climbed as much as $1.32 to
$92.34 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $91.63 at 3:13 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday slid to $91.02 a barrel, the lowest
settlement since Feb. 18. Prices are down 0.9 percent this week,
heading for a fourth straight decline, and up 20 percent the
past year.  Brent oil for August delivery gained 62 cents to $107.88 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday fell $6.95, or 6.1 percent, to $107.26 a
barrel, the lowest price since Feb. 22. Futures are up 41
percent the past year.  “Less Buffer”  The IEA announced the release of 2 million barrels a day
for 30 days to make up for supplies choked off by an armed
rebellion in  Libya . The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve will
provide 30 million barrels, European members will supply about
20 million and Asian nations the remainder.  “The more stocks you use now, the less of a buffer you
have for any supply shock in the future,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National  Australia  Bank Ltd. in
 Melbourne .  The decision comes after the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries failed to reach an accord on production
increases at a meeting in Vienna on June 8. The group said two
days later that it will need to pump 30.9 million barrels a day
in the third quarter, or 1.9 million barrels more than it
supplied in May.  Saudi Supply  “Supposing the Saudis were to increase production by 1
million barrels, that would suggest the need for another 1
million,” said Katherine Spector, head of commodity products
research at  CIBC World Markets , by e-mail today. “That is the
math that consuming countries were looking at.”  The nation may reduce crude production in response to the
IEA’s agreement to release stockpiles, Barclays Plc said
yesterday.  “The Saudis may actually react negatively to this, backing
off from output increases,” Amrita Sen, a London-based oil
analyst, said in an e-mail. This goes “to show how degenerate
the consumer-producer relationship has become.”  Brent crude  won’t fall below $90 a barrel because OPEC
“will start talking about cutting production” near that price,
according to Societe Generale SA.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
biggest oil exporter, needs prices at $90 to $100 to balance its
budget, analysts at the bank said in a report e-mailed today.  Stockpile Offers  The U.S. Energy Department yesterday requested bids for 30
million barrels of oil from the Strategic Reserve. The
department offered 10 million barrels of sweet, or low-sulfur,
crude from storage sites in Bryan Mound and Big Hill,  Texas , and
West Hackberry, Louisiana. Bids are due by 1 p.m. Central time
on June 29, the department said.  Japan will release 7.9 million barrels of oil products from
its stockpiles as part of the IEA’s plan, mostly to the domestic
market, Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  told reporters today in
 Tokyo .  South Korea  will release 3.467 million barrels of oil,
according to the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. The nation has
173 million barrels of reserves, the ministry said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Germany  will open up 4.2 million barrels of its reserves,
while the U.K.’s share will be 3 million, the agency said.
Australia isn’t contributing to the IEA’s plan, according to
Joel Grant, spokesman for the office of the Minister of
Resources and Energy, by phone from Melbourne today.  Gulf War, Katrina  It’s the third time the IEA has coordinated the use of
emergency stockpiles since the agency was founded in 1974. The
first was during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the second was
after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The Paris-based IEA is an
energy policy adviser to 28 industrialized nations including the
U.S.,  Japan  and Germany.  Asia-Pacific airline stocks rose today as investors bet the
additional crude oil will cut fuel costs. Jet fuel swaps for
July fell 3.2 percent to $120.80 a barrel at 10 a.m. Singapore
time today, the lowest since Feb. 18, according to data from PVM
Oil Associates, a London-based oil broker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  