-- 
Oil Drilling Approvals by EPA Expedited Under House-Passed Bill

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-06-23T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/oil-drilling-approvals-by-epa-expedited-under-house-passed-bill.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
would have to issue or deny air permits for offshore oil
drilling within six months under legislation passed by the U.S.
House.  As  oil prices  climbed 23 percent over the past year,
Republicans have pushed legislation that would expand drilling
off the Alaska coast and in the  Gulf of Mexico . The bill to
tighten environmental deadlines passed the Republican-led House
yesterday on a vote of 253 to 166.  “We cannot leave exploration and production of critically
needed resources in a perpetual state of limbo,” Marty Durbin,
vice president of the  American Petroleum Institute , a Washington
trade group, said in a statement after the vote.  “Development
of new offshore energy resources will strengthen American  energy
security , provide jobs, assist economic growth, and increase
revenues to the federal treasury.”  The House previously passed bills that would give the Obama
administration deadlines to sell offshore oil leases and open
additional areas on the Outer Continental Shelf to drilling. The
Democratic-led Senate hasn’t acted on similar legislation.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  canceled its plan to drill an
exploration well in the Beaufort Sea off Alaska this year, with
the Hague-based company saying it didn’t obtain an air permit in
time. Shell, blocked since 2007 from developing its Alaska
leases, filed a plan last month seeking approval for as many as
four Beaufort wells -- two in 2012 and two in 2013.  ‘Broken Bureaucracy’  “The exploration on the Outer Continental Shelf has been
delayed for years because of the broken bureaucracy,”
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who heads the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, said during floor debate on
the bill yesterday. “It has been a never-ending circuit of
approvals, and appeals and re-applications.”  In addition to imposing deadlines for EPA action, the House
measure would take away the authority of the agency’s
Environmental Appeals Board over air permits for drilling.  Drilling a well off the Alaska coast may emit as much
pollution as a large, modern refinery,  Gina McCarthy , the EPA’s
assistant administrator, said in testimony on May 13. The EPA
opposes the legislation, saying it might boost nitrogen dioxide,
particles and sulfur dioxide pollution, she said.  “It’s a giveaway to the oil industry that will increase
pollution along our coast,” Representative Henry Waxman, a
California Democrat, said during the debate.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski , a Republican from Alaska,
 introduced  a similar bill in the Senate, which hasn’t acted on
it.  The House bill is H.R. 2021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  