-- 
London Subway Strikes Canceled, Averting Wimbledon Traffic Woes

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/london-subway-strikes-canceled-averting-wimbledon-traffic-woes.html
The U.K.’s Rail, Maritime and
Transport Workers union has called off strikes by  London 
Underground drivers which would have coincided with an influx of
thousands of tennis fans converging on London for the second
week of the  Wimbledon tennis championships .  “The Tube strikes planned for next week are now off,” the
RMT said in a statement on its website.  The industrial actions, scheduled for June 27 and 29, and
July 1, were planned to protest against the dismissal of a union
activist, Arwyn Thomas, who was fired for “unacceptable
behaviour towards his colleagues,” according to an e-mailed
statement from Transport for London last night. RMT had said
Thomas was dismissed for his union activities, according to TfL.  An employment tribunal on June 22 found that while  London
Underground  was entitled to discipline Thomas, the sanction of
dismissal was “too severe,” TfL said in an e-mailed statement.
TfL said in the statement it re-employed Thomas “with a number
of conditions that recognize the seriousness of his offence.”  The conditions include ending all industrial action related
to the dispute and an agreement from the RMT that any future
cases will “follow the normal processes for resolving
individual disputes,” before industrial action is proposed or
balloted, TFL said in the statement.  The RMT workers first took industrial action on Thomas’s
dismissal for six hours between 9 p.m. local time on June 19 and
3 a.m. on June 20, coinciding with the start of the U.K. Grand
Slam tennis tournament which ends on July 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net  