-- 
Oracle Falls After Reporting Unexpected Hardware Sales Drop

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-24T00:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/oracle-s-hardware-decline-offsets-quarterly-gain-in-software-license-sales.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  declined in late
trading after an unexpected drop in hardware sales suggested the
largest maker of  database software  may not be benefiting as much
as predicted from its acquisition of Sun Microsystems Inc.  Sales of hardware declined 6 percent to $1.16 billion,
 Redwood City , California-based Oracle said in a statement today.
The company had forecast in March an increase of 6 percent to 12
percent. Shares fell as much as 7.5 percent in extended trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  has been trying to
benefit from last year’s purchase of Sun as companies expand
technology budgets and outfit data centers with servers and the
databases needed to store digital information. Disappointment
with the hardware results overshadowed a better-than-predicted
performance in profit and sales of new software licenses.  “The hardware decline is likely the reason for the sell-
off,” said Josh Olson, a  Des Peres , Missouri-based analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. “This is really the first full year-over-
year compare for the hardware business, and it has started on
the wrong foot.”  The stock fell as much as $2.45 to $30.01 in extended
trading. It had climbed 26 cents to $32.46 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading, and gained 3.7 percent this year.  Profit excluding certain costs was 75 cents a share in the
quarter that ended May 31, exceeding the 71-cent average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 13
percent to $10.8 billion, meeting analysts’ predictions.  Sales Forecasts  Hardware sales may rebound in the current quarter, which
ends in August, Oracle Chief Financial Officer Safra Catz said
on a conference call. Sales of hardware products may range from
a 5 percent increase to a 5 percent decline, Catz said.  New software license sales, a predictor of future sales,
will rise 10 percent to 20 percent, she said. Profit excluding
certain items will be 45 cents to 48 cents, compared with 46
cents projected by analysts, the company said.  Calculated on a basis that doesn’t comply with generally
accepted accounting principles, revenue will increase 9 percent
to 12 percent this quarter, Catz said. That implies sales of
$8.27 billion to $8.5 billion, compared with $8.3 billion, the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New license sales, a predictor of revenue, gained 19
percent last quarter to $3.74 billion, at the high end of
Oracle’s forecast. That compares with the 13.5 percent growth
predicted by  Jason Maynard , an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities, in a June 20 research note.  ‘Right’ Growth  Ellison is using his purchase of Sun to add computers to
the arsenal of programs he has amassed through more than $42
billion in acquisitions since 2005. Oracle has tailored its
databases to run faster on new machines using Sun hardware.  The company also has aimed to improve the unit’s profit by
discontinuing sales of less expensive products and emphasizing
its high-performance Exadata and Exalogic computer servers. That
may have contributed to the revenue decline, said Peter Goldmacher, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in San Francisco.  Oracle may also be grappling with growing pains related to
the buying spree, Goldmacher said.  “The more they acquire and the further afield they get
from their core competence, the harder it is to manage the
business,” Goldmacher said.  Oracle co-president  Mark Hurd  told analysts Oracle is
selling fewer servers at higher prices, and increasing the
amount of support contracts and software sold with each system.  “There’s no question we want to grow the top line, but we
want to grow the top line right,” he said.  Overpriced Targets  Ellison said during the conference call that Oracle is
taking a pause from large acquisitions because many potential
targets are overpriced.  “They’re by and large not attractively priced now and
don’t make sense, so we’re not doing them,” he said. “Instead
we can focus our energies on organic growth.” The company is
expanding its sales staff and developing new products, he said.  At Oracle’s OpenWorld conference that begins Oct. 2 in  San
Francisco , the company plans to announce a computer system for
analyzing data in a computer’s memory instead of on disc. Oracle
also plans what it calls a “big-data accelerator,” a product
that will use open-source Hadoop software to help companies
handle large amounts of data from various sources, Ellison said.  Oracle’s sales growth is expected to taper off as year-
earlier figures reflect the acquisition. Sales are projected to
increase 8.8 percent to $39 billion in 2012 after surging 34
percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  