-- 
Oracle Revenues Poised to Top $10 Billion on Transition Into Hardware

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-06-23T13:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/oracle-sales-poised-to-top-10-billion-on-shift-into-hardware.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  is likely to say today
that quarterly sales topped $10 billion for the first time as
Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison benefits from pairing
software and hardware, a strategy mastered by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted, on average, that
Oracle will report revenue of $10.8 billion in the fiscal fourth
quarter, which ended in May. Earnings excluding certain costs
likely rose to 71 cents a share, according to projections.  Ellison is using his purchase of Sun Microsystems Inc. to
add computers to the arsenal of programs he has amassed through
more than $42 billion in acquisitions since 2005. Oracle has
tailored its databases, used to store information, to run faster
on new machines using Sun hardware. The approach helps Oracle
woo corporate customers the way Apple lures computer users, said
Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities Inc.  “The way that Apple provides consumers with fully
integrated products -- the hardware as well as the software --
Oracle is doing much the same thing,” said Barnicle, who is
based in  Portland ,  Oregon . “They’re a one-stop shop for
whatever your business needs.”  Oracle fell 58 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $31.62 at 9:52
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Before today
it climbed 2.9 percent this year and surged on May 2 to $36.37,
its highest closing since Oct. 19, 2000.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman  Redwood City , California-
based Oracle, declined to comment.  License Sales Predictions  Oracle’s Exadata machines, which combine specially
engineered Sun computers with Oracle database software, will
likely keep fueling growth, said  Mark Murphy , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco . That’s because customers
who buy Exadata also purchase software licenses, generating
revenue in the future.  New license revenue, a predictor of future sales, probably
climbed 15 percent to $3.61 billion in the fourth quarter, said
Murphy, who rates Oracle “overweight” and predicts that the
shares will rise to $37. That includes $2.63 billion from
databases and so-called middleware, which helps programs work
together, and $983 million from applications, Murphy said.  Analysts at UBS AG project a 17 percent gain in new license
sales, according to a June 3 research note. Oracle said on March
24, during the third-quarter earnings call, that new software
license revenue would climb 9 percent to 19 percent in the
fourth quarter.  Another benefit from Sun is the Java programming language
Oracle gained in the deal. Ellison has called Java “the single
most important software asset” the company has ever bought.  Grappling With Google  A lawsuit Oracle filed against search giant  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may
added to chances to profit from this purchase, said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco.  Oracle accused Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California ,
of using technology related to Java in the Android mobile
operating system. Oracle’s damages expert has estimated that
Google would owe $1.4 billion to $6.1 billion in damages if it
were found liable for infringement.  “Our sense is that Oracle has had the better side of the
argument,” Walravens wrote in a June 16 research note.  Even as Oracle benefits from Sun products, its sales growth
is expected to taper off as year-earlier figures reflect the
acquisition. Sales are projected to increase 8.8 percent to $39
billion in 2012 after surging 34 percent in 2011, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Catch-Up In The Cloud  The company’s sales are getting a boost from demand for
databases and the servers that populate data centers, which can
provide computing power over the Internet, via the so-called
cloud. Still, the company lags behind rivals in the software
used to deliver cloud computing, where  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  is a
leader, Murphy said.  “A database is not the cloud, but part of the
infrastructure,” Murphy said. “They’ve got a way to
participate, but they’re not offering multitenant cloud-based
products.”  Oracle will get help in cloud computing with the
introduction of Fusion, a new version of its suite of
applications that help companies handle a range of business
tasks, said Kirk Materne, an  analyst  at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) 
in New York. Customers will be able to run Fusion in their data
centers or access it via the Web.  “If you look at it from an applications standpoint, with
Fusion applications, they now have a much more comprehensive
software-as-a-service offering,” Materne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  