-- 
More Women Report ‘Overwhelming Financial Stress,’ Survey Finds

-- B y   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-06-23T18:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/more-women-report-overwhelming-financial-stress-survey-finds.html
Almost 30 percent of women have high
levels of anxiety about their finances, compared with 17 percent
of men, according to a new survey in the U.S.  The  results , from a questionnaire filled out by more than
1,000 people in the first quarter this year, also showed that 9
percent of women reported “overwhelming financial stress,”
compared with 3 percent of men. That may be because of women’s
greater sense of obligation to children and the home, said
Gregory Ward, head research analyst at El Segundo, California-
based Financial Finesse Inc., which conducted the survey.  “Certainly a part of it is the psychology of how men and
women view things,” Ward said.  For both genders, worries about money have lessened since
2009, when the U.S. was emerging from the recession, the survey
showed. That year, Financial Finesse found that 97 percent of
people questioned said they experienced some level of stress
over finances, citing debt and retirement savings, compared with
86 percent in the most recent study.  Of the 438 women surveyed, 28 percent said they had “high”
or “overwhelming” financial stress, and 62 percent reported
“some,” according to Financial Finesse, which sells financial
literacy services to companies, municipalities and  credit
unions . Among the 618 men, 66 percent acknowledged “some” unease
and 17 percent “high” or “overwhelming” levels.  The gap may be because men view the state of their
financial affairs differently, Ward said. “Maybe they’re more
confident than they should be.”  Worry Gap  In addition, “women feel more distressed than men do if
they cannot provide what they want to provide for their
children,” said  Mary Gresham , an Atlanta-based specialist in
financial psychology.  Workers of both sexes between the ages of 30 and 44 were
the most likely to worry about their finances, the study found.
Those earning $35,000 to $74,999 a year -- what Ward called a
“midrange economic level” -- were particularly susceptible to
concerns about money, he said.  Financial Finesse found that 14 percent of people
characterized themselves as having no financial stress, compared
with 3 percent in 2009 and 2010. Among those without worries, 97
percent said they were comfortable with their amount of debt; 89
percent reported having an emergency fund; and all said they
paid their monthly bills on time.  In an  analysis  of the findings, Financial Finesse said
women “remain significantly behind men with respect to basic
money management skills, which will ultimately compromise their
ability to save for longer term financial goals.”  Among those questioned, 64 percent of women stated that
they had general knowledge of stocks, bonds and mutual funds,
compared with 84 percent of men.  Gresham said there is often also a divide when it comes to
doing things to alleviate financial stress.  “There is kind of a gender gap between feeling stressed
about money and actually making behavioral changes,” she said.
“In general, men tend to be more action-oriented.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Mac in New York at 
 Rmac3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  