-- 
Morgan Tsvangirai’s MDC Dismisses Zimbabwe Army’s Security Accusations

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-06-23T14:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/morgan-tsvangirai-s-mdc-dismisses-zimbabwe-army-s-security-accusations.html
Zimbabwean Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s party rejected accusations by an army brigadier
general that he is a threat to the southern African nation’s
security.  Brigadier-General Douglas Nyikayaramba said Tsvangirai,
leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, takes orders from
“Western leaders,” the state-controlled  Herald  said today. It
quoted him as saying the security forces “would die” to keep
President  Robert Mugabe , 87, in power and that Tsvangirai would
never rule.  “The only threat to Zimbabwe comes from the military,
which is interfering in politics,” MDC spokesman Douglas Mwonzora said today by phone from the capital, Harare. “The MDC
won the March 2008 election and by any measure, the army should
respect that.”  Nyikayaramba’s comments followed statements by Tsvangirai
urging officials in the security services to quit their posts
and enter politics instead of using their positions to back
Mugabe. Tsvangirai’s MDC and Mugabe’s  Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front  party agreed to share power after disputed
elections in 2008 that the MDC narrowly won.  The MDC insists that Zimbabwe’s security sector be reformed
before a new vote is held.  “I don’t see that happening fast because the security
sector is Mugabe’s guarantee of power,” political analyst Alois Masepe said in a telephone interview from Harare. Zanu-PF
“equates security reform with defeat.”  Under the terms of the power-sharing agreement,  Zimbabwe 
must vote on a new constitution before fresh elections can be
held. Mugabe has repeatedly said a vote should be held this
year, while the MDC insists no election can take place until at
least 2012.  Zimbabwe’s army and Zanu-PF are “inseparable,” the Herald
today quoted Nyikayaramba as saying.  “It shows how government is being perverted by a
politicized security sector,” Mwonzora said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 