-- 
Morimoto Says Risks for Global Economy Have Been Growing

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-06-23T06:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/morimoto-says-risks-for-global-economy-have-been-growing-1-.html
The outlook for global growth has
become more uncertain because of persistent inflation in
emerging economies and a deepening fiscal crisis in  Greece ,  Bank
of Japan  board member Yoshihisa Morimoto said.  “I feel that the risk surrounding overseas economies has
become bigger than they were before,” Morimoto said today in a
speech in Nagasaki, southern Japan. Developing economies are
still at risk of overheating even as monetary authorities raise
borrowing costs, he said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
that the economic recovery in the world’s largest economy has
been slower than anticipated. Growth in emerging nations has
cooled as countries raise  interest rates  to quell inflation,
causing Japanese exports to  Asia  to fall at a faster pace in May.  A further increase in commodity prices could weigh on
corporate profits and private demand in emerging nations,
Morimoto said.  He reiterated that  Japan ’s economy will start recovering
later this year as supply constraints resulting from the March
11 earthquake are resolved in the fall. Output will probably
reach pre-quake levels in the July-September period, he said.  Industrial production rose in April, rebounding from a
record plunge in March, and companies said they plan to boost
output in May and June.  The earthquake and tsunami in northeastern Japan left more
than 23,000 people dead or missing and triggered a nuclear
crisis. To help affected areas cope with the disaster, the
central bank has implemented a credit program to lenders in
disaster areas. It also said this month it will make money
available to help companies without real-estate collateral.  The closure of power plants after the nuclear accident in
Fukushima have increased “uncertainties” about long-term power
supply, Morimoto said, adding that “there’s no doubt costs will
rise” if plants remain shut and Japan needs to rely on
alternative energy sources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  