-- 
Churchill Downs to Resume Racing After Tornado Levels Barns, Frees Horses

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-23T16:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/tornado-strikes-at-churchill-downs-flattening-five-barns-freeing-horses.html
A tornado touched down on the
infield at Churchill Downs racetrack last night, damaging seven
barns and a chapel, and freeing horses from their stalls at the
home of the  Kentucky Derby .  Live racing was canceled today at the Louisville, Kentucky,
track, which hosted the 137th Derby, the first leg of
thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown, on May 7, spokesman John Asher said in a telephone interview.  Racing will resume tomorrow and continue through the spring
meet that ends July 4, according to an e-mailed release from
track officials today.  “Several barns have been damaged, some substantially,”
Asher said. “There’s a lot of debris, the power is out. We’re
trying to make sure all horses are safe and humans are OK.”  Today’s release said seven barns were damaged, two fewer
than originally estimated.  Representatives from the  National Weather Service  visited
the stable area today and determined that the tornado touched
down in the barnyard, according to the release. The size and
strength of the tornado are yet to be determined, and no
injuries to humans or horses were reported.  Track officials arranged for the possible evacuation of
about 150 horses to the Kentucky Fair and Exposition Center
today, as well as emergency shelter for 100 stable-area workers
whose homes were damaged.  ‘Incredibly Fortunate’  “We are incredibly fortunate to have survived last night’s
tornado without injury to our backstretch human or equine
population,” Churchill Downs President Kevin Flanery said in
the release. “We are hoping our guests will give generously to
help those in our extended racing family that have immediate
needs due to the storm.”  The tornado touched down about 8 p.m., said Brian Edwards,
a meteorologist with Accuweather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania .  Churchill Downs doesn’t plan to make up today’s canceled
races, according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  