-- 
Hosono Says Outlook for Tepco Compensation Bill Is ‘Severe’

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-06-23T05:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/hosono-says-outlook-for-tepco-compensation-bill-is-severe-1-.html
A top aide to Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said the outlook for legislation to assist
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s plan to compensate victims of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant disaster is “severe.”  Goshi Hosono, a lawmaker in the ruling  Democratic Party of
Japan , today said the lack of opposition cooperation has created
a “sense of crisis” over the bill to help Tepco, as the
utility is known. The  Liberal Democratic Party  has refused to
cooperate with the government until Kan fulfills his pledge to
step down.  Kan’s cabinet last week submitted legislation to set up a
public entity to aid Tepco after the March earthquake and
tsunami crippled the Dai-Ichi plant, sending radiation into the
sea and air and prompting the evacuation of 50,000 households. A
group of banks has advanced 2 trillion yen ($24.8 billion) in
emergency loans to the utility to help with reparations.  “We must establish a framework of compensation for the
nuclear accident victims and evacuees,” Hosono told reporters
in  Tokyo . “We must by all means avoid a situation where Tepco’s
management is shaken and this ends up delaying containing the
crisis.”  The DPJ yesterday pushed through a measure extending the
parliamentary session until the end of August, over the
objections of the LDP, which had sought a shorter continuation.
DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada failed to win opposition
backing for Kan’s agenda, which includes legislation to fund a
second stimulus plan and authorization to sell 44.3 trillion yen
in  government bonds  to fund the world’s largest debt.  Kan survived a June 2 no-confidence vote after pledging to
quit at an unspecified time, and the length of the extension may
be an indication of how long he stays in office. Some members of
the DPJ have urged Kan to resign as early as the end of June.  Speaking in Okinawa, Kan today said he intends “work with
resolution until I burn out,” according to a Kyodo News report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  