-- 
Obama, Congress Leaders to Tackle Debt Talks

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-23T23:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/house-s-cantor-pulling-out-of-biden-debt-reduction-talks-citing-impasse-.html
President  Barack Obama  likely will
directly engage in talks on cutting budget deficits, his
spokesman said, after a deadlock over taxes caused two
Republicans to drop out of negotiations led by Vice President
 Joe Biden .  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
cited an “impasse” over tax increases in announcing that he
wouldn’t attend today’s planned negotiating session. Joining him
in refusing to go was Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican.
They called for Obama to take the lead in the talks.  The move caught most Democrats by surprise and raised the
prospect that the Biden-led talks could collapse over the tax
issue. Republicans insist on major government spending cuts --
and no tax increases -- before they will agree to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury Department
says the limit must be raised by Aug. 2 or the U.S. will risk
defaulting on its obligations.  From the beginning, “the goal of these talks was to report
our findings back to our respective leaders,” Biden said in a
statement. “The next phase is in the hands of those leaders,
who need to determine the scope of an agreement that can tackle
the problem and attract bipartisan support.”  Biden said the talks are “in abeyance” for now and that
“we stand ready to meet again as necessary.”  ‘Giving Up’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
it appeared that Republicans were “giving up” on the Biden-led
talks, held periodically since May 5. Today’s session was
canceled after the announcements by Cantor and Kyl.  “It’s in the hands of the speaker and the president and,
sadly, probably me,” Reid said. House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, met with Obama yesterday “to discuss a variety
of issues,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters.  Participants in the negotiations between White House
officials and six lawmakers, including four Democrats along with
Kyl and Cantor, had been aiming for the broad outlines of a
deficit-cutting plan this week or next.  Cantor’s spokesman, Brad Dayspring, said the lawmaker
notified Biden of his decision before publicly announcing it.
Because the group had made progress in identifying “at least $2
trillion” in cuts, “Eric is convinced there is a foundation
for an agreement,” Dayspring said.  Cantor’s View  Cantor said he found untenable Democrats’ push for a
variety of revenue increases to help reduce deficits.  “The Democrats continue to insist that any deal must
include tax increases,” Cantor said in a statement announcing
his decision not to participate in the talks. “There is not
support in the House for a tax increase.”  “If we are going to meet the president’s timetable to come
to an agreement at the end of this month,” Obama “has to
engage,” Boehner told reporters. “I would expect to hear from
him.”  Kyl, his party’s No. 2 Republican Senate leader, said in a
joint statement with Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky  that Obama “needs to decide between his goal of higher
taxes, or a bipartisan plan to address our deficit.”  Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus of  Montana ,
one of the Democratic negotiators in the Biden group, said talks
can’t continue without the Republicans because “you need
bipartisan support to get a durable deal.”  Democratic Demand  Reid and other Democratic leaders today renewed their
demand that tax increases be included in any final deal. They
also said an agreement should include some spending increases
for infrastructure, clean energy and other programs to boost the
economy.  “I don’t think the principles we have laid out will
change,” Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , a
Democratic negotiator. Democrats have proposed eliminating tax
breaks for businesses and wealthy individuals to help raise more
revenue.  “You can raise revenue without changing” tax rates “by
eliminating some of the deductions and tax preferences,”  Van
Hollen  said.  Carney, in his comments aboard Air Force One, said Obama
“does not support an approach that provides for a $200,000  tax
cut  for millionaires and billionaires paid for by a $6,000-a-
year hike in expenses and costs for seniors. And he believes the
American people support him in that.”  Gang of Six  The bipartisan push for consensus on deficit cuts has had
other setbacks. Last month, Republican Senator Tom Coburn of
 Oklahoma  bowed out of debt negotiations among a separate group
of six senators seeking a long-term deal on entitlement programs
such as Medicare and taxes. He hasn’t returned to the talks by
the so-called Gang of Six.  One member of that parallel effort, Senate Budget Committee
Chairman Kent Conrad of  North Dakota , said he agreed with
Republicans that the final agreement on a debt package will have
to be made by Obama and the top congressional leaders. “At some
point, obviously, the very top leadership has to be in on these
decisions,” he said.  Obama and Biden met today in the Oval Office with House
Democratic leaders, including Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California , to discuss their status. The two Democratic House
lawmakers in the Biden group -- Van Hollen and James Clyburn of
 South Carolina  -- took part.  “Yes, we do want to remove tax subsidies for big oil, we
want to remove tax breaks for companies that send jobs
overseas,” Pelosi said later at her weekly news conference. “I
don’t know whether that’s a reason to walk away from the table
when we’re trying to find a balanced approach.”  Too Little  On the Senate floor today, McConnell said Obama has done
too little to help guide the talks. McConnell also said the
negotiations should focus only on spending cuts and not tax
increases.  “Where is he?” McConnell said of Obama. “What does he
propose? What is he willing to do to reduce the debt and to
avoid this crisis that’s building on his watch? He’s the one in
charge. I think most Americans think it’s about time he started
acting like it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  