-- 
Patent Agency Would Gain Control of Funding Under House Measure

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/house-passes-patent-system-overhaul-that-lets-agency-keep-fees.html
The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
would be able to set its own fees and have greater control of
its budget under legislation approved by the House to revamp the
patent system and speed legal protection for innovation.  The legislation, H.R. 1249, passed 304 to 117 with
qualified support from the Obama administration. The Senate
passed a similar measure, S. 23, in a 95-5 vote in March. The
proposal approved yesterday has to be reconciled with the Senate
version before it can be sent to the White House for President
Barack Obama’s signature.  The bill, which would be the biggest change to U.S. patent
law since 1952, covers who can get a patent, how they are
reviewed and whether some ideas are eligible for protection. Its
cornerstone is language aimed at giving the patent office more
power over its funding. The agency has sought immediate access
to all the fees it collects and an end to lawmakers’ practice of
steering some money toward non-patent purposes.  Since 1990, the agency says, more than $800 million in fees
have been diverted. Business groups and the Obama administration
say the money is needed to hire more patent examiners, improve
the agency’s computer network and reduce a backlog of more than
700,000 applications that have yet to get a first review.  The legislation has been in the works for more than six
years. Democratic and Republican leaders have pointed to
protection of inventions as key to enticing new business
investment, which in turn could lead to more American jobs.  Appropriations Compromise  “Modernizing our patent system to protect our nation’s
innovators, discourage frivolous lawsuits, and expedite patent
reviews is a key part of the Republican Plan for America’s Job
Creators,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
in a statement.  Representative  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, also supported the measure, saying it was part of his
party’s “Make it in America” agenda and will “enhance the
inventive, innovative and development phases of our economy.”  Passage of the House bill hinged on a compromise reached
among Republican leaders to ensure that the Appropriations
Committee retained supervision of the agency’s budget. The
agreement was contained in an amendment offered by Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican who sponsored
the bill, that was approved in a 283-140 vote earlier yesterday.  The administration had said it was concerned that Smith’s
amendment didn’t go far enough to ensure that the agency will
have “timely access to all of the fees collected” from
inventors and trademark owners and said it would work with
Congress to make that clear. It supported the overall measure.  Special Fund  Under the compromise, a special fund would be established
to hold user fees collected. The agreement would ensure that the
fund may only be tapped by the patent office, which would have
to submit a spending plan to Congress to access the money. The
Senate version would remove the patent office from the
appropriations process, with some new oversight rules.  Supporters of the bill have linked fee diversion to an
increase in the number of patent applications awaiting first
review by agency examiners. It takes, on average, about 34
months to complete a review.  This year, patent office Director David Kappos froze hiring
and scaled back technology projects after Congress passed a
fiscal 2011 budget that would give the agency about $85 million
less than it’s expected to collect in fees.  “This bipartisan legislation will transform our patent
system, enhance our nation’s competitiveness and promote
economic growth and job creation,” Kappos said in a statement.
“Full funding of the USPTO is necessary for the USPTO to
successfully implement this legislation and to more effectively
perform its core mission.”  Senate Consideration  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat who sponsored the Senate version, said that,
while there are differences with the House measure, “the core
reforms are consistent.” Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin ,
an Illinois Democrat who sits on both the Judiciary and the
Appropriations committees, said he was optimistic that the
chambers could quickly resolve conflicts between their bills.  It is unlikely that efforts to reconcile the House and
Senate versions will begin right away. The House is out of
session next week, and the Senate is out the week of July 4.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who played a
central role in developing the funding provision for the
Senate’s bill, criticized the House version before yesterday’s
vote. The House Appropriations Committee “has a poor track
record of managing such accounts responsibly and honestly,”
Coburn said in an e-mail.  Other Provisions  The bill also included provisions that would grant patents
to the first inventor to file an application, create a new
process to review patents after they’ve been issued, and
establish a special type of review of patents for finance-
related business methods.  The legislation has the support of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , the largest U.S.-based patent owner; the
Financial Services Roundtable, which lobbies for the banking
industry; the trade group for the biotechnology industry; the
Coalition for 21st Century Patent Reform, a group that
represents companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and  3M Co. (MMM) ; and the Coalition for Patent Fairness, whose
members include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)   The measure “addresses the interests of all innovators --
large and small -- and represents real progress on patent
reform,” said Christopher A. Padilla, vice president of
Government Programs for IBM.  Opposition to Bill  Universities were split on the measure. Opponents of the
bill included Innovation Alliance, a group representing
technology companies including  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Tessera
Technologies Inc. (TSRA) ; the consumer group  Public Citizen ; the trade
group for generic-drug companies and the conservative  Heritage
Foundation .  The measure passed yesterday “will not end permanently the
diversion of user fees” which is needed to reduce the backlog
of applications, Innovation Alliance said in a statement.  Sixty-seven Republicans and 50 Democrats voted against the
bill. House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
urged colleagues to reject the measure, saying elements of the
bill would hurt small businesses and independent inventors.  Representative Don Manzullo, an Illinois Republican who
voted against the measure, said it “would weaken our strong
patent system that has protected American entrepreneurs for
centuries from overseas companies trying to pirate their
inventions.”  Other provisions would limit lawsuits in which a
manufacturer is accused of putting expired patent numbers on
packaging; limit patents on tax-avoidance strategies; allow for
third parties to submit information that could be used in the
review process; and establish satellite offices the agency could
set up nationwide to tap into local workforces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  