-- 
Lloyds Should Detail Cost Cuts to Avoid Investor Day Failure, Analysts Say

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/lloyds-must-detail-cuts-to-avoid-investor-day-flop-analysts-say.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio should spell out how and
when he’s planning to cut costs when he briefs investors next
week, after rivals at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  failed
to do so, analysts say.  Horta-Osorio will become the third British bank CEO
appointed this year to tell shareholders about his plans when he
speaks. HSBC has dropped 8.4 percent since  Stuart Gulliver  spoke
on May 11, while Barclays is down 8 percent following a
presentation by  Robert Diamond  on June 15.  The key to success is for Horta-Osorio to explain that
“‘we’re going to do X amount of cost cutting over this period,
this is where the underlying profitability is going to go, and
this is how we’re going to make it,’” said  Simon Maughan , head
of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in London. “He’s
got a great chance to impress the market, because the
competition has been so poor with their investor days.”  Lloyds share price has tumbled 27 percent since the U.K.’s
 Independent Commission on Banking  recommended in April that the
lender “substantially enhance” asset sales agreed with the
 European Union  following its 20 billion-pound ($32.4 billion)
government bailout. Horta-Osorio, who took over on March 1, will
say he’ll focus on units generating higher returns and take
capital from less profitable divisions at the June 30 investor
day, according to a person with knowledge of the plans.  Market ‘Raspberry’  U.K. banks are reviewing their operations as regulators
enforce higher  capital requirements  to prevent a repeat of the
2008 financial crisis. Gulliver, 52, said that HSBC will target
cost cuts of as much as $3.5 billion by 2013 and reallocate
capital to fast-growing units, reduce head office jobs and sell
its U.S. credit card division. Diamond, 59, said Barclays plans
to make cost savings of at least 1 billion pounds and generate
additional revenue of as much as 6.4 billion pounds by 2013.  “HSBC and Barclays had very aspirational targets but they
were both a bit thin on detail,” Maughan said. “Barclays
basically came in and said ‘We’re going to improve our cost-
income ratio by improving revenue,’ to which the market blew a
raspberry.”  Some investors and analysts question the purpose and
utility of banks’ public discussions of strategy.  “Investors shouldn’t expect anything too revolutionary
from Lloyds,” said Joe Dickerson, an analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in  London . “Banks shouldn’t be in the business
of providing long-term forecasts. Because banks are so tied to
the macro economy, it’s very hard for them to say what they are
going to earn in 2014-2015.”  Regulatory Uncertainty  Given the regulatory and economic uncertainty “it’s very
difficult for banks to say anything of very much interest,”
said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage about 15 billion
pounds, including Lloyds shares, at Rathbone Brothers Plc in
London. “Banks are very dependent on what is going on in the
macro environment and that is quite uncertain. It’s difficult,
given that, to say anything too dramatic about future
profitability.”  Some analysts said that HSBC’s and Barclays’ investor
presentations were useful, with Investec analysts saying HSBC’s
strategy day presented “clear, time-stamped, performance
targets.”  Spokesmen for Barclays and HSBC declined to comment on the
response to their investor days.  At the time of the Barclays presentation, the bank’s
targets were described as “ambitious” as it faced “many
challenges” in reaching its goals, according to analysts
including Alex Potter at Berenberg Bank. HSBC’s investor day
contained “little revolutionary,” Mark Phin, a London-based
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  Branch Sales  Since taking over from  Eric Daniels  at the 41 percent
government-owned bank, Horta-Osorio has hired at least four
executives from his former employer, Santander U.K. Plc. He
appointed Juan Colombas as chief risk officer, Antonio Lorenzo
to take over Lloyds’s consumer and marketing units and Matt Young as corporate affairs director and member of the group
executive committee. Alison Brittain joins from Santander U.K.
as group director for the Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland
consumer banks in September.  The bank’s net interest margin, the difference between
what’s earned on loans and what’s paid on deposits and funds, is
likely to narrow as the bank weans itself off government funding,
Dickerson wrote in a note to investors this month.  Horta-Osorio accelerated the sale of the 632 bank branches,
which make up about a 5 percent of the U.K. checking-account
market. He’s also broken ranks with British competitors in
coming to a settlement with the  Financial Services Authority  on
the mis-selling of payment protection insurance, provisioning
3.2 billion pounds to cover the potential cost of claims, the
most of any British bank.  July Meeting  Lloyds became the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender and
provider of checking accounts after its 2008 acquisition of HBOS
Plc. It’s also more reliant on the British economy than its
peers, with the U.K. accounting for about 88 percent of assets.  Lloyds says it doesn’t want to sell any more assets than
those it agreed with the EU and the former Labour government in
2009. Horta-Osorio may meet ICB Chairman  John Vickers  as early
as next month to discuss asset sales before the commission’s
final report, according to a person with knowledge of the
situation. That’s due on Sept. 12.  Lloyds will post a 1.47 billion-pound loss in 2011,
according to the median estimate of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The bank has ruled out a sale of its Scottish Widows
insurance unit as part of the review, two people with knowledge
of the matter said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  