-- 
Papandreou Tells EU Leaders Greek Austerity Plan Will Pass, Official Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-23T20:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/papandreou-tells-eu-leaders-greek-austerity-plan-will-pass-official-says.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  assured European Union leaders that he would deliver
the budget cuts they are demanding in exchange for the next
installment of emergency loans and a new rescue package, a
Greek government official said.  EU leaders have made parliamentary passage next week of a
78 billion-euro ($111 billion) austerity package a condition for
making an aid payment due next month and for a new financial
lifeline.  Papandreou made the pledge today in Brussels at a meeting
that included EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and European
Central Bank chief Jean-Claude Trichet. Their session preceded a
summit tonight of leaders from the 27-nation EU.  The meeting also touched on a 12 billion-euro loan payment
due next month for  Greece  under last year’s rescue. They also
discussed the planned second aid package and the involvement of
creditors in rolling over their holdings of Greek debt, said the
official.  Measures announced by Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to complete the budget-cut package were endorsed by
officials from the EU and International Monetary Fund in  Athens ,
said a person familiar with the matter.  A “solidarity levy” of between 1 percent and 5 percent
would apply to all Greek wage earners, with members of
parliament paying the top rate, Venizelos said at a news
conference in Athens today. Self-employed Greeks will have to
pay a separate charge estimated at around 300 euros a year on
average, he said.  The levy is included in measures worth 5.5 billion euros
that had still to be sketched out as part of the program. Other
changes include reducing the threshold for paying income tax to
8,000 euros from 12,000 euros, with people under the age of 30
exempt from the lower threshold. A small increase in heating-oil
taxes will also be brought in, Venizelos said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 Jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  