-- 
Pensioners to Aid Nuclear Plant Clean-Up on Worker Shortage

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-06-23T07:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/pensioners-to-help-clean-up-nuclear-plant.html
Yasuteru Yamada, a 72-year-old
former anti-nuclear activist, will lead a band of pensioners to
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant early next month to help clean up
the site of  Japan ’s worst atomic disaster since World War II.  Yamada, a retired  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405)  plant
engineer, is waiting for Tokyo Electric Power Co. to allow his
volunteer “ Skilled Veterans Corps ” to carry out preliminary
inspections at the plant after the government welcomed the move.  Almost four months after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami triggered the crisis by damaging the Dai-Ichi plant,
3,514 workers involved in the clean-up have been exposed to
radiation, including nine whose readings breached the annual
limit of 250 millisieverts for a nuclear plant worker. Tepco
said it had 1,044 workers at the plant as of June 19, about
half the number a month earlier.  “I’m not on a suicide mission,” said Yamada, a 1962
graduate of  Tokyo  University. “I am going to try my best to
protect myself and come back alive.”  Tepco is struggling to hire workers at the crippled plant
that has spewed radiation across at least 600 square kilometers
(230 square miles) in northeastern Japan. The Tokyo-based
company, which has about 3,100 employees in its nuclear
division, is considering ways to make the best use of its
workers, said Ai Tanaka, a company spokeswoman, without
elaborating.  Five-Member Team  “People who are willing to sacrifice their daily lives to
help the nation resolve these problems are invaluable,”  Goshi Hosono , special advisor to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , said in a
news briefing in Tokyo today. “First we’ll have to check on
their health status, as people at an advanced age working in
that kind of environment could fall ill.”  Yamada will be part of a five-member team comprised of
former  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Chiyoda Corp. (6366)  engineers who will
survey damage inside the Fukushima plant, he said. More than
200 volunteers, including former nuclear workers, have signed
up for the Skilled Veteran Corps, according to its website.  Banri Kaieda, the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry,
verbally supported the proposal after he met with Yamada
earlier this month, according to the former engineer.  The veterans will work for free alongside existing Tepco
workers at Fukushima in clean-up operations, Yamada said. The
government may help subsidize accommodation, meal and
transportation costs, he said.  Left-Wing Activists  Yamada was about six years old and living in  Seoul  when
the atomic bombs devastated Hiroshima and Nagasaki, he said.
During his days at Tokyo University, Yamada got involved with
left-wing activists who demonstrated against nuclear weapons.  Members of the group reunited at its 50th anniversary last
year, and Yamada used some of those renewed contacts to
telephone and e-mail more than 2,000 of his friends and
acquaintances to join his organization, he said.  Tepco is in the process of decontaminating about 105
million liters (28 million gallons) of radioactive water
accumulated in the basements of the Fukushima plant. The
company had doused reactors with tens of millions of liters of
water to prevent fuel rods from overheating after the quake and
tsunami knocked out power and backup generators.  The efforts have been marred by setbacks. In the past week,
Tepco halted tests on a water decontamination system twice
after problems with a pump. The stoppages won’t delay plans to
achieve stable cooling of the three damaged reactors by mid-
July, Junichi Matsumoto, a Tepco general manager, said on June
21.  ‘Nuclear-Plant Workers’  “The shortage of nuclear-plant workers will be more
severe if it takes more time to decontaminate and decommission
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactors,” said Tetsuo Ito, head of the
Atomic Energy Research Institute at Kinki University in western
Japan. “Using the senior engineers may be a good idea, but the
working environment must be really tough.”  Tepco plans to buy 500 additional cooling vests to wear
under protective gear for plant workers to supplement 120 vests,
said Tanaka, the Tepco spokeswoman.  On at least two occasions, radiation levels at Dai-Ichi
reached 1 sievert an hour. Thirty minutes of exposure to that
dose would trigger nausea. Contamination for four hours might
lead to death within four months, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. Prolonged exposure to
radiation in the air, ground and food can cause leukemia and
other cancers, according to the London-based  World Nuclear
Association .  ‘Not a Kamikaze’  One Tepco worker in his 30s may have been exposed to 678.1
millisieverts of radiation after he was involved in a reactor
operation on March 11, spokesman Naoki Tsunoda said. The man
has since been reassigned to a clerical job at the nearby
Fukushima Dai-Ni plant, Tsunoda said.  Yamada and his fellow pensioners said they’re aware of the
risks of entering the nuclear station.  “I am mentally prepared for death, but I’m not a
kamikaze,” Yamada said, referring to the Japanese soldiers who
carried out suicide attacks during World War II. “The kamikaze
were making irrational, obligatory self-sacrifices. What I’m
doing is self-motivated and rational.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  