-- 
Pernod May Seek Local Partners in Africa as It Takes on Diageo

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-06-23T16:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/pernod-may-seek-local-partners-in-africa-as-it-takes-on-diageo.html
Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , the maker of
Absolut vodka, may look to partner with brewers or distillers in
sub-Saharan  Africa  as it aims to catch up with bigger rival
 Diageo Plc (DGE)  across the region, according to a company executive.  Paris-based Pernod is “here a bit late against our main
competitor” in Africa, Laurent Lacassagne, the chairman and
chief executive officer of the company’s European unit, said
today on a conference call. “We believe it’s time to invest.”  Diageo “developed a spirit network a couple of years ago
on the back of a very successful beer business,” Lacassagne
said of his rival’s African business. Unlike Pernod, London-
based Diageo sells lager brands and Guinness stout in the
continent, where beer is drunk more frequently than spirits.  “It’s too early to say what we will do” to grow in
Africa, Lacassagne said on the call. “Maybe local partnerships,
broader ones -- I can’t say more.”  Pernod and Diageo are looking to emerging markets to drive
sales growth as tough economic conditions weigh on sales in
developed markets including  Europe . Booming economic growth in
emerging markets including Africa and increased consumption of
alcoholic beverages may lead to demand for Pernod’s spirits,
which include Chivas Regal whisky and Malibu rum.  Diageo, the world’s biggest distiller, has a drinkmaking
and sales joint venture with  Heineken NV (HEIA)  in  South Africa . Pernod
has a unit in South Africa, where Jameson whiskey is “now a
leading brand,” and is reorganising its operations in “key
markets,” according to  slides  posted on the company’s website
today. The company didn’t provide more detail. SABMiller Plc,
the world’s second-biggest brewer by volume, and Groupe Castel
compete with Heineken to sell beer in Africa.  Africa is included in Pernod’s Asia/Rest of World unit,
where sales in the first nine months of the year rose 15
percent, excluding acquisitions. Pernod gets about 37 percent of
revenue from the region, where nine-month growth outpaced the
group’s 7 percent increase and “stable” sales in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 