-- 
Cocaine Surge Makes Humala’s Peru Rival to Colombia as Top World Producer

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-23T19:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/peru-cocaine-output-rivals-colombia-as-world-s-largest-un-says-in-study.html
Peru ’s production of coca, the plant
used to make cocaine, has risen for a fifth straight year,
putting pressure on incoming President Ollanta Humala to step up
eradication efforts he has criticized.  A study by the  United Nations  published today shows that
Peru now rivals Colombia as the world’s largest producer of
cocaine after land dedicated to illegal coca production rose 2.2
percent to 61,200 hectares in 2010. Cultivation in Colombia,
which receives $500 million a year in U.S. anti-narcotics aid,
fell 15 percent to 62,000 hectares, according to the study based
on satellite tracking by the  UN Office on Drugs and Crime .  Peru’s cocaine production has increased as the government
abandoned remote areas to drug traffickers and holdout members
of the Shining Path guerrilla movement, said  Adam Isacson , a
researcher at the  Washington  Office on  Latin America .  “They’ve ceded this territory, to all intents and
purposes, leaving just a very small underpaid police force,”
Isacson said in telephone interview from Washington. “The
numbers are starting to catch up with them.”  Humala, a one-time ally of  Hugo Chavez , has joined the
Venezuelan leader and members of his anti-American Alba bloc of
nations in criticizing the U.S. drug war and extolling the
virtues of the coca leaf.  ‘Wise’ Policy  In his 198-page campaign platform, Humala vowed to “fight
for respect of the coca leaf as a traditional crop” while
combating cocaine trafficking. The platform also calls for a
“wise” anti-narcotics policy that disavows forced eradication
and doesn’t “subordinate Peru to external interests.” Since
being elected June 5, he’s distanced himself from the platform
and said Peru needs U.S. support in its fight against drugs.  The coca plant, found only in the Andes, contains trace
amounts of an alkaloid that in large quantities can be used to
make cocaine. While the leaf has been used for centuries in Peru
as a mild stimulant that helps ward off hunger, a 1961 UN treaty
stipulates governments must gradually eradicate the plant and
ban all traditional uses of it.  Isacson said the U.S. may use a surge in drug production in
Peru to pressure Humala should bilateral relations sour for
whatever reason. American anti-narcotics aid to Peru, which has
a free trade agreement with the U.S., has declined from $148
million in 2002 to an estimated $40 million this year, he said.  “Even if coca production maintains its current pace of
growth, this will be a pretext to decertify Peru,” Isacson
said, referring to the annual U.S. government evaluation of a
country’s drug control efforts.  Decertification  Currently the U.S. lists Venezuela and  Bolivia , where
former coca grower Evo Morales has been president since 2006, as
two nations in South America that aren’t cooperating with U.S.
anti-narcotics efforts.  Carlos Basombrio, a former Peruvian deputy interior
minister, said that Humala doesn’t have a clear drug policy,
though he has probably taken a more pragmatic view of the drug
war as he distanced himself from Chavez during the campaign.  “Any changes in his position haven’t been visible, but
given Humala’s transformation into another person during the
campaign, his stance on opposing coca eradication was probably
left behind,” Basombrio said in a phone interview from Lima.  Colombia Production  While coca production has been rising in Peru, it’s been
falling since 2007 in neighboring Colombia, the main focus of
the U.S. drug war in  South America . Colombia and Peru each grow
about 40 percent of the world’s coca, while Bolivia grows about
20 percent, according to the UN report.  Cocaine cultivation in Colombia, under pressured by U.S.-
backed eradication efforts, has moved into neighboring Peru like
air inside a balloon when it is squeezed, said General Oscar Naranjo, head of Colombia’s national police.  “Colombia is leaving behind its old image of the failed
state in the hands of drug traffickers,” Naranjo told reporters
in Bogota today, “but evidently -- to deny it would be a lie --
that has produced a balloon effect.”  The decline in Colombia, from an eight-year high of 99,000
hectares in 2007, coincided with a change in the country’s
eradication strategy to depend less on aerial spraying of crops
with herbicide. Instead, security forces are being deployed to
Marxist guerrilla strongholds to protect workers who dig up coca
bushes by hand. The average size of a coca plot has shrunk to as
little as 0.7 hectare from 2 hectares in 1999, the report said.  “Manual eradication gets rid of the whole plant, not just
one harvest, and requires the government to be there on the
ground,” said Isacson. “It makes a big difference.”  Cocaine Prices  Colombia ’s cocaine industry, the world’s largest for more
than a decade, has been hit by a combination of falling output,
higher seizures and a rally by the peso against the dollar, said
Ricardo Rocha, an economist and author of the book “ The
Colombian Economy After 25 Years of Drug Trafficking .” The peso
has appreciated 45 percent against the dollar over the last five
years, while Peru’s sol has gained 19 percent.  “Everything points toward a loss of income for drug
traffickers in Colombia,” Rocha said in a phone interview from
Bogota.  Colombian wholesale cocaine prices rose 0.8 percent to 4.6
million pesos ($2,439) per kilogram in 2010, the UN study found.
Prices have risen 5 percent since 2002, according to the UN,
while the nation’s consumer price index rose 58 percent over the
same period. Prices are up 59 percent in dollar terms over the
same period, while coffee and sugar prices have tripled.  Rocha estimates that cocaine now accounts for less than 1
percent of Colombia’s gross domestic product, down from a peak
of 6.3 percent in 1987, when Forbes Magazine listed Medellin
cartel boss  Pablo Escobar  in its ranking of the world’s
billionaires.  Colombia receives more U.S. aid than any country outside
the  Middle East  and  Afghanistan . Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  has pledged to continue the government’s eradication
programs, saying that cocaine is financing the country’s Marxist
insurgency. The Santos government aims to further reduce coca
production by more than 30 percent by 2014, Naranjo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  