-- 
PDVSA Planning $1.5 Billion Bond Offering to Repay Venezuelan Central Bank

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-06-23T21:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/petroleos-de-venezuela-to-issue-1-5-billion-of-bonds-to-pay-central-bank.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA will sell
$1.5 billion of bonds to the central bank to repay a loan and
will likely sell additional securities in the second half of the
year, a government official said.  PDVSA, as the state  oil company  is known, within a month
plans to issue more of its bonds due 2022 that were first sold
in February, the official, who asked not to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly on the matter,
told reporters.  PDVSA has raised $4.75 billion since August by selling more
of its bonds due 2014 and 2017 in private placements, mostly to
repay loans to the  central bank . The company is borrowing as it
seeks to fund government social programs and meet its oil
investment goals. The central bank sells the securities through
its  currency market  known as Sitme to importers at an exchange
rate of 5.3 bolivars per dollar.  “The market has been expecting new issuance, but this way
of putting a bond out on top of an existing issue, and in a
steady drip, since it will likely come through Sitme, puts a cap
on the price appreciation of that issue,” said  Russell Dallen ,
the head bond trader at Caracas Capital Markets at BBO Financial
Services Inc. in Miami.  The yield on the 12.75 percent bonds due in 2022 rose 21
basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 17.22 percent at 5
p.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
bond’s price fell 0.84 cents on the dollar to 78.46 cents.  More Strain  President  Hugo Chavez  has put added strain on the oil
company and its finances by demanding greater financing for his
social programs and by using dollar-denominated bond sales to
relieve local demand for foreign currency. Venezuela, the
largest oil producer in  South America , depends on crude for 95
percent of export revenue.  The Caracas-based company’s debt has swelled since selling
$7.5 billion of bonds in 2007 in what was the largest corporate
issue in Latin American history. PDVSA has $2.45 billion of
bonds maturing on July 10.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 1,136, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. That’s the highest borrowing
cost among  developing countries .  Venezuela’s government and the central bank have been
buying back bonds in the secondary market, the official said.
The government and PDVSA will likely issue new bonds later this
year, he said.  Yesterday’s Rally  Venezuela and PDVSA bonds rallied yesterday, outperforming
regional peers, leading Dallen to believe the government was
buying back its bonds to supply the Sitme currency market.  There were about $44 million sold on Sitme today, including
$32 million of Venezuela bonds due in 2016 and 2019 that hadn’t
traded in high volumes since December.  “The revelation that the government was in the market
buying bonds explains the run-up in bond prices this week as oil
and the rest of the emerging markets softened,” Dallen said.  The fact that PDVSA is selling $1.5 billion of bonds in a
private placement rather than a larger issue to the public is a
“relief” to markets, according to  Boris Segura , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura Securities International.  “They aren’t flooding the market, for now, and this supply
has been talked about for months,” Segura said. “The fact that
it is now being announced and going to the central bank is a
relief for the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  