-- 
Pilot, Controller Professionalism Must Improve, Agency Says

-- B y   P u n e e t   K o l l i p a r a   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-06-23T17:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/pilot-controller-professionalism-must-improve-agency-says-1-.html
U.S. air-traffic controllers and
pilots must improve their professionalism, the  National
Transportation Safety Board  said in publishing its annual list
of “most wanted” safety improvements.  The NTSB made professionalism a new focus area, containing
19 existing recommendations, because the agency “felt not
enough attention was being given to them individually,” board
member Robert L. Sumwalt said in an interview today after a news
conference about the list.  Nine air-traffic controllers have been reported as sleeping
on the job by the  Federal Aviation Administration  this year, and
the NTSB has found that unnecessary conversations between pilots
contributed to a crash near Buffalo,  New York , in 2009.
Southwest Airlines said yesterday it had suspended a pilot
without pay after a profane rant was picked up by a cockpit
microphone.  “When you look at them individually you think, ‘Well, that
was a case of poor professionalism,’ but when we look at them
all strung together, it truly is a systemic issue that needs to
be addressed,” Sumwalt said.  The NTSB is an independent government agency responsible
for investigating transportation accidents and making safety
recommendations, which are not binding.  ‘Fair Target’  Professionalism was “a fair target” for the NTSB, given
recent incidents, said David Ross, chairman for government
affairs for the Coalition of Airline Pilots Associations. The
group, based in  Washington , represents about 28,000 commercial
pilots. Ross and Carl Kuwitzky, president of the coalition,
declined to comment further, saying they hadn’t read the
specific recommendations.  The NTSB also listed a need for more improvement in
combatting fatigue. “Humans were not designed to deal with
round-the-clock operations,” board member Mark Rosekind said at
the news conference.  Numerous fatal bus crashes early this year could have been
prevented with mandatory safety standards, board Chairman
Deborah A. P. Hersman said. “Without mandatory safety standards
for motorcoaches operated in the U.S., we will continue to see
serious injuries and needless fatalities,” Hersman said in a
video announcement played at the news conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Puneet Kollipara in Washington at 
 pkollipara@bloomberg.net ;
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  