-- 
Private Equity Firms May Be Covered by Bribery Law, SFO Says

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-23T16:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/private-equity-firms-may-be-covered-by-bribery-law-sfo-says.html
Private equity firms in the U.K.
could face prosecution or be held liable for bribes paid by
officials at companies they own, the director of the  Serious
Fraud Office  said.  SFO Director  Richard Alderman  told private equity clients
of the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in London yesterday
that the U.K. Bribery Act applies to them as well as large
multi-national companies. Even if private equity firms aren’t
aware of the bribes, they may be responsible for  money
laundering  at a company they own, or liable for returning
profits from the proceeds of a crime.  “The owning company or partners may know nothing about this
although they will have received the benefit through dividends
or other distribution,” Alderman said. “We are looking at how
we recover the benefit.”  The Bribery Act, considered by some lawyers to be the
strictest anti-corruption law in the world, will take effect
July 1. Under the law, companies can be prosecuted for failing
to prevent bribery by not having adequate controls in place,
even if company officials didn’t know about the payment.  “As owners of companies, private equity, as well as the big
institutional shareholders, has a responsibility to society to
ensure that the companies in which they have a shareholding
operate to the right standards,” Alderman said. “It may even
be that it is a condition of investment by fund managers
allocating funds to you to invest that you invest only in
companies that are FCPA and Bribery Act compliant.”  Bill Waite, the chief executive officer of the Risk Advisory
Group in  London , said at a separate event that private equity
firms are already scrutinizing corruption risks at the companies
they invest in.  “Private equity are asking before they fund, what anti-
bribery controls do you have in place?” he said at a conference
today at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 