-- 
New Home Sales in U.S. Likely Fell in May

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/purchases-of-new-houses-in-u-s-probably-decreased-in-may.html
Purchases of new houses probably
dropped in May for the first time in three months, showing the
real-estate market is struggling to gain traction.  Sales decreased 4 percent to a 310,000 annual rate last
month, according to the median forecast of 67 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show applications
for unemployment insurance benefits were little changed last
week.  Builders will have to contend with the prospect that almost
2 million distressed properties will reach the market, which may
take years to absorb as the jobless rate hovers around 9
percent. The Federal Reserve yesterday maintained record-low
 interest rates  to spur a recovery that “is continuing at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly” than previously
expected.  “I find it very hard to be upbeat about the U.S. housing
market,” said  David Semmens , an economist at Standard Chartered
Bank in  New York . “People are staying out of the market until
prices bottom, which allows prices to fall further because of
lower demand.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
288,000 to 345,000. A record-low 323,000 new homes were sold
last year.  Competition from existing homes selling at discounted
prices is hurting builders. The 1.8 million of inventory of
distressed homes nationwide would take about three years to sell
at the current pace,  Daren Blomquist , communications manager at
RealtyTrac Inc., said last week.  Existing Homes  Sales of existing homes comprise about 94 percent of the
housing market, up from about 85 percent six years ago, as
foreclosures and distressed sales lure some buyers.  Stocks of homebuilders have underperformed the broader
market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilders Index
has fallen 1.2 percent so far this year, compared with a 2.3
percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index .  The housing market is weighing on other parts of the
world’s largest economy, according to some company chiefs.  “We expect the recovery will continue to be slow and
uneven, particularly for more moderate-income households,”
 Gregg Steinhafel , chairman and chief executive of Minneapolis-
based  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
told investors last month. “These households need to see
further improvements in housing and income growth before they’ll
have the capacity to meaningfully increase their discretionary
spending.”  Jobless Claims  A report from the Labor Department may show employers
aren’t reducing the pace of job cuts. Initial jobless claims
were little changed last week at 415,000, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey ahead of figures due at
8:30 a.m.  Fed officials yesterday said they will maintain record
monetary stimulus to support a flagging economic recovery after
completing a $600 billion bond-purchase program as scheduled
this month.  “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly than the committee had expected,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement after a
two-day meeting in Washington. Fed policy makers reduced their
economic-growth projections while raising forecasts for the
jobless rate this year and next.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  