-- 
Q-Cells Trades Near Six-Year Low After CEO Warns of Sales Slump

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-06-23T15:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/q-cells-trades-near-six-year-low-after-ceo-warns-of-sales-slump.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , the German solar
equipment maker, fell to its lowest since October 2005 in
 Frankfurt  after Chief Executive Officer Nedim Cen said weak
demand and price pressure may result in a sales slump.  Q-Cells dropped as much as 5.9 percent to 1.56 euros a
share after Cen warned that meeting last year’s sales of 1.35
billion euros ($1.9 billion) “is extremely ambitious” this
year.  The target “depends on a much stronger demand in the
second half of 2011,” Cen said, according to the text of a
speech given at the company’s annual general meeting. He said
the current situation made it impossible to give a sales and
profit outlook for the year.  Q-Cells, which is based in Thalheim, has joined Western
solar-gear makers that have suffered from slumping demand in
 Germany , the world’s largest solar market, and increased
competition from Chinese companies including JA Solar Holdings
Co. and Suntech Power Holdings Co. Q-Cells shares have fallen 69
percent in the past 12 months.  “It’s really difficult if the Chinese capacity is at 20
gigawatts and the market at 1 gigawatt,” Cen told Germany’s MDR
Info radio. “You can imagine what kind of pressure that puts on
the European market.”  After Germany added a record 7,450 megawatts of solar power
in 2010, demand has been weak this year, with only about 700
megawatts of modules installed in March through May, according
to government figures. That prompted Germany to drop a solar
subsidy cut planned for July.  Cen said that was a “faint glimmer of hope” for a
stronger market in the second half of the year.  With assistance from Marc Roca in  London  and Gelu Sulugiuc in
Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  