-- 
Quiznos Owners Said to Plan $50 Million Equity Investment to Avoid Default

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-06-24T15:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/quiznos-owners-said-to-plan-equity-investment-to-refinance-debt.html
Owners of the Quiznos sandwich chain
are planning to invest about $50 million of equity to help the
company refinance debt and avoid a technical default later this
year, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  The Denver-based company is also working with Deutsche Bank
AG to offer new debt in conjunction with the equity, said three
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. Quiznos is owned by  CCMP Capital Advisors LLC , Quiznos
founder Rick Schaden and Consumer Capital Partners, the private
equity firm he started.  Quiznos faces a debt covenant test this year that it may
fail if it doesn’t receive new equity, one of the people said.
That could result in control of the company going to creditors,
the person said. The chain has about 2,900 stores in the U.S.
and 600 international locations.  “The equity injection will be an important factor in
Quiznos getting the debt refinanced,” said Mo Meghji, principal
at New York-based advisory firm Loughlin Meghji & Co. “Despite
the challenges Quiznos has faced, if the sponsors are willing to
put new money into the company the lending market will take that
as a strong sign of support.”  An outside spokeswoman for Quiznos declined to comment.  The company amended debt terms last year after CCMP and
Consumer Capital Partners agreed to contribute additional
capital, according to a statement in April 2010.  CCMP  was spun off from JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2006. Its
retail investments include outdoor-sports chain Cabela’s Inc.
and movie-theater chain AMC Entertainment Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  