-- 
Railroads Lose Supreme Court Fight Over Worker Suits

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-23T17:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/railroads-lose-u-s-supreme-court-fight-over-worker-suits-1-.html
(Corrects vote in second paragraph.)   The U.S. Supreme Court, ruling
against a  CSX Corp. (CSX)  unit, made it easier for railroad industry
workers to win lawsuits blaming their company for injuries they
suffered on the job.  The justices, voting 5-4, today  upheld  a $184,250 award to
a locomotive engineer who said CSX Transportation Inc. was
responsible for a hand injury he suffered while at the helm of a
train.  The case centered on the test for determining whether a
railroad’s negligence was the cause of an employee’s injury. The
federal judge overseeing the CSX trial in Benton,  Illinois , told
the jury that the railroad was responsible if its negligence
“played a part -- no matter how small -- in bringing about the
injury.”  CSX contended workers should have to meet the more
demanding standard, known as proximate cause, that applies in
other types of personal-injury suits.  In upholding the award, the  Supreme Court  said the Federal
Employers’ Liability Act, which governs railroad industry suits,
lets workers recover damages without meeting the proximate cause
test.  Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote the court’s majority
opinion. Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia,
Anthony Kennedy and  Samuel Alito  dissented.  McBride’s injury occurred at the end of a day he spent
training to deliver rail cars from one location to another near
Evansville, Indiana. He says the process was made more difficult
because he had to use wide-body locomotives, which had a
different type of brake than smaller engines.  At trial, McBride testified that, near the end of the day,
he put his hand on the brake and felt intense pain. He says he
later underwent two surgeries and physical therapy.  The case is CSX Transportation v. McBride, 10-235.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 