-- 
Rand Weakens Most in Month as Commodities Retreat on U.S. Growth Outlook

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-23T15:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/rand-weakens-for-second-day-as-commodities-retreat-on-u-s-growth-outlook.html
The rand declined the most in more
than a month against the dollar as investors sold riskier assets
after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut estimates for U.S. growth and
on concern Greece won’t avoid a debt default.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy weakened as much
as 1.9 percent to 6.8874 per dollar, and traded 1.7 percent down
at 6.8762 by 4:21 p.m. in Johannesburg, the biggest retreat on a
closing basis since May 11. It gained 0.1 percent to 9.7317 per
euro.  The dollar rose against all its major counterparts after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  signaled yesterday the
central bank won’t add to stimulus measures, known as QE2, that
could erode the value of the currency. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI raw materials Index headed for a four-month low while gold
and platinum, which account for 20 percent of South Africa’s
exports, tumbled. Applications for jobless benefits in the U.S.
increased 9,000 in the week ended June 18 to 429,000, Labor
Department figures showed.  “With the end of QE2 it seems that it’s a risk-off
trade,” Jim Bryson, head of foreign exchange trading at Rand
Merchant Bank, a unit of  South Africa ’s second-biggest bank,
said by phone from Johannesburg. “There is genuine dollar
strength coming through.”  The Fed yesterday reiterated a pledge to keep  interest
rates  near zero and said it will end a $600 billion bond-
purchase program as scheduled this month, even as Bernanke said
the recovery is progressing “more slowly” than expected. The
economy will expand between 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this
year, down from forecasts ranging from 3.1 percent to 3.3
percent in April, it said.  Rand Estimate  “The rand is up against a firmer dollar, and rand bulls
also have to contend with lower commodity prices and declining
global equity markets,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led
by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan said in a research note.  The rand may weaken to 6.92 per dollar after breaching a
so-called resistance level at 6.82, the Standard Bank analysts
wrote. Resistance levels occur where traders cluster orders to
buy or sell a currency.  The likelihood that the rand will decline to 6.92 per
dollar within a week is about 66 percent, implied volatility
from options trading monitored by Bloomberg showed.  Concern that  Greece  won’t approve austerity measures that
are a condition for a second debt bailout also weighed on the
rand, the Standard Bank analysts said. The euro declined against
all but two of its 16 major peers before European leaders begin
a two-day summit in Brussels today to discuss Greece’s financing
needs as the nation struggles to stave off default.  Euro Rate  “Greece survived to fight another day, but all they’ve
done is put off the inevitable,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of
treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank
Capital, a unit of South Africa’s fourth-biggest bank, said by
phone. “The euro is under pressure, and the euro is always a
good leading indicator for the rand.”  The 17-nation currency accounts for 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports and 34 percent of its imports, according to
government data. The rand often tracks the euro, with a
statistical correlation of 0.85 in the past month. A value of 1
would mean they moved in lock step.  Bonds fell for a second day. The 6.75 percent securities
due 2021 fell 21 cents to 88.92 rand, driving the yield up four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.44 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  