-- 
Rank Group Recommends Shareholders Accept Guoco Group Offer

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-23T15:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/rank-group-recommends-shareholders-accept-guoco-group-offer-1-.html
Rank Group Plc (RNK)  said shareholders
should accept a final offer of 150 pence per share from Gouco
Group Ltd., even as the Hong Kong investment company’s bid
“substantially” undervalues the Mecca Bingo clubs operator.  Rank can’t guarantee Guoco won’t cancel its public listing,
the Maidenhead, England-based company said in a statement on
Regulatory News Service. Guoco has said it wouldn’t abandon the
stock listing, yet it reserves the right to consider all
options, Rank said.  Guoco, controlled by billionaire Quek Leng Chan, made an
offer after the close of trading May 6 that was only an 0.8
percent premium to the share price. Yet if shares in public
hands falls below 25 percent, Guoco is free to cancel Rank’s
listing and stockholders “would own shares in an unlisted
company controlled by Guoco Group,” Rank said.  “This would significantly reduce the liquidity and
marketability of Rank shares which have not been accepted into
the offer and the value of any such Rank shares may be
significantly adversely affected as a consequence,” the company
said in the statement.  Rank shares fell 0.5 percent to 149.8 pence at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . Since the May 6 offer, the stock hasn’t
closed above 153 pence. Rank has increased 19 percent so far
this year, giving it a market value of 585.1 million pounds
($936 million).  Rank said today’s trading update, in which it reported a 7
percent gain in sales in the 10 weeks ended June 19, reinforced
its view that the offer doesn’t reflect its value.  Rank said it was acting on the advice of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  Rank’s board said today that its independent
directors will accept Guoco’s offer.  Guoco’s offer closes at 1 p.m. London time on July 1. On
June 8, it said it had acceptances from stockholders
representing 56 percent of Rank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  