-- 
Realkredit Danmark Terminates Its Collaboration With Moody’s

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r
-- 
2011-06-23T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/realkredit-danmark-terminates-its-collaboration-with-moody-s.html
Danske Bank A/S’s mortgage lending
unit Realkredit Danmark told Moody’s Investors Service to
discontinue its ratings of the company as it creates a separate
capital unit for its adjustable-rate mortgages.  The Copenhagen-based lender will issue covered mortgage
bonds through a new capital center to finance new and existing
adjustable-rate loans, it said in statement. Fixed- and
variable-rate loans with a rate cap will continue to be funded
via an existing capital center, the lender said.  “This step will help make the Danish mortgage finance
system more secure in the future and make it more robust against
large fluctuations in the economy and in the financial
markets,” Realkredit Danmark said.  The company is terminating its collaboration with Moody’s
after the rating firm demanded  Denmark ’s second-largest mortgage
provider generate 32.5 billion kroner ($6.2 billion) in
additional excess cover to maintain its AAA rating, it said.
Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender, this week said
it will keep funding for its adjustable-rate mortgages separate
from the rest of its business after Moody’s warned of
refinancing risks.  Realkredit Danmark “disagrees with Moody’s view of the
Danish mortgage finance sector and its demand for additional
coverage in Realkredit Danmark,” the company said.  Moody’s Warning  Moody’s warned on June 10 that adjustable-rate mortgages
represent a bigger refinancing risk because they, unlike other
Danish covered bonds, don’t match the maturities on the loans
linked to them. The adjustable-rate bonds tend to have
maturities of one to three years compared with an average loan
maturity of 20 to 30 years.  Moody’s rating action “significantly raises the level of
additional collateral required to maintain a rating,” Nykredit
said.  Moody’s cut its timely payment indicator and said
refinancing margins have increased on some Danish mortgage
bonds. The outstanding volume of bonds for financing adjustable-
rate loans increased to 1.22 trillion kroner from 636 billion
kroner between 2008 and 2011, Moody’s said, citing data provided
by Denmark’s central bank. That means the bonds now represent
about half of all outstanding covered bonds in Denmark,
according to Moody’s.  “Realkredit Danmark has discussed the fundamentals of the
matter with Moody’s in order to understand the rationale behind
its rating model, but has concluded that the parties disagree
about the fundamentals,” the lender said. “The approach used
by Moody’s differs in material respects from the approach used
by other rating agencies.”  S&P  Realkredit Danmark is rated AAA at  Standard & Poor’s  “and
does not expect the termination of its collaboration with
Moody’s to affect its business,” it said.  The company split out its adjustable-rate mortgage funding
business “in order to be able to continue to issue bonds with
the lowest possible coupons and to offer competitive home
loans,” it said. “Realkredit Danmark will seek to achieve the
highest possible rating for the new capital centre.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  