-- 
Record Franc Remains Competitive, Deutsche Bank’s Ruskin Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-23T19:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/record-franc-remains-competitive-deutsche-bank-s-ruskin-says-tom-keene.html
The Swiss franc, the best-performing
major currency in the past year, is competitive even after
setting records against the euro, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s  Alan Ruskin .  “You’re seeing the  trade balance  remarkably resilient,
you’re seeing exports remarkably resilient,” Ruskin, global
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
in  New York , said today in a Bloomberg Television interview on
“Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “So the Swiss franc is
not nearly as overvalued as a lot of people think.”  Switzerland’s currency has benefited from the nation’s role
as a stable, neutral financial center and as an exporter of
precision products from watches to  machine tools .  The franc has appreciated 17 percent in the past year among
the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The currency rallied today to a
record against the euro.  Switzerland ’s trade surplus increased to 3.31 billion
francs ($3.95 billion) in May, from 1.44 billion francs in the
previous month, the Federal Customs Office in Bern reported
today. A measure of exports dropped 1.5 percent, while imports
decreased 8.4 percent. Exports account for 50 percent of
Switzerland’s economy.  The franc has surged 32 percent against the dollar in the
past year and 14 percent versus the euro, making it biggest
winner among the most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The Swiss currency was little changed at 83.85 centimes versus
the dollar today and appreciated 0.8 percent to 1.1953 versus
the euro after touching 1.1846, the strongest level since the
shared European currency began trading in 1999.  The Swiss franc may reach levels that discourage exports of
the nation’s pharmaceuticals and watches, according to Ruskin.
Right now, however, the currency is holding up “shockingly,
shockingly well,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  