-- 
Red Hat Sales to Reach $3 Billion in 5 Years With Fastest Growth in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-23T02:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/red-hat-sales-to-triple-to-3-billion-in-five-years-ceo-whitehurst-says.html
Red Hat Inc. (RHT) , the largest seller of
Linux software, aims to triple sales to $3 billion in five
years, helped by the rising popularity of cloud computing, Chief
Executive Officer Jim Whitehurst said.  “We will accelerate the growth rate of the business,”
Whitehurst, 43, said in an interview in Beijing today. “The
market is coming to us because all the new development is
happening on Linux or, more broadly, on an open-source platform.
Clouds in general run an open source.”  Red Hat will “blow by” the $1 billion in sales this year
that Whitehurst first targeted in 2008. That doubling of sales
in three years wasn’t aggressive enough, he said. The shift to
cloud computing and updating of old Unix systems to Linux will
allow for even stronger growth going forward, with the fastest
pace in  China , he said.  The company, which had sales of $909 million in the 12
months ended February, yesterday forecast annual revenue may be
as much as $1.09 billion this fiscal year.  Sales in China are aided by a government-supported drive to
reduce the reliance on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating
system, Whitehurst said.  Overseas Sales  Red Hat entered China in 2004. The Raleigh, North Carolina-
based software maker now gets 40 percent of sales from overseas,
while more than 50 percent of its employees are outside the U.S.
as it seeks engineers in countries including China, the  Czech
Republic  and  India , the company said in May.  Red Hat will increase staff in China 50 percent this year
after doubling it to about 300 workers last year, Whitehurst
said. He declined to provide a figure for China sales.  Red Hat reported first-quarter profit, excluding certain
items, of 24 cents a share, on sales of $264.7 million. Profit
was projected at 22 cents a share, the average of 21 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were estimated at $253.6
million.  The stock fell 0.1 percent to close at $43.72 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. Red Hat has declined
4.2 percent this year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  