-- 
Rehn Says EU Leaders to Tackle Greek Medium-Term Plan at Summit

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-06-23T12:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/rehn-says-eu-leaders-to-discuss-greek-medium-term-plan-at-summit.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said EU leaders will discuss a
medium-term financial plan for  Greece  at a two-day summit that
begins in Brussels today.  He spoke to reporters before a meeting of officials from
European liberal parties before the summit.  On the message EU leaders want to send at the summit:  “Certainly Greece will be discussed today at the European
Council and I would expect that the European Council will
redirect the messages of the eurogroup and the commission by
underlining the importance of adopting the medium-term fiscal
stability and the privatization program before the end of June
and also facilitating a broader cross-party consensus in
Greece.”  On possible incentives the EU can offer:  “The incentive is that we are working together with Greece
in order to help, to reform the country.”  On what Greece must do:  “The first thing is that Greece must help itself so that
the other Europeans can help Greece. That’s the bottom line of
this.”  On how to get bondholders to participate voluntarily in a second
Greek rescue package:  “There are different interpretations of that.”  “It is very clear that the European Union is working on
the basis of a Vienna-style initiative, a voluntary rollover of
bonds so that it will not be a  credit event .”  “This work is going on in a decentralized manner and I
trust that it will yield positive results, both in terms of
substantial participation by the private sector and by avoiding
a credit event.”  A voluntary rollover “will be one essential element of the
overall package for helping Greece to overcome its economic
difficulties.”  On a proposed EU economic governance legislation package aimed
at preventing another sovereign-debt crisis:  “I take this as the penultimate vote before the historic
vote for the historic reform of economic governance in July.”  “Now the ball is in the penalty area and it’s essential
that the council and the parliament will just put it in. We are
so close, we can really score now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  