-- 
Renault Doomed to Trail Volkswagen as Sarkozy Saves Jobs

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-06-24T09:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/renault-doomed-to-trail-volkswagen-on-costs.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen and  Renault SA (RNO) 
may fall further behind European competitors as the carmakers
bow to French government pressure to protect jobs ahead of next
year’s presidential election.  Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin distanced
himself from a leaked proposal to close a French plant after the
government described it as “unacceptable.” Renault CEO  Carlos Ghosn  was forced in May to pledge he would make building upscale
cars for French factories a “priority” before getting
government approval for a new chief operating officer.  The overt influence comes as the two lose market share in
 Europe  and lag behind  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in profitability. The
government, which is Renault’s largest shareholder, also exerts
influence at both carmakers through tax breaks, research credits
and employment incentives.  “The problem is that the government takes a shorter-term
view than many  hedge funds ,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , an analyst
at Credit Suisse in  London . “The market’s low valuation of the
French car industry is clearly related to the government’s
impact.”  Renault shares have dropped 11 percent this year, valuing
the Boulogne Billancourt-based carmaker at 11.4 billion euros
($16.2 billion). Peugeot has gained 3.3 percent, giving it a
market capitalization of 6.87 billion euros. VW has advanced 8.7
percent in the same period and is worth 58 billion euros.  Profit Lags  Peugeot’s European market share has shrunk to 13 percent
through the end of May from 13.8 a year earlier, according to
the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. Renault has
fallen to 9.6 percent from 10.4 percent, while VW has gained to
22.8 percent from 21.1 percent. VW last year posted 6.85 billion
euros in net income, compared with Renault’s 3.42 billion euros
and Peugeot’s 1.13 billion euros.  Peugeot and Renault trail because they depend more heavily
on sales of smaller, cheaper models than VW, while facing
similar hourly industrial labor costs at their domestic plants,
Eurostat data show. French plant closures have been avoided even
as domestic vehicle output fell 50 percent in 15 years.  In 2009, as the economic crisis deepened, the U.S.
government shepherded General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
into bankruptcy, then financed recovery plans in return for
their undertakings to shed workers and close factories. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  did the opposite, demanding that
Renault and Peugeot agree to keep all domestic plants open
before drawing 6 billion euros in emergency government loans.
The government pressure has only intensified as Sarkozy prepares
to seek re-election in 2012.  Leaked Document  “Announcing any domestic reorganization before then would
be maladroit for Peugeot or Renault,” said Lionel Heurtin, who
helps manage 1.2 billion euros in investments including Peugeot
shares for Paris-based Ofi Asset Management.  Peugeot this month confirmed the authenticity of a leaked
internal plan to scrap its Aulnay plant in 2014 and lay off
3,600 workers, while maintaining no decision has been made. The
factory north of Paris assembles the C3, the Citroen brand’s
offering in the subcompact category. Executives had already
concluded early in 2010 that no announcement could be made until
after the election, according to the document.  “There is an issue with our competitiveness in the B-
segment that is currently the subject of discussions,” Varin
said in an interview in Brussels yesterday, declining to comment
further. “Our focus is to do all we can to maintain jobs in
 France  and make our sites as competitive as possible.”  Both French carmakers declined to give details of tax
breaks and other support they receive. A government spokesman
also refused to comment.  Botched Spy Case  Renault, in which the government owns 15 percent and holds
two board seats, placed overseas production of no-frills models
at the heart of a plan unveiled in February to deliver 3 million
vehicles and a 5 percent operating margin in 2013, compared to
2.6 million vehicles and a 2.8 percent margin in 2010.  After a botched industrial espionage investigation led to
COO  Patrick Pelata ’s April resignation, the nomination of a
successor took seven weeks, as the government twice summoned
Ghosn for talks on strategy.  Carlos Tavares ’s appointment went
ahead only after Ghosn agreed to prioritize the development of
upscale cars for French factories.  “Part of the reason these companies trade on a very deep
discount to the rest of the sector is the inflexibility of their
French production,” said Michael Tyndall, an automotive analyst
with  Barclays Capital  in London. Peugeot shares are currently
worth 5.3 times estimated 2011 earnings and Renault is valued at
6.3 times, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with
multiples of 11 for VW and 23 for  Fiat SpA. (F)   ‘Heavy Hand’  Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne  has plowed ahead with reforms in
 Italy , where he says the carmaker is unprofitable, by winning
concessions from workers to raise productivity and announcing
plans to close one plant in the country at year’s end. Fiat’s
shares are up 5.3 percent this year, valuing the Turin, Italy-
based carmaker at 8.65 billion euros.  Peugeot has yet to announce firm plans for successors to
the C3 and Peugeot 207 subcompacts, currently assembled across
four European sites including Madrid and Trnava in Slovakia.
According to the Aulnay closure plan, Peugeot executives
identified “a window for a possible announcement in the French
electoral calendar, in the second half of 2012.”  “Peugeot has twice as many French jobs as Renault, which
weighs heavily in the balance,” said  Valerie Cazaban  of
Stratege Finance, which holds both stocks among 100 million
euros in investments. Peugeot had 98,800 French employees as of
Dec. 31, compared with 54,300 for Renault.  Closing the Peugeot plant would be “unacceptable,” French
Industry Minister Eric Besson said after the document was
leaked. Even without a direct stake in the carmaker, the
government has other “means of persuasion,” he added.  “French companies had enjoyed more autonomy from
government since the economic crisis of the 1980s, but now we’re
seeing a return of the heavy hand of the state,” said Robert
Hancke, who teaches political economy at the  London School of
Economics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  