-- 
RHB Falls on Report Maybank, CIMB May Drop Buyout Plans

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/rhb-falls-on-report-maybank-cimb-may-drop-buyout-plans-1-.html
RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  fell the most in
two months in Kuala Lumpur trading after the  Straits Times 
reported that  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) 
are abandoning their plans to take over the Malaysian bank.  Shares of RHB, overtaken last month by Hong Leong Bank Bhd.
as  Malaysia ’s fourth-largest lender, slid 4.4 percent to 9.18
ringgit at 11:31 a.m. local time. That was their biggest drop
since April 19. An announcement may be made today, the Singapore
newspaper said, citing executives it didn’t identify.  Maybank, as the country’s biggest lender is known, and its
largest local rival, CIMB, last month won approval from the
central bank to begin competing merger talks with RHB as they
seek to create  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bank by market value.
The nation’s lenders are consolidating amid intensifying
competition as more overseas banks gain entry to the market.  “It’s all about valuations,” said Lye Thim Loong, who
helps manage about $770 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “The banking consolidation will continue so long as
both parties see the pricing as fair and that there’s synergy.”  This month’s sale of a 25 percent stake in RHB Capital by
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’s
third-biggest bank, to Aabar Investments PJSC affected the
proposed takeover, the newspaper said. Abu Dhabi Commercial sold
the stake at 10.80 ringgit a share to free up capital, according
to a June 17 statement.  “We will be issuing a response in due course,” CIMB said
in an e-mailed response to questions in  Kuala Lumpur  today.
Maybank Chief Executive Officer Abdul Wahid Omar didn’t answer
his mobile phone or reply to a text message. RHB Capital
Chairman Mohamed Khadar Merican wasn’t available at his office
for comment, according to his secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  