-- 
Roger Clemens Gets Access to Lawyers’ Papers in Baseball Steroid Probe

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-23T16:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/roger-clemens-gets-access-to-lawyers-papers-from-baseball-steroid-probe.html
Ex-New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens , whose perjury trial is set for July, won access to
documents prepared by lawyers Major League Baseball hired to
investigate players’ steroid use.  In a decision made public today, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington ordered the law firm  DLA Piper  LLP to turn
over to Clemens notes and memos its lawyers made in interviews
with  Brian McNamee , Clemens’s former trainer, and Kirk Radomski,
a former clubhouse assistant for the New York Mets.  The law firm said the documents were protected by attorney
confidentiality rules. Walton said Clemens is entitled to
portions of those documents that contain statements about
Clemens made by Radomski and McNamee. Clemens, who is accused of
lying to Congress about his alleged steroid use, said in a
filing that the information was needed to attack the credibility
of key witnesses at trial.  “Heightened protection for these documents is not
warranted because the statements contained therein are an
accurate reflection of the witnesses’ statements, not the
attorneys’ mental impressions of what the witnesses had stated
or what the attorneys thought was important to record,” Walton
said in his 39-page decision.  Bill Miller , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen in
Washington, declined to comment. Clemens’s lawyer Michael Attanasio in San Diego, didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking comment. David Clarke, a lawyer at DLA Piper, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  Possible Lies  Rusty Hardin, a lawyer for Clemens, argued at a hearing in
April that the materials held by DLA Piper may contain
information showing that that McNamee, a witness for the
government, lied to Congress and to prosecutors. Clemens’s
defense turns on showing McNamee lied, Hardin said.  The steroid report, published in 2007, was written by
former U.S. Senator George Mitchell, a partner at DLA Piper.  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the  Boston Red Sox , Toronto Blue Jays and
 Houston Astros  over a 24-year  Major League Baseball  career, has
pleaded not guilty.  He faces a $1.5 million fine and as long as 30 years in
prison if convicted on all charges. Jury selection is scheduled
to begin July 6.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  