-- 
Romney Gets 59% Favorability Rating From Republicans in Bloomberg Poll

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-23T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/romney-gets-59-favorable-rating-from-republicans-in-presidential-poll.html
Mitt Romney , the frontrunner in the
Republican presidential race, is in strong shape with his
party’s rank and file as the 2012 nomination race enters a more
heated phase.  Among Republicans, 59 percent hold a favorable view of the
former Massachusetts governor, according to a Bloomberg National
Poll, while only 16 percent view him negatively. He’s also more
popular than unpopular with independent voters by a 10
percentage point margin.  While the poll shows more than half of Republicans are
dissatisfied with the current choices in the field, an
overwhelming 85 percent want candidates seeking their support to
focus almost entirely on economic issues, not social ones.  Romney, 64, has made the economy the centerpiece of his
campaign as he again pursues the White House following his
unsuccessful 2008 attempt for the Republican nomination -- a
race in which he focused more on social issues.  “Romney is threading the needle the way a seasoned
candidate knows he must,” said J. Ann Selzer, president of  Des
Moines , Iowa-based  Selzer & Co. , which conducted the June 17-20
poll. “He’s saying enough of the things Republicans want to
hear while holding the interest of independents.”  Romney’s party is not doing as well. By 47 percent to 42
percent, Americans view Republicans unfavorably. Democrats are
viewed favorably by 48 percent and unfavorably by 42 percent.  Tea Party Disapproval  Negative attitudes about the Tea Party are growing, with 45
percent saying they have an unflattering view of the political
movement, the highest level since the poll first asked the
question in March 2010. Among independents, 50 percent view the
Tea Party unfavorably.  Among all poll participants, Romney was viewed favorably by
37 percent and unfavorably by 31 percent, with 32 percent saying
they are unsure. President  Barack Obama ’s favorable rating among
the entire poll sample was 54 percent, while 42 percent viewed
him unfavorably.  As the frontrunner, Romney is certain to attract increasing
criticism from his Republican rivals, although he avoided such
attacks during a June 13 debate in New Hampshire where the
candidates kept their focus on Obama.  Not As Known  Romney’s rivals, including former Governor  Tim Pawlenty  of
 Minnesota , U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota and
former Utah governor and ambassador to  China  Jon Huntsman Jr.
all have lower favorability ratings, though they aren’t nearly
as well known yet.  Before Romney’s 2003-2007 tenure as governor in
traditionally Democratic Massachusetts, he co-founded the
Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC and helped
turn the 2002 Winter Olympics in  Salt Lake City ,  Utah , into a
financial success. He is focusing on the economy and his
business experience as the U.S. jobless rate for May was 9.1
percent, the highest so far this year.  “I like his stance on a lot of subjects,” said poll
participant Tommy Hedin, 19, who is starting college later this
year and lives in Marlborough, Massachusetts. “I think he will
put the country back in a good direction if he’s elected.”  Others said they are only starting to pay attention to the
contest and want to learn more about the Republican field.  “I don’t really have a strong feeling for any of them,”
said poll participant Shelley Evans, 49, a retired teacher in
Great Falls,  Montana , who considers herself a Republican and
would like to see more candidate choices for her party.  The Bloomberg poll of 1,000 adults, which has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points on the full sample,
was conducted in the days following the  New Hampshire  debate. On
findings involving only Republican responses, the margin of
error is plus or minus 5.9 percentage points.  Religion Issue  The Mormon faith practiced by Romney and Huntsman doesn’t
appear to be a major hurdle. Among potential Republican voters,
71 percent say it doesn’t matter.  Huntsman’s service as the Obama administration’s envoy to
China could prove more problematic. Among the potential
Republican voters, 37 percent say such work would make a
candidate a lot less attractive to them, and another 28 percent
say it would make someone a little less attractive.  The poll found that actions some of the party’s candidates
have taken -- or proposed -- could come back to haunt them in
the Republican race.  Roughly half of the survey’s potential Republican voters
say it would be a turnoff if a candidate backed changing
Medicare to a private system with government subsidies. House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, is
pushing such a plan and most of the party’s presidential
contenders have endorsed it in principle.  Insurance Mandate  Support of a health insurance mandate like the one in the
federal overhaul passed by Congress last year is viewed as
unattractive by two-thirds of the potential Republican voters.
Romney, as governor, signed into law a  Massachusetts  measure
that included the insurance mandate.  Three-quarters would consider a candidate who voted to
raise the national debt ceiling to be less appealing.  More than half  -- 58 percent -- would view support of
civil unions for gay and lesbian couples as unattractive, while
about half hold that view for a candidate that supports a cap-
and-trade plan to cut  greenhouse gases . Huntsman has supported
civil unions. And during their governorships he and Pawlenty
backed cap-and-trade efforts, though both have since backed away
from such proposals.  Being unfaithful to a spouse makes a candidate less
attractive to 83 percent of the potential Republican voters.
Presidential contender  Newt Gingrich , the former House speaker
from  Georgia , has acknowledged cheating on a previous spouse.  Gingrich Ratings  Gingrich, who has vowed to continue his presidential
campaign amid skepticism that he can recover from resignations
of his top staff members and lagging fundraising, is viewed
favorably by 45 percent of Republicans. He is viewed unfavorably
by 31 percent, the highest level for any declared or potential
candidate tested. Among likely voters in the poll, 56 percent
viewed him unfavorably.  Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who has remained coy
about a potential run after being the 2008 Republican vice
presidential nominee, came close to Gingrich in the unfavorable
ratings. She is viewed negatively by 27 percent of Republicans
and 60 percent of likely voters.  Palin has her backers in the poll.  “I would stand behind her because I think she’s honest and
she is for the people,” said poll participant Barbara Shepard,
67, a retired nurse who lives in Barboursville,  West Virginia .
“She would represent us, unless she has me totally fooled.”  Shepard, who considers herself a Republican, said she is
generally unsatisfied with the current field for her party.  ‘Honest President’  “The ones that are in the race don’t have a strong
political platform and I don’t know what they stand for,” she
said. “I would like to see an honest president, like  Jimmy Carter .”  Among other presidential candidates, Bachmann is viewed
favorably by 43 percent of Republicans and unfavorably by 12
percent. Pawlenty, her fellow Minnesotan, is viewed favorably by
29 percent and unfavorably by 11 percent.  Republicans are still learning about Huntsman -- who
formally announced his candidacy two days ago -- with 71 percent
saying they don’t know enough about him yet to know whether they
like or dislike him. For Pawlenty and Bachmann, those numbers
are 60 percent and 45 percent.  “Huntsman presents an opportunity to draw a strong
response from independents,” Selzer said. “His seeming
liabilities will make it hard to win the nomination,
potentially, but in the general election, independents could
look favorably on his moderate views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Washington  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 