-- 
Russian Social Network VKontakte Said to Consider Share Sale in New York

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-24T08:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/russian-social-network-vkontakte-said-to-consider-public-offering-in-u-s-.html
VKontakte , the largest Russian
social networking website, is in early discussions with
investment banks about a potential initial public offering,
people with knowledge of the talks said.  The company has discussed selling shares in  New York  as
early as next year, the people said, declining to be identified
as the matter is private. No final decision has been made on
whether to press ahead with an offering or on a valuation, the
people said.  The Moscow-based social network is among a group of Russian
Web companies that have held their own against Google Inc. and
 Facebook  Inc. in one of  Europe ’s largest markets. Yandex NV, the
owner of the most popular Russian search engine, raised $1.3
billion in an IPO last month in New York, this year’s largest
technology IPO worldwide.  “Regional social networks often have advantages over
global players like Facebook in their home region when it comes
to language, marketing and having established networks
present,” said Alexander Braun, an analyst at Montega AG in
Hamburg. “That could help them create the critical mass needed
for a viable IPO.”  Vladislav Tsyplukhin, a spokesman for VKontakte, didn’t
return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  VKontakte’s shareholders include Russian Internet company
 Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , which also owns a stake in Facebook. Valeria
Komissarova, a spokeswoman for Mail.ru, couldn’t comment
yesterday, as the company doesn’t control VKontakte.  Spain, Germany  VKontakte had 58 million users worldwide as of last month,
including 35.2 million in Russia, according to comScore Inc. The
services of the site and other Russian Internet companies are
also popular in countries such as Kazakhstan and Tajikistan,
which have large Russian-speaking populations.  Tuenti, the Spanish social networking site owned by
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , said last month it would open up to users outside
the country to increase its growth potential. Local sites in
 Japan  and  China  also remain popular competitors to  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook.  In  Germany , the student social network  StudiVZ.net ., owned
by Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, has battled
Facebook over intellectual property rights in past years. An IPO
of the networking site is unlikely, Montega’s Braun said, citing
declining user numbers at its sites.  U.S. IPOs have raised $30.5 billion so far this year, the
most in major markets, beating the $23.6 billion for initial
sales in mainland China and the $13.6 billion for Hong Kong
deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Professional-networking site LinkedIn Corp. trades about 46
percent above its May IPO price when it raised $353 million.
Yandex trades about 20 percent higher than its initial price.  Shares of Renren Inc., the Chinese social-networking site
that completed an $855 million IPO last month, more than halved
since its offering. The stock gained 29 percent on its first day
of trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Cannes via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  