-- 
Russia to Rethink Pro-Democracy Party Ban After Clinton Concern

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-23T17:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/russia-to-rethink-pro-democracy-party-ban-after-clinton-concern.html
Russia said it may reconsider a ban
on an opposition pro-democracy grouping running in December
parliamentary polls after criticism by U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton .  The Party of People’s Freedom, or Parnas, can reapply for
registration if it corrects its original application, the
Foreign Ministry said in a statement on its website today.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said the party can run in the
elections if it removes “dead souls” from its membership, in a
meeting with reporters from the state-controlled Moskovskiye
Novosti, according to the daily’s website. The Justice Ministry
said yesterday that it had refused to register the party because
it violated federal rules, including by submitting names of
registered members who are deceased.  Western governments have regularly expressed concern about
a rollback of post-Soviet freedoms since Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  came to power in 2000.  Clinton said yesterday the U.S. was “troubled” and
“disappointed” in the decision to bar Parnas. She noted
“reports of pressure from authorities designed to intimidate
Parnas supporters, prompting them to resign positions or disavow
their signatures on required lists.”  State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the U.S.
believes many of the “irregularities” cited by Russian
authorities are “minor administrative errors.”  ‘Taking a Risk’  Mikhail Kasyanov , who served as prime minister during
Putin’s 2000-2008 presidency and is part of Parnas, accused
Putin of personally blocking the party from running in the vote.
“He’s obviously afraid of taking a risk,” he said in a
statement on his website yesterday.  Kasyanov, together with  Boris Nemtsov , a deputy prime
minister under the late President  Boris Yeltsin , and two other
opposition figures, said they will use a popular vote to select
a joint candidate for the presidential election in March.  Kasyanov, 53, was disqualified from running in the 2008
presidential election, when Putin’s approved candidate, Dmitry Medvedev, won with more than 70 percent of the vote. Communist
leader Gennady Zyuganov received 17.7 percent. In 2004, the
leading pro-democracy candidate, Irina Khakamada, won 3.9
percent of the vote.  Putin, 58, relinquished the presidency to Medvedev in 2008
because the constitution prohibits three consecutive terms. He
hasn’t ruled out running for president next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  