-- 
Russia May Face Debt Crisis Like Greece

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-23T23:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/russia-may-face-debt-crisis-like-greece-by-2030-world-bank-says.html
Russia may face a debt crisis
similar to the one gripping  Greece  by 2030 unless the government
reduces spending, said Sergei Ulatov, the resident  World Bank 
economist in Moscow.  “By 2030 the debt level would be unsustainable like in
Greece” if nothing changes, Ulatov said in an interview during
the Russia and CIS Capital Markets Forum organized by Euromoney
in  London  today. “Right now, we are mostly helped by  oil prices 
and not by a very prudent macroeconomic policy.”  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin this week urged the
government to cap annual spending increases at 4 percent to
stabilize public finances and avoid state “paternalism” in
running the economy. The  budget deficit  may narrow to less than
0.5 percent of gross domestic product this year if oil prices
average $115 a barrel, according to Kudrin.  Oil prices tumbled to the lowest level in four months today
after the  International Energy Agency  said its members would
release crude from strategic reserves. Urals crude, Russia’s
benchmark export blend, has averaged about $108 a barrel this
year and dropped 5.2 percent to $105.83 today.  By 2015, Russia won’t be able to cover the shortfall in the
pension fund even if oil stays at the current break-even level
of $115, Ulatov said.  In an e-mailed statement later in the day, the World Bank
reiterated its official view on Russia, and said the world’s
largest energy exporter will probably have monetary and current-
account surpluses this year and in 2012 because of higher oil
prices.  "Russia faces no traditional fiscal sustainability issues"
because it has low government debt and $520 billion of foreign-
currency reserves, the statement said. "Nevertheless, the non-
oil fiscal deficit -- which matters more for Russia’s long-term
fiscal sustainability -- remains large."  Big infrastructure projects including hosting the 2014
Winter Olympics in Sochi and 2018  World Cup  will create an
additional burden for the budget, according to the economist
Ulatov.  “They will have to borrow,” he said. “They do have this
capacity now, but for how long?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  