-- 
Ryan Medicare Plan Would Make Americans Worse by 57%-34%, Poll Shows

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/ryan-medicare-plan-would-make-americans-worse-by-57-34-poll-shows.html
Representative  Paul Ryan , the House
Budget Committee chairman who has become a star in the
 Republican Party  with his plan to overhaul Medicare, is emerging
as a polarizing figure among Americans.  Twenty-six percent of people view the  Wisconsin  lawmaker
unfavorably while 23 percent see him favorably, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20.  The only public figures in the survey with higher net
unfavorable ratings than Ryan, who six months ago was known
chiefly to his southeast Wisconsin constituents and health-
policy experts, were former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and
former Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin.  “I don’t like the focus he’s made, and I don’t like the
programs he’s playing with,” says poll respondent Jason Young,
37, a video game producer from Novato,  California , and an
independent. “Ryan’s plan is too Draconian, and I think the
cuts on Medicare he’s proposing are unfair and unrealistic.”  Even so, Young and other respondents credit Ryan for
proposing a plan to balance the federal budget, echoing  praise 
from Republican leaders such as House Speaker  John Boehner .  “It takes some intestinal fortitude to actually step
forward with a plan when nobody else has,” says Ted Olsen, 44,
a Lutheran minister from Kiel, Wisconsin, and an independent.  Election Issue  By a margin of 57 percent to 34 percent, poll respondents
say they would be worse off if Ryan’s plan to convert Medicare
to a system of subsidized private health coverage were adopted.
Fifty-eight percent of independents, a critical voting bloc in
recent elections, say they would be worse off.  That’s likely to encourage Democrats to bank their success
in next year’s presidential and congressional races on tying
Republicans to the Medicare plan, which was passed by the
Republican-controlled House on April 15.  Ryan’s proposal for the federal health-insurance plan that
serves seniors was approved with no Democratic support and all
but four Republicans voting in favor. The Democratic-controlled
Senate rejected it last month.  President  Barack Obama ’s new health-care law gets a more
favorable reaction. The poll of 1,000 adults found that 51
percent of all Americans say that while the law may need
modification, it shouldn’t be repealed, and another 11 percent
say it should be left alone. That compares with 35 percent who
want the new law overturned.  Partisan Rift  There is a strong partisan divide over whether the law
should be repealed, with Democrats more unified than
Republicans. Eighty-nine percent of Democrats say the law should
stay in place, though most prefer some changes, while 64 percent
of Republicans say it should be repealed. Sixty-one percent of
independents support the plan, with most wanting modifications,
while 35 percent oppose it.  “Health care is a basic human right,” said Edward Feikes,
a 78-year-old retired school teacher from New Carlisle,  Indiana .
“Government has to be more involved than private insurance.”  Republicans have attacked the Obama plan, signed into law
last year, as too costly and say its mandate that all Americans
either obtain insurance or pay a fine is unconstitutional.  More Americans disapprove than approve of Obama’s overall
handling of health care, by a 50 percent to 45 percent margin.  Political Divide  Americans are also divided by politics over the Ryan plan,
which calls for converting the traditional Medicare program to a
system of subsidized private coverage starting with people who
turn 65 in 2022.  Forty-seven percent of Republicans say they’d be better off
under the plan, while 46 percent say they would be worse off,
according to the poll. Just 29 percent of Democrats say they
would be better off. Forty-six percent of Americans under 35 say
they would be better off under the proposal, while 61 percent of
those 35 and older say they’d be worse off. Sixty-three percent
of those 55 and older say they would be worse off, while 26
percent say it would be better for them.  Under the plan, new Medicare beneficiaries could select
from a list of guaranteed coverage options, and the government
would provide money to subsidize the cost of that plan.  Rachel McCulley, a 22-year-old employment consultant for
the disabled and a Democrat, said many Americans would probably
fare better under Ryan’s plan because they would have a broader
array of health-care options.  “Consumer choice is very important,” she said. Still,
McCulley, who lives in Bear,  Delaware , has concerns about the
financial impact on seniors if the program is privatized.  ‘Why Medicare Exists’  “That’s why Medicare exists, for the people who can’t
afford health care,” she says.  Ryan argues that his budget blueprint would allow the
government to control the rate of growth of Medicare, one of the
biggest drivers of the long-term U.S. deficit. Democrats say it
would saddle the elderly with skyrocketing medical bills and
limit their access to health care while doing little to control
the underlying costs of the system.  Respondents say they trust Obama’s party, the Democrats,
more than Republicans to do a better job of dealing with
Medicare, by 43 percent to 34 percent, with 23 percent not sure. 
Independents give Democrats a 14-percentage-point advantage 
over Republicans when it comes to handling Medicare.  Embracing Some Parts  While Americans fear they would do worse under Ryan’s
Medicare proposal, they embrace some of its provisions. About
two-thirds of respondents from both parties say Congress and the
president should implement means-testing, or reduce Medicare
benefits for wealthy Americans, to shore up the program’s
finances.  Public sentiment splits about evenly when it comes to
placing new limits on medical services covered by Medicare, one
of three options for adjusting the current system presented to
survey respondents. Republicans are slightly more supportive of
this measure, at 54 percent, compared with 46 percent of
Democrats and 47 percent of independents.  The most unpopular of the three options is raising payroll
taxes on employees and employers to help shore up Medicare, with
56 percent of Americans in opposition, compared with 41 percent
favoring this option. A majority of Democrats, 53 percent,
support this idea, while a strong majority of Republicans, 73
percent, are opposed.  The poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-
based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at  hprzybyla
@bloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 