-- 
S&P Assigns CME Group Negative Outlook on Competitive Threats

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-06-23T21:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/s-p-assigns-cme-group-negative-outlook-on-competitive-threats.html
Standard & Poor’s  affirmed its
rating of  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange,
and said the outlook on the company and its debt was negative
after assessing competitive risks from  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   The New York-based rating company affirmed the AA/A-1+
counterparty rating for the Chicago market owner, S&P said in a
statement today. NYSE Euronext’s U.S. futures exchange, Liffe
U.S., has captured 3 percent of trading volume in Eurodollar
contracts and represents “a credible threat to CME Group’s most
important listed interest-rate contract,” S&P said. “If CME
Group loses a substantial portion of its market share in
interest-rate products, the impact on its financial performance
could be material, but not serious.”  NYSE Liffe U.S. and its partner the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. created  New York  Portfolio Clearing earlier this
year to offer investors margin offsets to target CME Group’s 98
percent share of U.S. futures trading. It will offer cross
margining to reduce how much cash investors have to post to
clearinghouses to back cash and derivative trades that cancel
each other out.  Eurodollar futures have historically been one of CME
Group’s most-traded interest-rate products.  Negative outlook means there is a one-in-three chance S&P
could lower the ratings in the next six to 24 months, according
to the statement.  CME Group’s response to New York Portfolio Clearing
involves clearing members of the Chicago exchange acting as
middlemen to reduce margin payments by matching offsetting cash
and derivatives trades. CME Group’s Financial Instruments
Clearing Membership plan “could be an incremental credit risk”
to the company’s clearinghouse, S&P said.  “If the FICM program is successful, the financial
safeguard system at the clearinghouse would still be strong, but
incrementally less so,” the ratings company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 