-- 
Saab Auto Can’t Pay Wages as Funds Dry Up With Plant Shut

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-23T10:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/saab-auto-can-t-pay-wages-as-funds-dry-up-with-plant-shut-2-.html
Saab Automobile, the Swedish
carmaker that halted production because of a cash shortage,
won’t be able to pay wages to employees because it lacks
sufficient short-term funding.  Saab and Zeewolde, Netherlands-based owner Swedish
Automobile NV are in talks with various parties to raise cash,
the company said today in a statement. The options include the
sale and lease-back of the factory in Trollhaettan,  Sweden .  “There can however be no assurance that these discussions
will be successful or that the necessary funding will be
obtained,” said Swedish Automobile, which was previously known
as Spyker Cars NV.  Saab first halted production in April amid a payment
dispute with suppliers. It restarted assembly May 27 after
getting a cash advance from Chinese car dealer Pangda Automobile
Trade Co., only to put the brakes on manufacturing again on June
8. Saab, which  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold in February 2010 to
Spyker, ran into a cash shortage after missing sales targets.  ‘Slim’ Prospects  Saab’s chances are “slim,” said Martin Crum, an analyst
at Amsterdams Effectenkantoor BV. “The company is still not
able to produce cars; that’s the main concern. If you don’t sell
cars, you don’t get cash in.”  The pending property sale “can provide some badly needed
liquidity for the short term, but for the longer term they of
course need more,” Crum said.  Swedish Automobile fell as much as 23 percent, or 56 cents,
to 1.92 euros and was down 14 percent at 11:43 a.m. in
Amsterdam. The stock, which declined today to the lowest price
since Jan. 21, 2010, has dropped 39 percent this year, valuing
the company at 45 million euros ($64 million).  Saab is estimated to owe at least 300 million kronor ($47
million) to Swedish suppliers, according to the country’s auto-
supplier association FKG. Saab asked parts makers this week to
accept 10 percent of what they’re owed now and the rest in
September, as it works to restart production.  Eric Geers, a spokesman for Saab, said the sale of the
factory and some office buildings could be completed as early as
today, adding that Saab isn’t planning to file for bankruptcy.  Property Buyer  Saab will raise about 300 million kronor from the sale of
the real estate to a group led by Swedish real estate firm
Hemfosa Fastigheter AB, said Lars Carlstrom, a spokesman for
Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov , who originally wanted to buy
the property. Saab had to find a new buyer after the  European
Investment Bank , a Saab creditor, didn’t approve a transaction
with Antonov.  Geers declined to comment on the details of the pending
sale. Jens Engwall, Hemfosa’s chief executive, didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment.  Saab is continuing negotiations with suppliers in order to
resume an “orderly inflow” of components, Swedish Automobile
said today.  In addition to the factory sale, Saab hopes that the
European Investment Bank, the European Union’s lending arm, will
clear a 29 million-euro payout to Saab “within a few weeks”
under a previously approved 400 million-euro financing
agreement, Geers said on June 21.  Saab was nearly a casualty of GM’s brand shedding after its
government-backed bankruptcy, when it closed Saturn, Hummer, and
Pontiac. The Swedish unit was slated to shut down after a group
led by Koenigsegg Automotive AB pulled out of talks in November
2009. Spyker made a bid after GM had already begun to wind down
Saab, eventually paying $74 million in cash and $326 million in
preferred shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  