-- 
SAC, Ortus Lead Hedge Fund Expansion, Fuelling Hong Kong Office Demand

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-06-23T01:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/sac-ortus-lead-hedge-fund-expansion-fuelling-hong-kong-office-demand.html
Hedge funds  including SAC Capital
Advisor LP and Ortus Capital Management Ltd. are expanding in
Hong Kong, fueling demand for space and driving rents higher in
the world’s most expensive office market.  SAC Capital of  Stamford ,  Connecticut  is in talks to boost
its space by 20 percent after adding employees at its more than
5,000-square-foot office at York House, said two people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public. Ortus Capital, a $2.5 billion
macro hedge fund based in Hong Kong, this month moved into
premises 20 percent bigger in St. George’s Building, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Prime office rents in Central business district rose 8.5
percent from January to the end of May as financial services
companies boosted hiring in the city, according to Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc.  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  are luring global hedge
funds returning to the region following their retreat during the
2008 credit crisis.  “Hedge funds and private equity are capable of paying
higher rents and they make decisions fast,” said Bernard Chu,
director at Sagarmatha Capital Ltd., a Hong Kong-based real
estate broker specializing in hedge funds and private equity
firms. In Central, “they’re willing to pay around 5 to 10
percent more compared with investment banks, law firms and
accounting firms, and they’re willing to pay an even higher
premium for grade A buildings such as the International Finance
Centre.”  Record Fund Inflow  The $3.6 billion capital that investors added to Asian
hedge funds in the first three months was the largest quarterly
inflow into the regional industry, according to Chicago-based
service provider Hedge Fund Research Inc. The number of hedge
funds focused on  Asia  increased to 1,055 in the first quarter,
the highest since the second quarter of 2008.  Nine Masts Capital Ltd., led by Wang Bing, former Asia head
of Deutsche Bank AG’s Saba proprietary trading desk, is
negotiating to more than double its 1,500-square-foot office
space after its assets under management surged 10-fold to more
than $300 million since it started trading in May 2010, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Matchpoint Investment Management Asia Ltd., a Hong Kong-
based hedge fund co-founded by  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group
LLC (OZM)  partner Raaj Shah, and Sean Debow, former Asia managing
director of Los Angeles-based Ivory Investment Management LP,
found a new location where it doubled its space, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  More Space  The 4,300-square-foot L. Place office it moved into last
month provided more room after its staff tripled to more than 15
since its September 2009 inception, and its assets under
management jumped fivefold to $270 million, the person said.  Instead of moving, Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., the $1
billion Hong Kong-based hedge fund backed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
and led by former Citadel Investment Group LLC manager Nick Taylor, took an adjacent unit at Wheelock House after it more
than doubled its workforce to at least 20 people since it
started trading in November 2009, said a person with knowledge
of the matter.  Janice Tang, Ortus’s spokeswoman; Katarina Bendle, who
represents Senrigan; Elaine Davis, Nine Masts’ chief operating
officer; Jonathan Gasthalter, an outside spokesman for SAC
Capital, and Matchpoint’s Debow declined to comment.  About 25 of the biggest global hedge fund firms are seeking
to expand in Asia, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG report
last year. About 75 percent of the top 100 global hedge funds,
ranked by Alpha Magazine based on assets managed, will likely
have a presence in Asia, according to the Zurich-based bank’s
prime brokerage unit.  Actively Looking  “If someone’s still seeking  office space  in Central at
this moment, they’re likely someone who’s willing to pay a very
high rent,” said John Siu, Hong Kong-based general manager at
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the biggest closely held property
services company. “Hedge funds have been very actively looking
for additional space since the market recovered from the credit
crisis and it looks like this trend is continuing.”  Hong Kong’s prime office rents jumped more than a third to
$2,066.35 per square meter at the end of last year, the highest
in the world and almost double the cost of the City of  London ,
according to Colliers International Research.  Average rents for new tenants at top-tier buildings
including  Cheung Kong Center  and  International Finance Centre  in
Central stood at HK$159 a square foot per month at the end of
May, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. Only 1.3 percent of these
buildings are vacant, compared with the 3.7 percent average for
the rest of Central, the Chicago-based property brokerage said.  Less Bargaining Power  Hedge funds and asset managers may also be paying more for
leases because they usually take up space of between “a few
thousand to under 10,000 square feet,” Siu said. That gives
them less bargaining power compared with investment banks that
take up multiple floors at premium buildings with areas up to
“tens of thousands of square feet,” he said.  Central’s higher rents drove some banks and professional
services providers such as law and accounting firms out of the
district to less expensive areas. Allianz Global, the investment
unit of Allianz SE,  Europe ’s largest insurer, which occupied
about 20,500 square feet in Cheung Kong Center, last month moved
to nearby Citibank Plaza, where average rents are about 30
percent lower. Deutsche Bank AG last year completed its
relocation to the International Commerce Centre in West Kowloon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  