-- 
Sales of New U.S. Homes Decreased in May for First Time in Three Months

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-23T14:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/sales-of-u-s-new-homes-decreased-in-may.html
Purchases of new U.S. houses fell in
May for the first time in three months, showing the industry is
struggling to gain momentum.  Sales dropped 2.1 percent to a 319,000 annual pace last
month, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
 Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists called for sales at a 310,000 rate. The median price
of new homes sold dropped from a year earlier.  Builders will contend with the prospect that almost 2
million distressed properties will reach the market, which may
take years to absorb as the jobless rate hovers around 9 percent.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , citing high
unemployment and weakness in housing and the financial system,
left the door open yesterday to easing further if needed.  “Things are still going to be weak for a while,” said
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “We need to see much better job
growth and more confidence in general,” he said, adding that
new-home sales are “still sort of bouncing around the bottom.”  The median estimate in the Bloomberg survey was based on a
poll of 67 economists. Forecasts ranged from 288,000 to 345,000.
Sales in April were revised up to a 326,000 annual rate from the
323,000 previously reported.  More Claims  More Americans than forecast filed claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week, showing companies are less
confident about the expansion than they were earlier this year, a
report from the Labor Department also showed today.  Applications increased by 9,000 in the week ended June 18 to
429,000. The level exceeded the highest estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists in which the median projection called for
415,000 filings.  Consumer confidence  fell for the first time in five weeks as
Americans grew more concerned about the economy, another report
showed. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus
44.9 in the period to June 19, from the prior week’s minus 44.
The decline left the gauge close to its average for the year.  Stocks held earlier losses after the report, depressed by
the claims data and by European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet’s comments that the debt crisis threatened to
infect banks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.3 percent to
1,270.6 at 10:12 a.m. in  New York .  Prices Fall  The median sales price of a new home decreased 3.4 percent
from May 2010 to $222,600, today’s Commerce Department report
showed. It was biggest 12-month drop since October.  Sales fell in two of four regions, led by a 27 percent
plunge in the Northeast. Demand dropped 3.5 percent in the West,
was little changed in the Midwest and climbed 2.4 percent in the
South.  Builders are trying to stay ahead of falling demand by
cutting back on projects. There were a record-low 166,000 new
houses on the market at the end of May, pushing the supply of
homes at the current sales rate down to 6.2 months’ worth from
6.3 months in April. May’s months supply was the lowest since
April 2010.  Housing starts increased more than forecast in May led by a
jump in the West as other parts of the country faltered. Work
began on 560,000 houses at an annual pace, exceeding the 545,000
median projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
figures from the Commerce Department showed last week.  Distressed Sales  Competition from existing homes selling at discounted prices
is hurting builders. The 1.8 million of inventory of distressed
homes nationwide that may reach the market would take about three
years to sell at the current pace,  Daren Blomquist ,
communications manager at RealtyTrac Inc., said last week.  Previously owned homes sold at a 4.81 million annual rate in
May, down 3.8 percent from the prior month, data from the
National Association of Realtors showed this week. Sales of
existing homes comprise about 94 percent of the housing market,
up from about 85 percent six years ago, as foreclosures and
distressed sales lure some buyers.  The housing market is weighing on other parts of the world’s
largest economy, according to some company chiefs.  “We expect the recovery will continue to be slow and
uneven, particularly for more moderate-income households,”  Gregg Steinhafel , chairman and chief executive of Minneapolis-based
 Target Corp. (TGT) , the second largest U.S. discount retailer, told
investors last month. “These households need to see further
improvements in housing and income growth before they’ll have the
capacity to meaningfully increase their discretionary spending.”  Growth Slowdown  Fed policy makers are also concerned after the economy grew
at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the first three months of the
year, down from 3.1 percent in 2010’s fourth quarter.  “We don’t have a precise read on why this slower pace of
growth is persisting,” Bernanke said in a press conference
yesterday following the central bank’s decision to maintain
record stimulus. Referring to “frustratingly” slow job growth
and weakness in the financial and housing industries, Bernanke
said “some of these headwinds may be stronger and more
persistent than we thought.”  The Fed would be “prepared to take additional action,
obviously, if conditions warranted,” including the purchase of
more  Treasury securities , Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  