-- 
Same-Sex Household Growth Rate Moves California Beyond ‘Gayborhoods’

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-06-23T19:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/same-sex-household-growth-rate-moves-california-beyond-gayborhoods-.html
The number of households headed by
gays and lesbians in  California  grew six times faster than those
of opposite-sex spouses between 2000 and 2010, a decade when the
state was shaken by battles over same-sex marriage.  The population of homosexuals living together as partners
climbed 36.2 percent, and the increase for married heterosexuals
was 5.7 percent, according to census data released today. Even
with the gain, same-sex domestic partners make up just 1 percent
of all households in the most-populous state.  While the far smaller group’s growth rate was expected to
outstrip that of married couples of the opposite sex, the rise
is significant because of its magnitude and what it says about
the willingness of gays and lesbians to reveal their status,
said  William Frey , a demographer with the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington.  “It’s indicative of a trend,” said Judith Bradford,
director of the Center for Population Research in LGBT Health at
the  Fenway Institute  in  Boston . “We’re a more open society.”  Gay and lesbian couples have long felt more comfortable,
and accepted, in such states as California and New York, said
Gary Gates of the  Williams Institute on Sexual Orientation Law
and Public Policy  in Los Angeles. That may be increasingly the
case across the U.S.  The Census Bureau is gradually releasing details about
ethnic origin, age, housing and family relationships in the 50
states -- and so far, data for  Alabama  show same-sex households
there climbed 38.8 percent between 2000 and 2010, and that the
rise was 42.1 percent in  Wyoming  and 55.4 percent in  Kansas .  Smaller Closet  “You’ll see even bigger jumps in more conservative
states,” Gates said. “The closet is getting smaller.”  Same-sex households in California totaled 125,516 in 2010,
according to the census, compared with 6,213,310 led by
opposite-sex spouses. While male couples slightly outnumbered
female couples, the number of women as partners went up 43.2
percent, compared with a 30.3 percent rise for men.  In some suburbs -- such as Victorville outside  Los Angeles 
and Elk Grove near  Sacramento  -- same-sex households tripled,
the data show, suggesting gay and lesbian families are moving
beyond urban areas.  “This is the Baby Boom ideology,” said Joel Kotkin,
author of “The Next Hundred Million: America in 2050,” a book
about U.S. demographics. “When gay people get older and have
kids they don’t want to live in a hip, cool, sometimes dodgy
area. They want space and peace and quiet.”  No Marriage  The rise in same-sex households came as the Legislature
expanded legal protections for homosexuals. The San Francisco-
based advocacy group  Equality California  identified 62 laws
passed since 1999 giving homosexual and other unmarried couples
in California many of the rights married people have.  Gays and lesbians briefly won the ability to marry in May
2008, when the California Supreme Court decided limiting
marriage to opposite-sex couples was discriminatory. Six months
later, voters overrode that decision with a ballot measure that
was itself stuck down by a federal judge in August 2010.  The ban on same-sex marriage will remain while the case
makes its way through the appeals process. In  New York , a bill
legalizing gay marriage, which Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
has called a priority, is pending in the Senate. Federal law
doesn’t recognize same-sex unions.  In California, there was an increase in unmarried people,
gay and straight, living together. That group grew 32 percent to
902,967, the data show. Nationwide, people are delaying
marriage, according to a May 18 Census Bureau report. It said
almost 47 percent of women from 25 to 29 had never been married
in 2009, almost double the 26 percent reported in 1986.  Leaving ‘Gayborhoods’  The same-sex marriage debate “changed the landscape,”
said Jim Carroll, Equality California’s interim executive
director. “People are more willing to identify as a couple.
They perceive the changes in our society.”  Greg Facktor, a 49-year-old health-care consultant who
lives in Los Angeles’s Hancock Park neighborhood with his
partner Rob Meyers, cited other factors, including television’s
acceptance of homosexuals as characters, and even stars. He said
shows such as “Glee” on  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox allow young people to
identify as gay earlier than in the past.  “It used to be you dated members of the opposite sex in
college, moved to a big city, lived in a gayborhood and sort of
relived your adolescence,” Facktor said. “Today they’re
bringing their boyfriends to school functions and mainstreaming
in a way that makes them more likely to settle down in parallel
to their straight counterparts.”  Murrieta Record  The California cities with the most gay and lesbians living
together as couples were Los Angeles, with 15,492 same-sex
households, and  San Francisco , with 10,384. Murrieta, 55 miles
(89 kilometers) southeast of Anaheim, led the growth in same-sex
domestic partners among large cities in the state, with a 237
percent jump to 192.  Althea Ingram, 67, moved to Murrieta from  Chicago  six years
ago with her partner Theresa Greenway, 62, to be closer to their
daughter and grandchildren. The couple wed in October 2008
during the window in which same-sex marriage was legal in the
state.  Back then, Ingram said, lawn signs against gay marriage
outnumbered pro-signs on their street by five-to-one. She said
she had no idea the city of 103,000 had led the state in the
growth of gay and lesbian households.  “I’m shocked,” she said. “I would love to have a party
and have them all over.”  Editors: Anne Reifenberg, Pete Young  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Bass in  Washington  at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  