-- 
Samsung, Google, Hershey: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-12T20:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/samsung-google-pfizer-hershey-apple-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. failed to
convince a federal judge it should be able to examine samples of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new products, including fourth-generation mobile
telephones and tablet computers.  As part of the discovery process in a patent-infringement
lawsuit brought by Cupertino, California-based Apple, Samsung in
May asked to see its rival’s latest iPads and iPhones, according
to court papers.  “Samsung has cited no case” in which a plaintiff must
produce future products in a similar context, and “Samsung does
not need access to these products” at this stage in the
litigation, U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh wrote in an order
signed June 21 in  San Jose , California.  Apple sued  South Korea ’s Samsung alleging unfair trade
competition, unjust enrichment and trademark and patent-
infringement in products that “blatantly imitate” Apple’s
products, according to an amended complaint filed June 16.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11CV1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google’s ‘Photovine’ to Be Used for Photo Social Networking  Google Inc., which operates the world’s most used search
engine, filed a trademark application that may indicate what it
wants to do with its photo-oriented acquisitions.  The  Mountain View , California-based company is seeking to
register the term “photovine,” according to the database of
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. According to the
application, filed June 7, “photovine” is to be used for
communication services, non-downloadable computer software, and
on-line social-networking services.  Google acquired Picasa, which enables online photo storage
and sharing, in 2004. Last year, the company picked up Picnic
Inc., a site that enables online photo-cropping and retouching.  At that time, a Google official said the company would be
working on integration of Picnic’s functionality and the
addition of new features.  Pfizer to Receive Damages in Corex/Orex Trademark Dispute  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s India-based unit Pfizer Ltd. was awarded
money damages in its trademark dispute with Omax Healthcare Pvt.
Ltd.,  India ’s Economic Times reported.  The Delhi high court said Omax’s use of Orex for its cough
syrup was too similar to Pfizer’s Corex cough syrup trademark,
according to the Economic Times.  The similarity in the names might cause customers to think
“they were buying the product of the company which is respected
and well-known,” the court said in its ruling and Economic
Times reported.  Hershey Sues Radisson Over Use of ‘Hershey’ in Hotel Name  Hershey Entertainment & Resort Co. sued Carlson Cos.’
Radisson Hotels International unit for trademark infringement.  The lawsuit, filed June 17 in federal court in Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , is related to a name change on a Radisson
property. Hershey, a unit of Hershey Trust Co., objects to the
inclusion of the word “Hershey” in the name of the former Penn
Harris Hotel & Convention Center, now known as the Radisson
Hotel Harrisburg Hershey.  Hershey operates  its own resorts  near the company’s
 amusement park  and  other attractions  in central Pennsylvania.  In its court papers, Hershey said the hotel is neither in
Harrisburg nor Hershey, Pennsylvania. The hotel isn’t even
“located in the same county as the town of Hershey,” according
to the complaint.  The case file includes a series of letters between for
Hershey and Radisson. One of the letters, sent on Radisson’s
behalf by  Samuel W. Apicelli  of Philadelphia’s Duane Morris LLP,
said that in addition to being a trademark, Hershey is also a
zip code in Pennsylvania. He argued that no one can be
restricted from using an indicator of geographic origin.  In its complaint, Hershey asked the court to bar Radisson
from using “Radisson Hotel Harrisburg Hershey.” It also seeks
money damages, an order for the recall and destruction of all
infringing promotional materials, and an order for the hotel
chain to pay for corrective advertising to dispel any consumer
impression that the hotel is affiliated with Hershey
Entertainment.  Hershey also asked for an order for the deactivation of
websites that infringe, and for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Joan Cronson, a Carlson spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
the company hadn’t yet received a copy of the complaint and
would review it with the hotel. The Pennsylvania hotel is a
franchise that is independently owned and operated, she said.  Hershey is represented by  Harvey Freedenberg  and  Rebecca A.
Finkenbinder  of  McNees Wallace & Nurck LLC  of Harrisburg.  The case is Hershey Entertainment & Resorts Co. v. Radisson
Hotels International Inc., 1:11-cv-01159-SHR, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  Apple Bid to Bar Amazon ‘Appstore’ Will ‘Likely’ Be Denied  Apple Inc. will “probably” lose its court bid to stop
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  from using the term “Appstore” for a service
selling programs for Android devices, a federal judge said.  Apple, whose top-selling product is the iPhone, claimed it
would be irreparably harmed because the value of its own  App
Store  will be eroded as consumers confuse the two services.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton said yesterday after a
hearing in Oakland, California, that she is “probably” going
to deny the motion because Apple hasn’t demonstrated confusion
among consumers. Hamilton said she will review court filings
before issuing a final decision.  Apple’s difficulty demonstrating “real evidence of actual
confusion” among consumers is a “stumbling block for Apple,”
Hamilton said in court. “I’m troubled by the showing that
you’ve made so far, but that’s where you’re likely not to
prevail at this early juncture.”  Like “honeybaked ham,” a product made by a Michigan
company, App Store has come to be identified by consumers as an
Apple service selling downloadable programs for the iPhone and
other company devices, Apple said in court filings.  Apple has spent hundreds of millions of dollars advertising
the service since it was launched in 2008 and will suffer
irreparable damage by associations with Amazon’s Appstore
service, which provides fewer safeguards against viruses and
data security issues, the company’s filings said.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Seattle-based
Amazon for trademark infringement in March and asked for a
preliminary court order barring the online retailer’s use of
“Appstore,” pending the outcome of the lawsuit.  Amazon says the words “App Store” are generic and Apple
doesn’t have exclusive rights to them. Even if the term wasn’t
generic, Apple can’t show that consumers would confuse the two
services because Apple’s service only sells downloads for the
iPhone and other Apple devices, Amazon said in court filings.  The largest online retailer is seeking dismissal of Apple’s
lawsuit and a court order allowing it to use the term to sell
programs for Android devices. Android is the  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
operating system used by handset makers including Samsung
Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Amazon’s Appstore offering downloads of software for
Android devices opened March 22.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-01327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.K. Content Owners’ Copyright Proposal Leaked on Website  A copyright-enforcement proposal under discussion by five
organizations representing content industries was leaked to the
public in advance of its release.  The proposal, “the Potential for a Voluntary Code,” was
 posted  on the website of the London-based  Open Rights Group , a
digital-rights advocacy organization.  The eight-page paper, stamped “confidential,” discusses
methods of getting judicial approval of proposed measures to
inhibit access to major infringing sites.  Groups involved in the development of the proposal are the
Football Association Premier League Ltd., the Publishers
Association, BPI Ltd., the  Motion Picture Association  and the
Alliance for Cinema and Television, according to a footnote on
the proposal.  The aim of the proposal is the establishment of a system
“that protects copyright owner’s property rights by
substantially inhibiting infringement while protecting the
legitimate interests of consumers, site operators and service
providers, including (where relevant) access to services and
information and freedom of expression.”  The proposal suggests the establishing of an “expert
body” to manage and implement the system. This body would be
“under the guidance of a council composed of those with the
relevant skills and experience but who do not have current
direct interests in the relevant industries,” according the
leaked document.  This council and the “expert body” would have the ability
to decide whether a website is “substantially focused on
infringement,” and recommend a court order blocking access.  Consumer Focus , a London-based consumer-advocacy group,
issued a  statement  addressing the proposal. The case for website
blocking hasn’t been made, and the content owners didn’t
identify which websites they think should be blocked, the group
said.  Eircom’s Three-Strikes Policy Under Scrutiny from Government  Ireland’s Data Protection Commission is investigating the
terms of Eircom Ltd.’s agreement with music companies over music
piracy, Silicon Republic reported.  The office is looking at the “proportionality’ of Eircom’s
three-strikes response to music piracy, according to Silicon
Republic.  Eircom sent letters to as many as of 300 of its Internet-
service customers who were incorrectly identified as music
pirates and provided them with a 50 euro ($72) credit on their
next Eircom bill, Silicon Republic reported.  The data-protection commission got involved after it
received a complaint about a false piracy notification, and is
looking at whether the four levels of warning and response is
proportional to the alleged offenses, according to Silicon
Republic.  U.K. Student Faces Extradition for Copyright Infringement  A 23-year-old student at the U.K.’s Sheffield Hallam
University faces potential extradition to the U.S. to face
charges of criminal copyright infringement, the U.K.’s  Daily
Mail  reported.  Richard O’Dwyer was accused of setting up a website that
provided links through which films and television programs could
be downloaded without authorization, according to the Daily
Mail. The site has since been shut down, the newspaper reported.  O’Dwyer was arrested in May and spent one night in jail
before he appeared at a preliminary hearing, according to the
newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  SNR Denton Adds Pamela K. Fulmer to  San Francisco  IP Practice  SNR Denton LLP hired Pamela K. Fulmer for its intellectual-
property practice in San Francisco, the Chicago-based firm said
in a statement yesterday.  Fulmer , who joins from  Washington ’s  Jones Day , is a
litigator who has represented clients in patent, copyright,
trademark and trade-secret disputes.  Her clients come from the e-commerce, Internet, cellular
communications, e-mail messaging and security, computer hardware
and software, medical devices, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology
and consumer products industries, as well as entertainment and
media.  She has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
Miami  and a law degree from the University of California
Hastings College of the Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 