-- 
HSBC Seeks Dismissal of Madoff Trustee’s $9 Billion Lawsuit Over Fraud

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/hsbc-seeks-dismissal-of-madoff-trustee-s-9-billion-lawsuit-over-fraud.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  asked a judge to
dismiss a $9 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying he isn’t allowed by law to bring such
cases on behalf of the confidence man’s former customers.  Irving Picard , the trustee, sued HSBC and a dozen so-called
feeder funds for $9 billion in December, accusing them of aiding
Madoff’s fraud. Yesterday, Picard and HSBC, which acted as
custodian for the funds, argued in front of U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  over whether the case should be
dismissed.  Picard is mistakenly suing HSBC for damages on the theory
that it had a duty to investigate the Madoff fraud and that it
hurt all of the con man’s investors by not doing so, said Thomas Moloney, a lawyer for the bank.  “HSBC owes no duty to these customers,” Moloney told
Rakoff. “HSBC was not the watchman” for all Madoff investors,
he said.  Rakoff said he will rule on HSBC’s request by the end of
July. The dispute pits  Europe ’s biggest lender against the
lawyer liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC,
which perpetrated the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Picard has filed 1,000 lawsuits in  bankruptcy court  to recover
$90 billion from banks and former Madoff investors who allegedly
profited from the fraud.  HSBC, arguing that Picard has gone far beyond his role as
liquidator of the Madoff firm, asked Rakoff in February to
decide whether the trustee can bring claims such as aiding and
abetting a fraud, and can sue on behalf of customers in a type
of class action. Rakoff in May said he would temporarily take
the case to decide non-bankruptcy issues, and he ordered London-
based HSBC to file an argument for dismissal.  JPMorgan Challenge  Picard faces similar challenges in district court from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which he sued for $6.4 billion, and
UniCredit SpA, a defendant with Bank Medici AG and its founder
Sonja Kohn in a $59 billion lawsuit.  According to HSBC, brokerage trustees are appointed “for
the liquidation of the business of the debtor,” not to file
lawsuits seeking damages for customers. Picard also has no right
to sue HSBC in the name of customers who have no claims against
the bank, it said in a filing this month.  Picard argued the reverse. “The trustee has standing to
assert common law claims to seek damages,” he said in a filing
this month. A brokerage trustee “has exclusive power to take
possession of customer property and the duty to marshal and
return such property to its owners.”  $7.6 Billion Recovered  Picard said in April he had recovered $7.6 billion for
investors, or about 44 percent of an estimated $17 billion in
principal lost in the  Ponzi scheme  since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.
Most of that isn’t available for distribution, he has said. He
and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged more than
$175 million in fees.  Picard’s December complaint alleged that HSBC ignored signs
that Madoff’s investment business was fraudulent and didn’t take
steps to protect investors.  If HSBC had reacted “appropriately” to such warnings, the
Ponzi scheme “would have collapsed years, billions of dollars
and countless victims sooner,” Picard said in a December
statement.  The bank said it lost almost $1 billion of its own money
investing in feeder funds, “a fact that clearly undermines the
trustee’s claim that HSBC was on notice of Madoff’s fraud.”  Earlier this month, HSBC agreed to pay $62.5 million to
settle a group lawsuit in  New York , filed by investors in a fund
that lost money with Madoff while it acted as custodian. Madoff,
73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina  after pleading guilty.  The district court case is Irving H. Picard v. HSBC Bank
Plc, 11-cv-0763, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 