-- 
Scene Last Night: De Niro, Weitz, Bichir, Wolfe at Tribeca Film

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-23T15:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/scene-last-night-de-niro-weitz-bichir-wolfe-at-tribeca-film.html
Actor Demian Bichir refused the
spring roll he was offered last night at a Tribeca Cinema Series
screening of his new film “A Better Life.”  “No carbs after six,” Bichir said, patting his flat
stomach. He wore a crisp white shirt and a slim-fitting dark
gray suit. A few women swooned -- and moved away from the bread.  Bichir himself had a few glowing moments with Robert de Niro who stayed for a photo.  The diet rule came after gaining 30 pounds -- and losing
them twice. He plumped up for  Fidel Castro  in Steven Soderbergh’s “Che,” and after slimming down, gained back the
pounds for Carlos Galindo in “A Better Life.” (Summit
Entertainment LLC will release the film in New York and Los
Angeles on Friday).  Bichir plays an illegal Mexican immigrant raising a 14-
year-old son on his own in Los Angeles. The relationship evolves
rapidly when Carlos’ truck, filled with his gardening tools, is
stolen.  After the screening, Bichir and director Chris Weitz joined
Tom Wolfe, who is working on a book on immigration, for a
discussion. Wolfe said he was “astonished by the realism” of
the film.  Weitz replied that he approached the project with a
journalist’s paranoia to get things right, a mindset he didn’t
need so much to direct the Twilight series. He showed the script
to Father Gregory Boyle, who helps gang members find jobs, as
well as to kids in the afterschool program  Legacy LA , which aims
to keep youth out of gangs.  No Sex  To immerse himself in the role, Bichir listened to
“beautiful music from my own country” on  La Nueva 101.9 , an
influential Spanish-language radio station in  Los Angeles . He
also bought his own set of on-screen gardener’s clothes to wear
home every day after filming.  “And I needed to drive a truck,” he added. “I bought one
from a paisano I stopped at a stop sign.”  Bichir -- who had a fun stint as Mary-Louise Parker’s lover
in “Weeds” -- said he abstained from sex during filming. “We
discussed how much sex Carlos was having, and we decided not too
much,” Weitz said.  No Corona went into the making of the film. “I don’t drink
on school nights,” said Weitz.  The screening was presented by Tribeca Enterprises LLC,
which runs the Tribeca Film Festival, and was sponsored by
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  “The festival is 13 days, so we thought, what about the
rest of the year?” said Patty Newburger, senior vice president
at Tribeca Enterprises.  As for how to gain 30 pounds: It’s simply a matter of
increasing calories. “I ate a lot of waffles,” Bichir said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 