-- 
Senator Schumer Gives ‘Newfound Life’ to Tax Holiday Sought by Apple

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/schumer-gives-newfound-life-to-tax-holiday-sought-by-apple.html
The lobbying campaign by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  to allow companies to bring
overseas profits to the U.S. at a low tax rate gained new
traction after Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  signaled that
Democrats might back the idea.  The Senate’s No. 3 Democrat said yesterday that his caucus
is exploring the potential of using the short-term revenue a
repatriation holiday would generate to fund an infrastructure
bank. The focus on infrastructure, he said, would “guarantee”
job creation and address a key line of Democratic opposition.  His comments served as a break with the Obama
administration, which has said that a repatriation holiday
should be considered only in the context of a broader overhaul
of the  tax code . The likelihood of a holiday winning
congressional approval is growing, said Patrick Heck, a partner
at K&L Gates LLP in Washington and a former Democratic aide to
the Senate Finance Committee.  “Repatriation has sort of taken on a newfound life, and
its prospects have improved,” said Heck, who specializes in
federal tax policy matters. “The fact that you have a
Democratic leader not opposed to repatriation is significant.”  Schumer, who sits on the tax-writing Finance Committee, was
one of 48 members of the Senate Democratic caucus who opposed a
repatriation holiday that was proposed in 2009. Several other
Senate Democrats who voted against that measure, including  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts  and Kay Hagan of  North Carolina , have
also signaled that they may reconsider their position.  No Specifics Yet  There aren’t any details about how Senate Democrats would
structure a repatriation holiday now. Schumer didn’t offer
specifics about the infrastructure bank he envisions or the  tax
rate  that companies would pay if they shifted as much as $1
trillion in overseas profits to the U.S. If a company were to
repatriate those funds now, it would pay the statutory corporate
tax rate of 35 percent on that money.  Even with Schumer’s support, a repatriation holiday must
clear several hurdles. Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
has echoed the administration’s desire to address repatriation
as part of a tax overhaul.  Lawmakers might also blanch at the total cost of a holiday.
The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation has said that a
repatriation holiday similar to one being considered in the
 House of Representatives  would cost $78.7 billion in forgone
revenue over 10 years.  With the  unemployment rate  at 9.1 percent and Congress
unlikely to approve any additional fiscal stimulus, lawmakers
are looking at the short-term revenue gain that might come from
a repatriation holiday.  Short-Term Revenue  Though a holiday loses money over 10 years, the Joint
Committee on Taxation has said that it would generate $3.4
billion of revenue in 2011, $12.5 billion in 2012 and $9.6
billion in 2013.  That revenue would go to the infrastructure bank Schumer
said Democrats are considering as a way to address criticism
that a repatriation holiday approved by Congress as part of tax
legislation in 2004 didn’t prevent companies that took advantage
of the program from reducing their workforce.  “The opposition last time was because none of it went to
jobs,” he said in a brief interview yesterday. “If we tied
that money to an infrastructure bank -- but only if we tied it
to an infrastructure bank or something like it -- you could be
sure there would be some jobs.”  He stopped short of guaranteeing Democratic support of a
repatriation holiday with ties to infrastructure development.  “That doesn’t mean it will get support yet,” he said.
“It’s something people are talking about.”  ‘Need for Jobs’  Kerry said a repatriation holiday that emphasizes  job
creation  could persuade him to change his vote from 2009.  “The need for jobs and job creation and what it may take,
you want to open your mind and at least examine something
differently,” Kerry said in a short interview yesterday. “I’m
willing to do that. I don’t know what the result of that
examination will show, but I’m concerned enough about job
creation to make sure that we don’t leave any stone unturned.”  Hagan said the holiday would “encourage hiring at a
fraction of the cost of other fiscal policy.”  “Done right, I think a repatriation holiday could garner
support on both sides of the aisle, and we cannot ignore that
opportunity,” she said at a  June 15 event  sponsored by  Third
Way , a Washington-based Democratic policy group.  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, introduced
legislation in May that would allow companies to repatriate
their profits at a 5.25 percent tax rate. The bill includes what
he has called a “disincentive” to job cuts by including a
provision that would require companies to add $25,000 to their
taxable income each time they reduce their total workforce below
the company’s average.  With a 35 percent tax rate, the provision would increase a
company’s tax bill by $8,750 for each job reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  