-- 
SEC Battles African Warlords Under Dodd-Frank

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/sec-battles-african-warlords-under-dodd-frank.html
The U.S. agency that regulates
financial disclosures is taking on a new mission: combating
human-rights crimes on another continent with high-stakes
paperwork.  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed a year ago, requires the
Securities and Exchange Commission to order an estimated 5,994
public companies to report whether they obtain any of four
metals from the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Humanitarian groups accuse warlords in Congo of enslaving,
raping and murdering residents in the aftermath of the country’s
civil war. That misery, they say, is funded by “conflict
minerals” torn from Congo’s rich mines.  “It is the source of the money for this unending mayhem,”
said Representative Jim McDermott, who sponsored the legislation
and once served as a U.S. foreign service officer in Congo,
known as Zaire before 1997. He said the SEC is “already an arm
of foreign policy,” citing its efforts to curb bribery overseas
by U.S. companies.  In the waning hours of the Dodd-Frank debate last year, the
financial regulatory overhaul bill underwent high-speed
additions and subtractions. Among those was Section 1502, which
ordered companies to declare how they acquire the gold, tin,
tantalum and tungsten used in their products.  The proposed rule will reach into the operations of tech
giants such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , jewelry makers such as  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ,
aerospace firms such as  Boeing Co. (BA) , retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and, by extension, into virtually every cell phone,
wedding ring, jet engine and even, according to  American Apparel
Inc. (APP) , into the lights that flash in the soles of children’s
sneakers.  Humanitarian Mission  It also, in effect, puts the SEC in the middle of a
humanitarian crisis little connected to the regulator’s core
mission of protecting U.S. investors and free markets.  “We’re in a globalized economy where you can’t ignore
things anymore,” said Adam M. Kanzer, managing director and
general counsel for New York-based Domini Social Investments
LLC. “Because the corporations are involved, the SEC has clear
authority, and I don’t think it’s overreaching at all.”  Some officials say they are concerned that the SEC could
eventually be asked to play a role in other conflicts.  “There are many compelling issues around the world that we
as a nation can decide to confront,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said in an e-mailed statement. “Whether disclosure laws should
be one of the tools employed in the process is something that
Congress can determine.”  ‘Do Its Best’  If Congress orders it, she added, the agency will “do its
best.”  The director of her corporation finance division, Meredith Cross, told securities lawyers at a conference earlier this year
that the rule is outside the agency’s usual purview.  “The SEC has three principal statutory mandates: investor
protection, capital formation and fair and efficient markets,”
said Jeffrey W. Rubin, who leads the  American Bar Association ’s
securities regulation committee. “None of these are mentioned
in 1502 of Dodd-Frank.”  Congo is not a major supplier of most of the metals: It
produces less than 1 percent of the world’s supply of gold and
tungsten, and about 4 percent of tin, according to 2009 data
from the  U.S. Geological Survey . Its contribution to tantalum is
greater, supplying about 13 percent.  Human rights organizations say that in a country as poor as
Congo, the proceeds from sales are an important source of money.
Most of the metals are shipped to factories in  Asia , which can
complicate efforts for companies in the U.S. and Western Europe
to track their origins, according to  The Enough Project , a
human-rights group sponsored by the Center for American
Progress, a Washington policy organization that promotes
Democratic causes.  ‘Conflict-Free’  Under the proposal, a company that can show that it
acquired tin for its circuit-board solder or tantalum for its
capacitors from somewhere besides Congo or its nine neighboring
countries in Central  Africa  can report itself in compliance. If
a company can’t demonstrate that its metals originated outside
Congo, it won’t qualify as “conflict-free.”  “It was our intent to enact law that used transparency and
liability to affect a company’s standing in the marketplace,”
Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, said in a February
letter to the SEC also signed by fellow Democrat McDermott of
 Washington .  Friars Weigh In  One indication that the SEC is in new territory is in the
incoming public comment letters. Instead of the usual mix of
securities industry groups, public companies and law firms, the
comments on conflict minerals include statements from Franciscan
friars, the International Justice Mission, a global anti-slavery
group called “Free the Slaves” and  Human Rights Watch , the New
York-based advocacy group. There are also comments from affected
parties in central Africa.  “We cannot continue to suffer any longer,” leaders of
three mining cooperatives operating in Congo under the acronyms
COMIMPA, COMIDER and COCABI, said in a letter. They argued that
the mines are critical to the local economy: “Do we now have to
choose between dying by a bullet or starving to death?”  Officials from some of Congo’s nine neighbors also weighed
in. Burundi energy and mining minister Moise Bucumi wrote that
many “artisanal workers” depend on the mines for their
livelihood.  The SEC has already taken on other overseas oversight,
including cross-border accounting, and regulates as many as 970
non-U.S. firms. Still, before voting to propose the SEC take on
conflict minerals, Schapiro said that “expertise about these
events does not reside in the commission or its staff.”  Twice Delayed  The SEC has twice delayed the conflict-minerals rule --
first by extending the comment period, then by postponing
adoption of the rule beyond Congress’ April deadline. Schapiro
has said she’s shooting for “late summer” to finish it.  John Prendergast, a former director of African affairs for
the National Security Council, told lawmakers in November that
he’d been to Congo and the SEC moves had “shaken” the armed
groups. “Every minerals trader, every military official that I
talked to knows exactly what’s going on in Washington,” he
said.  Tin industry group Itri Ltd. of  St. Albans ,  England , said
in a March statement that some companies may sever ties to
Congo, calling the SEC rule a “de-facto embargo.”  Boycott  “If a boycott happens, that won’t help the regular people
in Congo,” Kanzer said. “They don’t want the rest of the world
to abandon them to this war.”  Mining companies elsewhere in the world expect to reap some
benefit from a flight of customers from Congo. Bryan Ellis,
chief executive officer of Perth, Australia-based Global
Advanced Metals, said in an interview that the change is sure to
help his company, one of the leading producers of tantalum. He
doesn’t expect an end to Congo mining, though.  “One of the things you can be certain of is the DRC will
not close down,” said Ellis, who also participates in the
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, an industry group
that has organized its own “conflict-free” designations.
“There are people out there who will continue to take material
out of the DRC and continue to use it.”  Robert D. Hormats, undersecretary of state for economic
affairs wrote in a March 17 letter to Amnesty International USA
that the U.S. State Department has set aside $11 million to run
its strategy there, which he said would “help bring us closer
to ending the human suffering in the region.”  McDermott said he doesn’t see why the agency can’t handle
the new challenge.  “That’s like saying, God, you can’t learn anything new,”
he said. “That kind of argument is not very useful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 