-- 
Senegal Lawmakers Reject Amendment as Police Clear Dakar Protesters

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-06-23T19:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/senegal-lawmakers-reject-amendment-as-police-clear-dakar-protesters.html
Lawmakers in  Senegal’s  National
Assembly rejected a proposed constitutional amendment today,
even after a clause that would have lowered the threshold of
votes needed to win the presidency was dropped.  A majority of members refused to back the law that included
a plan to create a position of vice president, Dakar-based
Agence de Presse Senegalaise reported.  Protesters burned a government-owned vehicle in front of
the assembly as members debated the policy, said witness Ahmed
Deme. Police used tear gas and fire hoses to disperse
demonstrators.  Senegal will retain its current system where candidates
need 50 percent of the vote plus one to win the presidency, APS
cited Justice Minister Chiekh Tidjane Sy as saying. An earlier
proposal would have required a winner to get support from 25
percent of all registered voters at the February 2012 election.  Senegal’s 8.75 percent Eurobonds, due 2021, declined for a
fourth straight day, dropping 0.6 percent to 103.895 cents on
the dollar by 8:04 p.m. in  London , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield rose to the highest in a month at 8.165
percent.  “The fact that Wade backed down under public pressure shows
this isn’t an administration that’s immune to the will of its
people,” said Philippe de Pontet, director of the Africa
Department at Eurasia Group. “The risk President Wade runs is
that, as we saw in North Africa, once a president starts
offering concessions, that can spur demand for greater
concessions,” he said by phone from  Washington  today.  Ransacked  Alioune Tine, the secretary-general of Raddho, a human-
rights group based in Dakar, was injured and taken to hospital
during the protests, APS reported. The home of an official with
the ruling Parti Democratique Senegalaise was ransacked and
another residence burned, the press agency said.  Serigne Mbacke Ndiaye, a spokesman for Wade, was in a
meeting and unable to comment when reached on his mobile phone
today. Colonel Alioune Ndiaye, a spokesman for the Senegalese
police, declined to comment when contacted.  Senegal  has had democratic rule since it attained
independence from France in 1960 and has never had a government
ousted in a coup d’etat  That reputation helped the country attract buyers for the
$500 million in Eurobonds sold last month, said Samir Gadio, an
emerging-markets strategist with Standard Bank Group Ltd.  “The strong selling point of Senegal has been that the
country has had a relatively democratic system over the last 35
years or so,” Gadio said by phone yesterday.  The political uncertainty may not immediately affect the
price of the debt, which is “still trading relatively wide
compared to its peers,” he said. “That said, it might be an
issue in the medium term if these relatively negative signals
become a trend as we head into the elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 