-- 
Serbia Guarantees EU70 Million Loan for State-Run Galenika

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-06-23T15:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/serbia-guarantees-eu70-million-loan-for-state-run-galenika-1-.html
The Serbian government will offer
guarantees for a loan of as much as 70 million euros ($99
million) to state-owned  Galenika ,  Serbia ’s biggest state-run
drugmaker, so it can repay short-term debt.  The company is facing more than 40 million euros in
short-term liabilities, needs to buy raw materials and may
halt operations within weeks without government support,
Economy Minister Nebojsa Ciric told reporters in Belgrade
today following a Cabinet meeting.  “Galenika is of strategic importance for the
pharmaceutical market and for the entire health system” of
Serbia, he said as he announced the decision and an
investigation into “apparent mismanagement” within the
company.  The company has been unable to collect about 110 million
euros owed by wholesalers, hospitals and other clients. It had
a 14 million euros loss last year on a 90 million euro
turnover.  “The company will be thoroughly reorganized” and most
top managers replaced, Ciric said. Galenika has a “solid
basis” to return to profit and talks with lenders are already
under way for a seven-year loan with a two-years grace period,
he said.  Nearly 40 percent of Galenika’s output is bought by
Serbia’s dominant state-run health care system, which pays
wholesalers with months-long delays and creates liquidity
problems, Zivomir Novakovic, Galenika’s recently appointed
assistant general manager, said in an interview.  “We are at the end of the payment chain” and Galenika
will soon start its own wholesale and distribution under a
restructuring plan, Novakovic said.  Serbia shelved plans to sell Galenika last year after two
disappointing offers. In December, the company signed a
manufacturing agreement with an  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  subsidiary
for mature products, taking over production of Brufen and
Flugalin painkillers previously made in  Greece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  