-- 
Li Na Loses to Lisicki at Wimbledon; Federer, Djokovic, Williams Advance

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-06-24T00:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/serena-williams-defeats-halep-in-three-sets-to-reach-wimbledon-third-round.html
French Open championLi Na became
the highest seed to exit Wimbledon in a three-set loss to Sabine Lisicki, while  Serena Williams  recovered from a set down to
reach round three and  Roger Federer  advanced in straight sets.  Lisicki, a 21-year-old German, saved two match points on
her serve against the No. 3 seed from  China  before winning
yesterday’s second-round match 3-6, 6-4, 8-6.  Lisicki, who lives in Bradenton,  Florida , fell to 211th on
the women’s tour in March after missing five months last year
with a left ankle injury. Her ranking rose to No. 62 when she
won a Wimbledon tune-up in Birmingham, England, this month.  “I’m coming off a title, so I feel very good,” Lisicki
told reporters. “I’m just happy to be back on the grass and
just enjoy every minute of it.”  Lisicki thanked tournament organizers for giving her a
wild-card invitation to play after she missed Wimbledon in 2010.
In 2009, she became the first German woman to reach the
quarterfinals at the All England Club since Steffi Graf in 1999.  Li became the first Chinese player to win a Grand Slam
singles title at the French Open this month. She won at  Roland
Garros  after making the final of the Australian Open in January.  Williams beat Simona Halep, a 19-year-old Romanian, 3-6, 6-
2, 6-1 to extend her record of always reaching the third round
to 12 appearances at Wimbledon. Federer defeated France’s Adrian
Mannarino 6-2, 6-3, 6-2, while No. 2 seed Novak Djokovic of
Serbia beat  South Africa ’s Kevin Anderson 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.  Nadal Faces Muller  Top-seeded Rafael Nadal of  Spain  resumes his title defense
today against Gilles Muller of Luxembourg on Court No. 1 and
former champion Maria Sharapova from Russia plays Britain’s
Laura Robson. American  Andy Roddick  opens Centre Court play
against Spain’s Feliciano Lopez and  Victoria Azarenka , the No. 4
seed from Belarus, faces Slovakia’s Daniela Hantuchova.  Williams, 29, won last year’s tournament, then missed
almost 12 months while having two operations on her right foot
and being treated for blood clots in her lungs. Trying to become
the first woman to win three straight Wimbledon titles since
Graf in 1993, the American has been forced to three sets in each
of her four matches since her comeback began at a grass-court
tournament last week in Eastbourne,  England .  “I’m just happy to be playing and hopefully will get
better as the tournament goes on,” Williams said in a televised
interview. “I got tight. I need to relax a bit more.”  Rain Delays  Rain delayed play several times yesterday and only matches
on Centre Court, which has a roof, continued at some points.  Sharapova’s match with Robson and top-seeded Caroline Wozniacki’s meeting with Virginie Razzano of France were among
those pushed to today. American Ryan Harrison, 19, was leading
Spain’s David Ferrer, the seventh seed, by two sets to one when
play was suspended around 9 p.m. local time.  Federer closed play on Centre Court last night. The third
seed from Switzerland, who has a men’s record 16 major titles,
is vying for his seventh Wimbledon championship, which would tie
the record held by William Renshaw and Pete Sampras.  It was the first time Federer, 29, played under the closed
roof of Wimbledon. Last year, he failed to reach the final for
the first time since 2003.  “It was a special moment for me in my career, playing
indoors here at Wimbledon,” Federer told reporters. “I’m happy
I managed to play a good match under the circumstances.”  Djokovic Advances  Djokovic, who will become No. 1 in the ATP rankings if he
makes the final or if top-ranked Nadal doesn’t retain his title,
also won in straight sets. Djokovic has reached the semifinals
at Wimbledon twice.  The 24-year-old Djokovic had a 43-match winning streak
ended by Federer in the  French Open  semifinals. The run, which
started in the Davis Cup final last year, was the third longest
since tennis went professional in 1968. Guillermo Vilas’s 46
straight wins and Ivan Lendl’s 44 lead the list.  Fifth-seeded  Robin Soderling  recovered from a two-set
deficit to beat 2002 champion Lleyton Hewitt 6-7 (5-7), 3-6, 7-
5, 6-4, 6-4 in almost four hours on Centre Court.  “I never came back from two sets to love down before in my
career,” Soderling, 26, told reporters. “It’s tough.”  Juan Martin  del Potro , the 2009 U.S. Open champion, also
came back to defeat Olivier Rochus of  Belgium  in a match that
was continued from the previous day. The Argentine will play
15th-seeded  Gilles Simon  of  France  today in the third round.  “It was a better match for me,” Del Potro said. “I
played more aggressively. That’s important for me since I don’t
get a day off this week.”  Isner Ousted  Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, the 12th seed from France, overcame
Grigor Dimitrov of Bulgaria, while  John Isner , who defeated
Nicolas Mahut in the first round in a rematch of the longest
tennis match in history, lost to Nicolas Almagro.  The Spaniard won 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-5), 6-7 (5-7), 6-3 on
Court 18, where the 26-year-old American’s record 11-hour, 5-
minute match against Mahut was played last year. Isner beat
Mahut three days ago on Court No. 3.  Francesca Schiavone, the sixth seed and 2010 French Open
champion, reached the third round for the third time in 11
attempts, while Ana Ivanovic, the 2008 French Open winner, also
advanced. The Serb is one of six women in the Wimbledon draw to
have been ranked No. 1 by the WTA.  Poland’s Agnieszka Radwanska, the 13th seed, was upset by
Petra Cetkovska of the Czech Republic and No. 14 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of  Russia  lost to countrywoman Nadia Petrova.  Russia’s Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 12th seed,  Germany ’s
 Julia Goerges  and Belgium’s Yanina Wickmayer also advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  