-- 
Serena Williams Left Puzzled After Following Sister on Wimbledon Outpost

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-23T20:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/serena-williams-puzzled-by-having-to-play-on-small-court-at-wimbledon.html
Serena Williams may be a four-time
 Wimbledon  champion. That doesn’t mean she automatically gets to
play on the most famous court in tennis.  After opening her title defense two days ago on Centre
Court, the 13-time Grand Slam singles champion moved today into
the third round with a 3-6, 6-2, 6-1 win over  Romania ’s Simona
Halep on Court 2, a small show court stuck in a far corner of
the Wimbledon complex. It seats about 4,000 people, almost
10,000 fewer than Centre Court.  “They like to put us on Court 2, me and Venus, for
whatever reason,” the American said in a news conference, with
a member of the host All England Club sitting next to her. “I
haven’t figured it out yet.”  Serena’s elder sister Venus, a five-time champion on the
London grass courts, had started her Wimbledon campaign with a
win on Court 2. She beat Kimiko Date-Krumm of  Japan  in three
sets on Centre Court yesterday.  The sisters have dominated Wimbledon since the start of the
century, winning nine of the past 11 singles titles. They’ve
also won four doubles championships.  Men’s top seed and two-time Wimbledon winner  Rafael Nadal 
of  Spain , and six-time champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland ,
were put on Centre Court for both their opening and second
rounds.  “They’re never moved across,” Serena Williams said today.
“Actually, Venus and I have won more Wimbledons together than a
lot of the players or by ourselves in doubles even. They’re not
going to change, doesn’t look like.”  ‘Fair, Balanced’  Johnny Perkins, a spokesman for the All England Club, said
in an e-mail that scheduling was “a complex business” and part
of creating “a fair and balanced draw from many competing
interests and wishes, including the players.”  “There is certainly no intention to favor any player or
players and in this instance, I am sure the 4,000 spectators on
Court 2 would have been delighted to see our reigning ladies’
champion win,” Perkins said.  In 2008, both sisters were put on the old Court 2, known as
the “Graveyard of Champions,” in the second week of the
championships. Several high-profile players over the years lost
there, including  Pete Sampras , Martina Hingis and  Jimmy Connors .  The old Court 2 was located near the players’ restaurant,
where thousands of spectators used to pass by on their way to
one of the outside courts. Competitors there could hear noise
from the canteen as well as the sound of people walking by.  Quieter Corner  The new Court 2 has been moved away to a quieter corner of
the club, further away from the restaurant. It’s built adjacent
to Church Road, where cars, buses and spectators on their way to
the main entrance frequently pass by.  Stacey Allaster , the head of the women’s tour, questioned
the All England Club’s judgment.  “ Serena Williams  is a four-time Wimbledon singles
champion, the defending champion of Wimbledon and a 13-time
Grand Slam singles champion,” Allaster said in a statement. “I
share her disappointment. Scheduling decisions at Wimbledon are
made by the All England Club and only they would be able to
explain the rationale behind their decision for the scheduling
of Serena’s match today.”  There is one benefit to playing on Court 2, Serena Williams
said.  “I never have too much time to warm up,” she said. “I
look at that as kind of a warm-up, trying to walk out there. I’m
like, OK, well, this gets my legs moving.”  An Improvement  Williams, who returned to tennis last week after almost a
year away because of injury and illness, said she was trying not
to make “a big issue” out of court assignment.  “At some point maybe I should,” she said. “I just really
try to focus on not going down on Court 2. At least now they
have a review (system) out there, so I do like that. It was much
better than the old one that was actually closer. I really hated
that court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  