-- 
Singapore Consumer Prices Climbed 4.5% in May, More Than Analyst Estimates

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-23T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/singapore-consumer-prices-climbed-4-5-in-may-more-than-analyst-estimates.html
Singapore ’s inflation exceeded
economists’ estimates in May as food and transportation costs
increased, supporting the central bank’s decision to allow the
currency to rise further.  The  consumer price index  rose 4.5 percent last month from a
year earlier, matching April’s previously reported gain, the
Department of Statistics said in a statement today. The median
estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
4.1 percent increase.  Asian central banks from  China  to Thailand and India have
raised  interest rates  or allowed their currencies to gain this
year to curb price pressures as oil and food costs rise.
Singapore’s economic expansion has pushed the unemployment rate
to a three-year low and economists including Irvin Seah from DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. say rising labor costs are adding to the
risk that inflation may accelerate.  “Higher labor costs will eventually get passed on to end
consumers,” Seah said before the report. “The risk is that
such wage-driven inflation pressure could prove to be more
persistent and broad-based.”  Singapore, which uses the  exchange rate  as its main tool to
manage inflation, has allowed its currency to appreciate to a
record to contain price gains.  Singapore Dollar   The Monetary Authority of Singapore said in April it will
re-center the currency’s trading band higher. The Singapore 
dollar has gained more than 12 percent against the U.S. currency
in the past year to be the best performer in Asia excluding 
 Japan . It traded at S$1.2346 a dollar at 12:29 p.m. local time.  Prices rose 0.6 percent last month from April, without
adjusting for seasonal factors, today’s report showed.  Consumer prices will probably rise 4.1 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 21 economists in a survey by
the Monetary Authority of Singapore released this month. The
central bank forecasts inflation will average 3 percent to 4
percent in 2011.  Singapore’s  unemployment rate  was 1.9 percent in the first
quarter and companies are increasing wages to retain workers as
job vacancies rise. Average wages before adjusting for inflation
rose 8.5 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the
Ministry of Manpower said June 15.  “I expect price pressures to moderate going forward as I
think they have already peaked,” Chester Liaw, an economist at
Forecast Pte. in Singapore, said before the report. “A strong
Singapore dollar will help alter price pressures, especially
food prices and a lot of the outlook also depends on oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  