-- 
Sinosteel Halts Ore Mine Work on Port, Rail ‘Uncertainty’

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-23T05:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/sinosteel-halts-ore-mine-work-on-port-rail-uncertainty-1-.html
Sinosteel Midwest Corp., a unit of
Sinosteel Corp., suspended work on a A$2 billion ($2.1 billion)
 iron ore  project in Western Australia because of “uncertainty”
about the development of the Oakajee port and rail project.  “The completion date for the Oakajee port and rail project
has pushed out from 2012 to a forecast not before the end of
2015, with further delays likely,” Sinosteel, which wants to
ship ore from its Weld Range mine through the proposed port,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Mitsubishi Corp. and  Murchison Metals Ltd. (MMX) , who are
planning the A$4.3 billion port and rail development, were given
a nine-month extension by the state government in March on a
decision to proceed with the project. Murchison, which delayed
the project start in November, said last month it expects to get
debt funding offers in the December quarter.  “Sinosteel’s decision is a bit of brinkmanship that
potentially throws the whole Oakajee project in doubt,” said
Peter Strachan, who heads Perth-based independent advisory firm
StockAnalysis. “It will still go ahead because there’s demand
for the project and there’s the political will to make sure it
goes ahead.”  Murchison, whose shares have dropped 40 percent this year,
had them halted today pending a statement before June 27.
Potential Oakajee customer,  Gindalbie Metals Ltd. (GBG) , which said
today it continues to support the project, fell 3.9 percent to
86 cents at 2:39 p.m. in Sydney trading.  Business Decisions  Oakajee Port in August signed initial agreements with
potential customers of the project including Karara Mining Ltd.,
a venture between Gindalbie and  China ’s Anshan Iron
& Steel Group, Sinosteel Midwest and Crosslands Resources.  “We are certainly not closing the door on Weld Range,
however we must make the right business decisions in order to
protect our assets and ensure a realistic future for our
organization,” Julian Mizera, chief operating officer, said in
the statement. The company is planning to ship 15 million metric
tons of iron ore from Weld Range through Oakajee, which is near
Geraldton, 430 kilometers (267 miles) north of the  Western
Australia  capital, Perth.  Sinosteel will continue its mining operations at Koolanooka
and Blue Hills, exporting through the port of Geraldton, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  