-- 
Slovenia Can Cut Deficit Even With NLB Bank Capital Boost

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-23T12:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/slovenia-can-cut-deficit-even-with-nlb-bank-capital-boost-1-.html
The Slovenian government will be
able to cut the budget gap below 3 percent of gross domestic
product by 2013, even with spending additional funds for the
capital increase for Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.  “Of course it’s possible to trim the budget below that
threshold as losses at Nova Ljubljanska have been already dealt
with,” Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  told reporters in
Ljubljana today. He declined to comment on the readiness of  KBC
Groep NV (KBC) , the second single largest investor in NLB, to
participate in the capital boost.  Slovenia needs to lower its  budget deficit  below 3 percent
by 2013 in line with European Union rules. The March
contribution of 243 million euros ($345 million) to the
country’s biggest bank will widen 2011 shortfall to 5.5 percent,
the statistics office said. Another state participation in NLB
capital increase would boost the gap by 1.7 percentage points,
EU and Development Minister Mitja Gaspari said June 20.  Nova Ljubljanska, indirectly owned by the government, needs
fresh capital after the impact of Slovenia’s 2009 recession
caused a surge in bad loan provisions mostly from the
 construction industry .  The bank had its debt and deposit rating cut by three
levels by Moody’s Investors Service to Baa3 on June 8 on
expectations bad loans will continue to weaken its capital base.
Fitch ratings affirmed today the bank’s score long-term issuer
default rating at A- with a stable outlook.  The lender is also selling assets to improve its balance
sheet as it needs to repay about 740 million euros of loans by
the end of the year, according to Chief Executive Officer Bozo Jasovic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  