-- 
Sohn, O’Sullivan Say Fed Is Keeping Options Open

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-06-23T14:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/sohn-o-sullivan-say-fed-is-keeping-options-open-correct-.html
(Corrects name of economist in headline of story that moved
yesterday.)  Sung Won Sohn, an economics
professor at California State University-Channel Islands, and
 Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc., said Federal
Reserve officials are keeping their options open amid a weaker
economy. They spoke after the Fed’s decision today to keep
record monetary stimulus in place.  Sam Bullard, a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities
LLC; Victor Li, associate professor with the Villanova School of
Business; and  Paul Ballew , chief economist at Nationwide Mutual
Insurance Co., also commented today.  Sohn:  “They decided to keep their options open regarding a
possible QE3. At the moment, it’s not likely the FOMC will do
anything beyond QE2, but it is comforting to know they are going
to reinvest proceeds from maturing securities. They want to make
sure there is plenty of liquidity in the economy to support the
fledgling economic recovery.”  “Essentially, the FOMC feels their current policy is the
correct one in view of sluggish economic growth and somewhat
elevated inflation expectations, so they want to stand pat and
not change the course of their monetary policy for now.”  “They seem to feel the economic recovery is on schedule
and don’t see any meaningful danger of the economy faltering.
They’re a bit more optimistic than I am. At this stage, the
economy is not as healthy as the statement would indicate. I
would have expressed more concern about the economic recovery.
However, if they had said that, it would have snowballed and
created negative sentiment in financial markets, which they
don’t want to do.”  “They’re clearly looking at the economy through rose-
colored glasses.”  O’Sullivan:  “Time will tell to what extent this weakening in the
economy will reverse. Certainly, it’s quite reasonable that the
weakness has been exaggerated recently.”  “On the other side, one of the more notable things in the
statement is the dropping of the reference to underlying
inflation being too low. That change alone makes the statement
more hawkish. The inflation numbers have clearly picked up. It
certainly makes it a lot harder to initiate another round of
stimulus. Given weaker growth numbers, they won’t want to
tighten, but given the pickup in inflation, they can’t ease. So
they’re not ruling anything out. For there to be a third round
of stimulus, we’d need to not just see continued disappointing
growth data, but the inflation numbers weaken as well.”  Bullard:  “They want to keep as accommodative as possible for as
long as they can to hopefully add some juice to the economy and
raise demand until the recovery is on a firmer footing.”  “They acknowledged economic conditions have deteriorated
since the April meeting, and there has been a downturn in the
labor market. There has been a downshift in economic
projections.”  Li:  “It doesn’t seem like there’s a lot of desire at this
point or consensus to move ahead with another round of
quantitative easing. The risks to inflation and another
recession seem more balanced now, which suggests the Fed can
keep the status quo.”  “The economy has enough strength to sustain the
recovery.”  “One big risk is the housing market. Another big risk is
if the Fed doesn’t tighten by the end of the year, we might see
inflation rising a bit more.”  Ballew on the statement:  “Clearly, the Fed has been on the side of being a little
more optimistic than private forecasters. We are seeing signs of
moderately stronger growth, but we’re certainly not sprinting
ahead. It’s a tepid recovery. The question is, ‘What else can
they do?’”  “The bottom line is a lot of these issues with housing and
consumer and government debt are going to take time to
rebalance. They didn’t give any real hint about QE3, but clearly
have left the door open for any policy actions they think might
be appropriate.”  Ballew on Fed forecasts:  “Their forecasts are now more in line with what we and
other private forecasters are seeing, which is a hesitant
recovery in the 2.5 percent to 3 percent range over 2011 and
2012. Clearly, labor markets are not improving as much as they
would like. It’s going to be a slow slog.”  The statement and forecasts “tell us the Fed is going to
stay on the sidelines well into 2012, and any discussion about
exit strategy is going to be delayed probably until the back end
of this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  