-- 
South Africa Central Bank Hasn’t Seen Second-Round Inflation, Mnyande Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-23T11:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/south-africa-central-bank-hasn-t-seen-second-round-inflation-mnyande-says.html
South Africa’s central bank said it
has seen no evidence that higher fuel and food prices are
translating into more generalized inflation.  “We haven’t see the second-round effects,”  Monde Mnyande ,
the bank’s chief economist, said today in an address at an event
hosted by the University of Stellenbosch’s Institute for Futures
Research in Cape Town. “We are monitoring those very closely
and we will definitely act as soon as we start to see them.”  The central bank warned price pressures were intensifying
when it left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a 30-year
low of 5.5 percent on May 12. The bank says it expects inflation
to average 5.1 percent this year and 6 percent in 2012. Policy
makers, who will announce their next interest-rate decision on
July 21, are tasked with keeping inflation within a 3 percent to
6 percent band.  Inflation accelerated to 4.6 percent last month, the
fastest pace in 12 months, from 4.2 percent in April as fuel
costs rose, the government statistics agency said yesterday.  “I don’t think inflation is going to be coming down,”
Mnyande said. “Consumer prices are likely to remain on the side
of the upper limit of the target range.”  Inflation Basket  The government said in April that it plans to change the
weighting of items in the inflation basket from September of
next year.  “The weighting on electricity is still relatively low” in
the formula and if it is increased, there could be a negative
impact on inflation, Mnyande said.  State-run Eskom Holdings Ltd., which supplies about 95
percent of  South Africa ’s electricity, is raising prices to fund
expansion and prevent a repeat of 2008 power cuts. The state
regulator allowed Eskom to raise tariffs 26 percent this year.  South Africa’s widening current-account gap was
“worrying,” Mnyande said. “The consequences of a huge current
account deficit could also manifest itself in inflationary
pressures.”  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, expanded to 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product from a revised 1 percent in the previous three
months, the  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly Bulletin released
on June 21. The wider deficit was attributed to a drop in
exports caused by weaker global demand and a decline in coal
shipments, and increased imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 