-- 
South Africa Asked to Suspend Law That Stalled Rio Tinto Deal

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-23T15:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/south-africa-asked-to-suspend-tax-law-that-stalled-rio-tinto-s-share-sale.html
South African businesses urged the
government to suspend changes to tax laws that caused Rio Tinto
Plc’s Palabora Mining Co. Ltd. to shelve a share sale to black
investors.  The alterations undermine government attempts to increase
black participation in the economy, a policy known as
empowerment, Business Unity  South Africa  said in a  statement 
today. Businesses have been transferring equity to black
investors to break white dominance of the economy 17 years after
the end of apartheid.  “The changes could result in the black economic
empowerment partners paying double or even triple tax charges,”
Johannesburg-based Business Unity, one of the country’s largest
business lobby groups, said on its website. “The unintended
consequences” have the “serious potential” of terminating
empowerment deals, it said.  National Treasury on  June 2  announced an 18-month
suspension of Section 45 the Income Tax Act, a move that may tax
some inter-company transactions. Copper producer Palabora on
June 20 said the change meant a planned sale of shares to black
investors, which was structured to be “tax-neutral,” was no
longer viable.  Mustek Ltd. (MST)  scrapped a buyout by management and
private equity investors on June 7 for the same reason.  The provision was being abused by companies to avoid tax
and the changes were not aimed at disrupting legitimate
transactions, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in
 Cape Town  today.  Open to Persuasion  The government does not want “to be involved in any
process that harms or delays legitimate commercial
transactions,” Gordhan said. “Those who are able to quickly
persuade the relevant authorities in South Africa that theirs is
not one of these unnecessarily creative exercises will be able
to carry on with their transactions sooner rather than later.”  The tax changes have also placed  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s sale of
its business in South Africa to the Shanduka Group Ltd. at risk,
Johannesburg-based Business Day newspaper reported, citing
Shanduka spokeswoman Maureen Mphatsoe. Shanduka is controlled by
former politician Cyril Ramaphosa. Mphatsoe didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  “We will attempt to listen very carefully to all those who
have views to express,” Gordhan said. “For those who want to
frighten others and say that we are now creating a climate in
South Africa that’s anti-investment and so on, let me say
plainly it’s nonsense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 