-- 
South Korea Won Weakens for First Time in Five Days as Fed Cuts Forecast

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-23T06:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/south-korea-won-weakens-for-first-time-in-five-days-as-fed-cuts-forecast.html
South Korea ’s won weakened for the
first time in five days after the  Federal Reserve  trimmed its
economic growth forecast for the U.S., prompting declines in
stocks and reducing demand for emerging-market assets.  The Fed maintained its vow to keep  interest rates  low for
an “extended period,” predicting the economy will grow as much
as 2.9 percent this year, down from April’s forecast of up to
3.3 percent. Separately, South Korea’s finance regulator plans
to tighten rules related to banks’ loan-to-deposit ratios as the
government seeks to rein in rising household debt.  “The Fed’s projections prompted stock markets to decline
and is also weighing on the currency, damping risk demand,”
said Cho Young Bok, a currency dealer at Daegu Bank in Seoul.
“On top of that, the Greek debt issue hasn’t been resolved and
lingering concerns are weakening the won.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,076.80 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,073.55 yesterday, the strongest level since May 11.
South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index fell 0.4 percent.  The Financial Supervisory Service will more closely monitor
lending at the country’s financial institutions’ and tighten
control of the loan-deposit ratio, FSS Governor Kwon Hyouk Se
told lawmakers today at a forum in Seoul, according to an e-
mailed copy of his speech. Household debt rose for eight
quarters through March to a record 801.4 trillion won ($744
billion), prompting the central bank to lift its policy rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 3.25 percent on June 10.  The yield on the 4 percent government bonds due March 2016
was unchanged at 3.94 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  