-- 
Sportingbet Gets Approached by Ladbrokes

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-23T11:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/sportingbet-gets-highly-preliminary-ladbrokes-approach.html
Sportingbet Plc (SBT)  said it received a
“highly preliminary” approach from  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  that may lead
to an offer for the online sports-betting company. The shares
rose as much as 20 percent.  There can be no certainty an offer will be made, London-
based Sportingbet company said in a statement today. Ladbrokes
confirmed the advance.  In April, Ladbrokes abandoned takeover talks with web-
gambling company  888 Holdings Plc (888)  after four months. The U.K.
bookmaker founded in 1886 wants to expand its Internet betting
operations, where first-quarter net revenue grew 1.2 percent.  “We think that a deal makes sound strategic sense for
Ladbrokes as it would instantaneously establish a market-leading
position in more than 10 global territories, including the key
Australian, Spanish and Greek markets,” wrote James Hollins, an
analyst with Evolution Securities who has a “buy”
recommendation on Ladbrokes and Sportingbet. “Ladbrokes is
highly U.K.-centric and does not have the brands to penetrate.”  Sportingbet agreed last month to buy Centrebet
International Ltd. as it seeks to expand in  Australia , a market
growing faster than Europe.  Shares Rise  Sportingbet gained 8 pence to 50.5 pence at 12:54 p.m. in
 London , after earlier increasing as much as 8.5 pence to 51
pence, the biggest gain since May 2008. The stock has dropped 18
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 333.6
million pounds ($533 million). Ladbrokes climbed 0.6 percent to
147.3 pence, giving the Harrow, England-based company a market
value of 1.3 billion pounds.  Sportingbet could be worth as much as 90 pence per share to
Ladbrokes, Hollins wrote. Still, certainty of the deal closing
is low, he wrote, citing the failed 888 talks. Counter-bidders
could include  William Hill Plc (WMH) , Bwin.party digital entertainment
Plc and Malta-based  Unibet Group Plc (UNIB) , according to Hollins.  Ladbrokes has announced six deals in the past five years,
at an average size of $100.8 million, according to Bloomberg
data.  “We do not see the deal as attractive close up as it may
look prima facie,” wrote Paul Leyland, an Investec analyst, in
a note to investors. He said he wouldn’t recommend buying
Sportingbet shares, anticipating a deal will close, and he cited
concerns about “Ladbrokes’s strategic direction and
execution.”  Leyland said cost savings plus Australian potential could
lead to a 630 million-pound estimate of Sportingbet’s value to
Ladbrokes. Yet such a calculation is an over-simplification,
because incorporating Sportingbet’s systems could cause
disruption, and Sportingbet’s revenue in  Turkey , Greece, Germany
and Spain carries regulatory risk, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  