-- 
Standard Bank Looks to Angola, Nigeria to Spend Excess Capital, CEO Says

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-06-23T16:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/standard-bank-indentifies-angola-nigeria-as-african-growth-opportunities.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd., Africa’s
largest lender, said it will use the profit from the sale of its
Troika Dialog stake to make acquisitions in Africa, where it has
identified  Nigeria , Angola,  Ghana  and  Kenya  for expansion.  “These are the big high-growth markets where we’re still
relatively small,” Chief Executive Officer Jacko Maree said by
phone today. “If you’re refocusing on Africa, you have to
question whether you can do anything in these markets just by
building new branches and opening accounts.”  With operations in 17 African countries, Johannesburg-based
Standard Bank is concentrating on the continent and its 1
billion people to benefit from increased trade and investment-
banking transactions with emerging-markets. The lender last year
cut 1,641 jobs in Johannesburg and  London  to offset lower
earnings as lending growth slowed and impairment charges rose.  The renewed focus on acquisitions is “symptomatic of the
tough revenue environment” for South African banks, Khaya Gobodo, head of equities at Afena Capital, said. “It appears
that the way to find growth is to buy it.”  Standard Bank is moving its Corporate and Investment
Banking unit to Johannesburg from London and appointed David Munro, currently the head of its investment banking business, as
the division’s chief executive officer, the lender said in a
statement today. Rob Leith, the London-based CEO of CIB since
2008, will take a new role as head of strategic expansion.  ‘Worrying About Opportunities’  “We have to make sure there is at least a small team that
is worrying about opportunities; it’s hard to do that just part
time,” Maree said. “The obvious markets where we would be keen
to look would be places where we are smaller than we would like
to be.”  The proceeds from the $372 million sale of its 36 percent
stake in  Russia ’s Troika Dialog were expected by the end of the
year. Standard Bank paid $300 million for the Moscow-based
brokerage in 2009 and it will receive a further payment from any
increase in Troika’s value at the end of 2013.  In addition to the proceeds from Troika, Standard Bank has
an estimated 3 billion rand ($437 million) in surplus cash in
its South African operations, according to Faizal Moola, a
banking analyst at Avior Research Ltd. in  Cape Town .  Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., which owns 20 percent of
Standard Bank, agreed to buy Standard Bank  Argentina  for as much
as $800 million, El Cronista newspaper said on June 17, citing
people it didn’t identify. Maree declined to comment on the
report.  No Compelling Deals  Finance Director Simon Ridley said yesterday excess capital
that could not be used to grow the bank’s  South Africa  and rest-
of-Africa franchise would be returned to shareholders once the
bank’s capital requirements had been finalized under new Basel
regulations.  “In general, I’m a much bigger proponent of returning
money to shareholders unless you find something absolutely
compelling,” Afena Capital’s Gobodo said. “It’s not easy to
find compelling deals out there.”  Leith’s appointment was a sign that Standard Bank was
taking its revised strategy to the next level, he said.  “If they have decided that  Africa  is going to be
important, then scale is going to be important,” Gobodo said.
“You’re going to have to buy things to build scale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  