-- 
Statoil May Renegotiate West Qurna Contract, Questions Schedule

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-06-23T15:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/statoil-may-renegotiate-west-qurna-contract-questions-schedule.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest oil
and gas producer, may renegotiate the West Qurna 2 contract with
 Iraq  because it may be unable to meet an output target.  “Many analysts have for a long time now pointed to the
fact that the sum of the contracts awarded in Iraq, those
production volumes, probably exceed Iraq’s production
capacity,” Statoil spokesman Baard Glad Pedersen said by phone
today. “If we can’t produce the volumes we agreed upon in the
contract, then we expect a dialogue to take place between the
parties.”  Statoil and OAO Lukoil entered a development and production
service contract for the southern West Qurna field with the
government in  Baghdad  in 2010. The agreement was for the two
companies to produce 1.8 million barrels a day for $1.15 a
barrel in compensation after investment and production costs had
been covered, the spokesman said.  “We have contractual terms and we likely need to revisit
those,” James van Merkensteijn, senior VP for international
strategy and business at Statoil, said in an interview in  London 
yesterday. “It has not been decided yet. It’s very fluid for
now.”  Iraq, home to the world’s third-largest oil reserves, is
bringing in foreign companies to boost oil output after years of
conflict and prior sanctions destroyed its infrastructure. The
country is adding about 500,000 barrels a day through 2012,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a June report. The Basrah terminal
is operating at maximum capacity, limiting exports from the
south to about 1.7 million barrels a day, according to JPMorgan.
The country is unlikely to achieve its aim of doubling refinery
capacity by 2015, Lukoil executive Gati al-Jebouri said in May.  Lukoil’s al-Jebouri expects West Qurna Phase 2 will start
production in 2013 at a rate of 150,000 barrels a day and reach
output of 400,000 barrels a day by 2014. The partners at the
field had formerly targeted a 2012 production start.  There is “the whole issue of the country itself,
development of infrastructure, how we can ramp up production
according to the time frame,” van Merkensteijn said. “The
contract is very complex. There are real questions about whether
we can stick to the time frame.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  