-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s New York Accuser Hires French Lawyer to Find Other Victims

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-23T16:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/strauss-kahn-accuser-seeks-other-victims.html
The woman who accused  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  of attempted rape and sexual assault in  New York 
hired a Paris lawyer to look for women in  France  who may have
been victimized by the former International Monetary Fund chief.  Kenneth P. Thompson, a former federal prosecutor who is
representing the accuser in New York, hired  Thibault de
Montbrial  to provide legal support, the French lawyer said
today.  “I am working with him, I am the contact for his firm in
France, notably to see if there exist other victims of Mr.
Strauss-Kahn,” de Montbrial said in a telephone interview.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was arrested May 14 and later indicted on
seven counts, including criminal sex act, attempted rape, sexual
abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching. If convicted
of the top charges, he faces as long as 25 years in prison. He
has pleaded not guilty.  He allegedly attacked a housekeeper, a 32-year-old from
 Guinea , at the Midtown Manhattan Sofitel on May 14, grabbing her
breasts and trying to pull down her pantyhose, prosecutors said
in court papers. The former IMF chief attempted to rape her and
forced her to perform oral sex, according to the indictment.  De Montbrial represented former Renault SA employee
Matthieu Tenenbaum in his wrongful-firing case over false claims
he sold information on the automaker’s electric-car program. De
Montbrial declined to say when he was hired or comment on how
information he uncovers would be used.  Emily Browne, a spokeswoman for Thompson, had no immediate
comment.  Benjamin Brafman , a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 