-- 
U.K. Retail-Sales Index Declines to Lowest in a Year, CBI Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-23T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-k-retail-sales-index-declines-to-lowest-in-a-year-cbi-says.html
A U.K. retail-sales index fell to
its weakest level in a year this month as Britons curtailed
spending on groceries and clothing, according to a Confederation
of British Industry survey.  The gauge fell to minus 2 from 18 the previous month, the
London-based business lobby said in a report today. Stores
expect demand to be “flat” in July, the CBI said.  While  Nationwide Building Society  reported last week that
 consumer confidence  rose in May as an extra public holiday for
the royal wedding and hot weather led to a “feel-good factor,”
it said underlying sentiment is “cautious.” Britons are being
squeezed as inflation outpaces wage growth and the government
implements budget cuts to reduce the deficit.  “After a year of growth, high street sales volumes fizzled
out in June,” Judith McKenna, chief financial officer of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda unit and chair of the CBI’s distributive
trades panel, said in a statement. “Consumers are really
feeling the pinch as disposable incomes continue to be squeezed
by rising prices and weak earnings growth. Household budgets are
likely to remain tight over the coming months.”  The slowdown in June was led by grocers and clothing
retailers, with the former posting their slowest growth rate
since March 2009, the CBI said. Sales at clothing stores were
“flat,” the weakest performance since January 2010, while
demand for durable household goods fell “rapidly.”  Sales are “back to being well below seasonal norms,” said
the CBI, which carried out the survey of 74 retailers between
May 27 and June 15.  Demand on suppliers fell this month, with a gauge of orders
dropping to minus 5 from 6 in May, while an index of the volume
of stocks in relation to expected demand declining to 16 from
31, its lowest since November. A measure of sales for the time
of year plunged to minus 19 from minus 2 and an overall
expectations gauge for July was at 2.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) ,  Europe ’s third-largest electronics
retailer, said yesterday it is considering ways of exiting its
Comet chain in the U.K. after a loss at the 249-store unit held
back full-year earnings growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  