-- 
U.K. Looks at Clegg Proposal to Give Away RBS, Lloyds Shares

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-06-23T14:30:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-k-to-look-at-clegg-proposal-to-give-away-rbs-lloyds-shares.html
A proposal to give every British
voter shares in the part-nationalized  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is one of a number of ideas
under consideration, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office said.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  floated the idea during a
visit to  Brazil . He told the Financial Times newspaper he had
written to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Chief
Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander this week, asking them
to consider the case for a “mass share-ownership scheme.”  A proposal drawn up by  Portman Capital Partners  and backed
by Liberal Democrat lawmaker Stephen Williams in March would see
about 75 percent of the publicly owned shares in the two banks
being distributed to all 45 million U.K. registered voters.  “This option has been put forward as an idea and it’s one
we will look at,” Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in  London  today. “It’s taxpayers’ money that was used
to bail out these banks, and when thinking about how we dispose
of those bank shares we need to make sure we get best value for
taxpayers.”  Under the Portman blueprint, individuals who hold the
shares would be allowed to keep any gain above a floor price of
at least 51 pence ($0.83) per share for RBS and 74 pence for
Lloyds, the amount the government paid when it bailed out the
banks in 2008. The Treasury would receive the proceeds up to the
threshold. That would deprive it of any profit from the rescue.  The government owns 83 percent of Royal Bank of  Scotland 
and 41 percent of Lloyds after pumping in almost 66 billion
pounds to bolster their capital during the financial crisis.  Bailout Costs  RBS fell 5.1 percent to 36.7 pence at 3:23 p.m. in London.
Lloyds declined 3.4 percent to 45.42 pence.  Clegg’s fellow Liberal Democrat, Business Secretary  Vince Cable , described the idea as “a very constructive step,”
before pointing out that any selloff was “several years
hence.”  Speaking to BBC television, Cable said the privatization of
British Gas in 1986, when individuals were encouraged to become
shareholders, is a model that “in a more ambitious way could be
applied to the banking system.”  Clegg himself told the FT the proposal could prove
“insuperably complex.”  “I don’t see how this idea puts cash in the government
coffers,” Joseph Dickerson, banks analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in London, said in a telephone interview. “And
what does the average person know about the valuation of a bank
and when to sell? Should higher-rate taxpayers get more
shares?”  ‘Blue-Sky Thinking’  Conservative lawmaker Mark Field, whose parliamentary
district includes London’s financial center, described Clegg’s
proposal as “an absolute non-starter.”  “It’s the bluest of blue-sky thinking,” he said by phone.
“Once you have uncertainty hanging over the future ownership of
the banks, it could take them longer to regain their value. Any
divestment needs to be driven by economic not political
considerations.”  The idea was also attacked by the opposition  Labour Party .  “The test for what happens to the nationalized banks must
be the long-term best interests of the taxpayer, not the short-
term need to get headlines for Nick Clegg’s overseas trip,”
Labour’s Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  said in an e-mailed
statement. “The government needs to urgently explain what
impact this proposal will have on the public finances, what the
administration costs are estimated to be, how the scheme would
work and what effect it would have on the balance sheets of the
banks.”  Cameron’s spokesman said projections produced by the fiscal
watchdog, the  Office for Budget Responsibility , do not include
estimates for income from the sale of shares in RBS and Lloyds
as it can’t be quantified “with reasonable certainty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 