-- 
Pound Slides Below $1.60 for First Time Since April as Retail Data Weakens

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-23T15:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-k-pound-falls-to-weakest-in-12-weeks-versus-dollar-before-retail-report.html
The pound fell below $1.60 for the
first time since April 1 as a U.K. retail-sales index dropped to
the weakest in a year, bolstering the case for the  Bank of
England  to hold interest rates steady.  The yield on the 10-year British gilt slid to an eight-
month low as investors sought the safest fixed-income assets
around the world. The Confederation of British Industry’s retail
gauge fell to minus 2 from 18 in May, with stores expecting
demand to be “flat” in July.  Minutes  released by the central
bank yesterday showed more policy makers voted to keep rates at
a record low this month, while some saw the possibility of more
stimulus amid “downside” risks to growth.  “It’s the reaffirmation yesterday that U.K. interest rate
hikes are further off than people were expecting them to be,”
said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and
institutional treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in London.
“Good news in terms of data would only be temporary. You still
have to come back to fundamentals. The market is clearly
supporting anyone who is actively moving  interest rates , and I
don’t know that that will happen in the U.K. for a while.”  The pound dropped below its 200-day moving average for the
first time since January, weakening 0.6 percent to $1.5978 at
4:40 p.m. in London. Sterling strengthened 0.8 percent to 88.65
pence per euro and slipped 0.4 percent against the Japanese
currency at 128.54 yen.  Shoppers Squeezed  British shoppers are being squeezed as inflation outpaces
wage growth and the government implements the deepest budget
cuts since World War II to reduce the deficit. Consumer price
inflation was 4.5 percent in May, more than twice the central
bank’s target.  For the majority of the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, “fiscal challenges in the euro-area periphery
highlighted the potential for further adverse shocks to
demand,” according to minutes of the June 8-9 meeting. “For
some of these members, it was possible that further asset
purchases might become warranted if the downside risks to
medium-term inflation materialized.”  Short-sterling futures rose as bets on higher borrowing
costs were reduced. The yield on the June 2012 contract fell one
basis points to 1.11 percent, extending yesterday’s decline.  The U.K. currency slid to a record low 1.3358 against the
Swiss franc, which tends to strengthen when investors seek
security.  Gilts Advance  “With sterling at new real-term lows, and the markets now
pricing no U.K. rate hike until August 2012, the downside is
looking increasingly limited and potential for sterling gains on
good news has significantly increased,” wrote Adrian Schmidt, a
currency strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London .  U.K. government bonds advanced, pushing the yield on the
10-year gilt five basis points lower to 3.15 percent, the lowest
since Nov. 12. The two-year note yield also declined five basis
points, to 0.71 percent.  Gilts outperformed German bonds this year, handing
investors a 2.8 percent return compared with a 0.4 percent gain
from bunds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  U.S.
Treasuries  have returned 3.3 percent in the same period.  The U.K. sold 450 million pounds of March 2050 inflation-
linked bonds, with investors bidding for 2.17 times the
securities on offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  