-- 
U.S. Ready to Take More Oil Action If Needed, Official Says

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-06-23T15:39:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-ready-to-take-more-oil-action-if-needed-official-says-1-.html
The U.S., after authorizing the
release of 30 million barrels of oil from its emergency
stockpile, is prepared to take additional action if needed to
react to disruptions in world supplies, according to an Obama
administration official.  The decision to draw oil from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, part of an international move to release 60 million
barrels, was made after months of consulting with allies and
oil-producing nations, according to officials, who briefed
reporters on condition they not be named.  The authorized release of light, sweet crude represents
less than 5 percent of the 727-million-barrel U.S reserves and
will help meet U.S. summer driving demand, an official said. The
first of the draw will be auctioned within 24 hours, the
official said.  A tightening of global oil supplies is threatening to set
back the U.S. and global economies. The U.S. Federal Reserve
Board yesterday lowered its expectations for growth for the rest
of the year, compared with April’s forecast. An administration
official said the decision to release the reserve oil was made
on concern that continued loss of production from  Libya  would
have an impact on global growth.  Libya Impact  The  International Energy Agency  said last week that Libya
won’t be able to raise oil production to pre-conflict levels of
about 1.6 million barrels a day until 2014. Libya’s output has
fallen to less than 200,000 barrels a day amid the uprising
against leader  Muammar Qaddafi , the Paris-based IEA said.  The coordinated release of 60 million barrels by the U.S.
and 27 other nations would provide about 2 million barrels a day
within the first 30 days, according to the IEA.  The international action comes 15 days after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries met in Vienna and
kept production quotas unchanged as  Saudi Arabia  didn’t find
enough support from other members to boost supply.  Discussions about a possible coordinated release of reserve
supplies preceded the OPEC meeting, the U.S. officials said.  Following the IEA announcement,  Brent crude  for August
delivery fell $6.81, or 6 percent, to $107.40 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. On the New York
Mercantile, oil for August delivery dropped $4.76, or 5 percent,
to $90.65 a barrel at 10:09 a.m. Prices have gained 19 percent
in the past year.  Supply Concerns  The release is being done in response to disruption caused
by the Libya conflict and in anticipation of increasing demand
during the U.S. summer driving season, the official said. It is
intended more to ensure supply rather than affect prices,
according to the official.  The national average retail price for a gallon of regular
gasoline is $3.612, according to a AAA survey.  The U.S. has been signaling its willingness to tap the
reserve since at least early March, when White House Chief of
Staff  William Daley  said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program
that concern that turmoil in the  Middle East  and North Africa
might spread to major oil producers was creating uncertainty in
the market. At the time, crude was trading at $105.44 a barrel.
Price hit a high for the year of $113.52 on May 2.  Some congressional Democrats have been pressing for a
release from the U.S. reserve to combat rising gasoline prices,
which have put a dent in  consumer spending .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 