-- 
U.S. Seeks Rapid Deployment of 4,200 Ethiopian Soldiers to Abyei

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-23T19:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-seeks-rapid-deployment-of-4-200-ethiopian-soldiers-to-abyei.html
The U.S. today asked the  United
Nations   Security Council  to authorize deployment of 4,200
Ethiopian soldiers to the Sudanese region of Abyei for a
peacekeeping mission that will allow the withdrawal of forces of
northern and  Southern Sudan .  “We hope the Security Council will swiftly adopt a
resolution authorizing this new interim security force so that
the agreement the parties have reached, which is obviously
urgent and fragile, can be implemented immediately and
effectively,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice told reporters after
she introduced the draft resolution.  Northern and Southern Sudan agreed on June 20 to withdraw
their forces from the disputed border region. Sudan’s army
seized the main town in Abyei on May 21 after accusing Southern
Sudan’s security forces of attacking its troops.  The south is due to become independent on July 9. Fighting
in Abyei and the northern Sudanese border state of Southern
Kordofan has raised concern of a return to the two-decade civil
war in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer that
ended in 2005.  The draft resolution would create a UN Interim Security
Force for Abyei for a period of six months, with a mandate that
includes providing security for oil facilities in the area
“when necessary and in cooperation with the Abyei Police
Service.” The Ethiopians would also “monitor and verify” the
withdrawal of the northern and Southern Sudanese forces and
facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid.  Since the Sudanese army’s occupation of Abyei, about
113,000 people have fled their homes, according to the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  