-- 
Obama Oil Release Called ‘Easiest’ Move, With Scant Long-Term Price Impact

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-24T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-will-release-30-million-barrels-of-oil-in-iea-program-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
tap into the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve ahead of family
road trips for the July 4 holiday probably won’t provide a long-
term solution to high  oil prices .  The International Energy Agency’s decision yesterday to
release 60 million barrels of oil over the next month, half of
it provided by Obama from the U.S. reserves, pushed the
commodity’s price down as much as 6 percent.  “Clearly it had an effect, but I don’t think it’s going to
have a long-term effect on the market,” Amanda DeBard, an
energy analyst at the Potomac Research Group in  Washington , said
in an interview. “This was definitely the easiest and the
quickest thing to do, but I don’t really see a clear path from
here.”  Obama made the move in anticipation of increased demand
during the U.S. summer driving season, according to
administration officials who briefed reporters yesterday on
condition they not be named.  Some of Obama’s fellow Democrats said the release from the
strategic reserve was too little or too late a response to the
strife in Libya that has disrupted Middle East oil supplies.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, described the
U.S. release as “this dollop.” Senator Jeff Bingaman, a New
Mexico Democrat who heads the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, said the plan would have been “more timely” had oil
been released when Libyan supplies were first disrupted.  Oil industry groups said Obama needs to speed drilling in
the  Gulf of Mexico  and  Alaska ’s Beaufort and Chukchi seas and on
federal lands to bring oil prices under control.  ‘No Supply Emergency’  “There is no supply emergency,” Bill Bush, a spokesman
for the  American Petroleum Institute , said yesterday in an e-
mail. “We could and should be taking steps that would increase
our own production by 2 million barrels a day or more for
decades.”  The Washington-based trade group, which has  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and BP Plc among its 470 members, supports Republican
legislation to expedite permits for drilling in the Gulf and off
Alaska.  Representative Doc Hastings, a Washington Republican who
heads the House Natural Resources Committee, said Obama misused
the reserve.  “The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is intended for
situations when there’s a dramatic supply shutdown, not to
achieve short-term political gain,” Hastings said in a
statement.  Stored in Cavern  The U.S. has 727 million barrels of crude oil stored in
caverns along the Gulf of Mexico coast. The reserve was
established to counter disruptions after the Arab oil embargo of
1973 to 1974.  The U.S. previously had  released oil  from the stocks 17
times since 1985, most recently in 2008 after hurricanes Gustav
and Ike struck the Gulf Coast.  Average prices for gasoline at the pump have declined for
20 consecutive days, and fell to $3.61 a gallon on June 22,
according to the AAA travel group. The price was $2.74 a gallon
a year earlier and reached a high of $3.985 on May 4, the group
said.  The U.S. first brought up the idea of collective action of
the International Energy Agency member countries in April, after
the IEA said  Saudi Arabia  had failed to make up the entire
shortfall caused by the fighting in  Libya , according to one of
the Obama administration officials who briefed reporters.  Middle East Meetings  In meetings in Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait  and the  United Arab
Emirates , the U.S. delegation discussed ways to prevent the
turmoil in oil markets from harming the world economy, the
official said. Obama raised the matter at the G8 summit in
Deauville,  France , at the end of May.  After a contentious OPEC meeting the following month, Saudi
Arabia announced June 8 it was increasing production and it
became clear that releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve could be useful before the Saudi increase came to
market, the official said.  Obama signed the order directing the U.S. to coordinate a
release with the  International Energy Agency  on June 17.  This is the third time the IEA coordinated releases from
emergency stockpiles since the agency was founded in 1974. Oil
was released during the 1991 Persian Gulf War, and after
Hurricane Katrina damaged oil rigs and refineries in the Gulf of
Mexico in 2005.  The agency acted 15 days after OPEC ministers kept
production quotas unchanged as Saudi Arabia didn’t find enough
support from other members to boost supply amid oil prices above
$100 a barrel in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  