-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending June 21 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-06-23T12:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-june-21-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  After the cut-off period for data to be analyzed for this week’s
 United States  Drought Monitor product, many areas in Texas and
along the Gulf Coast recorded significant rainfall over drought
impacted regions.  None of the precipitation that was observed
after Tuesday morning was considered for this week’s map, and it
will need to be assessed in next week’s product.  As a reminder,
the period analyzed each week is from Tuesday to Tuesday, with
the product being released on Thursday.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: It was a mainly dry week over
much of the northeast, with much of  Pennsylvania  and New England
drier than normal.  Decent rains in northern  Virginia ,  Maryland 
and the panhandle of West Virginia helped to ease the dryness
that has impacted much of the region over the last 30 days.  No
changes in drought status were made in either region this week.  Southeast:  A mix of dry conditions and scattered showers over
the last seven days did not provide enough moisture to hold off
the intensification of the drought. D4 was expanded in southern
 Georgia , southeast  Alabama  and the  Florida  panhandle.  D4 was
expanded in east Florida along the coast.  D2 and D3 were
expanded in northern Florida as well as in southwest Florida.  A
categorical push of the drought intensities to the north in
Georgia also took place while D1 and D2 were expanded in eastern
 North Carolina .  D0 was improved in western North Carolina and
eastern  Tennessee .  In Mississippi and  Louisiana , a categorical degradation took
place, adding D4 along the coast and pushing the D2 and D3
categories to the north.  D2 was also expanded in northeast
Louisiana and D3 was introduced into northern Louisiana.  The Plains:  The northern plains remained wet and cool while the
southern plains remained hot and dry.  The wet spring and
abundant snowpack have led to flooding concerns all along the
Missouri River. Water restrictions are in place for many
communities in  Texas , with low to moderate water pressures
impacting communities.  In Texas this week, D2 was intensified
to D3 and D4 was expanded in south Texas.  East Texas had an
expansion of D3 conditions while D4 was expanded to include
almost the entire panhandle.    Some improvements were made in
and around the Dallas metro area, as up to 3.50 inches of rain
were recorded at the end of the U.S. Drought Monitor period.
This allowed for the drought-free area to expand and also for a
categorical improvement where the most rain was recorded in
Dallas, Tarrant, Rockwall, Collin, Denton, Wise, and Jack
counties.  Most of  Oklahoma  had a categorical degradation this
week as well, as the hot and dry conditions continued and
potential evapotranspiration values were almost double normal
values.  Improvements were made in western Kansas where D0/D1/D2
conditions were all improved in response to rain events taking
place at the end of the U.S. Drought Monitor period.  More than
3.00 inches of rain was recorded in Gove, Wallace and Hamilton
counties.  Midwest:  It was another wet week over much of the region, with
widely scattered thunderstorms and even severe weather.
Moderate drought was introduced in northeast  Minnesota  this week
as this region continues to miss out on precipitation, and
hydrological concerns still exist.  With the new area of D1,
this area has recorded less than 25 percent of normal
precipitation since April 1.  The West: Dry conditions prevailed over much of the southwest
this week, with wet conditions over the Rocky Mountains and
northern  Utah . Improvements were made to the drought status in
southeast Colorado after several days of precipitation.
Improvements to D1/D2/D3 along the Colorado and  Kansas  borders
were made while some D0 was improved in northern Colorado.  In
southwest Colorado, continued dryness has allowed for D0 to be
pushed north out of  New Mexico  and into Colorado.  Dryness in New Mexico continued, with D3 expanded in northeast
New Mexico and D4 pushed farther south along the border with
Texas.  Hawaii,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico: No changes were made to Hawaii,
Alaska, or Puerto Rico this week.  Looking Ahead: Over the next five days (June 22-26), a ridge
develops over the southwest while the ridge over the east
weakens. Temperatures are expected to be 6-9 degrees Fahrenheit
above normal in the southwest and 3-6 degrees Fahrenheit above
normal in the southeast. Cooler than normal temperatures over
the upper Midwest,  New England , and the west coast should
prevail with temperatures generally 3-6 degrees Fahrenheit below
normal. Precipitation chances are greatest over the Missouri
River basin and into the northeast, where 2 inches or more could
be possible.  Continued rains along the Gulf Coast and into
Florida could help to ease drought tensions in those areas.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (June 27-July 1) shows most of the
United States having a good chance at above normal temperatures
with the best chances over the Midwest and into New England.
Cooler than normal temperatures are expected from Alaska south
along the coast to  California  during this time.  Dry conditions
are projected to take place over the Great Lakes region and into
New England while the southwest will also remain dry.  The best
chances for above normal precipitation are in the southeast,
Pacific northwest and Alaska.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  