-- 
U.S. Treasury Targets Iran Air, Port Operator for Sanctions

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-23T18:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-treasury-targets-iran-air-port-operator-for-sanctions-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department today
targeted two major Iranian commercial companies with sanctions
for their ties to  Iran ’s military forces and weapons shipments.  The Treasury’s action allows the U.S. to freeze any U.S.-
based assets of Tidewater Middle East Co., which operates
Iranian ports, and Iran Air, Iran’s national airline, according
to a Treasury press release.  A Treasury official told reporters he didn’t know whether
either company had U.S.-based assets. The sanctions will still
make it more difficult for the companies to engage in commerce,
said the official, briefing reporters by telephone on condition
of anonymity. Foreign banks that provide financial services to
Tidewater Middle East Co. would be unable to do business with
U.S. banks, he said.  The Treasury also targeted an individual and a firm for
their ties to a company that the U.S. said provided weapons to
the Islamic militant Hezbollah organization on behalf of Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.  The Revolutionary Guard has been a focus of sanctions
against Iran because of what the U.S. says is its support for
terrorism and Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs.  Clinton, Geitner Statement  “The steps we have taken this week seek to limit Iran’s
ability to use the global financial system to pursue illicit
activities,” said Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in a joint written
statement. “Our efforts must be unrelenting to sharpen the
choice for Iran’s leaders to abandon their dangerous course.”  Tidewater Middle East Co. is owned by the Revolutionary
Guard Corps and has been used for illicit shipments, the
statement said.  Iran Air has shipped military-related electronic parts and
mechanical equipment on “numerous occasions” since 2000 on
behalf of Iran’s Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics,
the statement said.  Rockets or missiles have been transported using Iran Air
aircraft and Revolutionary Guard officers occasionally take
control over Iran Air flights carrying special cargo, the
statement said.  The Treasury also targeted Iranian official Behnam
Shahriyari and the Behnam Shahriyari Trading Company for acting
on behalf of Liner Transport Kish, a Revolutionary Guard-linked
shipping company that was already targeted for providing weapons
to Hezbollah on behalf of the Revolutionary Guard, the statement
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 