-- 
PMI Group Credit-Default Swaps Climb to 16-Month High as Ratings Decline

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-23T21:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-credit-swaps-approach-8-month-high-after-trichet-warns-on-bank-risk.html
The cost to protect against a
default by  PMI Group Inc. (PMI) , the third-largest guarantor of U.S.
home loans, jumped to a 16-month high.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Walnut Creek, California-
based PMI rose 2 percentage points to 37 percent upfront as of
4:38 p.m. in  New York , according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group. That means it would cost $3.7 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of the insurer’s
obligations from default for five years.  Standard & Poor’s  last week lowered the counterparty credit
and senior debt ratings on PMI to CCC- from CCC+ and said it may
cut the rankings further, citing “expectations of continued
elevated losses in 2011 and 2012” relative to its capital.  “Losses in line with or in excess of the current industry
trends -- without additional capital contributions or
substantial internal capital generating initiatives -- could put
significant pressure on PMI’s statutory capital by year-end
2012,” S&P analysts led by Miles Kaschalk in New York wrote in
a June 14 report.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the MBIA Inc. unit that
guaranteed mortgage debt also climbed. Contracts on MBIA
Insurance Corp. added 0.75 percentage point to 34.75 percent
upfront, Phoenix data show.  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  and  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  are the two
largest U.S. mortgage insurers.  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds from default rose
for a second day after the  Federal Reserve  cut its forecasts for
growth in the world’s largest economy and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  warned that risk signals for
financial stability in the euro region are flashing “red.”  Index Rises  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1 basis point to a mid-
price of 98.5 basis points as of 4:49 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. It’s risen
from 89.5 at the end of last month.  “People are waking up to the fact that there’s risk out
there,” said Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed credit
group at DoubleLine Capital LP, which has $12 billion in assets
under management.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, pared an increase of as
much as 3 basis points after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  assured European Union leaders that he would deliver
the budget cuts they are demanding in exchange for the next
installment of emergency loans and a new rescue package,
according to a Greek government official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  