-- 
U.S. Default Would Change Fundamentals of Rating, Moody’s Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-06-23T04:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-default-would-change-fundamentals-of-rating-moody-s-says.html
The U.S. would risk not winning back
its top Aaa  credit rating  soon if a failure by Congress to raise
the nation’s debt limit causes even a short-term default,
according to Moody’s Investors Service’s senior credit officer.  “Up until now, our assumption was that the risk is
virtually zero of them ever missing an interest payment,”
Moody’s  Steven Hess  said during an interview. “If they actually
miss a debt payment, then it’s a fundamental change.”  Republicans are using talks to increase the $14.3 trillion
debt-ceiling to press for cuts in spending. Negotiators seeking
a bipartisan plan to reduce federal deficits said they oppose
pairing it with only a short-term boost in the U.S. debt limit
that the Treasury Department estimates will be breached at the
start of August. Moody’s warned on June 2 that it will put the
credit rating under review for a downgrade unless there’s
progress on increasing the debt limit by mid-July.  A default stemming from “the debt limit and the political
configuration would indicate that, well, this might happen
again,” Hess said at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York  on June
21. “That risk is perhaps not compatible with Aaa.”  Traders are demanding higher prices to insure Treasuries
against default as the standoff between Congress and the Obama
administration drags on.  ‘Catastrophic Effects’  The costs for insuring against default for one year have
risen to 49.5 basis points as of June 21 from 24 basis points on
May 16, when the U.S. reached its borrowing limit, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has warned that a
failure to raise the debt ceiling may have catastrophic effects
on the  U.S. economy  by sharply raising borrowing costs. At the
same time, yields on Treasuries remain close to the lows of the
year as the economy shows signs of slowing and investors seek a
refuge from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes were little changed
yesterday at 2.99 percent. That’s down from the average of about
4.08 percent over the past decade.  The U.S. rating could be raised to Aaa again after a short-
lived default “if, No. 1, they reached an agreement that
addressed the debt trajectory, and No. 2, they did something to
fix the institutional arrangement around the debt limit so that
you would be confident that it would not happen again,” Hess
said. “Those things are not going to happen overnight.”  Debt to GDP  Moody’s may still assign a negative outlook within a few
months if the government fails to agree on a plan that would
begin reducing its debt ratio to gross domestic product in three
to four years, Hess said.  U.S. debt  was 58.9 percent of GDP as of Dec. 31. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimated in March that U.S. deficit
spending will push that figure to 90 percent by 2017, a level
that economists  Kenneth Rogoff  and  Carmen Reinhart  say can weigh
on long-term growth prospects.  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. government on notice in
April that it risks losing its top AAA rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. The Obama administration projects that the
deficit will climb to $1.6 trillion in the current fiscal year.  “We’re looking for some agreement that shows the deficit
path with lower deficits and eventually producing a trajectory
of debt-to-GDP level that goes down,” Hess said. “Because 2012
is the presidential election year, if they don’t have one soon
they’re probably not going to have one until 2013 at the
earliest, and we think that’s a little too long to wait.”  Publicly held federal debt will reach roughly 70 percent of
the nation’s gross domestic product by the end of this year, the
highest since just after World War II, according to the CBO.  It’s likely to go past 100 percent by 2021 if lawmakers
don’t change current policy, the non-partisan agency  said  in a
report updating its long-term budget outlook. The debt will
approach 190 percent by 2035, dwarfing the 109 percent set
during World War II, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  