-- 
U.S. Airport Screeners Pick Union

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-06-23T15:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-airport-screeners-pick-union.html
U.S. airport security workers picked
the  American Federation of Government Employees  to be their
bargaining unit, giving the labor group the biggest victory for
a federal union in 25 years.  The group topped the  National Treasury Employees Union  by a
vote of 8,903 to 8,447, it said in a  statement  today. The unions
were in a runoff to represent Transportation Security
Administration workers after neither won a majority in a contest
that ended in April which included a no-union option.  “The Transportation Security officers now will have the
full union representation they rightly deserve,” John Gage,
president of the winning group, said in the statement.  With 600,000 members, the union is the nation’s largest for
federal employees. Gage said in March the 44,000 TSA screeners
would be the biggest group brought into the union at one time.  The union organization, which Senate Republicans failed to
stop in February, may raise TSA’s costs if workers push through
changes such as increased staffing.  President  Barack Obama , a Democrat who won the White House
with labor support, allowed the vote after Republican President
 George W. Bush ’s administration blocked union organization in
January 2003, more than a year after the agency was created.  Disciplinary Penalties  John Pistole , the security agency’s chief, said in his  Feb.
4  decision allowing the election that workers can’t bargain over
security or disciplinary penalties, strike, or take job actions
such as deliberate slowdowns.  They can bargain for a contract of at least three years on
issues such as uniforms, parking subsidies, transfers, shift
trades, and methods for seeking assignments and leaves, Pistole
said in the decision.  Gage has said a priority would be to boost staffing at
airports where screeners have been forced to work split shifts.
Some work about three hours in the morning, take a mandatory
break of about four hours, and finish three more hours later in
the day, he said.  Almost 5,000 employees work split shifts at 342 airports,
according to agency data.  Gage has also said he would aim to scrap a pay-for-
performance system, which according to the agency gives
financial incentives for superior performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  