-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Fall on European Woes as Jobless Claims Rise

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-23T13:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-before-home-sales-jobs-data-ibm-declines.html
U.S. stock futures fell, indicating
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will drop for a second day, amid
concern about the effects of the European debt crisis on banks
and as American jobless claims rose more than forecast.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  retreated after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the
debt crisis threatens to infect banks.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  declined at least 1.6
percent as a rising dollar sent commodities down.  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG)  slumped 2.6 percent as the food manufacturer reported
profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  S&P 500  futures expiring in September slid 1.2 percent to
1,264.30 at 9:03 a.m. in  New York . The benchmark gauge yesterday
snapped a four-day rally after the  Federal Reserve  lowered its
forecast for economic growth. Dow Jones Industrial Average
futures retreated 119 points, or 1 percent, to 11,903 today.  The S&P 500 has fallen 4.3 percent this month through
yesterday as reports showed  consumer confidence  dropped more
than forecast and sales of existing homes decreased. The index
was still up 2.4 percent in 2011 through yesterday amid better-
than-expected earnings and government stimulus measures.  Global stocks fell today as Trichet said risk signals for
financial stability in the euro area are flashing “red” as the
debt crisis threatens to infect banks.  “On a personal basis I would say ‘yes, it is red’,”
Trichet said late yesterday in  Frankfurt  after a meeting of the
European Systemic Risk Board, referring to the group’s planned
“dashboard” to monitor risks. “The message of the board is
that” the link between debt problems and banks “is the most
serious threat to financial stability in the European Union.”  ‘Russia-in-1998’  The Greek crisis has all the elements that dogged  Russia 
during its 1998 default, according to Sergei Ulatov, the
resident World Bank economist in Moscow.  “The Greece example reminds me very much of what was
happening in Russia in 1998, but on a much larger scale,”
Ulatov said in an interview during the Russia and CIS Capital
Markets Forum organized by Euromoney in  London  today.  Stock-futures extended losses before the start of regular
trading as a report showed that applications for jobless
benefits increased 9,000 in the week ended June 18 to 429,000,
Labor Department figures showed today. The level of claims
exceeded the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey in
which the median projection called for 415,000 filings. The
number of people on benefit rolls was little changed, while
those getting extended payments rose.  New Home Sales  Purchases of new houses probably dropped in May for the
first time in three months, showing the real-estate market is
struggling to gain traction. Sales likely decreased 4 percent to
a 310,000 annual rate last month, according to the median
forecast of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
Commerce Department’s report is due at 10 a.m. in  Washington .  Banks declined. JPMorgan retreated 1.3 percent to $40.16.
Citigroup fell 1.4 percent to $38.97.  Energy and raw material producers slumped as the dollar
rose, curbing demand for commodities as alternative investments.
Chevron slid 1.7 percent to $99.40. Freeport-McMoRan dropped 2.1
percent to $47.85.  ConAgra declined 2.6 percent to $24.75. The food
manufacturer attempting to acquire  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  said
its consumer food unit was “challenged by difficult
conditions” in the latest quarter because of higher costs,
according to a statement. The company, the maker of Chef
Boyardee pasta and Slim Jim snacks, raised prices earlier this
year to help offset higher wheat costs. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  predicts food prices will rise 4 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  