-- 
U.S. Markets Not Vulnerable to Big Drop, Barclays’ Kantor Says

-- B y   S u z a n n e   W o o l l e y
-- 
2011-06-23T18:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-markets-not-vulnerable-to-big-drop-barclays-kantor-says.html
U.S. stocks aren’t likely to see
price declines similar to those during the financial crisis of
2008, said Larry Kantor, head of research for  Barclays Capital .  Markets are vulnerable when households and corporations are
overconfident, valuations are stretched, and cyclical sectors
are booming, and “none of those conditions hold now,” said
Kantor during a presentation of the firm’s Global Outlook report
released today. Barclays advises investors to maintain a
“neutral risk.”  In 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed,
about $10 trillion was erased from share values from June 2008
to March 2009, according to the Bloomberg U.S. Exchange Market
Capitalization Index. The bank bought Lehman’s North American
business during the 2008 credit crisis.  Kantor said Barclays expects an improvement in economic
growth in the third quarter. Opportunities for investors are
limited because “we aren’t turning the corner on the big
problems” such as  Greece  and the  U.S. debt . Barclays Capital is
the investment banking unit of London-based  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   The problems in Greece will linger, and the U.S. debt
ceiling will be raised, said Kantor. “It will not be raised as
much as the administration wants,” he said.  Kantor said he expects “tactical opportunities” as a result
of the recent market correction. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  has declined 3.4 percent since May 23. If the market
fell 15 percent, “we’d be looking to buy,” Kantor said.  A U.S. government shutdown won’t result in a default on
Treasury debt, said Rajiv Setia, Barclays’ co-head of U.S.
Interest Rate Strategy. “The Treasury has money to buy some
time,” since it owns roughly $600 billion in assets, a portion
of which ‘in theory’ can be liquidated to come up with cash,
said Setia.  Decent Rally  There’s a “chance for a decent rally” in financials in the
third quarter, said Barry Knapp, head of Barclays’ U.S. Equity
Strategy, who cautioned against stocks leveraged to the  U.S.
economy  and consumer.  “The credit issues are largely behind us,” said Knapp.
“The U.S. has done a better job of recapitalizing than  Japan  and
bank lending is up 1 percent so far in the second quarter” after
falling in the previous quarter.  Concerns about economic growth worldwide will make it
difficult for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to break out of
the 1250 to 1350 range until later in the year, said Knapp, when
back-to-school sales may have a positive effect on the market.  “If you can put two decent quarters together that’s a
catalyst for a late rally to get to our yearend price target of
1450,” he said. “If I had to have a price target for the end of
the third quarter, it would be 1350.”  In fixed income, Barclays’ credit group said investors may
want to “put some risk on, especially in the high-yield sector,”
said Kantor. “They like financials right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzanne Woolley in  New York  at 
 swoolley2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 