-- 
U.S. International Food-Aid Spending Called Inefficient

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-06-23T21:11:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/u-s-international-food-aid-spending-called-inefficient-1-.html
The  Government Accountability Office 
said “monetizing” food aid overseas and using the money for
development programs is inefficient and recommended U.S.
agencies change shipping standards and do a better job of
monitoring prices.  Shipping food aid to poor countries, then selling it
overseas to fund other projects may also distort prices in the
local markets, the GAO said in  a report  released today.
Inefficiencies in monetization, caused in part by shipping
rules, reduced funding for U.S. development projects by $219
million over three years, the GAO said.  The Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Agency for
International Development “cannot ensure that monetization does
not cause adverse” affects, including discouraging the
development of farming in countries receiving aid, according to
the report.  The rules for the largest U.S. food-aid program, the  Food
for Peace  initiative, require that grains, oilseeds and pulses
shipped abroad must be transported largely in U.S. ships, which
can be more expensive. The U.S. provided almost $2.3 billion to
alleviate hunger and encourage development in third-world
countries in 2010, more than half of such donations worldwide.  The GAO also said the U.S. agencies don’t do enough to
ensure that donated food is being sold at appropriate prices on
local markets and urged that they implement better marketing
practices.  The USDA and USAID agreed with most of the recommendations.
The Department of Transportation expressed concern that changing
shipping rules to make it easier for foreign-flagged vessels to
transport food aid may harm domestic shippers, the GAO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 