-- 
Hulu Seen at 50 Times Earnings With Netflix Multiple: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-06-23T03:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/hulu-seen-at-50-times-earnings-in-sale-seeking-netflix-multiple-real-m-a.html
Hulu  LLC may cost potential buyers
from Yahoo! Inc. to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  as much as 50 times earnings
for a chance at owning what may be the next  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Hulu’s board, which includes News Corp. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
is considering a sale of the video-streaming service after being
approached by a possible acquirer, a person familiar with the
matter said this week. With Netflix, the mail order and online
movie-rental service, valued at 49.6 times this year’s earnings,
Hulu’s price tag could exceed $2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and SNL Kagan.  While Hulu may help boost Yahoo’s advertising revenue and
give Amazon an online-video service to compete with Netflix,
acquirers face higher costs to buy rights to stream television
shows that existing owners currently provide, Benchmark Co. said.
Hulu, which didn’t go forward with an initial public offering
that may have given it $2 billion in market value, said it will
exceed 1 million paying users and have $500 million in total
sales this year. That’s dwarfed by Netflix, which has 23 million
customers and may generate six times as much in revenue.  “Anyone of size trying to build an online content business
would likely be interested in Hulu,” said  Clayton Moran , an
analyst with Benchmark in  Boca Raton , Florida. “It makes sense
that they’d be one of the interested parties,” he said of Yahoo
and Amazon.  Still, “content costs will be a big issue. The content
providers are now the owners of Hulu, so once they’re no longer
the owners, content costs will go higher,” he said.  ‘The  Daily Show ’  Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment, as did Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News
Corp. in  New York .  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Burbank,
California-based Disney, and Kathy Kelly-Brown of  NBC Universal ,
which owns part of Hulu, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  Hulu, founded in 2007 by New York-based NBC Universal and
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox as a way for TV networks to combat piracy, lets
users watch movies and  shows  such as Fox’s “Glee,” Comedy
Central’s “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart” and ABC’s “The
Bachelorette” from computers for free with advertisements.  The website also introduced a $7.99-a-month subscription to
 Hulu Plus  last year, offering access to a current season’s
episodes of popular shows over the Internet, as well as on
tablets, gaming consoles and Blu-ray players in high definition.
The model puts Hulu in competition with Netflix.  Hulu’s Board  Providence Equity Partners invested $100 million when Hulu
was introduced, and Disney joined as an owner in April 2009.
Hulu’s board now includes Chief Executive Officer  Jason Kilar 
and representatives from Disney, Providence and Rupert Murdoch’s
News Corp., according to the company’s website.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  of Philadelphia agreed to give up NBC
Universal’s management control in Hulu to help gain approval in
January for its purchase of a majority stake in NBC Universal.  While closely held Hulu has been approached about selling
in the past, the company views the most recent overture as more
serious, according to the person with knowledge of the situation,
who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Hulu’s board hasn’t
made a decision on whether to sell, the person said.  Yahoo of Sunnyvale, California, recently approached the
company about a purchase, the Los Angeles Times said this week.  In a sale, Hulu’s owners would try to get the same
valuation that Los Gatos, California-based Netflix commands from
investors, according to David Joyce, a New York-based media
analyst at Miller Tabak & Co.  Netflix Multiple  Netflix, which lets users view movies and TV programs over
the Internet and rent DVDs for a monthly fee, has more than
doubled in value in the past year as demand for online videos
increased.  Its stock closed at $248.66 yesterday, or 49.6 times its
comparable per-share earnings of about $5.02, according to
analysts’ 2011 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. With Hulu
projected to have a $45 million profit this year, according to
research firm SNL Kagan, the video-streaming service would be
worth $2.2 billion, the data show.  At that multiple, Hulu would be more expensive than 97
percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the
benchmark gauge for American common equity. Companies in the  S&P
500  are valued at 13 times this year’s profit, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Hulu had been preparing an IPO that may have valued the
company at more than $2 billion and was talking to investment
banks about going public as early as 2010, a person with
knowledge of the plan said last August.  ‘Benchmark for Value’  Netflix is “what people point at as a benchmark for
value,” said  Tony Wible , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia. Hulu “has great brand recognition and a
good level of website activity that can be monetized,” he said.  Yahoo, owner of the largest U.S. Internet portal, and
Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, are among companies
that may be interested in acquiring Hulu, according to Ken Sena,
an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York.  Yahoo’s advertising revenue fell 2 percent last year,
lagging behind an average 15 percent increase for all online
advertisers,  Anthony DiClemente , a New York-based analyst at
Barclays Plc, wrote in a report dated May 31.  The company, which has $2.8 billion in cash and short-term
investments, has lost market share to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube and
Facebook Inc. every year since 2008, he said. Its share will
continue to shrink through 2015.  Buying Hulu would help Yahoo sell more ads by attracting a
greater number of users to its site, said Paul Meeks, an analyst
at Capstone Investments Inc. in Charleston,  South Carolina .  Yahoo, Amazon  “It would make some sense to try to get an asset in which
they can boost their display ads,” he said. “The company still
generates a lot of cash. They have the financial wherewithal to
pull it off.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman at Yahoo, declined to comment.  Amazon’s CEO Jeff Bezos has been trying to add more digital
entertainment services as Netflix, Hulu and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which
distributes music, TV and movies through iTunes, have attracted
an increasing number of users. In February, Amazon started
offering an  instant streaming service  to Amazon Prime home-
delivery customers, giving unlimited access to more than 6,000
movies and TV shows at no additional cost.  Bundling videos with its Amazon Prime service, which offers
expedited shipping for $79 a year, could make Amazon Netflix’s
biggest competitor, Barclays’ DiClemente said.  ‘Can Make Sense’  For Amazon, “the issue is just getting more adoption,”
said Evercore’s Sena. “They’re going to run up against the same
content costs with or without Hulu. If Hulu can drive that
distribution, it can make sense.”  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman at Seattle-based Amazon, didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment.  While Hulu’s Kilar said in April the company will spend
$300 million on content this year, the cost will probably
increase for any new owner, according to  Andy Hargreaves , an
analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon.  “The key is you’re buying the company from what will
become your primary suppliers, so you’ve got to figure out what
they’re going to charge you,” he said. “Those companies
committed to contributing content in exchange for equity. Once
they don’t have equity anymore, they’re going to contribute
content in exchange for cash.”  An acquirer of Hulu would also compete with cable
distributors, advertisers on broadcast TV, Netflix and Apple’s
iTunes, which are negotiating deals with the same content
providers, according to Janney’s Wible.  For Steve Beck, a managing partner at New York-based
management consultancy Cg42 LLC, the opportunity to secure the
rights to re-broadcast popular TV shows from “South Park” to
“House” over the Internet may be worth the risk for companies
willing to bid for Hulu.  “It wouldn’t surprise me suitors are significantly
interested,” said Beck, whose firm counts Microsoft Corp. as a
client. “ Hulu  has online rights to shows the day after they air.
That’s extremely valuable. Not even Netflix has that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 