-- 
Humala Vows to Back Investment, Policies to Foster Peru’s Economic Growth

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-23T21:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/humala-vows-to-back-investment-policies-to-foster-peru-s-economic-growth.html
Peruvian President-elect Ollanta Humala said he’ll support investments in the country’s natural
resources and back policies that won’t jeopardize the region’s
fastest growing economy.  “I ratify my willingness to resolve and prevent social
conflicts while guaranteeing investment and the sensible
exploitation of natural resources with respect for the rights
and freedoms of the indigenous population and local community,”
Humala said at an event in Lima today where he was accredited as
president by  Peru ’s national electoral board.  Mining investment in Peru is slowing amid concern Humala’s
plans to introduce a mining windfall tax could make the industry
less competitive. Central bank President Julio Velarde said last
week he expects private investment to recover after Humala takes
office July 28 and clarifies his policy on mining tax.  Peru, the world’s largest silver producer and third largest
in copper, will lead the region with 6.6 percent economic
growth, after expanding 8.8 percent last year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Resources, Prosperity  Protestors calling for a ban on all mining and hydrocarbons
activity in the southern Andean region of Puno today blocked a
highway linking the area with the Brazilian border.  The government last month suspended an environmental study
for Bear Creek Mining’s Santa Ana silver mine in an effort to
appease protestors after government offices in Puno were looted
and buildings and cars were set on fire.  Humala, a former lieutenant colonel, in 2000 led 50
soldiers who seized and occupied for a week one of Phoenix-based
Southern Copper Corp.’s mines to protest corruption in the
government of former President  Alberto Fujimori .  The 48-year-old president-elect won the June 5 election,
beating Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori by 3 percentage points.
Peruvian stocks plunged the most on record June 6 on concern
Humala will raise mining royalties and increase state control
over natural resources.  In trading today, Cia. De Minas Buenaventura, Peru’s
biggest precious metal producer, reversed earlier declines of as
much as 4 percent, to rise 1.4 percent to $37.60.  Volcan Cia
Minera SAA (VOLCABC1) , Peru’s largest zinc producer, which fell as much as
2.2 percent, rose 2.2 percent to 2.85 soles.  The Lima General Index fell 0.7 percent to 19,013.57 at
today’s close.  Vision, Diplomacy  Humala, who brought along his 5-month-old son to today’s
ceremony, said he is seeking economic growth with social
inclusion as Peru has ample resources to spread prosperity
across South America’s sixth-biggest economy.  Peru needs a “strong” government that will protect the
democratic gains of the last 10 years, said Humala. His
government will guarantee economic growth while implementing the
changes he promised Peru “gradually,” Humala said.  Saying that he’s seeking to build a government of
consensus, Humala insisted that he won’t be rushed or pressured
into announcing his Cabinet choices.  The president-elect and leader of Peru’s Nationalist Party,
has postponed a trip to  Venezuela  after his one-time ally,
President  Hugo Chavez , underwent unannounced surgery in Cuba.  Humala is scheduled to meet Ecuadorian President  Rafael Correa  in  Quito  on June 28 and  Colombia ’s  Juan Manuel Santos  in
Bogota on June 29, said his spokeswoman Cynthya Montes in a
telephone interview. He won’t travel on to Venezuela if Chavez
remains out of the country, she said.  The president-elect may travel to  Washington  in the first
week of July, following an invitation from President  Barack Obama , said Montes.  The sol fell 0.2 percent to 2.7595 per dollar, from 2.7551
yesterday.  The yield on the nation’s 9.91 percent sol-denominated bond
due May 2015 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 5.49 percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The bond’s price rose 0.19 centimo to 115.18 centimos per
sol. Prices have risen for seven straight days, the longest
winning streak since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  