-- 
Severe Thunderstorms May Bring as Much as 2 Inches of Rain to NYC Today

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-23T15:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/thunderstorms-may-bring-as-much-as-2-inches-of-rain-to-new-york-city-today.html
Thunderstorms with strong winds may
develop in  New York  City today, dropping as much as 2 inches of
rain and causing street flooding, according to the  National
Weather Service .  A flash flood watch has been issued for New York, parts of
northeastern New Jersey and western Long Island as a warm front
stalled over the area may become the catalyst for strong
thunderstorms, said  Joe Pollina , a weather service meteorologist
in Upton, New York.  The thunderstorms may bring as much as 1 to 2 inches (2.5
to 5 centimeters) of rain in as little as an hour in isolated
areas and send streams over their banks, according to the
weather service. The area also has a 15 percent chance of
damaging winds, according to the  Storm Prediction Center  in
Norman,  Oklahoma .  A severe thunderstorm developed today near Newton, New
Jersey, about 60 miles west of New York, that was capable of
dropping “quarter-sized hail” and producing 60-mph (97-kph)
winds, according to the weather service. A number of trees were
reported knocked down in Newton, as well as in eastern
 Pennsylvania , according to the storm center.  A flash flood warning was also issued from Scranton,
Pennsylvania, to Monticello, New York, because of storms that
may leave as much as 4 inches of rain across that area in about
three hours.  The weather caused delays of as much as two hours for
flights going to New York’s LaGuardia Airport, according to the
 Federal Aviation Administration . Flights to Newark International
and Teterboro in  New Jersey  were experiencing delays of 30 to 45
minutes.  Pollina said the worst weather will probably occur later
today and into tonight. There is also a chance of more
thunderstorms tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  