-- 
Undressing ’Uncertainty’ Reveals Naked Tax Ideas: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-06-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/undressing-uncertainty-reveals-naked-tax-ideas-caroline-baum.html
Anyone listening to politicians,
policy makers and economists talk about the  U.S. economy  could
be forgiven for thinking “uncertainty” is the problem hobbling
our nation.  Life is uncertain. Get over it.  In its current usage -- when the Federal Reserve talks
about “uncertainty” surrounding the  economic outlook  --
uncertainty is a euphemism for “things don’t look so good.”
Uncertainty as a challenge to forecasters seems to vanish in
good times, even though it’s no less prevalent.  Similarly, invoking uncertainty over government policies is
often a nice way of saying the policies themselves stink,
according to a June 14 Wall Street Journal  op-ed  by Cliff Asness, managing and founding principal of AQR Capital, a
Greenwich, Connecticut, hedge fund.  Now that we’ve gotten our terms straight, let’s move on to
tax uncertainty, which, for Republicans, ranks high on the list
of unknowns. If only tax rates were lower, they say, all that
uncertainty preventing businesses from investing and hiring
would vanish and the economy would heal itself.  Don’t get me wrong: I prefer lower taxes to higher ones.
Still, I’m flummoxed by the notion that lower  tax rates  on both
businesses and households will provide that certain something --
call it certainty? -- the economy lacks.  Tax policy set by one Congress has a life span of no more
than two years, which is the interval between elections for the
 House of Representatives . That’s not a particularly long time
horizon for someone looking to start a business or a big company
contemplating a long-term investment.  Born for Uncertainty  “Entrepreneurs thrive in a world of uncertainty,” says
 Robert Litan , vice president of research and policy at the
Kauffman Foundation in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . “They want to
reinvent the status quo.”  Unlike big business, “entrepreneurs don’t worry about
demand in the abstract,” Litan says. (Keynesians take note.) In
fact, the entrepreneur’s job is to make you want things you
didn’t think you wanted.  More than half the Fortune 500 companies were started
during a recession or bear market, a 2009 Kauffman  study  found.
Entrepreneurs, if they’re successful, realize their gains
through appreciation of their stock price rather than through
earned income.  This isn’t to say that tax rates don’t matter. They do.  “Taxes tell you what not to do,” says economist Arthur Laffer, chairman of Laffer Associates, whose eponymous  curve 
describes the relationship between tax rates and government
revenue.  Tax Disincentives  For example, when U.S.-based multinational companies
repatriate profits earned overseas, those profits are taxed
again by the U.S., less a credit for taxes paid to the foreign
country of operation. That’s a big disincentive to bring those
profits home. In general, if you tax something more, you get
less of it, be it products sold, labor provided or profits
repatriated.  If you want to make a case that tax uncertainty is
affecting the U.S. economy, using the word in its proper sense,
look no further than the 72,536 pages of  federal tax code  rules,
regulations and Internal Revenue Service rulings. The  tax code 
is an exercise in whimsy for politicians, allowing them to
reward favored constituencies (read: potential campaign donors)
with special exemptions and loopholes.  There’s a reason General Electric Co. has a 975-person tax
department, whose job it is to minimize the company’s tax
liability. Chief Executive  Jeffrey Immelt , who serves as
chairman of President Barack Obama’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness, can tell his boss our convoluted tax code
“created or saved” 975 jobs, but we’d all be better off if those
lawyers and accountants were using their time productively
rather than figuring out, as Laffer says, what not to do to
avoid paying taxes.  Find That Rate  The solution, of course, is “the lowest rate on the
broadest base with the least incentive to avoid, evade or not
report taxable income,” Laffer says.  And once we find that illusive rate, let’s leave it there.
Walk away. Forget about it. Tax policy, almost all experts
agree, should be designed to raise revenue for necessary
government programs as simply and as fairly as possible while
minimizing economic inefficiency.  As things stand, tax policy is informed by special
interests and implemented by lawmakers in the service of those
interests. What’s good for one isn’t good for all, which is why
tax uniformity should be the goal.  Eye of Beholder  President Obama and some GOP lawmakers have talked about
eliminating tax expenditures, those exemptions and deductions
that amount to about $1 trillion a year. No one has yet to
fashion a deficit-reduction proposal based on it, much less a
piece of legislation.  Even the president’s National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform stopped short of advocating the
elimination of tax expenditures, which it calls “backdoor
spending.” Instead the panel  recommended  reducing their size and
number. (The lobbyist with the biggest purse gets to keep his
tax break.)  The Grover Norquist anti-tax wing of the GOP claims that
eliminating tax expenditures constitutes a tax increase. That’s
silly. A tax break for one party, without a revenue offset,
implies bigger deficits. Tax expenditures are  government
spending  by another name -- and smell just as bad.  What’s more, the projected $1 trillion in annual savings
from abolishing tax breaks would allow for a reduction in tax
rates on corporations and households.  Limit Limited Powers  Achieving true tax-policy certainty would entail repealing
the 16th Amendment to the Constitution, which gives Congress the
power to tax “incomes, from whatever source derived,” and
replacing it with a  national retail sales tax . Alternatively,
Congress could amend the Constitution and restrict its taxing
power, one of its 18 powers enumerated in Article 1, Section 8,
so that the tax rates, credits and exemptions it enacts apply to
all taxpayers.  How likely is that? This is one of the few times I can say,
with absolute certainty, it’s not going to happen.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  