-- 
UN Says ‘Remarkable Increase’ in Syrians Fleeing to Turkey

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-23T22:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/unhcr-sees-remarkable-increase-in-syrian-refugees-in-turkey.html
The  United Nations ’ refugee agency
said there has been “a remarkable increase” of Syrians seeking
refuge in Turkey, following reports that Syrian troops continued
sweeping northern regions to quash anti-government protests.  Official numbers for the refugee influx will be released
tomorrow, according to Metin Corabatir, a spokesman for the UN
High Commissioner for Refugees. The number is likely to be much
higher than the 600 estimated by the Turkish Red Crescent to
have arrived since the last count early yesterday, he said by
telephone from Turkey.  The refugees arrived in Turkey in a convoy of about 20
minibuses and were met by Turkish soldiers and escorted to
nearby camps, the Associated Press reported. Syrian soldiers
were patrolling the border village of Khirbet al-Jouz in
military vehicles and on foot early today, the AP said.  Protests against President Bashar al-Assad’s 11-year rule
began in mid-March, and at least 1,420 civilians have been
killed since then, according to a tally by the National
Organization for Human Rights through June 21.  Syrians have been crossing into Turkey since June 8 to
escape violence in and around the towns of Jisr al-Shughour and
Ma’arrat an Nu’man. The official number of Syrians living in
tented cities in Turkey stood at 10,224 early today. Yesterday,
it was 10,219 and it was 10,718 on June 21, Corabatir said.  Head-to-Head  While international pressure on  Syria  increased this week
after Assad blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy, the
deadlock over UN action continued in New York. The U.S. and
 Russia  went head-to-head over the issue of whether the UN
Security Council should press Assad to halt his attacks.  The U.S. inserted an expression of “concern over reported
human rights abuses” in Syria into a Security Council draft
resolution to renew the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission
in the Golan Heights. The U.S. text also notes Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon’s report that that anti-government demonstrations in
Syria have spread to the Israel-Syrian border.  Before the U.S. draft could be formally introduced, Russia
put forward a version of the mandate renewal that doesn’t
mention the political unrest. The move ensured that the  Security
Council  would have to vote on Russia’s text first.  “Many members of the  Security Council  said we need to go
the traditional way,” Russia’s Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said,
meaning a routine extension of the mandate for six months. It
“should not be something completely different,” he said.  Russia has led opposition at the UN, including  Brazil ,
 China ,  India  and  South Africa , to all U.S. and European proposed
statements on the situation.  “The Security Council should speak clearly and
unequivocally about what is happening internally in Syria,”
U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice told reporters. “The Security
Council should speak with one voice and be clear in condemning
what are obviously very irresponsible and unacceptable actions
taken by the government of Syria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  