-- 
Munich Re Plans to Invest in Wind, Solar Parks to Boost Returns

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-06-23T06:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/munich-re-plans-to-invest-in-wind-solar-parks-to-boost-returns.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, plans to increase its investments in renewable energy
operations such as wind parks and solar plants to help boost its
investment returns.  “Assuming our profitability expectations are met, we plan
to invest about 2.5 billion euros ($3.6 billion) in renewable
energy assets over the next five years,” Munich Re management
board member Thomas Blunck, who is responsible for special and
financial risks, said in an interview in Munich.  Insurers, and the reinsurers that help them shoulder risks
for clients, are coping with reduced investment results as low
 interest rates  hurt returns from bonds and as equities and real
estate become less attractive following proposed regulations
that will increase  capital requirements .  Munich Re invested about 40 million euros in 40  wind
turbines  in  Germany  at the beginning of 2011. The Munich-based
firm’s first major investment in the segment brought total
holdings in renewable energies to a “low three-digit-million-
euro range,” Blunck said.  “We are close to signing two more projects and some more
are lined up for evaluation this year,” Blunck said. Renewable
energy investments “are attractive for insurers and reinsurers
as they offer cash flows that are to a large extent predictable
in the long term,” Blunck said.  Munich Re had total investments of 191 billion euros at the
end of March. It cut the ratio of stocks among its holdings to
4.5 percent at the end of the first quarter from 13.8 percent at
the end of 2007, following writedowns in 2008. Munich Re said in
May it expects a return of “just under” 4 percent on its
investment portfolio this year.  Industry Coverage  Allianz SE,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, also aims to increase
its investments in renewable energy this year, according to
comments by finance head Paul Achleitner. The Munich-based
company targets an internal rate of return of 7 percent to 8
percent from renewable energy investments, it said in a
 presentation  to investors earlier this year.  Apart from investing in renewable energy, Munich Re is also
seeking to sell more coverage for the industry. The reinsurer’s
premium income in that area currently stands at about 50 million
euros, Blunck said. “Double-digit” annual growth rates are
likely to increase premium income to a “mid-three-digit-
million-euro range by 2015,” he said.  Munich Re offers performance guarantees for  wind turbines 
and photovoltaic panels,  coverage  on exploration risks of
geothermal energy drilling and insurance for wind and solar
parks that compensates for reduced earnings when weather
conditions fail to produce enough power.  Ships and Satellites  The reinsurer is developing products to help guarantee the
performance of specialist ships used to build offshore wind
parks, Blunck said. “We are adapting what we learned when we
first developed coverage for satellite launches, where we are
still earning very nice margins on about 100 million euros in
annual premiums,” he said.  Plans for offshore wind parks in Europe’s northern and
eastern seas could add more than 100 billion euros to insured
values, resulting in a bottleneck in terms of insurance and
reinsurance capacity, Blunck said.  “This will add to insurers’ and reinsurers’ already high
exposure to storm risks in Europe, but also provide new chances
for new insurance solutions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  