-- 
UniCredit’s Pioneer to Move Singapore Investment Management Team to London

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-06-23T02:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/unicredit-s-pioneer-to-move-singapore-investment-management-team-to-london.html
Pioneer Investments, a unit of
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, said it is moving its
investment activities in Singapore to  London , which will become
its emerging-markets investment center.  Pioneer, which manages more than 181 billion euros ($259
billion) worldwide, is offering employees in Singapore other
investment positions in London or “suitable redeployment
options” in other cities such as Mumbai and Dublin, the Milan-
based firm said in an e-mailed reply to queries from Bloomberg
News. The “strategic business” move will lead to some job cuts,
it said. The firm is not closing its operations in Singapore.  “We are presently discussing with the affected individuals
the best way to manage the process and the effects on their
roles,” Pioneer said, without specifying the number of
employees affected. “The key senior portfolio managers
responsible for the investment strategies currently managed from
Singapore will remain the same.”  Pioneer has 30 employees in Singapore, including its sales,
investments and administration teams, it said. It managed 1.35
billion euros in the Asian city-state as of April, including
equities investment strategies that focus on  China ,  India ,  Asia 
outside  Japan  and North Asia, it said.  Singapore Presence  Its Singapore office will be the main center for sales and
distribution to support its business in Asia, the firm said.  “We are not closing our operations in Singapore,” Pioneer
said. “Asia remains key to our overall business strategy, and
Singapore, as our Asian sales hub, will be the base from which
we will increase our market penetration in Taiwan and Japan and
look at other market entrance strategies in this region.”  Pioneer is developing a centralized emerging markets
investment center in London as part of a new business plan aimed
at accelerating the organic growth of its business, it said.  The decision to move the investment desk in  Singapore  to
London is the “first significant move” in its new growth
strategy, it said.  Emerging markets strategies, which cover Asia, “is a very
important asset class for us and our aim is to strengthen these
capabilities further,” Pioneer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  