-- 
Unilever Names Asia Head Manwani as Chief Operating Officer

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-06-24T08:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/unilever-names-harish-manwani-operating-chief-as-part-of-reorganization.html
Unilever, the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods company, appointed the head of its  Asia ,  Africa 
and central and eastern  Europe  unit as chief operating officer
to spur growth in emerging markets.  Harish Manwani will assume the new position on Sept. 1, the
London- and Rotterdam-based company said yesterday. Manwani said
this month he planned to increase the Lipton Tea maker’s
business in  China  to as much as five times the current level.  The appointment is part of a broader management
reorganization at Unilever, with a focus on product categories
rather than geographic regions. The new structure will speed up
the process of introducing new products to different markets,
Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said in the statement.  “We fail to see the direct relationship with the
innovation success rate or rollout, as Unilever has already been
partially organized this way,” said  Richard Withagen , an
analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam, in a note today. He said
that he sees no “long-term disadvantages” from the decision.  Unilever rose as much as 34 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 22.54
euros in Amsterdam trading, and was at 22.5 euros as of 10 a.m.  2 Billion Customers  Unilever, which has 2 billion customers globally, has
created four new operating categories, and named executives to
oversee each unit. Dave Lewis will be president of the personal
care unit, Kevin Havelock will run the refreshment category,
Antoine de Saint Affrique will oversee food and Randy Quinn and
Sean Gogarty will run the home care unit, reporting to Polman.
The new structure will be put in place in the third quarter and
become operational before the end of the year, the company said.  Michael B. Polk, the previous head of Unilever’s foods,
home and personal-care business, resigned to become CEO of
Atlanta-based  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL)  He replaced Mark D. Ketchum, who announced his retirement in January.  Unilever reported first-quarter sales in April that missed
analysts’ estimates and trailed rivals Nestle SA, the world’s
largest food company, and  Danone (BN) , the biggest yogurt maker.
Polman, who has headed the company since 2009, has pledged to
double Unilever’s revenue after a decade of sluggish growth.  Asia and Africa contributed 40 percent of Unilever’s 44
billion euros ($63 billion) in sales last year as the  maker  of
Knorr seasonings, Dove soap and Surf detergent expands in
developing economies to offset stagnating sales in Europe and
the U.S. More than 55 percent of Unilever’s business now comes
from emerging markets, according to Manwani.  Asian Growth  The Unilever businesses that Manwani runs have been
expanding at about 18 percent to 19 percent annually, with
emerging economies in Asia being “a very important part” of
the growth, he said in an interview this month. China, the
world’s most populous nation, may show economic growth of 9.5
percent this year, almost four times faster than the pace in the
U.S., according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Manwani is also chairman of India unit  Hindustan Unilever
Ltd. (HUVR) , the country’s biggest listed maker of consumer products,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He joined the Indian
unit in 1976 after studying management at Mumbai University, and
became president of Unilever’s Asian and African business in
2005, according to the company’s annual report.  The maker of Hellman’s mayonnaise and Magnum ice cream has
reduced its promotional intensity and started raising prices
amid higher costs for commodities such as crude oil and palm
oil. Unilever last month said it accepted a 2 million-yuan
($309,000) fine imposed by Chinese authorities for informing
media about plans to raise prices.  Higher expenses will cause profitability to drop in the
first half, the company said in April, adding that it expects an
improvement in the second half. Commodity-cost volatility is
“unprecedented” this year, Unilever Chief Financial Officer
Jean-Marc Huet said April 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in  New York  at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  