-- 
Murdoch’s Leap Finds Converts in Cannes as Paywall Use Grows

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-24T15:18:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/murdoch-s-leap-finds-converts-in-cannes-as-paywall-users-grow.html
Online news, video, and music
providers are becoming increasingly open to charging for at
least part of their content as paywall experiments by pioneers
like London’s Times show that some customers will pay.  Music-video streaming site Vevo,  Huffington Post  owner  AOL
Inc. (AOL) , and London’s Independent newspaper said this month they
may introduce paid subscriptions, joining The New York Times and
London’s Times in charging for online material. Making that pay
will require careful execution and compelling content.  Paywall advocates have had some success convincing Internet
readers to sign up for subscriptions.  New York Times Co. (NYT) , which
began charging heavy users of its namesake paper’s website in
March, has signed up more than 100,000 people for online
subscriptions that start at $15 a month, it said in April.
London’s Times, owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., had 80,000
paid online subscribers as of March.  “The mood is changing,” said Charlie Beckett, the
director of the Polis media research unit at the  London  School
of Economics. “Murdoch and the New York Times have taken the
leap, and that encourages people. It’s still a leap.”  Alex Hole, who manages The Times’s digital strategy, said
at the  Cannes Lions  media conference this week that the
newspaper’s paywall is “starting to see tangible returns.”  Ad Revenue  For advertisers, who still provide the bulk of newspapers’
revenue, yields and response rates have also risen, he said,
declining to discuss specific numbers. The Times’s paywall,
started a year ago, may be the most impermeable in the industry,
with no free articles available online. The New York Times, by
contrast, allows casual readers 20 free stories a month.  For the London newspaper “this dynamic, digital product is
something that’s our flagship product,”  News Corp. (NWSA)  deputy Chief
Operating Officer  James Murdoch  said today.  Most media executives considering paywalls say they’ll be
cautious about where they’re erected, and maintain significant
free services.  At New York-based AOL, which is re-positioning itself as a
provider of online content after undoing its $124 billion merger
with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , future paid subscriptions might focus on
business-to-business content rather than consumer brands such as
The Huffington Post, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said
this week in Cannes.  Vevo, which is backed by  Vivendi SA (VIV)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s music
arms, will always have an extensive free offering paid for with
ads but may eventually charge for access to exclusive live
events or better video quality, according to CEO Rio Caraeff.
European music site Spotify, meanwhile, in April reduced the
amount of music available free to users in a bid to get more
people to buy a 4.99 pound ($8) monthly subscription.  Post Napster  The spread of attempts to charge for digital music are
helping lift some of the gloom that’s weighed on the record
industry since the rise of file-sharing services like Napster.
Thanks in part to digital sales, music companies are “coming
through the pain” of the last decade and halting revenue
declines, Universal Music Group digital president Rob Wells said
at Cannes Lions, which ends tomorrow.  In addition to revenue from fees, paid subscription
strategies depend on offering better information on a small
group of committed readers to advertisers, giving sites a chance
to charge more for ad space.  ‘Metered’ System  Marketers say they’re open to that notion, even if overall
traffic declines at individual sites. “We have lots of time for
media that’s sharply targeted,” Heineken NV Chief Marketing
Officer Alexis Nasard said. “That’s especially true if they
have the metrics” that show advertising’s strong impact on
loyal users, he said.  Business information websites are among the most successful
current paywall users. Both the Financial Times and the Wall
Street Journal charge for online content, the former using a
“metered” system that allows some free articles and the latter
a model that includes most business articles. Last year the FT’s
site had attracted about 126,000 subscribers paying a minimum of
3.29 pounds a week.  FT owner  Pearson Plc (PSON) , which gets most of its revenue from
paid content including its extensive education businesses, has
seen its shares climb 13 percent this year. News Corp. shares
rose 15 percent in the period.  While general-interest media such as the Times and the New
York Times say they are committed to charging for content, other
experiments have had the opposite result. News magazine  The
Atlantic  tore down its paywall in 2008, saying it hoped free
access would drive more readers to pay for printed
subscriptions.  ‘TimesDelete’  The New York Times also ended its first paywall experiment,
TimesSelect, in 2007 after it brought in just $10 million in
revenue and was lampooned by  Andrew Sullivan , an influential
blogger, as ‘TimesDelete.’  The magazine-like experience and multimedia that can be
offered by applications for tablet computers may make this time
different.  Such technologies “create some things that people will
want to pay for directly,” even if many apps remain free, said
Kevin Lynch, the chief technology officer of Adobe Inc. San
Francisco-based Adobe has helped design paid tablet apps for
magazines including The  New Yorker  and  Vanity Fair .  Consumers who own tablet computers and are willing to pay
for content also tend to be attractive targets for advertisers.
The average subscriber to The Times’ iPad app earns more than
120,000 pounds, said Johnny Hornby of ad agency CHI & Partners.  Content providers considering paywalls have a strong ally
in big advertisers who want to ensure the survival of compelling
music, video and journalism online. “It is quite fundamental
for us that we have quality content to put our ads alongside,”
Ogilvy Group Inc. CEO Miles Young said in an interview.  “People will pay for quality content,” he said. “They
will buy it through paywalls. Where the content is good,
customers will follow, and where customers go, we will follow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in Cannes,  France  via 
 Athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  