-- 
Turkish Central Bank Leaves Key Rate Unchanged; Lira Falls

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-23T14:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/turkish-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged.html
Turkey ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged, sticking to a policy of low
rates even after inflation accelerated and the current-account
deficit widened to a record. The lira extended losses.  The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at a record low of 6.25 percent, according to a statement
on its website today. That matched the forecast of 12 of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will release minutes
of the meeting within five working days.  Governor Erdem Basci is trying to slow economic growth
without raising the benchmark rate and drawing in short-term
capital. He has increased reserve requirements for banks four
times since December to restrain lending and import demand. The
industry regulator took steps this week to curb  consumer
lending , a move the bank today welcomed as a “contribution to
balancing external and domestic demand.”  The decision “is disappointing for the market and it will
undermine investor confidence towards the current policy
stance,” said  Benoit Anne , head of global emerging-markets
strategy in London at  Societe Generale ,  France ’s second-largest
bank. “I see further risk of a lira sell-off in the near term,
as investors may now risk voting with their feet.”  The currency weakened after the announcement to its lowest
in two years. It was trading at 1.6328 per dollar at 4:28 p.m.
in Istanbul. Since the start of the year, the lira has fallen
the most of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer Demand  The bank is trying to tame a boom in consumer demand that’s
drawing in imports, driving the current-account deficit to about
8 percent of gross domestic product.  Private consumption and investment are “moderate,” the
bank  said  today, reiterating forecasts that the current-account
balance will improve in the last three months of this year.  Turkey imports almost all its energy needs. The price of
oil has fallen to about $91 a barrel today from a high of $114
in April. The central bank’s forecasts are based on a price of
$115 per barrel this year.  The banking regulator on June 18 raised the cost of
consumer lending for banks, adding to Basci’s efforts to damp
credit growth and slow the domestic economy.  The central bank’s statement made no mention of higher
interest rates, saying that the bank “maintains its policy
stance.” It said it will monitor the impact of higher reserve
requirements and “if needed, take additional steps in the same
direction.”  Pressure on Lira  The bank “expects the policy to work, eventually,” Tim Ash, head of emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed comment. “Pressure on the
lira will continue.”  The bank is buying up to $40 million a day and may opt to
reduce or suspend the auctions soon, Haluk Burumcekci, chief
economist at broker EFG Securities in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed report today.  The central bank and government say they want loan growth
to slow to an annual 25 percent, from 35 percent now. The
government is ready to respond with fiscal measures should the
central bank’s actions fail to stem growth, Deputy Prime
Minister  Ali Babacan  said June 7.  Budget Spending  Budget spending excluding interest payments on debt rose an
annual 12 percent in first five months of the year, leading up
to the June 12 elections in which Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  won a third term. That’s faster than the 8 percent
growth that the government plans for the year. The pace is
likely to slow toward or perhaps below the goal, said Ozan Gaziturk, an economist for Istanbul-based lender Sekerbank TAS.  That would help slow the economy, which grew 8.9 percent in
2010. The 12-month current-account gap more than doubled from a
year earlier to $63.4 billion in April, the most since records
began in 1984.  The inflation rate rose to 7.2 percent in May from 4.3
percent a month earlier, the biggest jump in nine years. The
bank said the increase was caused by a surge in grocery prices,
and today reiterated a forecast of a slowdown in June. Its goal
for the end of the year is 5.5 percent.  Basci’s increases of as much as 10 percentage points to
bank  reserve requirements  have diminished the amount of cash
they have to lend, forcing the index of banking shares, which
includes Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, co-owned by Italy’s UniCredit
SpA, down 12 percent this year. The main ISE National 100 index
fell 7 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 