-- 
Murray Is Unfazed by Britain’s 75-Year Wait for Men’s Wimbledon Champion

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-23T00:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/murray-is-unfazed-by-britain-s-75-year-wait-for-men-s-wimbledon-champion.html
Every year for two weeks in June and
July, Britain gets into a frenzy over whether a local man will
finally win  Wimbledon . This doesn’t faze the nation’s leading
contender for the title,  Andy Murray .  While British men have won the Wimbledon title 35 times,
more than any other nation, it has been 75 years since a local
lifted the trophy in southwest London. The last man to do so was
Fred Perry in 1936. His statue stands outside of Centre Court as
a reminder to players and spectators, some of whom are dressed
head-to-toe in the Union Jack.  Playing at Wimbledon, close to his home, is “more relaxing
in many ways than a lot of the other tournaments,” Murray, a
two-time semifinalist, said in a pre-tournament news conference.
He beat  Germany ’s Tobias Kamke 6-3, 6-3, 7-5 yesterday to reach
the third round.  In action today, women’s defending champion  Serena Williams 
plays Simona Halep of Romania, while six-time champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  faces  France ’s Adrian Mannarino.
Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  meets  South
Africa ’s Kevin Anderson.  None of the other three tennis Grand Slam events -- the
Australian Open, French Open and the  U.S. Open  -- have gone even
half as long without a homegrown champion. Virginia Wade was the
last Briton to win the title, in 1977. The last man from Britain
to reach the Wimbledon singles final was  Henry ‘Bunny’ Austin ,
who lost to American Don Budge in 1938.  “The buildup to the tournament is different,” Murray, 24,
said. “The four, five days are a little bit different than what
I’m used to. But once the tournament starts, it isn’t.”  Last One Standing  Just like last year, the Scottish right-hander is the only
British man to have come out of the opening round. Murray
reached the semifinals at the past two Wimbledons, losing to
 Andy Roddick  of the U.S. in 2009 and to  Spain ’s  Rafael Nadal 
last year.  British women have been faring better this year. Laura
Robson, a former junior Wimbledon champion, yesterday joined
British No. 1 Elena Baltacha, the world No. 68, in round two.  In an interview before the start of Wimbledon, Murray said
his relaxed demeanor has helped him in his match preparation.  “It makes the day a little bit less stressful,” he said.
“You are enjoying yourself throughout the day, you are not
going through periods where you are not looking forward to doing
things.”  He’s been watching movies -- including the horror film
Scream -- with his girlfriend and earlier in the week welcomed
his grandparents from  Scotland  to the championships. They showed
him pictures of their dog.  ‘Not Easy’  “It’s not easy for him definitely, coping with all the
pressure he has,” Djokovic, the second seed who has known
Murray since they were juniors, said in an interview last week
at an exhibition event outside  London . “But he’s a more mature
player this year than he was in the previous years.”  At the start of this season, Murray was criticized in the
British media for his on-court behavior. During his straight-set
loss to Djokovic in the Australian Open final, he frequently
shouted at his box where his mother, Judy Murray, and coaches
were sitting.  His third defeat in a Grand Slam championship match was
followed by a form slump, as Murray lost in the opening round of
his next three tournaments. In March, he ended his three-year
coaching relationship with Alex Corretja, and is still looking
for a permanent coach.  ‘Needs to Improve’  His opening-round losing streak ended in April in Monte
Carlo, where he was beaten by top seed Nadal in the semifinals.  “It’s something that definitely needs to improve,” Murray
said, when asked about his on-court behavior. “A lot of players
have faults, and that’s something I am trying to get better at.
A lot of time, people think that if I shout something in the
direction of the box, that I am shouting at them. But if you
actually listen to what I am saying a lot of the time, I am just
upset at myself.”  Two weeks ago at  Roland Garros , Murray reached his first
 French Open  semifinal, even as he struggled with an ankle
injury. After losing to eventual champion Nadal, he went on to
win his second title on the grass courts of the Queen’s Club in
London.  Murray next plays 33rd-ranked Croatian Ivan Ljubicic for a
place in the last 16. Nadal may await in the semifinals.  “I’m sure he’s going to do everything he can do to try and
win this tournament,” Djokovic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  