-- 
Uruguay Central Bank May Raise Benchmark Rate to 8% to Rein in Inflation

-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 
2011-06-23T14:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/uruguay-central-bank-may-raise-benchmark-rate-to-8-to-rein-in-inflation.html
Uruguay’s central bank will likely
raise its benchmark interest rate today as policy makers
struggle to slow inflation that is accelerating beyond their
target range.  The five-member policy committee, led by bank President
Mario Bergara, will increase the rate at least 50 basis points,
or 0.5 percentage point, to 8 percent today after boosting it
100 basis points on March 23, said Tamara Schandy, an economist
at Deloitte Uruguay in Montevideo. Two other economists surveyed
by Bloomberg also expect a half-point increase. The board will
announce its decision after 4 p.m. New York time.  Annual inflation in the agriculture-based economy
accelerated to 8.53 percent in May from 8.34 percent the
previous month, above the upper limit of the central bank’s
target range of 4 percent to 6 percent this year. Prices rose
6.93 percent in 2010, according to the Montevideo-based national
statistics institute.  “We expect there will be a further adjustment of the
interest rate and, considering how the economy is growing and
the level of  core inflation , we think it should be
significant,” said Schandy. “We are working under the
assumption that there will be a rise of at least 50 basis
points.”  Analysts forecast annual inflation of 7.5 percent in 2011
and 7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate in a
central bank survey of 12 economists, banks, pension
administrators and industrial chambers released last week.  Economy Minister Fernando Lorenzo said June 11 that the
government is determined to stem price increases.  ‘Target Shooting’  “The government must work hard when inflation isn’t within
the central bank’s target,” Lorenzo told students in
Montevideo. “But this isn’t target shooting. What needs to
happen is that when deviations occur policies must be put in
place to get things back to normal.”  Uruguay joined countries from  Brazil  to China May 11 in
deciding to raise  reserve requirements  for banks, increasing the
rate on peso deposits to 15 percent from 12 percent and on
foreign currency deposits to 18 percent from 15 percent starting
this month. The move is expected to keep $480 million in
deposits from being loaned out, Bergara said. The bank also
established a marginal reserve requirement on the growth of
deposits.  “From the monetary policy perspective, we have been giving
strong signs of fighting inflation and of our concern with this
theme,” Bergara said in a June 20 interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. “To raise  interest rates  by 100 basis
points was aggressive. If it was enough or not, we will see.”  Economic Growth  Yields on Uruguayan dollar bonds due in 2033 were little
changed at 5.73 percent at 10:37 a.m.  New York  time. Yields have
fallen 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage point, this year. By
comparison, yields on Mexican dollar bonds due in 2034 were
little changed at 5.49 percent.  Uruguay’s $40 billion economy expanded 6.8 percent in the
first quarter of 2011, the central bank reported Jun. 15.
Unemployment rose to 6.6 percent in April after tumbling to a
record 5.4 percent in December, the national statistics
institute reported Jun. 10.  “The economic growth in the first quarter was far superior
to what we believe is the sustainable trend,” said Schandy.
“It seems that there are signs of overheating, with high levels
of inflation, particularly in the non-tradable goods and
services.”  Not Overheating  Bergara discounted that view, saying that while  consumer
spending  is growing at a faster pace than gross domestic
product, both are being balanced by a higher investment rate.
The economy isn’t overheating, he said at a June 20 event for
investors sponsored by ProCapital SBSA in New York.  Uruguay’s currency has gained 7.6 percent this year to 18.5
pesos per dollar yesterday, more than any of the six major Latin
American economies tracked by Bloomberg. The Colombian peso has
gained 7.2 percent and the  Mexican peso  4.8 percent.  The central bank committee’s next quarterly meeting will be
in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  