-- 
Viacom Sues Cablevision Over Distribution of Programming on Apple’s IPad

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-23T19:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/viacom-sues-cablevision-over-distribution-of-shows-on-ipad.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , the owner of
Nickelodeon,  MTV  and other cable networks, sued  Cablevision
Systems Corp. (CVC)  seeking to halt “unauthorized distribution” of
its programming on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Viacom, in a complaint filed today in federal court in
 Manhattan , accuses the Bethpage, New York-based cable provider
of violating licensing agreements and seeks a court order to
stop distribution of its copyrighted entertainment programming
via wireless portable devices using an iPad application.  New York-based Viacom also seeks unspecified damages
stemming from Cablevision’s April 2 launch of the computer
application which allows its users to get live streaming feeds
of Viacom programs.  “On April 2, 2011, despite Viacom’s repeated objections,
Cablevision launched the iPad to its cable television
subscribers, and included 19 of Viacom’s programming channels,
in violation of the parties’ agreements and Viacom’s
intellectual property rights,” Viacom said in the complaint.  Cablevision said the iPad functions as a television and is
thus covered by licensing agreements.  “Cablevision’s very popular Optimum App for iPad, which
has been available to our customers for nearly three months,
falls within our existing cable television licensing agreements
with programmers -- including Viacom,” James Maiella, a
spokesman for Cablevision, said an e-mailed statement.  ‘Delivered Securely’  “It is cable television service on the iPad, which
functions as a television, and is delivered securely to our
customers in the home on Cablevision’s own proprietary
network,” he said.  Viacom said in the complaint and in a statement that both
sides have engaged in discussions to resolve the dispute without
success, while Cablevision continues to refuse to remove
Viacom’s programming from its iPad services.  “We have taken this action to protect our valuable
content,” Kelly McAndrew, a Viacom spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We remain open to productive discussions,
but we cannot wait indefinitely while our networks are being
distributed without permission.”  In April, Viacom and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  sued each other
in federal court in  New York  over the iPad application and
content. In a filing yesterday, Viacom and Time Warner Cable
told U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand that they’re attempting to
settle the litigation.  The case is Viacom Inc. v. Cablevision Systems Corp.,
11-cv-04265, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  