-- 
VW’s Truck Merger Faces Resistance as MAN, Investors Oppose Board Makeup

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-06-23T22:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/vw-s-truck-merger-faces-resistance-as-man-opposition-mounts.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  faces resistance to
efforts to forge a commercial-vehicle alliance between its
 Scania AB (SCVB)  affiliate and  MAN SE (MAN) , as criticism from workers and
investors to the automaker’s inroads intensifies.  Supervisory board members representing MAN employees oppose
plans to install additional VW executives at the German
truckmaker, two people familiar with the matter said. Investor
watchdogs, including Institutional Shareholder Services, are
joining the defiance ahead of MAN’s annual shareholder meeting
on June 27.  “We’ll probably see some heated discussions at the
shareholder meeting about corporate governance rules,” said
Nicola Lopopolo, who sits on the 16-member MAN board and heads
the works council of the Munich-based company’s  RENK AG  unit.  Ferdinand Piech, the chairman of both VW and MAN, aims to
appoint three new VW executives to MAN’s board, expanding the
automaker’s representation to five members, or more than half of
the investor seats. The tighter control is part of a strategy
geared toward surpassing  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s
biggest automaker by 2018 by creating a manufacturer that
supplies vehicles ranging from subcompacts to 50-ton trucks.  In addition to the new board members, the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company plans to switch Ulf Berkenhagen,
procurement chief at VW’s Audi unit and a member of MAN’s board,
to the truckmaker’s management team, said the people, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the deliberations are private.
Berkenhagen’s switch is intended to promote joint purchasing by
MAN and Scania, the people said.  Dominique Nadelhofer, a spokesman for MAN, declined to
comment, as did a VW spokesman.  Piech’s Empire  “Piech has been hooked on the notion of an all-embracing
auto empire that includes trucks, and he’s surging ahead to get
it done,” said  Frank Schwope , a NordLB analyst in Hanover,
 Germany , who recommends buying VW and MAN stock. “The policies
he employs aren’t satisfactory to everybody.”  Europe ’s largest carmaker increased its stake in MAN to
30.5 percent from 29.9 percent on May 9, triggering a mandatory
bid. The offer, which was below the share price when the tender
started May 31, was intended to give VW regulatory clearance for
deeper cooperation between MAN and the Soedertaelje, Sweden-
based Scania, which VW controls.  Doubling Up  MAN will propose the election of VW Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn , Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch
and executive board member Jochem Heizmann to the board.
Shareholders will also be asked to re-appoint Piech and Rupert Stadler, head of VW’s luxury Audi brand. Investors and workers
hold eight board seats each.  The overlapping positions of the executives have riled
corporate governance watchdogs. German shareholder lobby DSW and
Institutional Shareholder Services, a U.S.-based agency advising
investors, are both urging opposition to the appointments of
Winterkorn, Poetsch and Heizmann.  “Appointment of the three managers would bring about a
disproportionate presence of VW at MAN,” DSW managing director
Ulrich Hocker said via e-mail. “The three also sit on a similar
panel at Scania, a direct competitor of MAN. That in itself is
enough of a reason to reject their proposed election.”  VW expects greater control of MAN to reduce costs by about
1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) a year by sharing research and
development activities. The maker of the Golf hatchback is
offering 95 euros for each MAN common share and 59.90 euros per
preferred share in a public takeover bid that began May 31.  ‘Inappropriate’ Bid  MAN fell 6 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 93.74 euros yesterday,
valuing the company at 13.6 billion euros. The company has
gained 5.3 percent this year. VW has gained 8.7 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which advises MAN, dismissed the
bid as “inappropriate,” according to a letter to the
truckmaker dated June 7. VW’s cash offer expires June 29. The
manufacturer aims to boost its holding in MAN to as much as 40
percent to control a majority at shareholder meetings. The
truckmaker’s workers are concerned that too deep an integration
with rival Scania may dilute the company’s products.  “VW has to ensure that MAN and Scania will keep their
brand identity,” said Erich Schwarz, an MAN board member who’s
the top labor representative at the company’s Austrian
truckmaking division. “We’re not in the business of building a
common truck. Engines and drivers’ cabs determine the face of
the brands. They’ve got to be developed separately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  