-- 
Warburg Pincus Said to Be in Client Talks on Raising Cash for Buyout Fund

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-06-23T15:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/warburg-pincus-is-said-to-talk-to-clients-about-raising-new-buyout-fund.html
Warburg Pincus LLC, the U.S. firm
that owns financial market data provider Interactive Data Corp.,
is preparing to raise a new private-equity fund, two people
familiar with the plan said.  The company, based in  New York , has discussed the idea with
clients after investing more than 80 percent of its current $15
billion pool, raised in 2008, said one of the people, asking not
to be named because the information is private. The firm had
initially targeted $12 billion for its current fund.  Warburg Pincus is joining leveraged-buyout firms including
KKR & Co. and Apax Partners LLP in seeking new money as deals
pick up and the stock market recovery allows managers to return
money to investors. Private-equity firms raised $225 billion
last year, the lowest amount since 2004, as the pensions and
endowments that invest in the funds waited for profits from
previous investments before committing new capital, according to
London research firm Preqin Ltd.  Ed Trissel, a spokesman for  Warburg Pincus , declined to
comment. The firm’s investments range from backing early stage
companies to buyouts of mature businesses.  Private-equity managers may raise about $300 billion in
total this year, Preqin said, after about 220 firms secured $110
billion since the start of the year. Industrywide, 1,718 funds
are currently seeking to raise an aggregate $716 billion.  “Investors are starting to come back to market, but with
the number and value of funds on the road at record levels there
is still nowhere near enough capital to satisfy the ambitions of
all these managers,” said Tim Friedman, head of communication
at Preqin. “As a result, fundraising conditions are set to
remain extremely competitive.”  ‘Consistent Performers’  Preqin lists Warburg Pincus in its “Consistent
Performers” league table, as the firm’s funds have exceeded the
median performance. About 40 percent of Warburg Pincus’ pools
are among the top quartile performers, according to Preqin.  Warburg Pincus, whose founder Lionel Pincus died in 2009,
has been returning cash to investors this year. The firm agreed
this month to sell its stake in Telcordia Technologies Inc. to
mobile-phone networks maker Ericsson AB in a deal valuing the
telecommunications-services provider at $1.2 billion.  Warburg may sell a stake in Ziggo BV in a $1.5 billion
initial public offering valuing the Dutch cable-television
company at about 7 billion euros ($10 billion) including debt,
two people with knowledge of the matter said in April.  Warburg and  Silver Lake  bought financial market data and
services provide Interactive Data in a $3 billion transaction
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  