-- 
Wen Says Concentrated Power Fosters China Corruption

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-23T06:48:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/wen-says-too-much-concentrated-power-fosters-china-corruption.html
(Corrects anniversary in second paragraph.)  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  told
Communist Party members that too much power is concentrated
among government officials, a situation that must change to
solve corruption issues.  “Each party member and cadre must abide by the law, be
cautious and prudent, and practice self-discipline,” Wen  said 
yesterday to party members gathered in Beijing for an award
ceremony, according to  China  National Radio. The comments come
ahead of the party’s 90th anniversary on July 1.  China this year has made an anti-corruption campaign its
top priority in an effort to address mounting discontent over
the abuse of power and a widening income gap. Wen in February
pledged to root out misrule and said the government will monitor
its officials, without elaborating.  “The anti-corruption situation is still grim while the work
is very arduous,” Wu Yuliang, the deputy secretary of Central
Commission for Discipline Inspection, said in Beijing yesterday.
“We are at a stage where corruption is frequent and prone to
happen,” according to a  transcript  by the official Xinhua News
Agency.  The government investigated 139,621 corruption-related
cases last year, Wu told reporters without giving comparative
figures. The department probed 115,420 cases during the first 11
months of 2009,  Xinhua  cited Wu as saying in January 2010.  Corruption White Paper  The State Council issued China’s first white paper on
corruption in December and has established a system requiring
government officials to report their incomes, real estate and
investments, as well as the occupations of their spouses and
children.  The probe of former Minister of Railways Liu Zhijun is the
latest sign of the fight against high-level abuse of power. Liu
in February was dismissed and placed under investigation for
“severe violations of discipline,” language usually used in
corruption cases. Wu declined to give details of Liu’s case
yesterday, adding “it’s still under the process of
investigation.”  Public discontent remains high.  Internet users  have set up
websites including woxinghuile.com -- meaning “I bribed” --
that are designed to disclose their own experiences of bribing
government officials.  --Yidi Zhao. Editors: John Brinsley, Paul Tighe  To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  