-- 
Williams Offers $4.86 Billion for Southern Union, Topping Energy Transfer

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-06-23T22:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/williams-bids-39-a-share-for-southern-union.html
Williams Cos. offered to buy
pipeline company  Southern Union Co. (SUG)  for $4.86 billion in cash,
topping a bid by  Energy Transfer Equity LP. (ETE)   The Williams offer values Southern Union at $39 a share,
according to a statement today from the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
company. That’s $6 a share, or about $750 million, more than the
June 16 sale price announced by Southern Union and Energy
Transfer.  Williams, which wants to use Southern Union’s lines to
connect to new sources of natural gas in the Permian Basin and
Granite Wash fields in Texas and  Oklahoma , said its offer isn’t
subject to a financing contingency. Energy Transfer’s offer
calls for it to issue new units and exchange them for existing
Southern Union shares.  “Our proposal provides significantly greater value to all
Southern Union shareholders than they would receive from Energy
Transfer and a path to realize such premium value that is more
transparent, more expedient and more certain,” Alan Armstrong,
chief executive officer of Williams, said in the statement.  Energy Transfer President Kelcy Warren did not respond to a
call seeking comment and a spokeswoman for the company did not
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment. Southern
Union officials did not return calls seeking comment.  Armstrong said in a telephone interview that Williams made
an offer to Southern Union within the last year. Williams
executives tried to contact Southern Union before making today’s
offer and weren’t successful, he said.  Spinoff Planned  The purchase would make Williams the largest interstate
natural-gas shipper, with a capacity of 22 billion cubic feet a
day, Armstrong said.  Under the terms of its agreement with Energy Transfer,
Southern Union must pay Energy Transfer $92.5 million if it
accepts a higher offer before July 25 and $135 million if it
does so after that date.  Williams announced Feb. 16 that it will spin off its oil
and gas exploration unit. The Southern Union purchase will not
affect that split, according to the Williams statement.  The offer was announced after the close of regular trading
on U.S. markets. Southern Union rose $5.05, or 15 percent, to
$39.20 at 4:29 p.m. in  New York . Williams was unchanged at
$29.23, and Energy Transfer fell $1.71, or 3.8 percent, to
$45.57.  Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. are serving as Williams’s
financial advisers. Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher LLP are its legal advisers.  Evercore Partners Inc. is advising Southern Union, and
Credit Suisse Group AG is working with Energy Transfer. Locke
Lord Bissell & Liddell LLP and Roberts & Holland LLP are
providing legal advice to Southern Union, and Latham & Watkins
LLP and Bingham McCutcheon LLP are counseling Energy Transfer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  