-- 
Winnipeg Gets a National Hockey League Team Back in Manitoban Renaissance

-- B y   D a v i d   S a x
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/winnipeg-gets-a-national-hockey-league-team-back-in-manitoban-renaissance.html
After Winnipeg won the World Hockey
Association’s Avco Cup in the spring of 1979, things went pretty
much downhill -- for the Jets and the city.  Once the center of western  Canada ’s economy, the prairie
capital stalled through the 1980s and 1990s as grain prices fell.
Historic buildings were abandoned, and Portage Avenue --
considered by some the coldest stretch of pavement on Earth --
became Canada’s largest skid row, according to a story in the
June 27 edition of Bloomberg Businessweek.  “Nobody built a damn thing in Winnipeg in the 1990s,”
says Martin Cash, a one-time Jets fan and business writer for
the Winnipeg Free Press. “I mean, it was grim.”  In the fall of 1979, the Jets joined the  National Hockey
League . As the league was expanding, Winnipeg was contracting.
In 1996, the Jets moved to Phoenix.  Sam Katz, a former concert promoter who is now the mayor,
says he is haunted by images of children emptying their piggy
banks at “Save the Jets” rallies.  “It felt like someone put their fist through your rib
cage and pulled out your heart,” Katz said.  Since his election in 2004, Katz has overseen a Manitoban
renaissance. Buoyed by high commodity prices and booming
industries such as agribusiness, biotech, aerospace and
insurance, the city boasts one of Canada’s most diverse
economies and lowest unemployment rates.  The resurgence continued on May 31, when investors
purchased the NHL’s Atlanta Thrashers for $110 million and
announced a move of the franchise to Winnipeg.  “Watching that press conference was one of the best
moments of my life,” said Claude Ouimet, who celebrated by
wearing a signed Bobby Hull jersey and watching old Jets games
at 4Play Sports Bar in downtown Winnipeg. “It was like seeing
the  Rolling Stones .”  True North  The team’s new owner is True North Sports & Entertainment,
led by David Thomson, chairman of  Thomson Reuters  Corp. and
Canada’s richest person, and Mark Chipman, a car dealership
magnate. The franchise will play at the MTS Centre.  “We do not expect to be covering losses here,” says True
North President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Ludlow. “It’s
largely plug-and-play. It’s not like we’re bringing in a cricket
team.”  The rest of the city wants to benefit from puckonomics.
Dave Angus, CEO of the Winnipeg Chamber of Commerce, said “a
major-league city translates into business.”  Service businesses are the most likely to reap immediate
benefits, says Angus.  Oreanna Cheater, who opened 4Play across from the MTS
Centre in 2010, said business may double next season as fans
return for televised curling tournaments.  Chicken Wings  Craig Evans, CEO of Granny’s Poultry Cooperative, said “a
doubling of wing volume in the city is not unrealistic.”
Granny’s expects sales of the company’s signature boneless
Wingstix -- now Jetstix -- to jump to 20,000 pounds from 4,000.  While the team’s management attends the NHL draft in
 Minneapolis  on June 24, Jacques Lavergne, director of sales and
marketing at the Fairmont Winnipeg, will be in a nearby
convention center pitching his property to NHL travel managers.
Becoming the official visitor’s hotel could translate into 4,000
room-nights a year, he says, with increased spending by players
and fans at on-site restaurants.  Belinda Bigold, the owner of High Tea Bakery, is taking a
record number of orders for her signature Jets jersey cookies.
She expects to sell thousands of the $2.50 confections this year,
up from 600 during the between-times. “Winnipeggers will go
berserk for the next couple years,” says Bigold. “Every
corporation involved will order something special with the logo
on it.”  Economic Realism  Enthusiasm has its limits.  “We need to be careful not to overstate what the NHL will
do for the economy,” says Ryan A. Compton, a professor of
economics at the  University of Manitoba . “It won’t turn
Winnipeg into Calgary.”  Still,  Derek Holt , a vice-president at Toronto-based Scotia
Capital Inc., is optimistic.  “More fundamentally,” he says, “there’s not a Canadian
who doesn’t relish the thought of hockey being played back in a
city where the guy sitting beside you doesn’t smell like suntan
lotion.”  The new Winnipeg franchise will be the NHL’s seventh
Canadian team, joining the  Vancouver Canucks , Calgary Flames,
 Toronto Maple Leafs , Edmonton Oilers,  Montreal Canadiens  and
 Ottawa Senators .  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Sax at 
 saxdavid@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  