-- 
Yageo Slumps After Taiwan Rejects KKR-Backed Takeover Bid

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-06-23T04:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/yageo-slumps-after-taiwan-rejects-kkr-bid.html
Yageo Corp. (2327)  fell in Taipei trading,
poised for the lowest close in eight months, after the island’s
Investment Commission rejected a NT$46.8 billion ($1.6 billion)
KKR & Co.-backed takeover bid for the electronic-parts maker.  Yageo declined 6.9 percent, its daily limit, to NT$12.75 as
of 12.23 p.m. in Taipei trading, set for the lowest close since
Oct. 21. The stock has dropped 11 percent this year, compared
with a 4.5 percent fall in the benchmark Taiex index.  Taiwan’s investment commission yesterday said it rejected
the plan because regulators had doubts about the deal as the
acquirer didn’t provide sufficient explanation about investor
protections and whether the offer price is reasonable. This is
the second major cross-border deal turned down by the Taiwanese
regulator in the past year.  “Foreign investors may avoid  Taiwan  purchases if they can
after such episodes,” said Sam Hsieh, a Taipei-based  fund
manager  who helps oversee the equivalent of $7.8 billion at Fuh
Hwa Investment Trust Co. “They now know they will have to
consider not just the valuation, but also political and social
concerns that may result from a deal.”  Orion Investment Co., a venture between New York-based KKR
and Yageo founder Pierre Chen, had announced a management-led
buyout of the company in April. Orion, on April 6, made a cash
offer of NT$16.10 per share, a 14 percent premium to the stock’s
previous closing price.  The regulator last year rejected a $2.15 billion bid led by
Hong Kong-based Primus Financial Holdings Ltd. for American
International Group, Inc.’s Taiwan life unit, saying the group
had failed to show it had the financial capability and long-term
commitment to operate the venture.  ‘Highly-Leveraged Deals’  “We welcome all investments in Taiwan, including private
equities, but highly-leveraged deals are not,” Fan Liang-tung,
executive secretary of the economic ministry’s investment
commission said yesterday. Fan said the KKR-backed bid was a
highly leveraged deal.  Orion Investment’s bid, to be funded by an NT$28 billion
loan, follows KKR’s 2007 investment of almost $230 million in
Taipei-based Yageo through a convertible bond purchase. Taiwan’s
rejection is a blow to Chen’s plans to get control of the
company he founded 34 years ago and take it private.  KKR yesterday said since its initial investment in 2007,
Yageo has expanded its capacity, created jobs, gained market
share and experienced revenue growth. KKR “remains committed
fully to its investment in Yageo,” it said in the statement.  Orion Investment has 30 days after it receives official
notice of the rejection to appeal the decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net 
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  