-- 
Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz May Confront Impatient Investors at Annual Meeting

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-23T20:42:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/yahoo-s-bartz-may-confront-impatient-investors-at-annual-meeting.html
Yahoo! Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Carol Bartz , speaking at the company’s annual shareholder
meeting today, confronted investors who are losing patience with
the Web portal’s turnaround plan.  Chairman Roy Bostock voiced his support for Bartz, and
stockholders approved Bartz’s and Bostock’s re-election to the
board with about 80 percent of the votes. Other directors got at
least 90 percent, according to the results Yahoo announced at
the meeting in  Santa Clara ,  California .  “The hard-won progress that we have made is why this board
is very supportive of Carol and the management team,” Bostock
said in his opening remarks to shareholders. “I want to make it
very clear about that support. We are confident that Yahoo is
headed in the right direction.”  Investors, including some at the meeting, have expressed
frustration with Yahoo’s growth prospects and the way it has
handled Asian assets that analysts say may make up more than
half its value. Under Bartz, who is more than halfway through
her contract, Yahoo has slashed costs with job cuts and a
partnership with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Still, Yahoo’s U.S. search
market share has stalled at about 16 percent since December,
according to ComScore Inc.  “Some of the longer-term shareholders have been very
patient,”  Ryan Jacob , portfolio manager of the Jacob Internet
Fund in  Los Angeles , said in a phone interview before the
meeting. “That patience is slowly coming to an end.”  Yahoo Shares  Yahoo fell 15 cents to $15.08 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares of the Sunnyvale, California-
based company have gained 1.7 percent since last year’s meeting,
compared with a 21 percent jump in the technology-laden Nasdaq
Composite Index. The Nasdaq Composite’s gain has outpaced
Yahoo’s by almost three times since Bartz was named CEO in
January 2009.  “The honeymoon’s long over,” said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst with BGC Partners LP in New York. He rates the stock a
hold and doesn’t own it. “While the company is turning around,
the competition continues to grow in the space.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to
comment.  Asian Assets  The company’s Asian assets, including stakes in China’s
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , give the
company a value of about $25 a share, said Adam Seessel, a
portfolio manager of the RiverPark/Gravity Long-Biased Fund,
which has about $10 million under management. Yahoo’s turnaround
effort may take time, he said.  “The stock price will tell you that no one thinks anything
good is going to happen to Yahoo,” Seessel said.  Other investors, such as Greenlight Capital Inc.’s  David Einhorn , also have said the company’s Asian holdings make it an
attractive investment. Greenlight announced earlier this year
that it had acquired a stake in Yahoo, saying its most valuable
asset was its stake in Alibaba Group.  Alibaba Group, which owns e-commerce businesses in  China ,
helps Yahoo investors benefit from growth in the world’s largest
Internet market. Yahoo’s 43 percent holding in Alibaba may
account for as much as three-fourths of Yahoo’s market
capitalization, according to analysts including Sandeep Aggarwal
of Caris & Co. in San Francisco.  Japan ’s Softbank Corp. also
owns a stake in Alibaba.  Alipay Transfer  Yahoo shares have fallen 19 percent since the company
revealed in a regulatory filing last month that Alibaba Group
had transferred its online-payments unit, Alipay, to a Chinese
company mostly owned by Alibaba CEO Jack Ma. The shift, which
helped Alipay comply with foreign-ownership restrictions in
China, fueled concern that Yahoo’s stake would lose value.  Yahoo, Alibaba and Softbank said in a joint statement this
week they are making “substantive” progress toward an
agreement on Alipay about compensation for the loss of the unit.
Bartz said during today’s meeting she is encouraged with the
progress of the talks with Alibaba, without giving more details.  The company is also considering ways to get more value from
Yahoo Japan, Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse said last month.
Options include spinning it off or creating a tracking stock, he
said.  Web Competition  As Bartz’s team works on Yahoo’s Asia assets, she also
faces increasing competition for the company’s main business,
which includes the home page, e-mail service and news features.
Yahoo, which makes money selling ads that run alongside its
services, is the fourth-most visited website in the world,
dropping from No. 3 last year, according to ComScore.  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  remains No. 1, followed by Microsoft and Facebook Inc.  Yahoo’s sales dropped 13 percent from 2008 to 2010, while
Google’s rose 35 percent. Google’s share of U.S. search was more
than four times Yahoo’s in May, according to ComScore. Bartz,
aiming to reduce costs, outsourced some search technology in an
agreement with Microsoft that got under way last year. Ad sales
tied to the searches haven’t met expectations, something both
companies are working to rectify, Bartz said earlier this year.  The company, which has sold some businesses under Bartz,
has been trying to improve its offerings to consumers and
advertisers. Yahoo unveiled a new search service earlier this
year that gives answers to users as they type, called Search
Direct. The company’s original video content boosted its
programs’ audience size by 80 percent in the first quarter, with
time spent doubling on that service.  Still, social-networking site Facebook, which Bartz said
last year is a bigger competitor than Google, is set to overtake
Yahoo this year for the biggest share of the U.S. online
display-advertising market, according to EMarketer Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  