-- 
Ashley Young Set to Double Salary to 120,000 Pounds a Week: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-23T07:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-23/young-nears-25-million-manchester-utd-move-after-medical-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Young’s Medical  Ashley Young is on the brink of being announced as
Manchester United’s second off-season signing after the Aston
Villa winger underwent a medical ahead of a 16 million-pound
($25.7 million) move, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  The England international, who is said to have agreed
personal terms with the Premier League champion earlier this
month, is expected to sign a five-year contract and double his
wages to about 120,000 pounds a week, the newspaper added.  Cissokho to City?  Manchester City is close to signing Lyon full-back Aly
Cissokho, who’s rated at 20 million pounds, the Sun  reported .  City Chief Executive Officer Gary Cook and Brian Marwood,
the club’s administration officer, flew to  France  earlier this
week to try to work out a deal for the 23-year-old, who has
three years remaining on his contract, the Sun said.  Costly Castoffs  City manager  Roberto Mancini  is said to be angry with
Marwood and Cook over their “crazy” demands for the club’s
unwanted players, the  Daily Express   reported .  Mancini’s off-season spending has been held up while they
prioritize trimming players including Emmanuel Adebayor,  Shaun Wright-Phillips ,  Wayne Bridge  and Roque Santa Cruz, the Express
said. Potential suitors have so far laughed off the insistence
of Marwood and Cook that buying clubs will have to cover the
players’ wages and pay a transfer fee, the newspaper added.  Forlan Alert  Tottenham is on alert after Atletico Madrid put Uruguay
striker Diego Forlan up for sale, the  Daily Star   reported .  Forlan, 32, is available for 7 million pounds because
Atletico wants a quick sale and Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp
is seeking to revamp his strike force, the newspaper added.  Holding Out  Arsenal’s Gael Clichy will try to force a move to Premier
League rival Liverpool after Roma offered 7 million pounds for
the French defender, the Sun  reported .  Clichy, who has 12 months remaining on his contract, is
prepared to hold out and hope that the Gunners will do business
with Liverpool, which has offered 5 million pounds, the
newspaper said.  Increased Bid  Liverpool will match Sunderland’s 8 million-pound offer for
Ipswich striker Connor Wickham, the Daily Mirror  reported . The
Anfield club previously bid 6 million pounds for the 18-year-old,
who is also attracting interest from Arsenal and Tottenham, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  