-- 
Abbott Labs Sued on Claims Humira Caused Permanent Eye Damage

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-05-23T18:31:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/abbott-labs-sued-by-web-designer-who-says-humira-damaged-her-optic-nerves.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  was sued by
a New York Web designer who claimed its top-selling drug Humira,
which she took for Crohn’s disease, permanently damaged her
optic nerves.  The doctor who treated Jamie Bixby at the New York Eye and
Ear Infirmary in  Brooklyn  in 2008 said Bixby’s optic neuritis
was “related to her use of Humira,’’ according to the lawsuit,
which was filed May 20 in  Chicago  federal court, near the
drugmaker’s headquarters in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois .  Bixby said she was told by a nurse on the company’s
telephone helpline that the eye pain she began experiencing
after a month of Humira treatments wasn’t related to the drug.
An eye doctor diagnosed Bixby with permanent damage to the
myelin sheath of her optic nerves a month later, after she
sought emergency treatment when vision in one eye became blurry
with black holes.  If Abbott had warned Bixby or her gastroenterologist “that
Humira could be the source of her eye pain, she would have
immediately discontinued taking the drug and would have
immediately obtained proper emergency medical treatment,’’ Bixby
said in the complaint.  Humira, which had reported 2010 worldwide sales of
$6.5 billion, is expected to outsell  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin
cancer medicine by 2016 to become the world’s most lucrative
drug, according to a May 2010 forecast by research company
EvaluatePharma.  ‘Safety Data’  “Humira has more than 12 years of clinical and safety data
and best-in-class efficacy,’’ Adelle Infante, an Abbott
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today. “The therapeutic risks
associated with Humira, including disorders of the nervous
systems, are well known and documented in the prescribing
label.’’  Bixby’s lawyer, Andy Vickery of Vickery, Waldner & Mallia
LLP in Houston, has already sued Abbott claiming Humira caused
cancer or peripheral nerve damage in patients from  Texas ,
Massachusetts and Montana.  Humira was originally approved in 2003 as a treatment for
rheumatoid arthritis. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has
since approved it to treat five additional autoimmune diseases,
including Crohn’s.  Bixby said Abbott should have known Humira could damage the
coatings of optic nerves before it began marketing the drug to
Crohn’s patients in 2007. She said an article in a leading
arthritis journal detailed a series of patients who developed
deterioration of their optic nerves’ myelin sheaths after taking
Enbrel and Remicade, similar drugs made by competitors.  ‘Specific Warning’  “Other competitor drugs in the same class have a specific
warning about the risks of optic nerve damage,’’ Bixby said in
the complaint. “Humira does not.’’  This year, two arthritis patients in Massachusetts and
Texas sued Abbott claiming Humira gave them lymphoma. In April,
a  Montana  Crohn’s patient sued on claims Humira caused lasting
nerve damage in her feet.  In all four cases, the patients are seeking both economic
and punitive damages.  The case is Bixby v. Abbott Laboratories, 1:11-cv-3414,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan  at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 