-- 
Madness, Mystery of Bavaria’s Ludwig Revisited at Island Palace

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/madness-mystery-of-bavaria-s-ludwig-revisited-at-island-palace.html
Bavaria’s King Ludwig II, the subject
of a new exhibition at one of his magnificent palaces, was in
many ways the  Michael Jackson  of his day.  He created parallel fantasy worlds like  Neuschwanstein , the
inspiration for  Walt Disney ’s fairytale castle, today visited by
more than 1 million people a year. It was just one of Ludwig’s
Neverlands. Cocooned in lonely opulence, he grew ever more
reclusive, as though afraid of becoming soiled by the real
world. If oxygen tents had been available in the 19th century,
he might well have acquired one.  Ludwig suppressed his homosexuality, amassed crippling
debts through extravagant building projects, suffered depression
and insomnia and grew dependent on medication. Like the King of
Pop, he died a mysterious, untimely death. He is still adored by
millions, retaining a mythological status in his Bavarian
homeland that dwarfs his historical achievements.  The exhibition in honor of the 125th anniversary of
Ludwig’s watery, unexplained demise is at another of his vast,
unfinished palaces. In an idyllic setting on a wooded island in
the picturesque Chiemsee lake,  Neues Schloss Herrenchiemsee  is
accessible only by boat and surrounded by towering Alps.  The neo-baroque palace was modeled on Versailles as a
tribute to King Louis XIV, the Sun King, whom Ludwig worshipped.
The exhibition is in unfinished, bare-brick rooms at the back of
the palace. It runs through Oct. 16 and provides an extra excuse
to visit sumptuous Herrenchiemsee, which already attracts more
than 400,000 visitors a year.  Cherub Sleigh  The curators say they want to “de-kitsch” Ludwig, which
seems like mission impossible. After all, this is a king who
built himself a golden sleigh wreathed with cherubs and lit by
an electric crown. One of the most imposing exhibits in the
show, this horse-drawn sled carried the brooding monarch through
the mountains at night -- a sad and lonely image.  The exhibition does help to demythologize Ludwig by placing
him in his political and historical context. Five years after he
was crowned, Ludwig was forced, under pressure from his own
officials, to cede Bavaria’s sovereignty to Prussia and
recognize the authority of the German Kaiser in 1870. Ludwig’s
youth, beauty and artistic spirituality are contrasted with the
calculating, militaristic Otto von Bismarck in the show.  Bavarian Identity  Even today, Ludwig is closely identified with Bavarian
“national” identity. The sense that the people were cheated of
their charismatic, pure young king by political intrigue -- and
Prussia -- lives on. In Oberammergau, his birthday still is
celebrated on Aug. 24, with bonfires and a torchlit parade.  The show gives the right weight to Ludwig’s real legacy,
which -- beyond the grand palaces -- was to fund, inspire and
spiritually nurture the composer Richard Wagner. Without Ludwig,
the “Ring” cycle probably would not have been completed and
“Parsifal” might never have been written.  Ludwig, who insisted on watching operas alone so that he
could better immerse himself, called Wagner “godlike.” The
composer said of the young king after their first meeting, with
some prescience, “He is, alas, so beautiful, soulful and
splendid that I fear his life must run away like a fleeting,
heavenly dream in this common world.”  The king loved the tale of Lohengrin, the knight of the
Holy Grail sent in a boat pulled by swans. He identified both
with its hero and Lohengrin’s legendary father, Parzival. At
 Linderhof , the third of Ludwig’s three great palaces, he built a
Venus grotto in 1876, a reference to “Tannhauser.”  Depicted in the exhibition, it featured then hi-tech,
colored electric lights and a rainbow and waterfall playing over
plaster rocks as well as fake palms and roses.  Alabaster Falcon  Using 3-D computer technology, the exhibition creates a
virtual Schloss Falkenstein, a palace Ludwig planned in 1883 but
didn’t get around to building before he died. He intended to
have a palatial bedroom like a Byzantine chapel, with a domed,
starry ceiling, golden arched recesses covered in mosaics, a bed
surrounded by blue curtains and topped with a white, alabaster
falcon, and a tabernacle-shaped wash basin.  After 1875, Ludwig no longer appeared in public. In 1886,
he was declared insane by a psychiatrist, dethroned and confined
to Schloss Berg, his summer residence. He drowned in Lake
Starnberg on June 13, accompanied by that same psychiatrist, who
also was found dead.  The circumstances of the two deaths are still not known.
The exhibition outlines various conspiracy theories and
showcases the engraved gold-and-blue watch Ludwig was wearing
when he died. It is stopped forever at 18:53.  “Gotterdammerung: King Ludwig II” is at Neues Schloss
Herrenchiemsee through Oct. 16. For more information, go to
 http://www.hdbg.de .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Munich on  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 