-- 
Madoff Trustee’s Case Against JPMorgan Must Go to Higher Court, Judge Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/madoff-trustee-s-case-against-jpmorgan-must-go-to-higher-court-judge-says.html
A bankruptcy judge doesn’t have the
authority to decide whether the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm has the right to sue JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $6.4
billion, a higher court said.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in  New York  said she
would determine whether trustee  Irving Picard  has standing to
sue the bank on behalf of the con man’s customers, as JPMorgan
requested. The question of Picard’s status requires
“significant interpretation” of federal non-bankruptcy law
that isn’t the province of a  bankruptcy court , she said in a
written opinion today explaining her May 4 decision to take the
case.  In its request, “JPMorgan has satisfied the standard for
mandatory withdrawal” of the case to a higher court, she said.  JPMorgan argued that Picard was hired to liquidate the
Madoff firm, and wasn’t empowered by law to mount a class-action
suit to recover money on behalf of Madoff customers. Picard,
claiming that he was suing as a single entity, not a class,
“misses the point,” the judge said.  “The issue is whether seeking damages on behalf of more
than 50 persons or prospective class members triggers” a law
that might bar Picard from bringing his suit, the judge said.  McMahon’s opinion is another challenge to Picard, who has
filed more than 1,000 suits claiming $100 billion for investors
in the  Ponzi scheme .  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  has asked U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  to dismiss a $9 billion lawsuit
against it and so-called feeder funds, saying Picard isn’t
allowed by law to bring such suits on behalf of Madoff customers.  Taking the HSBC case temporarily, Rakoff agreed with the
U.K. bank that Picard’s lawsuit raised issues beyond the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court where Picard filed the suit.
He said he would decide whether Picard can bring common-law
claims such as unjust enrichment and can sue on behalf of
customers, since his job is to liquidate the Madoff firm.  Bankruptcy Court  Picard, whose firm was paid $146 million through March for
work since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, has fought to keep his cases in
bankruptcy court. JPMorgan “no doubt hopes to distance itself
both from the thousands of victims of that scheme and from other
alleged wrongdoers” by going to district court, Picard said in
a March filing.  Picard sued JPMorgan in December, claiming the bank, as
Madoff’s main lender, aided the fraud and should pay for
investors’ losses in specified years. Denying wrongdoing, New
York-based JPMorgan said it had a right to a jury trial in the
district court.  The judge has told JPMorgan to file papers by June 3
arguing that Picard’s suit should be dismissed.  The appeal is Picard v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  