-- 
Afghanistan Government Says It’s Lost Track of Taliban Leader Mullah Omar

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-05-23T12:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/afghan-intelligence-says-it-can-t-confirm-taliban-chief-s-death.html
Afghan Taliban leader Mullah Muhammad Omar has moved from his longtime refuge in or near the Pakistani
city of Quetta,  Afghanistan ’s intelligence agency said, after
local news reports that the cleric had been killed.  “He has disappeared from his area during the past four or
five days,” agency spokesman Lutfullah Mashal told reporters in
Kabul, referring to the region of Pakistan around Quetta where
the government of Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  has for years
said Omar was sheltering. Mashal said his agency, the Afghan
National Security Directorate, has tracked Omar through its
contacts with senior members of the Taliban.  Mashal said the directorate cannot confirm a report by
Kabul-based  Tolo  television that cited unnamed domestic
intelligence sources as saying Omar had been killed. News media
in Pakistan and  India  repeated Tolo’s account, which came three
weeks after a U.S. commando raid killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad,  Pakistan .  Pakistan has long denied assertions by Afghan and U.S.
officials that Omar has sheltered, like bin Laden, in the
country. Before Mashal’s press conference, Pakistan’s military
spokesman Major General Athar Abbas said in a text message that
he hadn’t seen any information to support the reports of Omar’s
death.  Pakistan’s Interior Minister Rehman Malik told reporters in
Karachi there was no truth in the reports of Omar’s killing. The
allied Taliban movements in Afghanistan and Pakistan denied that
Omar had been killed.  Village Cleric  “I strongly reject the reports on the killing of our
leader,” Afghan Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said in a
phone interview from an undisclosed location. “Mullah Omar is
alive.” Pakistani Taliban spokesman Sajjad Mohmand said the
same by phone.  Unlike bin Laden, Omar is little known as a public figure.
He is a rural village cleric from southern Afghanistan who
formed the Taliban as a movement of religious students amid the
civil war that racked the country following the Soviet
occupation of the 1980s.  While Omar served as Afghanistan’s head of state during the
Taliban regime that ruled from 1996 to 2001 and sheltered bin
Laden, he seldom left his home in the southern city of Kandahar.
He has been in hiding since the Taliban’s overthrow in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  