-- 
Lagarde Becomes Front-Runner to Head IMF as Mexico’s Carstens Enters Race

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-05-23T10:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/lagarde-becoming-front-runner-for-imf-as-mexico-s-carstens-enters-race.html
Support mounted for French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  to head the  International Monetary
Fund  as Mexico offered its central bank governor as an emerging-
market candidate, challenging  Europe ’s 65-year hold on the job.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said in a
May 21 statement his nation will back Lagarde to become the
first woman to head the Washington-based lender. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said consensus was emerging in Europe
for her to get the post, Deutsche Presse-Agentur reported two
days ago.  Nations from  Australia  to Brazil are urging a selection
determined by “merit” rather than nationality, and Banco de
Mexico Governor Agustin Carstens offered a veteran IMF candidate
for emerging markets to rally around. Developing countries have
so far shown little evidence of coordination, with  Thailand ,
 Russia  and  South Africa  supporting policy makers from their own
parts of the world.  “Lagarde might be front-runner,” New Zealand Prime
Minister John Key said in an interview with TVNZ television
today. “She’s super impressive I’ve got to say,” he said,
while echoing officials outside of Europe in calling for a
selection “on merit.”  The IMF, which provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages, has promised transparency in the selection
process, saying that by the end of June it will choose the most
qualified candidate. Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn
resigned last week to wage a legal battle over sexual-assault
charges in  New York .  Nomination Today  Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  will likely
present Carstens’s candidacy today, Ricardo Ochoa, head of
international affairs at the ministry, said in a telephone
interview.  Carstens, 52, was a deputy managing director of the IMF
from 2003 to 2006, going on to serve as Mexican finance minister
until taking the helm of the central bank in January 2010.
 Mexico , the first nation to request a flexible credit line from
the IMF, a mechanism to help support economies pursing strong
economic policies, leads a group of eight nations with 4.66
percent of the total IMF voting power, the fund’s website shows.  At Banco de Mexico, Carstens, who has a doctorate in
economics from the University of Chicago and is a Chicago Cubs
baseball fan, has overseen an increase in transparency. Minutes
of policy meetings were published for the first time this year.  ‘Gentlemen’s Agreement’  “Carstens obviously has all the technical preparation and
the experience to be a very good director” of the IMF, said
 Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in Mexico City. “Despite him meeting all the criteria, we think
it will be pretty hard for him to be picked. The gentlemen’s
agreement between Europe and the U.S. about the World Bank and
the IMF will continue.”  Under an informal postwar deal, Europeans have always
headed the IMF, with Americans picking the World Bank president.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in a statement three
days ago the U.S. will support a candidate who can command
“broad support,” and reiterated his call for a quick decision.  “What the leader mustn’t be is simply a figurehead of a
pure European and U.S. ‘deal,’” Jim O’Neill, chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, wrote in a note to clients. “If
the IMF ends up with European leader, that person will have to
face the additional burden of being regarded as such a product,
adding to his or her challenges.”  Lagarde Chances  The IMF plans to name a new director by June 30, and
Lagarde’s chances of securing the role may hinge on how she
resolved a two-decade-old dispute involving a supporter of
President Nicolas Sarkozy. At the time, Lagarde was a partner
with the Chicago-based law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP, 12 years
before she joined the government.  France ’s Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate if Lagarde abused her powers in agreeing
in 2007 to send the case to arbitration. It resulted in a 385
million-euro ($550 million) award to Bernard Tapie, a former
Socialist minister who endorsed Sarkozy’s presidential effort.  Lagarde has rejected accusations her decision to take the
matter to arbitration and not appeal the award was a reward for
Tapie’s support of Sarkozy.  First Woman  Britain’s Osborne praised Lagarde for her leadership skills
during France’s presidency of the Group of 20 and for her
“strong” advocacy of countries taking steps to reduce budget
deficits. Last week, Osborne had left open the possibility that
Britain might endorse a non-European to head the fund.  “On the basis of merit, I believe Christine is the
outstanding candidate for the IMF, and that’s why Britain will
back her,” Osborne said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday. “It would be a very good thing to see the first
female managing director of the IMF.”  Lagarde, 55, declined to comment on her potential candidacy
when questioned by reporters in Paris last week. She said that
the successor to Strauss-Kahn should come from Europe.  A fluent English speaker, Lagarde’s negotiating abilities
helped clinch agreement on the euro area’s sovereign bailout
fund announced in the early hours of May 10 last year, according
to a person who was there. The 16-member group’s finance
ministers worked through the night to create a 750 billion-euro
fund ($1.07 trillion) to support financially distressed
governments and hold the bloc together.  European Unity  Merkel described Lagarde as an “excellent and experienced
person,”  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  said. Austria may support
Lagarde, Finance Minister Maria Fekter said two days ago,
according to Agence France-Presse. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said in a statement last week Lagarde would be “an
excellent choice” as Europe’s candidate.  France has supplied four of the 10 IMF managing directors
so far, including three of the past five.  While Chinese officials haven’t publicly endorsed any
candidate, Thailand and the Philippines backed Singapore Finance
Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam as a possible choice to succeed
Strauss-Kahn. Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco
said the IMF should consider an Asian candidate.  “While either of those names” -- Mexico’s Carstens and
France’s Lagarde -- “would be well-qualified as the chief of
the fund, the IMF Executive Board must seriously consider a
candidate from the Asian region,” Tetangco said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Kazakhstan  Bid  Kazakhstan has discussed with  Brazil ,  China  and  India 
making the nation’s central bank chief the emerging-market
candidate to lead the fund, Prime Minister Karim Massimov said
last week.  Massimov on May 19 announced the candidacy of Grigori Marchenko, chairman of the National Bank of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, via Twitter. He said the prime ministers of the
Commonwealth of Independent States, including Russia, supported
Marchenko’s bid.  “Traditionally it has been a European, and most likely
it’s going to be a European,” Malaysian central bank Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. Asked
whether she would be interested in the job, Zeti cited a recent
renewal of her term and said: “I am going to be here in
 Malaysia . No, it would be a European.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in New York at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  