-- 
AIG Share Sale Adds Pressure on Hancock to Revive Chartis

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-23T20:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/aig-share-sale-adds-pressure-on-hancock-to-revive-biggest-unit.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  is
counting on Peter Hancock to make up for his lack of an
insurance background with experience managing financial risk.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  chose Hancock, who
spent 20 years at a predecessor to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , to
return AIG’s largest unit to profit as the insurer works to
replace government bailout funds with private capital. New York-
based AIG and the U.S. Treasury Department plan to sell 300
million shares tomorrow.  AIG needs to restore investors’ confidence in the Chartis
property-casualty unit after insufficient reserves forced the
firm to take a $4.2 billion fourth-quarter charge. Hancock, 52,
joined AIG in 2010 to help repay the government and unwind the
derivatives business that brought the company to the brink of
collapse in 2008. He got the largest bonus among AIG’s top
managers and is seen as a potential CEO successor.  “It’s absolutely essential that Hancock reduce the number
of surprises that come out of Chartis and make the business
transparent enough so that investors trust it,” said  Clark Troy , a senior analyst based in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , for
Aite Group.  Benmosche, 66, is relying on Chartis to lead AIG’s rebound
after the company plunged 38 percent this year on the New York
Stock Exchange on claims from the Japan earthquake and the
reserve-building charge, which was disclosed in February.
Chartis accounted for about half the company’s revenue last year
and that share is poised to rise after Benmosche sold non-U.S.
life insurance operations and a consumer lender.  45 Million Clients  Hancock lacks the experience of his predecessor, Kristian Moor, arranging deals with insurance buyers seeking protection
against worker injuries, property damage and lawsuits. Chartis,
with 40,000 employees, has more than  45 million clients ,
including multinational corporations and small businesses.  “There’s a lot of skepticism about whether or not someone
from the outside can come in and run an insurance operation,”
said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP,
who has a “buy” rating on AIG’s shares. AIG fell 82 cents, or
2.7 percent, to $29.98 at 4:02 p.m.  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Hancock has a strong financial background for the job and
the intelligence to learn what he needs to know about insurance,
said Ernest Patrikis, a former AIG general counsel and now
partner at White & Case LLP. Running Chartis involves managing
both underwriting and investing risks. The unit has a  $125.8
billion  portfolio.  ‘Vote of Confidence’  “This is good for him to get a great feel for one of the
two major operations of AIG,” said Patrikis. “It’s a vote of
confidence in him and it also suggests that Chartis needs some
sharpening up.” Patrikis said Hancock is one of two internal
frontrunners to be CEO along with Jay Wintrob, 54, who heads
SunAmerica, AIG’s U.S. life insurance division.  Moor was named vice chairman of Chartis and will assist on
“business-development strategies and client matters,” AIG said
March 31 when it announced that Hancock would run the unit.
Hancock had joined AIG as executive vice president, finance,
risk and investments.  Benmosche, who is battling cancer, should be able to stay
in his role for 12 to 18 months, AIG said in February. The
company reiterated that Chairman  Steve Miller  is available to
fill in as interim CEO if Benmosche has to step aside ahead of
schedule. AIG spokesman Mark Herr declined to comment and said
Hancock was unavailable for an interview.  Hancock announced a deal in April to pay $1.65 billion to
 Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to assume the risk of
asbestos policies sold by AIG. Hancock said May 6 that he will
bolster Chartis by focusing on the most attractive risks, even
if it means sacrificing revenue.  Unattractive Risks  “We are moving away from any kind of top-line targeting,”
Hancock said in a call with analysts. “We think that leads you
to do business at the margin, which is unattractive.”  Hancock spent 20 years at a predecessor to JPMorgan, where
he established the bank’s derivatives group and served as chief
financial officer. He stepped down as CFO in 2000 and later co-
founded Integrated Finance Ltd. with Robert Merton, the Nobel
Prize-winning economist, and Roberto Mendoza, a former vice
chairman at New York-based JPMorgan. He joined AIG from
Cleveland-based  KeyCorp (KEY) , where he was vice chairman responsible
for national banking.  Hancock played “an overarching role in starting the
credit-risk-transfer market,” said Ed Grebeck, CEO of  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based debt-consulting firm Tempus Advisors and an
instructor at  New York University , who has taught courses on
derivatives. “He was definitely an early proponent of credit-
default swaps.”  Higher Bonus  Hancock got $4.32 million in 2010 incentive pay, 20 percent
more than his target, AIG said in a filing in March. Moor’s
payout was $1.71 million, or 10 percent below his target, after
“underachievement of certain financial metrics,” AIG said.
Benmosche, Wintrob and CFO David Herzog got their full bonuses
of $3.5 million, $1.16 million and $1.02 million respectively.  “AIG accomplished an unprecedented divestiture program,”
selling 34 businesses, the insurer said in the filing disclosing
Hancock’s 2010 bonus. He also helped negotiations with Treasury
and Federal Reserve Bank of New York as the insurer structured a
deal to repay its rescue.  AIG plans to sell 100 million shares tomorrow, and Treasury
expects to sell 200 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The offering will reduce Treasury’s stake in the
insurer to about 77 percent from 92 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  