-- 
Thailand Economic Growth Accelerates, Maintaining Pressure for Rate Rises

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-05-23T04:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/thailand-economy-grew-adjusted-2-0-in-first-quarter-less-than-estimated.html
Thai economic growth accelerated in
the first quarter to the fastest pace in a year, adding pressure
for higher borrowing costs to contain inflation as the
government prepares for a July 3 election.  Gross domestic product rose 2 percent in the three months
to March 31 from the previous quarter, when it climbed a revised
1.3 percent, the National Economic and Social Development Board
said in Bangkok today. The median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 2.2 percent jump.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has pledged wage increases
and capped food and diesel costs to win support ahead of the
poll as rising consumer spending contributes to price pressures.
The central bank has signaled it may raise  interest rates  for
the fourth time this year in June and the government predicts
exports will weather trade disruption from Japan’s earthquake.  “The solid growth, which was supported by both domestic
and external demand, would lead to expectations of faster
inflation and more rate hikes,” said Tohru Nishihama, economist
at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The
earthquake in Japan may have a short-term impact, but not a big
one. We may see at least two or three more rate hikes in 2011.”  The nation’s benchmark SET Index has surged 43 percent in
the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
down 1 percent today as of 10:40 a.m. local time, while the MSCI
Asia Pacific index slid as much as 2 percent.  Baht Decline  The  Thai baht  fell 0.3 percent to 30.38 per dollar and has
dropped about 1.3 percent in 2011, the worst performer among
major Southeast Asian economies. That aids exports while
providing less of a buffer against costlier global food and oil.  Thailand ’s GDP advanced 3 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, compared with 3.8 percent in the previous period,
today’s report showed. The median estimate in another Bloomberg
survey was for a gain of 2.6 percent.  The development board is maintaining its forecast for an
expansion of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent this year, said Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, its secretary-general.  Neighboring  Singapore  last week raised its 2011 GDP growth
forecast to as much as 7 percent and  Malaysia  predicts its
economy will expand up to 6 percent as Asia fights price
pressures stoked by economic expansion.  Political Test  The forthcoming election in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest
economy will pit Abhisit’s Democrat party against allies of
fugitive ex-Premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a 2006
coup and lives overseas. About 100 people have been killed
following disputes over the last election in 2007.  Thaksin’s opponents dressed in yellow seized Bangkok’s
airports in 2008 to oust his allies, and his supporters clad in
red shirts have rallied against Abhisit since he took office in
a parliamentary vote the same year.  “Instability will remain an issue in Thailand,” said
Pornthep Jubandhu, a senior economist at Siam Commercial Bank
Pcl in Bangkok. “But it won’t be a factor that will threaten
economic expansion.”  Abhisit’s government has capped diesel tariffs and applied
price controls to items such as eggs and cooking oil to shield
Thailand’s 67 million people from the impact of inflation.  The opposition Pheu Thai Party, led by Thaksin’s sister,
Yingluck Shinawatra, has used billboard advertisements to blame
Abhisit for rising costs. The annual pace of inflation climbed
to 4.04 percent in April, the fastest pace in 15 months.  Climbing Prices  Elevated commodity prices have prompted companies such as
 Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) , the nation’s biggest meat producer,
to raise charges. The prime minister pledged in February to
boost the minimum wage by 25 percent over two years to help the
public cope with higher costs, while Pheu Thai has promised a
larger increase as the parties vie for votes.  The Bank of Thailand will need to adjust its benchmark
interest rate, currently 2.75 percent, to a “normal” level,
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said May 12. It raised borrowing
costs by a quarter of a percentage point each in January, March
and April.  The central bank has forecast economic growth will return
to a “normal trend” following a 7.8 percent expansion in 2010,
which was the strongest pace in 15 years. The monetary authority
predicts inflation of 3.9 percent in 2011.  “We have some concerns going into the third quarter because
one of the things that kept inflation down domestically is the
diesel subsidy,” Andy Jenwipakul, managing director of the
research group at SCB Securities Co. Ltd. in Bangkok, told
Bloomberg Television today. “At some point we would think the
diesel subsidy has to be lifted. Basically you will see some
cost pressures going up from here.”  In  Japan , Thailand’s second-biggest export market, gross
domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7 percent last
quarter as the March 11 earthquake and tsunami disrupted output.  Thailand’s central bank has said the disaster will hurt
overseas shipments only in the short term. Exports may rise as
much as 15 percent this year, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai 
said May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  