-- 
Air France Flight 447 Said to Have Stalled After an Airspeed Sensor Failed

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-05-23T15:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/air-france-flight-447-said-to-have-stalled-after-airspeed-sensor-failure.html
Air France Flight 447’s flight
recordings show the aircraft slowed to a stall after its
airspeed sensors failed while the two co-pilots were at the
controls, two people with knowledge of the investigation said.  The chief pilot, Captain Marc Dubois, was not in the
cockpit when the  Airbus A330 ’s sensors malfunctioned, causing
the autopilot to disengage over the Atlantic Ocean, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the investigation
is still confidential.  A low-speed stall occurs when an aircraft slows to the
point where its wings suddenly lose lift, an incident pilots are
trained to overcome. Flight 447’s last automated transmissions
logged faulty readings from airspeed sensors that caused the
autopilot to shut down in bad weather, minutes before the June
1, 2009, accident in which all 228 passengers and crew perished.  “To get out of a stall, you stick the nose down and wait
for gravity to speed up the aircraft,” said David Learmount, a
former U.K. Royal Air Force pilot and safety editor at Flight
International. Pulling out can be straightforward, “providing
you realize you’re in one,” he said.  Making Progress  Air  France  spokesman Jean-Charles Trehan said the company
had no comment on the investigation’s early findings. France’s
BEA air-accident investigation bureau, which also declined to
comment, said it plans to issue a factual statement May 27 on
its preliminary findings.  Nelson Marinho, who represents families of the Brazilian
crash victims, said the group would wait for more information
before commenting on the plane’s apparent stall.  “We’re rather concerned about this rush to blame the
pilots,” Marinho said in an interview. “They are dead and
cannot defend themselves.”  Investigators say they are making progress after maritime
search and salvage experts retrieved the flight data and cockpit
voice recorders this month from a depth of 3,900 meters (12,800
feet). Dubois was among the victims recovered from the sea
surface in the weeks after the crash.  Pitot Tubes  The failure of the  Thales SA (HO)  airspeed sensors, or Pitot
tubes, occurred while the plane was cruising at about 35,000
feet, four hours after takeoff from  Rio de Janeiro . At that
stage in the Paris-bound flight, it is routine practice for the
captain to take a rest break and leave the co-pilots at the
controls, Air France has said.  The Airbus A330 has a small sleeping compartment where
pilots can recline on long-haul flights.  “All members of the flight crew have the same technical
skills and qualifications,” France’s SNPL pilot union said in a
statement. It criticized what it described as “deliberately
selective reports that cast suspicion on the crew.”  Airbus declined to comment beyond a BEA-approved May 16
telex, in which the company told airlines that preliminary
black-box analysis yielded no additional recommendations. Two
months after the crash, Airbus advised A330 and A340 operators
to replace the Thales sensors with a model from  Goodrich Corp. (GR)   A stall is typically preceded by shaking and vibrating of
the aircraft, and modern jets are equipped with a steering-stick
shaker and audio warning to alert the pilot. Stall recovery
requires pilots to coordinate the aircraft’s angle and power to
the engines to avoid aggravating the situation.  According to a report by  Der Spiegel Online , which could
not be verified, the black boxes reveal that the Air France
plane climbed sharply after the speed-sensor failure and Captain
Dubois returned to the cockpit before the crash.  The BEA has said its May 27 statement will not identify any
of the accident’s causes. An interim report is due in mid-July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  