-- 
Allende Exhumation Shows Chile Ready to Lay Past to Rest

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-23T15:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/allende-exhumation-shows-chile-ready-to-lay-history-to-rest.html
Investigators in  Chile  exhumed
Salvador Allende’s remains today as part of an inquiry into the
former president’s death in a coup d’état 37 years ago.  Allende died during a September 1973 military attack
against the presidential palace that led to 17 years of
dictatorial rule. The Allende family requested the exhumation as
part of a judicial probe into whether the Socialist Party leader
was killed or committed suicide during the coup.  The investigation has the support of opposing political
coalitions, making it a symbol of Chile’s democratic maturity,
said Mauricio Morales, a political scientist at Diego Portales
University in Santiago. No such consensus existed immediately
following the end of the dictatorship in the early 1990s and a
formal probe at that time would certainly have aggravated rifts
between political parties and the military just as Chile’s
nascent democracy was taking root, he said.  “These investigations don’t polarize Chile’s political
elite like they would have in the early nineties,” Morales said
in a May 18 telephone interview. “That exemplifies the
consolidation of Chile’s democracy.”  After the dictatorship led by Augusto Pinochet ended in
1990 with the presidency of Patricio Aylwin, Chileans were
reluctant to delve into the past because coup participants were
still politically active and ran the military, said  Patricio Navia , a specialist in Chilean politics at  New York University .  Stable Democracy  Two decades later, most of those directly involved in the
dictatorship have faded from political life. President Sebastian Pinera’s government, which last year ousted the coalition that
had governed the country since Pinochet left office, has vowed
to support the Allende investigation to distance itself from
memories of the dictatorship, Navia said.  “People previously didn’t want to look into the past too
carefully because it would destabilize the emerging democracy,”
Navia said. “Now that democracy is very stable and the past is
gone; history can come in and do its job. This investigation
will serve more of a historical purpose than anything else.”  Based on witness’ accounts and government findings, most
historians agree that Allende chose to commit suicide during the
coup rather than surrender to military forces,  Patrick Barr-
Melej , chair of the history department at Ohio University, said
in a telephone interview.  ‘Political Solidarity’  Allende’s family also believes the president took his own
life, one of his daughters, Senator Isabel Allende told the
dozens of reporters and photographers who covered today’s event
at the national cemetery.  “Our conviction is that President Allende decided to die
in an act of political solidarity to defend the mandate given to
him by the people,” said the Socialist Party senator.  For Dr. Luis Ravanal, a forensic expert, the 1973 autopsy
report suggests Allende was shot in the head with two guns. That
may mean he didn’t act alone in committing suicide or his death
was a homicide, Ravanal said in a May 19 interview.  Ravanal is submitting a report on his findings to the
judiciary.  Proving that Allende’s death was homicide and not suicide
would be a surprise though it wouldn’t alter the historical
significance of what happened that day in 1973, Barr-Melej said.  “Either way, Allende wouldn’t have died without the
coup,” he said. “I don’t see anything concrete coming out of
the investigation other than getting a fact straight and helping
a family come to terms with a tragedy, and helping a country
come to terms with understanding at least another fact of a
tragedy.”  Report Findings  After exhuming the body today, a team of investigators
including ballistic experts, doctors and anthropologists will
examine the remains and submit a report of their findings to the
judiciary, Patricio Bustos, director of the state medical
service that oversees the exhumation, said last week.  Chile’s judiciary has not set a deadline to finish the
investigation, the magistrate in charge of the investigation,
Mario Carroza, told reporters at today’s exhumation.  “It’s important that the judiciary is investigating what
happened to the victims of a period of history,” he said.
“This is one more investigation, and could be the most
historic.”  ‘Part of History’  The investigation has been overshadowed in the media by
current-day human rights-related issues such as alleged police
brutality during protests against the HidroAysen hydroelectric
project, Morales said.  Thousands of protesters marched throughout Chile last
weekend to protest HidroAysen, which would flood Patagonian
valleys to supply electricity to central Chile. Students earlier
this month protested in downtown Santiago to demand improvements
to the public education system, at times clashing with police.  It’s a sign of democratic maturity that, rather than
focusing on controversies of the past, Chileans are protesting
issues that they believe will impact their future, Navia said.  “You want people to worry about things that affect their
lives, and democracy is supposed to help that,” he said. “The
dictatorship is part of history. HidroAysen speaks to a future
and the kind of country and society that Chile wants to have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  