-- 
Amazonian Children Understand ‘Universal’ Geometry Regardless of Schooling

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-23T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/amazonian-children-understand-universal-geometry-regardless-of-schooling.html
Amazonian children who never went to
school understand the properties of points, lines and angles,
proving the basic principles of geometry emerge regardless of
education, a study said.  Eight children, ages 7 to 13, and 22 adults from the
Mundurucu tribe in the Amazon, could identify the number of
lines that can be drawn through two points, correctly complete
unfinished triangles and estimate angles, according to a paper
in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.   The 18th-century philosopher  Immanuel Kant  argued that
humans have an intuitive understanding of geometry, which
enables mathematicians to derive new, useful results. Abstract
geometry may be innate, or it may be learned naturally through
day-to-day interaction with the world, the authors wrote.  The test results “suggest Euclidean geometry, inasmuch as
it concerns basic objects such as points and line on a plane, is
a cross-cultural universal that results from the inherent
properties of the human mind as it develops in its natural
environment,” wrote the authors, who included  Elizabeth Spelke ,
a specialist in developmental studies at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The researchers also tested adults from the U.S., as well
as French children 7 to 13 years old and American children from
5 to 7. The control groups showed the same performance profile
as the Amazonians, except for the American children, who were
younger, the researchers said.  The researchers asked the children and adults questions
about lines, planes, angles, triangles and spheres. They were
given sketches of lines and asked questions such as “Can a line
be drawn through two points?” and “Can two such lines be
drawn?”  All groups performed better at planar than spherical
geometry, the study said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 