-- 
Ambac Financial Seeks to Block $116.8 Million Tax Claims

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-23T22:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ambac-financial-seeks-to-block-116-8-million-new-york-tax-claim.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABK) , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, seeks to
disallow a $116.8 million tax claim from the city of New York
Department of Finance, saying its tax treatment is
“illogical.”  The finance department’s demand for $77.9 million in both
city and state taxes plus $38.9 million in interest arises from
inconsistent treatment of Ambac’s income, the company said in
court papers filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan today.  “Such inconsistent treatment of the income and expense
from the very same business is not only illogical, but it lacks
any legal merit,” Ambac said in the papers.  Ambac files a combined state and city return in  New York ,
where it’s based, and its Ambac Assurance unit, based in
Wisconsin, is excluded from that filing, lawyers for the company
wrote. The city of New York Department of Finance is
inconsistent because of the way it treats a subsidiary that
belongs to Ambac Assurance for tax purposes, lawyers for Ambac
said.  Since entering bankruptcy, Ambac has clashed with parties
including its operating unit, Ambac Assurance Corp., over who
gets $7.3 billion in net operating losses to use for tax
benefits. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has challenged
claims by both companies to tax benefits.  Ambac Financial has been added to a probe by New York
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman into mortgage securitization,
according to a person familiar with the matter cited in a
separate Bloomberg story today. Ambac was subpoenaed along with
three other bond insurers, in an investigation that already
included  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages
swamped the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256
billion of $1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to
Bloomberg data. Ambac listed liabilities of $1.68 billion in its
petition.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABKFQ) , 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  