-- 
AMP Capital’s Oliver Says Greece Crisis a Threat to Global Banks

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-23T05:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/amp-capital-s-oliver-says-greece-crisis-a-threat-to-global-banks.html
Shane Oliver , AMP Capital Investors
Ltd.’s Sydney-based head of investment strategy, comments on
today’s declines on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The gauge fell as much as 1.9 percent today, led by
financial stocks after  Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece ’s credit rating
and  Standard & Poor’s  said Italy’s was at risk, deepening
concern over Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  On European debt problems:  “Basically, investors are fearful that a default by Greece
will adversely affect global banks that have exposure to Greek
debt, thereby pushing up the cost of funding for Australian
banks.  “More broadly, there is concern that Europe’s failure to
get control of its sovereign debt problems will ultimately
threaten European and hence global growth overall, which in turn
will affect demand for Asian exports and ultimately demand for
Australian commodities.  “After the poor showing of  Spain ’s governing party at
weekend elections and S&P’s downgrade to Italy’s credit rating
outlook, there is the added concern that the ‘firewall’ that has
so far protected Spain and Italy might break down, leading to
investors starting to worry about those two much larger
countries.”  On the Australian stock impact:  “The adverse reaction in the Australian markets might have
been magnified because the latest European debt problems are
occurring at a time when the worry list for investors is now
very long, and includes the ending of QE2 in the US, soft recent
U.S. growth data, talk of ECB tightening, the return to
recession in Japan, worries about a hard landing in China, and
the two-speed economy and talk of more rate hikes in Australia.  “And now there’s even another volcano in Iceland
potentially threatening  air travel  again. All this is making
investors very twitchy.”  On the global recovery:  “Ultimately, I think the global recovery will continue and
this will underpin gains in shares by year end, but in the
interim it could be a bit rough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 