-- 
Lance Armstrong Failed Drug Test in 2001, Tyler Hamilton Tells 60 Minutes

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/lance-armstrong-failed-drug-test-in-2001-tyler-hamilton-tells-60-minutes.html
Lance Armstrong got preferential
treatment from officials at cycling’s governing body after
failing a test for a performance-enhancing drug in 2001, his
former teammate Tyler Hamilton said in an interview with CBS
Corp.’s  “60 Minutes”  program.  Hamilton, 40, said he saw Armstrong doping on numerous
occasions and that the seven-time Tour de  France  winner and
leaders for the U.S. Postal Service cycling team encouraged the
use of performance-enhancing substances.  Hamilton, who last week returned the Olympic gold medal he
won in 2004, also challenged Armstrong’s assertion that he’s
never failed a drug test. Hamilton said Armstrong told him about
testing positive for erythropoietin, or EPO, at the Tour of
 Switzerland  in 2001.  “Lance’s people and people from the other side -- I
believe from the governing body of the sport -- figured out a
way for it to go away,” Hamilton said in the “60 Minutes”
interview.  The director of the Swiss laboratory that performed the
test met with Armstrong and then-U.S. Postal Service team
manager  Johan Bruyneel , “60 Minutes” reported.  The meeting was arranged by the International Cycling
Union, or UCI, the report said. The Swiss lab director told the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  that a UCI representative wanted
Armstrong’s suspicious test to go no further, according to the
“60 Minutes” report.  Officials at the Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI and Bruyneel
didn’t return telephone messages left after office hours. A
positive test could have kept Armstrong, who was then the two-
time defending champion, out of the 2001 Tour de France.  ‘Off the Cuff’  “He was so relaxed about it. He kind of said it off the
cuff and kind of laughed it off,” Hamilton said of Armstrong.
“It helped me stay relaxed because obviously if he had a
positive test the team is going to lose its sponsorship and I’m
going to lose my job.”  Armstrong’s spokesman Mark Fabiani said in a  statement  that
CBS has shown a “serious lack of journalistic fairness and has
elevated sensationalism over responsibility.”  Hamilton, who was suspended in 2005 and 2009 for doping,
said in the “60 Minutes” interview that he saw EPO in
Armstrong’s refrigerator, and witnessed Armstrong inject himself
with the drug multiple times. EPO boosts the number of oxygen-
carrying red blood cells and improves stamina.  “He took what we all took. There’s really no difference
between  Lance Armstrong  and the majority of the peloton,”
Hamilton said. “There was EPO, there was testosterone and I did
see a transfusion, a blood transfusion.”  500 Tests  Fabiani said that Armstrong, 39, has taken and passed more
than 500 doping tests over 20 years of competitions.  The “60 Minutes” report also said George Hincapie, a
former teammate and close friend of Armstrong, testified before
a grand jury investigating doping in the sport that he and
Armstrong supplied each other with EPO before races. The program
didn’t cite the source of its information.  “We are confident that the statements attributed to
Hincapie are inaccurate and that the reports of his testimony
are unreliable,” Fabiani said in his statement. Hincapie  said 
on Twitter that he can’t comment on anything relating to the
ongoing investigation.  Hamilton said he hopes his admission will help cycling and
that Armstrong’s use of performance-enhancing drugs was no
different than any other top riders in the sport.  “He obviously was the biggest rider on the team and he
helped to call the shots,” Hamilton said. “Yes he doped
himself, you know, like everyone else. It was just part of the
culture of the sport.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  