-- 
Landry’s Golden Nugget OK to Buy Trump Marina

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-23T17:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/landry-s-golden-nugget-ok-to-buy-trump-marina.html
Landry’s Inc., owner of  Nevada ’s
Golden Nugget casinos, won regulatory approval to buy the Trump
Marina Hotel Casino, becoming  Atlantic City ’s newest investor.  The New Jersey Casino Control Commission approved an
interim license today, clearing the way for Houston-based
Landry’s to buy the money-losing casino for $38 million from
Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc.  Landry’s, which owns restaurants including the Bubba Gump
Shrimp Co., will change the name to Golden Nugget and spend
about $100 million on the acquisition and initial renovation,
executives said. The company is already adding its restaurants
and plans a new hotel tower, Chief Executive Officer Tilman Fertitta told the commission today in Atlantic City.  The exterior should be refinished by October so it doesn’t
“have that hospital look any more,” Fertitta said.  Trump Entertainment, whose three  New Jersey  casinos have
been through bankruptcy three times, had attempted to sell the
Marina for years. The sale comes as Atlantic City struggles to
reverse record gambling declines. Landry’s, taken private by
Fertitta-led management last year, wants to attract more
conventions to the shore.  “We’re all going to do business on the weekends,”
Fertitta said. “What we’ve got to do in Atlantic City is to get
people here Monday through Thursday.”  The proposed renovation includes a new spa, pool and
updated rooms, Fertitta said. Landry’s initial investment
involves $56 million in equity and about $66 million in loans,
company executives said.  Nevada Casinos  Landry’s operates Golden Nugget casinos in downtown Las
Vegas and Laughlin, Nevada. Its  restaurant chains  also include
Charley’s Crab and Rainforest Cafe.  To stem shrinking casino revenue and boost investment, New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  this year created an Atlantic
City tourism district, with boundaries beyond the casinos,
giving a state authority oversight of planning and development
around the Boardwalk, Marina district and key retail areas.  Atlantic City gambling tumbled to $3.57 billion in 2010
from a peak of $5.2 billion in 2006 -- before nearby states
allowed casinos. Six of Atlantic City’s casinos went through
bankruptcy or restructured debt during the financial crisis.  New Atlantic City investors including Landry’s said state
intervention was a factor in their decision to enter the market.
Construction resumed in March at the half-built Revel casino
resort, which in February issued $1.15 billion in debt. Dennis Gomes last year led a group of investors to buy Resorts Atlantic
City, New Jersey’s oldest casino resort, from creditors.  Latest Bankruptcy  Trump Entertainment’s three New Jersey shore casinos, the
Trump Taj Mahal Resort, Trump Plaza Hotel & Casino and Trump
Marina, exited bankruptcy a third time last year. Billionaire
 Marc Lasry , CEO of New York-based Avenue Capital Group, along
with other bondholders and company founder  Donald J. Trump , won
control of Trump Entertainment last year over a competing offer
by investor  Carl Icahn .  Landry’s purchase follows an unsuccessful series of
renegotiated deals with Coastal Marina LLC, controlled by
Richard T. Fields, who sought to turn the Marina into a
Margaritaville casino resort. Lasry, Trump’s largest shareholder
since its latest bankruptcy, told New Jersey regulators in July
he was seeking a buyer for the casino.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in Atlantic City at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  