-- 
Stocks Tumble, Euro Weakens on Debt Concern

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-23T20:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/asia-stocks-fall-most-in-two-months-euro-oil-drop-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Global stocks sank the most in two
months, while the euro touched an all-time low versus the Swiss
franc and commodities plunged, amid signs Europe’s government-
debt crisis is worsening and the economic recovery is slowing.
Costs to protect Greek debt from default surged to a record.  The MSCI All-Country World Index sank 1.8 percent at 4:30
p.m. in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1.2
percent and  Italy ’s FTSE MIB Index slid 3.3 percent. Ten-year
bond yields reached euro-era records in Greece and Ireland and
climbed in Portugal,  Spain  and Italy. The euro fell below $1.40
for the first time since March as the dollar strengthened versus
all 16 major peers. Oil and copper lost at least 2.4 percent.  U.S. equities followed European shares lower after Italy’s
credit-rating outlook was cut by S&P on May 20 and Spanish Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist party suffered
losses in local elections amid a backlash over austerity
measures. A Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago economic gauge
unexpectedly dropped below zero, European services and
manufacturing growth slowed more than forecast and a report
showed  China ’s manufacturing may expand at a slower pace.  “There’s bad news out there,” said Paul Zemsky, the New
York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $550 billion. “We’ve got doubts
about European fiscal austerity and weaker economic data across
the board. The thing that has driven the market higher --
earnings season -- just came to an end. People will be pulling
money out of riskier assets.”  Three-Week Slump  The  S&P 500  slid to the lowest level since April 19 after
dropping three straight weeks, the longest slump since August.
Technology companies and energy producers led declines today
among the index’s 10 main industries, all of which fell.
Caterpillar Inc., DuPont Co. and Alcoa Inc. slumped at least 1.7
percent to lead declines in 29 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  The Chicago Fed national index, which draws on 85 economic
indicators, was minus 0.45 in April versus 0.32 in March. A
reading of less than zero indicates below-trend growth in the
national economy and a sign of easing inflation pressures.  The S&P 500 has retreated after climbing to an almost
three-year high at the end of April. It has slumped 3.4 percent
since then as economic data trailed forecasts and investors
prepared for the  Federal Reserve  to complete its $600 billion
bond-purchase program at the end of June.  Citigroup Inc.’s U.S. Economic Surprise Index, which gauges
the rate at which data are exceeding or missing estimates and,
turned negative in May and is at its lowest level since August.
The index, which reached its all-time high in March, has risen
only one day this month.  Earnings Season  The S&P 500 has still advanced 4.8 percent in 2011 amid
higher-than-estimated profits. Per-share earnings topped
analysts’ projections at 72 percent of the 455 companies in the
index that released results since April 11, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The yield on the 10-year  U.S. Treasury  declined two basis
points to 3.13 percent today, while the two-year note yield
increased one basis point to 0.52 percent after touching 0.4950,
the lowest this year.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, climbed 0.9 percent as the
greenback strengthened versus all 16 major peers. The yen
appreciated against all 16 most-traded counterparts except the
U.S. and Canadian dollar. The Norwegian krone, Swedish krona and
Australian dollar weakened against most of their peers.  European Stocks  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 1.7 percent, the most since
March 15, as all 19 industry groups declined. Ryanair Holding
Plc tumbled 5.3 percent after Europe’s biggest discount airline
said it will cut capacity for the first time in its history amid
higher fuel costs. International Consolidated Airlines Group,
the parent of British Airways, sank 5.1 percent and Air France-
KLM Group slid 4.5 percent as Iceland’s weather office said ash
from a volcanic eruption may reach the U.K. this week,
threatening trans-Atlantic traffic.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield climbed three basis points to
4.81 percent, sending the spread with benchmark German bunds
eight points wider to 179 basis points, the most since January.
The Spanish-bund spread increased seven basis points to 250. The
yield on the 10-year Greek security climbed 44 basis points to
16.81 percent. The Irish yield rose to 10.86 percent.  Default Risk  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments rose by 12.5 basis points to 202.3 basis points, the
highest in more than four months. Credit-default swaps on Greece
soared 130.1 basis points to a record 1,476.7, according to data
provider CMA. Ireland jumped 30.7 to 671.2,  Portugal  gained 40.7
to 680.2, while Italy increased 8.8 to 169.6 and Spain climbed 9
to 270.9, CMA data show.  The euro depreciated as much as 0.8 percent to a record low
of 1.23235 Swiss francs, before paring its retreat to 0.1
percent.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said the bank will accept Greek  government bonds  as
collateral in its refinancing operations as long as the country
maintains its consolidation program. ECB Council member Jens Weidmann said May 20 that the central bank may no longer be able
to accept Greek bonds as collateral.  More than a year after European policy makers approved a
750 billion-euro ($1.1 trillion) bailout blueprint to stem the
sovereign crisis, bond yields in debt-laden peripheral countries
linger near record highs and officials are floating plans to
extend Greek repayments. Hours before the May 20 S&P warning
about Italy,  Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece  three levels and said it
would consider an extension of maturities as a default.  ‘Decidedly Fearful’  “The week is starting in a decidedly fearful mode,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange strategy at Societe Generale SA
in  London , wrote in a report today. The change of outlook on
Italy also “amplifies the risk for contagion,” he said.  Fitch Ratings revised  Belgium ’s rating outlook to negative
from stable and affirmed its long-term foreign and local
currency user default ratings at AA+. Fitch joined S&P in saying
that political deadlock complicates efforts to cut the euro
area’s third-highest debt load.  The MSCI BRIC Index of the four biggest emerging markets
lost 2.1 percent, extending its retreat from this year’s high on
April 8 to more than 10 percent, the threshold that some
analysts call a “correction.”  The Shanghai Composite tumbled the most four months after a
preliminary purchasing managers’ index compiled by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 51.1 in May from a final
reading of 51.8 in April.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index slid 1.8 percent after Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee signaled concern about inflation. The Micex Index fell
1.9 percent after OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas-export monopoly, was
cut to “underperform” by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Copper for July delivery dropped 3.2 percent to $3.9915 a
pound and crude oil declined 2.4 percent to $97.70 a barrel. The
S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities retreated 1.7 percent, the
biggest slump since May 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  