-- 
Latvia CDS May Rise Above Lithuania on Eurobond, UniCredit Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-05-23T11:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/latvia-cds-may-rise-above-lithuania-on-eurobond-unicredit-says.html
Latvia ’s plan to sell its first
Eurobonds since 2008 may increase the cost of insuring the
country’s debt against default relative to neighboring
 Lithuania , analysts at UniCredit SpA said today.  Latvian and Lithuanian five-year credit-default swaps,
which investors use to protect against non-payment or speculate
on a borrower’s credit worthiness, closed at about 198 basis
points on May 20, according to CMA prices. Latvian CDS costs
were 265 basis points higher than Lithuania’s in October 2009.  Latvia’s decision to sell bonds “could see the CDS market
once again differentiate between Latvia and Lithuania,” said
Gillian Edgeworth and Dmitry Veselov, London-based analysts for
UniCredit, in a report published today.  Lithuania returned to international markets in June 2009,
when it sold 500 million euros ($700 million) of bonds. Latvia,
which turned to a group led by the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.5
billion) bailout in 2008, may sell as much as 1.5 billion euros
of bonds this year, Finance Minister Andris Vilks has said.  The final review of Latvia’s current stand-by agreement is
scheduled for November. The government may at that time seek a
new precautionary agreement to provide a safety net for public
finances, Edgeworth and Veselov said in the note.  “In the base case, this will not involve disbursement of
additional financing but instead an increased reliance on market
financing,” they said.  Euro Membership  Plans by Latvia and Lithuania to follow Estonia into the
 euro zone  in 2014 may face opposition from some members of the
currency union because of the sovereign debt crisis in the
region, the analysts said.  “There is little doubt but the current EMU crisis has
increased opposition among EMU members to enlargement,”
Edgeworth and Veselov said. “Indeed it is not clear that
 Estonia  would have gained entry if it had pushed for assessment
this May rather than last,” they said.  “Should Latvia and Lithuania hope to achieve this at any
point in the next 3-4 years, continued fiscal consolidation and
maintenance of a manageable current-account deficit is
essential,” according to UniCredit.  CDS prices typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  