-- 
Autism Leads Rise of Developmental Disabilities

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-05-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/autism-leads-rise-of-developmental-disabilities-in-u-s-kids.html
Developmental disabilities  among
American children increased 17 percent in the past decade led by
a rise in  autism  and  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , a
U.S. government study found.  The prevalence of the developmental disorders rose to 15
percent of U.S. children, or about 10 million, in 2006-2008,
from 12.8 percent, or about 8 million, in 1997-1999, according
to the study from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. The research is published in the journal  Pediatrics.   Researchers said the increase may be due in part to more
preterm births and parents having children at older ages. They
also said that improvements in screenings, diagnosis and
awareness have pushed the numbers higher. About one in six
children in the U.S. now have a developmental disability, and
that will likely increase demand for health and education
services, researchers said.  “Because the prevalence of some of these developmental
disabilities is increasing, there’s going to be an increased
demand on the health system for these kind of specialized
medical services,” Sheree Boulet, the study author and an
epidemiologist at the Atlanta-based CDC’s National Center on
Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, said in a May 20
telephone interview.  Today’s study is the first to document the prevalence of
developmental disabilities in U.S. children since 1994, Boulet
said.  National Health Interview  The researchers looked at data on children ages 3 to 17
years from the 1997 to 2008  National Health Interview Surveys .
The surveys are representative samples of U.S. households and
asked parents to report diagnoses of ADHD, mental retardation,
cerebral palsy, autism, seizures, stuttering or stammering,
moderate to profound hearing loss, blindness, learning disorders
and other developmental delays.  Autism, a lifelong and disabling condition caused by
abnormal brain development, had the largest increase over the
study, rising nearly fourfold to 0.74 percent of children in
2006-2008 from 0.19 percent in 1997-1999, the paper showed. The
disorder hinders a person’s ability to communicate and engage in
social interactions.  They found that the number of children with ADHD rose 33
percent during the period to 7.6 percent from 5.7 percent. The
disorder was “chiefly responsible” for the higher overall
incidence of developmental disabilities in the U.S., the authors
wrote.  Less Stigma  Michael Rosanoff, associate director of Public Health
Research and Scientific Review for the nonprofit advocacy group
 Autism Speaks  in New York, said some of the increase in autism
could be explained by better diagnosis, more awareness by
parents and doctors and less stigma surrounding the condition
making parents more likely to report their children having the
condition. Still, more studies are needed to identify the
environmental factors that may cause autism, he said.  “From this information, the federal government can see
that developmental disabilities are more prevalent than
previously believed and that resources should be allocated
accordingly for dealing with these conditions,” he said in a
May 20 telephone interview.  The study also found a number of children with moderate to
profound hearing loss declined 31 percent.  Boys were more likely than girls to have developmental
disabilities, while low-income families and those on public
health insurance had a higher likelihood of having children with
the disorders, the study found.  Autism varies in severity and symptoms. Those with the
condition may have trouble making eye contact, understanding
facial expressions, and learning to share and follow
instructions. Children with the disorder also may show
compulsive interests or behaviors.  Need for Services  Andrew Adesman, chief of Developmental & Behavioral
Pediatrics at  Cohen Children’s Medical Center  in  New Hyde Park ,
New York, said families need to speak to their doctors if they
are concerned about their children and make sure they get the
services they need. Adesman wasn’t an author on today’s paper.  “Realistically kids aren’t going to get better on their
own and they need the benefit of services,” he said in a May 20
telephone interview. “There is a danger that at a time when
numerically there seems to be an increased number of children
with problems, many governments are looking to scale back and
reduce services. That certainly is undesirable.”  More studies are needed to identify preventable causes of
the disabilities and the benefits of early services for children
with developmental disorders, Boulet said. The CDC also plans a
follow-up study in the future to see if the prevalence of these
disorders continues to rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  