-- 
Bankia $5.6 Billion IPO Deemed ‘Brutal Stress Test’ of Spain

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-05-24T11:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/bankia-s-5-6-billion-ipo-deemed-brutal-stress-test-for-spain.html
Spain ’s effort to bolster its banks,
stanch spending and stave off sovereign debt contagion will
hinge in part on the initial public offering of Bankia, a lender
formed from the merger of seven savings banks.  Led by Chairman Rodrigo Rato, the former Spanish economy
minister and International Monetary Fund chief, Bankia plans to
raise as much as 4 billion euros ($5.6 billion) in an IPO in
mid-July, a person with knowledge of the plans said yesterday.
The Madrid-based bank was created over the past year and named a
chief executive officer only last week.  “They are attempting something very difficult in a very
short period of time,” said  Pablo Garcia , head of equities at
Oddo Sociedad de Valores in Madrid. “The fact is that the
Bankia IPO is a brutal  stress test  for Spain as a whole.”  The IPO will show whether Spain’s drive to persuade
investors to pour capital into a financial system burdened by
real estate losses is working. A successful offering would ease
pressure on the state, which is toiling to cut the euro region’s
third-largest budget deficit, and rekindle confidence in the
industry. Concern that Spain might succumb to  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis revived two days ago when the ruling Socialist Party
suffered its worst defeat in local elections in three decades,
putting further austerity efforts at risk.  Capital Shortfall  Spanish bonds tumbled yesterday after the election results,
pushing the extra yield investors demand for holding the
country’s 10-year debt over German securities to the highest
level in four months. The gap narrowed 4 basis points to 246
today. A basis point is equivalent to one one-hundredth of a
percentage point.  Bankia, emerging from the combination of Caja  Madrid ,
Bancaja and five other savings banks, has about  275 billion
euros  in assets. That makes it about the same size as Barcelona-
based CaixaBank and larger than all of Spain’s publicly traded
lenders except  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   It hired investment banks including Deutsche Bank AG,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG to manage
a share sale as it seeks to plug a shortfall under minimum
 capital requirements  set by the government in February. Bankia
held a presentation yesterday for analysts at the firms
arranging the sale, the person said.  If it raises the maximum amount sought, the sale would be
Spain’s second-biggest IPO after  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR) ’s 4.5
billion-euro offering in December 2007. Banca Civica and Banco
Mare Nostrum, two Spanish banks formed from merging cajas, may
also sell stock. The Bankia offering will be the largest.  Won’t ‘Know Enough’  It may prove a tough sell with international investors
because of questions over the property loans the bank is
carrying, said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at
MF Global in  London . Spain’s banks recognized 96 billion euros
of losses on their assets since January 2008, the Bank of Spain
said in its latest financial stability report on May 3.  A successful outcome may depend on the bank’s ability to
convince its own customers that buying shares makes sense.
Spanish lenders routinely sell their products to consumer-
banking clients through their branches. Santander raised 7
billion euros in 2007 from the sale to individual investors of
debt that automatically converts into stock to help buy a bank
in  Brazil  from ABN Amro Holding NV. Individuals bought about
half of the 3.8 billion-euro 2007 IPO by Criteria CaixaCorp.  ‘Challenging Sale’  Maughan said there is sufficient political will in Spain to
make sure the Bankia sale happens. Some potential investors say
it offers an opportunity.  “It’s a very good bank and there must be value there for
investors,” said Javier Arguelles, a 55-year-old building
company administrator and  Caja Madrid  customer for more than 30
years.  Julio Segura, Spain’s stock market regulator, said he will
monitor sales to individual investors because of the complexity
of  accurately valuing  the assets of the newly formed banks. It’s
essential that there are enough professional investors
participating to reliably set prices for the sales and avoid any
risk of collusion that could push them higher, he said in a May
13 speech in Madrid.  “My advice to retail investors would probably be to invest
in something less volatile, maybe a utility,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage about 60 billion Swiss francs ($68
billion) at Swisscanto Asset Management in Zurich. “It’s going
to be a challenging sale because there are still problems with
the Spanish economy and the real-estate market.”  Bankia Merger  Rato, 62, has said he’ll strip out damaged assets linked to
real estate, such as loans for building land, before the IPO.
The group had 41.3 billion euros of lending linked to
construction and real estate, the most of any Spanish lender.  The merged savings banks will seek pre-tax cost savings, or
“synergies,” of 500 million euros by 2013 as they shed staff
and close branches to achieve a reduction up to 12 percent in
administrative costs by next year, they said in a presentation
filed with regulators last June.  Rato paved the way for Spain’s adoption of the euro in 1999
as Spain’s economy minister, and served as managing director of
the IMF in  Washington  from 2004 to 2007. He was hired by Lazard
in 2007 as an adviser on corporate finance and named head of
Caja Madrid in January 2010.  Bankia named Francisco Verdu, vice chairman of Banca March,
a firm focused on private banking and  wealth management  with 13
billion euros of assets, as CEO on May 20. Bankia says it has
appointed about 90 managers since December.  Former politicians still hold some senior management roles
in the group’s holding company, a holdover from the savings
bank-era, when local and regional officials held sway over the
institutions, said Alvaro Cuervo, a business professor at
Madrid’s Complutense University.  “It needs good management given the size of the challenge
ahead of them,” Braendle said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  