-- 
Bank of America Agrees to Reduce Its Lehman Claims, Return $356 Million

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/bank-of-america-appeals-judge-s-order-to-return-501-8-million-to-lehman.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  agreed to
reduce its derivative claims against  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  entities by $4.5 billion and return about $356 million to
Lehman to settle disputes over derivatives obligations,
according to a court filing.  Under two accords, Bank of America will drop its appeal of
a judge’s order to return $501 million in deposits it took from
Lehman in 2008 during the financial crisis and the bank’s
Merrill Lynch International unit will reduce its derivative
claims by about $3 billion, according to documents filed
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  Bank of America and Merrill will support Lehman’s
liquidation plan under the settlements. Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch &
Co. was completed in January 2009.  The transactions at issue include interest rate swaps,
 credit derivatives  on mortgage backed bonds and foreign exchange
options, according to the documents. Bank of America will have a
$402 million non-subordinated general unsecured claim against
Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. in connection with pre-
bankruptcy transactions and Merrill Lynch entities will have a
similar claim in the amount of $1.1 billion, according to the
filings.  Bank of America was ordered last year to return $501.8
million in deposits to Lehman, finding that the bank took
deposits unrelated to its loans to Lehman during the financial
crisis and must return them. The bank appealed the order in May.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  