-- 
Belarusians’ Baltic Car Binge Defies Europe’s Last Dictator as Ruble Drops

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-05-24T08:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/belarus-car-binge-defies-europe-s-last-dictator-as-ruble-drops.html
Nikita Shushko, waiting at the
Lithuanian border to take used Toyotas and Peugeots to  Belarus ,
is defying President Aleksandr Lukashenko as his country
struggles to contain the ruble’s plunge.  Lukashenko, who the U.S. in 2006 has described as  Europe ’s
last dictator, in April blamed a rush to buy cars abroad for a
shortage of foreign currencies. Belarus yesterday devalued its
currency by 36 percent against the dollar as a 14 percent
benchmark interest rate, the world’s highest, failed to halt a
run on the ruble.  Belarusians seeking to escape a tax increase have boosted
car sales in neighboring Baltic countries, helping accelerate
their economic growth to the European Union’s highest and
depriving their country of foreign currency.  “People are throwing money into any car they can buy ahead
of the tariff increase,” Shushko said at the Medininkai border
checkpoint on May 14, carrying eight cars on his trailer. “We
are buying everything, from good cars to clunkers.”  First-quarter car sales rose as much as an annual 83
percent in the three countries. Gross domestic product rose 8
percent in  Estonia , 6.9 percent in  Lithuania , the fastest among
EU countries that have reported for the period, according to
preliminary data.  Latvia ’s economy grew 3.4 percent. Detailed
figures to break down the impact of rising car sales aren’t
available yet.  $3,000 Tax  Demand for used cars is growing as Belarus prepares to
unify its tariffs for vehicle imports from July 1 with other
countries in a customs union that also includes Russia and
 Kazakhstan . Tax rates for Belarusians will jump as much as
eightfold and may add at least $3,000 to a car’s cost.  The ruble fell 9.7 percent today, according to pricing at
 Belarusbank , the nation’s biggest lender. The bank buys 4,925
rubles per dollar, compared with a 4,490 rate yesterday. The
central bank set its official  exchange rate  at 4,930 rubles per
dollar, compared with 3,155 yesterday.  As much as 25 percent of the used vehicles sold by  Amserv
Grupp , Estonia’s third-largest car retailers, were bought by
Belarusians, according to Margus Nommik, the company’s head of
used car sales.  ‘Cleaning Up’  “Belarusian buyers have been really helpful in cleaning up
our market during the past two years as they have been preparing
for this customs union for a while now,” said Aare Steinberg, a
head of used car sales at Tallinn-based Saksa Auto AS. “At the
beginning they bought real trash, thank God, those are not part
of Estonian traffic anymore, but now they are buying pretty much
all kinds of cars.”  The pace of car-sales growth contrasts with retail sales in
other industries, held back by  household debt  and unemployment
following the toughest government austerity measures in the 27-
member European Union in 2008 and 2009.  March retail sales grew an annual 5 percent in Estonia, 1.3
percent in Latvia and 4.9 percent excluding cars in Lithuania.
That suggests the boost from the increased car sales won’t last,
said Vilija Tauraite, an economist at SEB Bank AS in Vilnius.  “It’s a one-off factor, which will disappear from July 1
and retail results may slow substantially as people still remain
cautious about spending,” she said.  Revenue Quadruples  About 800 personal cars are registered every day by Minsk
traffic police, Mayor Nikolai Ladutko said on March 29. The
country’s revenue from duties on imported cars quadrupled to as
much as 17 billion rubles ($5.5 million) a day in April from an
average of 4 billion rubles at the end of 2010, Aleksandr
Shpilevski, chairman of Belarus Customs Committee, said April 4.  Foreign-currency reserves hit a 1 1/2-year low in March and
the current-account deficit reached 16 percent of GDP, prompting
Lukashenko to look to  Russia  and other partners for a bailout.  The Belarusian ruble lost almost a quarter of its value on
May 12 after the central bank lifted restrictions on foreign-
currency sales to households and increased the benchmark
interest rate to 14 percent, the highest in the world.  Lukashenko linked his country’s foreign-currency
difficulties to increased demand for used cars from abroad.  “The car fever has been a great distress to us,” he said
on April 15. “We realized that people will rush to the banks in
order to buy cars. This is not the main factor, but this is a
factor - one billion dollars withdrawn from circulation.”  Belarus’s trade deficit almost quadrupled to almost $2.36
billion in the first quarter from $681 million in the same
period a year earlier.  Imports  surged 62 percent $11.3 billion
over the period, it said.  None of that will keep Belarusians from buying up used cars
abroad, some with the hopes of sending them on through the
customs-free border to Russia at a profit, said car dealer
Shushko.  “There’s no foreign currency in Minsk, but I’m sure people
will find dollars and euros somehow, somewhere for another month
before the tariff increases,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  