-- 
Belgium’s Debt Outlook Revised to Negative by Fitch on Political Stalemate

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-23T18:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/belgium-s-debt-rating-outlook-is-revised-to-negative-from-stable-by-fitch.html
Belgium had the outlook on its debt
rating lowered to negative at  Fitch Ratings , which joined
 Standard & Poor’s  in saying that political deadlock complicates
efforts to cut the euro area’s third-highest debt load.  Fitch may cut Belgium’s AA+ rating, the second-highest
investment grade, should the country fail to adhere to its
deficit targets, it said in a statement today. Belgium needs to
reduce its  budget deficit  to less than 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year and balance its books by 2015, as
agreed with the European Commission.  A caretaker administration has ruled Belgium since
elections last June as north-south tensions in the
linguistically divided nation led to the longest postwar
political stalemate in Western Europe. A strengthening economic
recovery has helped shrink the deficit to an estimated 3.6
percent of GDP this year from 5.9 percent in 2009, though
reducing the debt will require political resolve, Fitch said.  “Sustained debt reduction will require fiscal reform as
well as fiscal discipline over the coming years, which in turn
requires a new government with a fresh mandate,” Douglas
Renwick, a credit analyst at Fitch in  London , said in the
statement. “Despite the ongoing political dispute, day-to-day
fiscal management has remained strong, in keeping with Belgium’s
high-grade rating.”  2011 Budget  Prime Minister Yves Leterme’s caretaker government received
parliamentary backing last week for a 2011 budget that aims to
shrink the deficit from last year’s shortfall of 4.1 percent.
Belgium’s debt load swelled to 96.8 percent of GDP at the end of
2010 from 96.2 percent a year earlier. That’s the third-highest
among the 17 nations sharing the euro, behind Greece and  Italy .  The extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds instead of German equivalents widened to as much as 127
127 basis points earlier today, the highest level in more than
four months. The so-called spread, which averaged 89 in the past
12 months, reached a euro-era record of 144 on Jan. 11.  Belgium  raised 3.39 billion euros ($4.76 billion) from four
auctions of bonds today, the most in 11 months, as demand for
the securities increased and yields fell from the previous
auction a month ago. After five months, the nation has raised
63.4 percent of its full-year target and needs to raise an
average of 2.08 billion euros from the remaining six scheduled
bond sales to reach its target of 34 billion euros.  Deficit Outlook  The deficit may start widening again next year because of
rising borrowing costs, according to the Federal Planning
Bureau, which on May 12 forecast a 2012 shortfall of 4.4 percent
and expects the nation’s debt load to peak at 98.3 percent of
GDP in 2013. The European Commission forecasts Belgium’s deficit
will widen to 4.2 percent next year.  Elio Di Rupo, the leader of the French-speaking Socialists
who’s assigned by  King Albert II  to form a Belgian government,
tomorrow begins meeting leaders of the nine parties involved in
talks on how to balance the budget by 2015. That will require
structural spending cuts or tax increases of at least 17 billion
euros, Di Rupo said on May 17, citing the planning bureau.  Belgium already faced a rating-cut threat by S&P, which on
Dec. 14 said it might reduce Belgium’s ranking as soon as next
month should the yearlong political impasse mean Belgium can’t
“stabilize its debt.”  Belgium last had its  credit rating  lowered in December 1998
by Fitch, which at that time cited the risk of a liquidity
crisis following the creation of the European Monetary Union. A
rating cut may have more effect now because of the country’s
rising dependence on foreign rather than Belgian investors.  Foreign ownership of the nation’s bonds and treasury bills
increased to 71.2 percent from 59.6 percent in the past decade,
according to central-bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  