-- 
Bernanke May Resist ‘Noah’s Ark’ Approach on Systemic Risk

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-05-23T22:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/bernanke-may-resist-noah-s-ark-approach-on-systemic-risk.html
Republican lawmakers and industry
lobbyists are pressing a council of regulators including Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to reject a so-called Noah’s Ark strategy in
choosing which non-bank companies to put under Fed supervision.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the  Financial Stability Oversight
Council  must designate companies whose failure would threaten
economic stability. The Fed could require the firms to raise
capital and reduce risky practices. They also would have to file
“living wills” so they could be unwound in an orderly way.  A Noah’s Ark strategy would apply the systemically risky
label to two or more of the largest players in each category of
finance -- including insurance,  hedge funds  and money managers.
Though the council has given little indication of its direction,
members may be divided. Bernanke said in March he favors
choosing a “handful” of firms while Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  said in February she would “err on
the side of inclusiveness” when it comes to living wills.  “The political advantage of the Noah’s Ark approach is it
protects you from being accused of discriminating against any
one sector,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of
Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics Inc., whose clients
include the FDIC and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  “And if you pick the
largest players in a sector you send a warning signal.”  The wider approach also could discourage regulatory
arbitrage -- companies moving their riskiest activities to less-
scrutinized areas of the economy. At the same time, picking
firms to represent all parts of the financial industry might not
mesh with efforts by Bernanke and Geithner to target the
riskiest firms that take on the most leverage.  Automatic Designation  The council, which is headed by Geithner and known as FSOC,
meets today in a closed session.  Under Dodd-Frank, bank-holding companies including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  with
more than $50 billion in assets are automatically considered
systemically important institutions. If the council chooses only
a few non-bank firms, it could invite criticism that regulators
aren’t doing enough to prevent another crisis. Including too
many could impose wider costs on a financial industry struggling
to rebound from the credit meltdown that began with the
bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in 2008.  The Fed “has indicated that we think that a relative
handful of firms will be so designated,” Bernanke said at a
House Financial Services Committee hearing in March. “We don’t
want to overextend this definition. That being said, we want to
be sure to include every firm that would be a serious threat to
systemic stability in the case of its failure.”  Picking Insurers  The  insurance industry  illustrates FSOC’s dilemma.  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , a bank holding company with $730.9 billion in assets, will
receive increased Fed supervision. “Enhanced standards” will
be applied to its risk-based capital, liquidity, leverage, wind-
down plan and concentration limits, the New York-based company
said in its annual report in February.  Under a Noah’s Ark approach, the council could also
designate Prudential Financial Inc., the second-biggest life
insurer behind MetLife; or companies such as  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , or
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico Corp. Insurers are overseen
largely by state regulators, and industry executives have said
they are concerned that the taxpayer bailout of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  might encourage the FSOC to demand more
intrusive oversight from the Fed.  Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican and member of
the Banking Committee, told regulators at a May 12 hearing that
he hopes the council “will cast a narrow net rather than a very
broad net.” Financial industry organizations, including lobby
groups for hedge funds and securities firms, have urged the FSOC
to exercise caution in picking companies.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  “Uncertainty regarding the criteria or designation of an
overly broad set of firms could have profound unintended
consequences for financial markets and the broader economy,”
the Managed Funds Association, a Washington-based lobbying group
for the hedge-fund industry, said in a letter to Geithner in
February.  If the oversight council wants to “keep an eye” on an
industry, it doesn’t need to designate multiple companies, said
William Sweet, a former attorney at the Fed and a partner at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in  Washington . The
council “has very broad authority” through the new Office of
Financial Research “to collect all the information it needs,”
he said.  The research office, also created by Dodd-Frank, will
collect and analyze data to help the FSOC.  Shelby Statement  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the party’s ranking
member on the banking committee, said in a statement May 12 that
regulators need to provide more detail about the criteria they
will use to deem companies systemically important.  “There is a great deal of confusion about how the council
will proceed,” Shelby said. “This has created uncertainty in
our markets as firms are unsure which types of activities will
cause them to be subject to systemic-risk regulation.”  Bernanke said at the banking committee hearing that he
thinks “more details are necessary. I favor providing more
information to the public and getting robust input and
comment.”  Even if the council gives additional information, “I don’t
think that we can provide an exact formula that will apply
mechanically, without any application of judgment,” Bernanke
said. “I think ultimately we’re going to have to look at a
whole variety of issues which cannot always be put into a
numerical metric.”  Schapiro and Gensler  At the same hearing, Bair, Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  said they agreed more
information on the criteria, or metrics, should be disclosed.
All three are FSOC members.  Gensler and Bair said they would support putting out a
proposed rule or guidance and giving the public 60 days to
comment on it. That would likely delay naming systemically
important firms past the previous target of mid-2011.  The council also has the authority to designate an
activity, such as money-market operations, systemically
significant and outline rules the appropriate regulator would
have to enforce over that industry.  “One of the big concerns that the Fed and the Treasury
rightly had in the run-up to Dodd-Frank was that if you focus
only on institutions, you miss some of the things they found out
the hard way,” Petrou said.  The most obvious example was the Reserve Primary Fund, she
said. In 2008 it became the biggest money-market fund and the
first in 14 years to “break the buck,” meaning the value of a
share fell below $1 and investors faced losses. The $62.5
billion fund failed after investing in Lehman Brothers debt.  “If you were going to name the biggest of the big, Reserve
Primary would never have triggered those criteria,” Petrou
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 