-- 
Bharat Heavy Drops Most in 30 Months on Stake Sale, Stock Split

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-05-23T12:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/bharat-heavy-drops-most-in-30-months-on-stake-sale-stock-split.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,
 India ’s biggest power equipment maker, fell the most in 30
months in Mumbai after recommending the sale of a 5 percent
stake held by the government and approving a stock split.  Bharat Heavy declined 7 percent to 1,931.75 rupees at the
close, the most since Nov. 11, 2008, valuing the company at $21
billion. The stock has fallen 17 percent this year compared with
a 12 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index. A stake sale
at the current price would fetch $1.1 billion.  “Bharat Heavy’s follow-on public offer is likely to be
priced at a discount to the current market to attract strong
investor interest and build appetite for a large-sized issue,”
said Sunil Pachisia, vice president with Pratibhuti Viniyog Ltd.
“The correction is in anticipation of the discount sale.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to raise 400 billion
rupees ($8.8 billion) from asset sales in the year that started
April 1. The government has approved share sales in companies
including Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest energy
exploration company, Steel Authority of India Ltd. and Hindustan
Copper Ltd.  The stake sale is subject to government approval, state-
owned Bharat Heavy said in a statement today to the Bombay Stock
Exchange. The board approved splitting each share into five.  Power Finance Corp., India’s largest lender to utilities,
raised the maximum 45.8 billion rupees sought in a share sale
this month, the first by a state-run company this year. Indian
companies have raised 244 billion rupees in local share sales
this year, about half the amount sold in the same period in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government held a 68 percent stake in Bharat Heavy as
of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  