-- 
Blackstone Said to Hire CIBC for Sale of Buildings in Canada

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-05-24T18:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/blackstone-said-to-hire-cibc-to-market-921-million-of-offices-in-canada.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  hired CIBC World
Markets Inc. to sell 29 office buildings in Canada valued at
about C$900 million ($921 million), aiming to capitalize on
investor appetite for well-leased properties, according to two
people with knowledge of the plan.  The offices, located in downtown  Toronto ,  Calgary ,  Edmonton 
and  Ottawa , have 3.2 million square feet (297,000 square meters)
of space and are about 96 percent occupied, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Possible buyers include Canadian real estate investment trusts
and pension funds, the people said.  Blackstone and partner  Slate Properties Inc. , a private-
equity firm based in Toronto, began acquiring the 29 properties,
along with one that’s been sold, in 2005. The buildings were
less than 90 percent occupied when acquired, and the owners
refurbished them to attract new tenants, said one of the people
familiar with the assets.  “They’re probably selling at a good point in the cycle,”
said Ross Moore, director of market and economic research at
Seattle-based Colliers International. “Compared to the U.S.,
the downturn has been exceptionally mild” in  Canada , he said.  Canadian property prices are recovering and the country’s
economy has been buoyed by high energy prices and low  interest
rates , said Moore, who is based in  Vancouver . The Bloomberg
Canadian Real Estate Investment Trust Index has gained 37
percent, including reinvestment of dividends, over the past
year, outpacing the 32 percent total return of the Bloomberg
U.S. REIT Index.  ‘Platform Play’  “This is not just a good asset play, it’s a platform
play,” said John O’Bryan, vice chairman of CB Richard Ellis
Ltd., a property-services firm in Toronto. “You’ve got enough
geographic diversity, and their Canadian partner Slate
Properties have done a really good job repositioning the
assets.”  Canadian life insurers might be among investors interested
in the buildings, he said.  Toronto and Calgary, two markets where new construction has
raised concern that supply might outstrip demand, have
experienced strong absorption of new space, Moore said.  Vacancies Fall  The office vacancy rate in downtown Toronto, home to 16 of
the 29 buildings Blackstone plans to sell, dropped to 6.3
percent in the first quarter from a recession high of 7.3
percent in 2009’s fourth quarter, according to CB Richard Ellis.
In downtown Calgary, vacancies fell to 11.5 percent in the first
quarter from a high of 15.7 percent in the second quarter of
2010.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone, the
world’s largest private equity firm, and Tom Wallis, a spokesman
for CIBC, a unit of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, both
declined to comment. Blair Welch, a founder and partner of Slate
Properties, didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  While it plans to sell stabilized office buildings in
Canada, Blackstone has been stepping up acquisitions of
properties in need of operating improvements or debt relief. The
company in April agreed to pay $160 million for the top 12
floors of the former  New York Times Co. (NYT)  headquarters building in
midtown  Manhattan . In March, Blackstone won the bidding for
control of a 22-story office building at 1140 Avenue of the
Americas that has been more than 50 percent vacant.  Blackstone controls the 29 office properties being marketed
in Canada. Slate Properties holds a stake and manages them. The
buildings constitute all of Blackstone’s office real estate in
Canada, according to the people with knowledge of the planned
sale.  Earlier this month, a joint venture including Blackstone
agreed to sell the 712-room Radisson Lexington Hotel New York
for $335 million to  DiamondRock Hospitality Co. (DRH) , a Bethesda,
Maryland-based REIT that owns hotels operated by Marriott
International Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  