-- 
Bloomberg Tech Survey Finds CIOs Shifting to Managed Solutions

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-23T12:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/bloomberg-tech-survey-finds-cios-shifting-to-managed-solutions.html

Press Release  First Enterprise Technology Summit draws Top Industry Leaders  NEW YORK -- Leading financial technology executives say they
want innovations that allow them to process more data more
quickly, cheaply and reliably, according to results of a
Bloomberg survey revealed today. The poll was taken at Bloomberg
LINK’s first Enterprise Technology Summit, an invitation-only
seminar that brought together more than 100 Chief Information
Officers (CIOs) and technology decision-makers from major
financial services firms.  The executives were asked 10 questions on key technology trends
and the results included:  Spending - 76 percent said they will expect to increase
 information technology  (IT) spending over the next 12 months;
only 17 percent said they will decrease and 7 percent said
spending will remain the same  Managed Solutions - 55 percent said they are shifting more of
their overall capital expense to managed solutions; with only
33 percent saying no and 12 percent saying they don’t know  Compliance - 84 percent said they have increased spending on
regulatory and compliance systems in the past two years; only
5 percent decreased and 11 percent said spending remained the
same.  Cloud - When asked what infrastructure investment areas have
yielded the most return on investment (ROI) in the last year,
cloud computing received 45 percent of the responses, another
33 percent said low-latency trading and 23 percent said
complex event processing (CEP).  “Bloomberg is expanding into enterprise technology services,”
said Bloomberg President  Dan Doctoroff , who gave opening
remarks. “Our customers are facing increasing pressure on
returns, so we are using our expertise, products and new
partnerships to help them lower costs and improve their IT
infrastructure’s efficiency and effectiveness.”  Shawn Edwards, Bloomberg Chief Technology Officer, said,
“Technology executives are under enormous pressure to innovate
and solve problems.  To meet those challenges, we are providing
clients with our expertise and letting them leverage the same
infrastructure that powers the Bloomberg Professional service,
the world’s leading platform used by more than 300,000 business
and financial professionals globally.”  Speakers at the summit discussed key advancements in cloud
computing, managed solutions and security during panels
moderated by Bloomberg executives and staff from Bloomberg
Businessweek, Bloomberg News and Bloomberg Television.  For more information on Bloomberg’s Enterprise Products &
Solutions email     bloombergeps@Bloomberg.net  or visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/enterprise/ .  About Bloomberg LINK
Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real-time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Media Contacts:
Pam Snook, Bloomberg LP,  pamsnook@bloomberg.net ,+1-212-617-7652
Sophie Fischman,  Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com , +1 646 395 6300
Stuart Macaulay,  BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com ,+44 20 7438 1100
Anne Karumo,  BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com , +65 8112 64 09
 