-- 
BP May Seek New, Not ‘Reincarnated’ Rosneft Deal, Shmatko Says

-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 
2011-05-23T14:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/bp-may-seek-new-not-reincarnated-rosneft-deal-shmatko-says.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s
biggest oil producer, may hold talks on a new type of deal after
a $7.8 billion share swap and Arctic exploration alliance
collapsed, Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said.  Rosneft pulled out of its agreement with BP after a second
deadline for the deal expired on May 16. The U.K. explorer’s
billionaire partners in TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil
producer, argued their shareholder agreement gave them exclusive
rights to pursue opportunities in Russia for BP.  “The deal became a drag” in its previous form, Shmatko
told reporters today in Moscow. “I don’t believe in the
possibility of reincarnation for that particular deal.”  BP’s four-month battle to salvage the Rosneft deal was
driven by the chance to unlock billion barrels of oil.
International  oil companies  are competing for a diminishing
number of drill sites as foreign governments limit access to
resources, while Russia is seeking foreign technology to tap
Arctic reserves and maintain output.  “I am very sorry the deal didn’t happen: it would have met
our interests in terms of output growth and gaining access to
new technology,” Shmatko said. “Both Russia as a country and
Rosneft would have won significantly if it had gone forward.”  Rosneft will be “picky” choosing any new partner, Shmatko
said. Rosneft said last week that it will consider proposals on
the Arctic from all interested international companies.  BP had sought, with Rosneft’s support, to buy out AAR, as
its partners in TNK-BP are known for about $32 billion, a person
with knowledge of the talks said last week.  A buyout “is completely their problem,” Shmatko said.
“They didn’t achieve anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  