-- 
Brazil’s Mantega Balks at Supporting Mexico’s Bid for Carstens to Head IMF

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-05-23T18:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/brazil-s-mantega-balks-at-supporting-mexico-s-bid-for-carstens-to-head-imf.html
Brazil  will look closely at all
candidates to become the new head of the  International Monetary
Fund  before deciding whom to support, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said.  “We will examine all applications,” Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia, when asked whether Brazil would support
 Mexico ’s nomination of its central bank Governor Agustin Carstens.  “I want to know his proposals,” Mantega said about
Carstens, adding that Brazil will support someone who shares its
views. The ideal candidate to lead the Washington-based lender
would be someone with experience regardless of nationality and
ideally a finance minister or central bank president from one of
the Group of 20 nations, he said.  “So far, there is no Brazilian with such
characteristics,” he said.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s decision last week to resign as
president of the IMF to defend himself against criminal charges
including attempted rape has revived calls from emerging market
governments for  Europe  to relinquish its 65-year hold on the
job. The IMF said yesterday it aims to complete by June 30 the
selection of Strauss-Kahn’s successor.  Mexico’s government yesterday nominated Carstens, who was a
deputy managing director at the IMF from 2003 to 2006, to assume
the vacated post. Carstens, who took the reins of Mexico’s
central bank in January 2010 after serving as the country’s
finance minister, has a doctorate in economics from the
University of Chicago.  Support for France  Officials from Brazil to  Australia  have urged that the
selection be determined by “merit” rather than nationality.  Developing countries have so far shown little evidence of
coordination, with Thailand,  Russia  and  South Africa  supporting
policy makers from their own parts of the world.  As emerging market governments lobbied for break with the
tradition regarding the fund’s top post, support gathered for
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  to be named as the
IMF’s next head.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said in a
May 21 statement his nation will back Lagarde to become the
first woman to head the Washington-based lender.  The IMF, which provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages, has promised transparency in the selection
process.  Brazil may suggest that the IMF elect an interim president
until the end of 2012, Mantega said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Stringer at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net  