-- 
Brazil’s Long-Term Foreign Currency Rating Raised to Positive by S&P

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   R o b i n   S t r i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-23T22:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/brazil-s-long-term-currency-rating-is-raised-to-outlook-positive-by-s-p.html
Brazil ’s foreign debt rating outlook
was boosted to positive by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited
strengthening prospects for long-term economic growth.  S&P, which rates Brazil BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
said in a statement that the government of  Latin America ’s
biggest economy “has reaffirmed its commitment to support
recent macroeconomic gains by continuing to adjust fiscal,
monetary, and credit policies.” S&P’s outlook shift from stable
comes less than two months after  Fitch Ratings  lifted Brazil’s
rating to BBB, or two levels above junk.  “The positive outlook reflects the increasing likelihood
that the pillars supporting Brazil’s macroeconomic stability
will continue to strengthen in the coming years, gradually
reducing the sovereign’s fiscal restrictions and vulnerability
to external shocks,” S&P said in a statement.  President  Dilma Rousseff  unveiled in February a 50.1
billion real ($31 billion) spending-cut plan to help slow
consumer demand and curb inflation. Brazilian central bankers
have raised the benchmark lending rate 325 basis points, or 3.25
percentage points, to 12 percent since April 2010 to rein in the
fastest inflation in six years.  “A continued commitment to meeting fiscal targets, along
with prudent monetary policy that contains inflation
expectations, could gradually set the stage for growing investor
confidence,” S&P said.  The average yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries declined to
165 basis points today from 189 on Dec. 31, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gap touched 156 on March 8, the lowest
since July 2007.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Stringer at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net  