-- 
Cameron Confident After U.K. Banks Miss Business Lending Target

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-05-23T12:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/british-banks-on-course-to-miss-loan-targets-figures-show-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he
was confident that Britain’s five biggest banks will meet annual
lending targets agreed with the government after missing goals
for the first quarter.  The banks lent small- and medium-sized companies 16.8
billion pounds ($27.1 billion) in the three months to March 31,
according to figures published by the  Bank of England  for the
first time today. That’s 12 percent below a notional 19 billion-
pound quarterly target for lending to U.K. companies with
revenue of less than 25 million pounds. They pledged to make
available 76 billion pounds for the full year.  “The banks were serious when they made that commitment”
to boost business lending, Cameron told journalists today. “It
seems the banks want to make a success of this. I’m sure they
will do more and do better to get money out of the banks to get
our economy growing.”  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Santander U.K. Plc agreed
in February to make available the credit this year and “foster
more demand” for loans to aid economic recovery. The deal,
known as  Project Merlin , must be kept or the banks may face new
taxes, Cameron told a House of Commons committee on May 17.  Business Secretary Vince Cable today said that while
lending to businesses in the first quarter was disappointing, it
was “far too early to judge” the program’s success.  Merlin ‘Not Working’  In total, the five banks lent 47.3 billion pounds to all
U.K. businesses, just behind a target of 47.5 billion pounds,
the central bank said. The total annual target for 2011 is 190
billion pounds. The  Bank of England  said businesses repaid 2.8
billion pounds of debt in the first quarter.  “The signs are that the Project Merlin plan is not
working,”  Ed Balls , Labour’s Treasury spokesman, said in e-
mailed statement. “And while the banks are understandably
blaming this year’s economic slowdown for a lack of demand for
new lending, businesses I talk to are fearful that the Tory-led
government is letting the banks off the hook.”  Politicians and business lobby groups have repeatedly
criticized banks for failing to boost credit after accepting
about 1 trillion pounds in bailouts and guarantees following the
2008 financial crisis. Banks say the lending slowdown is largely
the result of a drop in demand, a consequence of the economic
slowdown.  Santander U.K., the only British bank to disclose its
individual lending target, said it provided 1.1 billion pounds
of new lending for small- and medium-sized businesses in the
first quarter, on course to beat its full-year goal of 4 billion
pounds, a spokesman said.  Businesses ‘Put Off’  “The Project Merlin figures are disappointing, but they
are only a part of the story for businesses,” said  David Frost ,
director general at the  British Chambers of Commerce . “Over-
centralised processes, unclear decision-making and a lack of
proper, local relationship management from banks, mean that in
many cases, business customers have been put off applying for
finance.”  RBS and Lloyds, Britain’s biggest taxpayer-aided banks,
agreed with the Treasury to make 105 billion pounds of new loans
available to businesses and homebuyers during the previous
Labour government.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  last year said
it was a “myth” that banks are failing to lend. Some 85
percent of loan applications from small and medium-sized
businesses were successful, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  