-- 
Buiter, Barker Say King Shouldn’t Get Too Many Regulation Powers

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/buiter-says-it-s-a-mistake-to-give-boe-bank-supervision-powers.html
Former  Bank of England  policy makers
 Willem Buiter  and  Kate Barker  said ownership of financial
stability should be with the U.K. Treasury rather than Governor
 Mervyn King , criticizing a government overhaul of regulation.  “The Bank of England is greatly overburdened and too
powerful in this proposed construction, especially the governor
and the two deputy governors,” Buiter said at a U.K. parliament
hearing in  London  late yesterday. “The obvious solution is to
remove prudential supervision from the bank.”  Britain’s government is planning the biggest shakeup of
regulation since 1997, scrapping the current banking regulator
and handing the powers to a new authority within the Bank of
England. The plan will also create a  Financial Policy Committee 
chaired by King, entrenching his responsibility for financial
stability as well as monetary policy.  “The reform of financial-stability management in this
country is disastrously misconceived,” Buiter told the  Treasury
Select Committee , which scrutinizes the Bank of England. “The
first mistake is that the Treasury should be at the center of
financial stability. It is now on the sidelines.”  He said the FPC should be chaired by Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , in a model similar to that in the U.S.  ‘Challenge’  Kate Barker, whose term as a policy maker at the central
bank ended last year, agreed that responsibility for financial
stability should lie more with Osborne rather than King,
proposing that a “lot of the onus” should be on the Treasury.  “I think I would add to Willem’s proposal that the
responsibility isn’t moved away from Treasury as much as
today,” Barker told the committee. A separate body could
provide “independent challenge and commentary” on policies
such as  capital requirements , she said, adding, “You could ask
the bank to perform that role, they seem very well placed.”  Another former policy maker, Sushil Wadhwani, said the
central bank’s governing board should have more power as policy
makers get control over financial stability.  “It’s important to make sure that the court is given more
powers, especially if” the central bank is “becoming more
powerful, to prevent an accountability deficit,” Wadhwani said
at the hearing. “We must do everything in our power to make
sure there are sufficient checks and balances.”  ‘Irrelevant’  Buiter, who is Citigroup Inc. chief economist and said he
was speaking in a personal capacity, told the hearing that the
Bank of England’s board is “irrelevant and should be
abolished.” He said the bank’s shareholder is the U.K. Treasury
and that the “board of directors is you,” referring to the
committee chaired by lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie .  Asked by lawmakers what areas the committee should focus on
in any inquiry into the central bank, Wadhwani said they should
look at issues such as the collapse of Northern Rock Plc and
whether monetary policy should have “leaned against the wind”
before the crisis.  He also noted questions about the bank’s economic
forecasting models.  “It was very odd that they were running a forecasting
model with no role for bankruptcies and no role for credit
constraints,” he said. “That certainly belongs” in an
inquiry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  