-- 
Burundi Tea Buyer Prothem Urges Government to Increase Prices for Growers

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-05-23T12:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/burundi-tea-buyer-prothem-urges-government-to-increase-prices-for-growers.html
Prothem SA, a closely held Burundian
tea buyer, urged the government to increase the price it pays
for the leaves in the East African country after the state
ordered growers to stop selling their crop to the company.  “We urge the government to revise upward the cost of a
kilogram of green tea instead of prohibiting best-bidder
operators to buy tea,” Epitace Bayaganakandi, chairman of
Prothem, told reporters on May 20 in Bujumbura, the capital.  Growers in the East African nation were ordered to stop
selling to Prothem last week after it offered farmers 200
francs (16 cents) per kilogram (2.2 pounds) for their crop,
compared with the 160 francs paid by the government. Police
have been deployed at the company’s offices in Mwaro, about 41
kilometers (25 miles) east of Bujumbura, to prevent growers
from selling their leaves.  Burundi relies on tea for half its export revenue. Crop
yields are recovering after slumping from more than 9,000 tons
in 2001 because of an insurgency that displaced small-scale
farmers who account for 80 percent of the crop, according to
the state-run Burundi Tea Board. Production this year may
total 7,800 tons, the board said in January.  The board says growers should sell their leaves to the
state because cultivation is financed by government revenue.  “We cannot allow people to reap where they did not sow,”
Alexis Nzobonimana, director-general of the board, told
reporters on May 17. “We have taken loans from banks to help
growers buy chemical fertilizers and pay agronomists who
supervise them. As a result, tea must be sold in the public
factories.”  Burundi’s tea industry was deregulated in 2007 and four
private companies were allowed to begin operating including
Prothem, Complex Burundi-Hollandais, Caspian SA and Camellia.
The operators compete with the board, which has five plants
across the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 