-- 
California May Delay Carbon Trade Couple of Months, New Energy Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-05-23T11:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/california-may-delay-carbon-trade-couple-of-months-new-energy-says.html
A  California  judge’s ruling is
unlikely to mean a long delay in starting the state’s cap-and-
trade program for greenhouse gases next year, according to 
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The decision will require California’s Air Resources Board
to resubmit its analysis of alternative policies, which will
take “a couple of months,” Tom Marcello, an analyst for New
Energy Finance in  New York , said yesterday by e-mail. Another
ruling might have slowed the launch of what is forecast to be
the largest U.S. carbon market by six months, he said.  Superior Court Judge Ernest Goldsmith in San Francisco
ordered the board on May 20 to stop making rules for cap and
trade until the state reviews other ways to limit  greenhouse
gases , such as a carbon tax. While President  Barack Obama  failed
to win Congressional approval for a national emissions trading
program, California is pressing ahead with plans to issue
pollution allowances that may be valued at $19 billion by 2020,
according to New Energy Finance.  The board in California will appeal the ruling today, said
Stanley Young, a spokesman for the agency.  “A delay at this point would not be surprising, but the
extent of that delay depends on how ARB navigates a tricky path
that not only complies with the judge’s order, but also makes
progress on rule making for the state’s carbon market,” said
Ethan Ravage, West Coast head for the Geneva-based International
Emissions Trading Association.  “ARB officers are between a rock and a hard place, though
this could be a silver lining if it results in effective
collaboration and a well-designed market,” Ravage said
yesterday in a phone interview from  San Francisco .  ‘Informational Requirements’  The board violated the “informational requirements” of
the California Environmental Quality Act when it began to make
rules “without first responding to comments, completing the
environmental review process, and approving” the program,
Goldsmith said in the ruling.  The judge “didn’t say the board’s answer was wrong,” Josh Margolis, chief executive officer of CantorCO2e, an
environmental-markets broker, said May 21 by e-mail. “Like a
math teacher,” the judge sent some of the  ARB’s documents  back
asking it to “show your work,” Margolis said.  The decision amounts to a “procedural speed bump,” said
Alex Rau, a San Francisco-based founding partner at investment
adviser Climate Wedge. “We fully expect the market to start in
2012, maybe a few months delayed,” he said May 21 by e-mail.  Goldsmith’s ruling is the latest development in a 2009
lawsuit filed by a coalition that includes Communities for a
Better Environment and the Association of Irritated Residents.
It follows a March 18 ruling in which the court also said the
board failed to adequately consider alternatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  