-- 
California Inmate Reduction Puts Brown in Bind

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-05-23T20:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/california-inmate-reduction-puts-brown-in-bind.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  faces
added pressure to complete his budget plan after the U.S.
Supreme Court upheld an order today to ease prison overcrowding
by taking 37,000 inmates out of the system.  Brown in January already  proposed  transferring
responsibility for 40,000 “low-level” offenders and parole
violators from prisons to county jails, as part of a $5.6
billion effort to shift some state services to the local level.
He offered the proposal in preparation for the ruling.  The most-populous U.S. state runs the nation’s largest
correctional system, with about 163,000 prisoners. Its prisons
are at 175 percent of capacity, according to the California
 Corrections and Rehabilitation Department . The state,
confronting a $9.6 billion  budget deficit , didn’t dispute that
the prisons were overcrowded; it argued that it needed more time
to address problems.  “We must now secure full and constitutionally guaranteed
funding to put into effect all the realignment provisions,”
Brown said in a statement today. “As we work to carry out the
court’s ruling, I will take all steps necessary to protect
public safety.”  To reimburse counties for added expenses under the
realignment plan, Brown has proposed extending a 1 percentage-
point increase in the  sales tax  and a 0.5 percentage-point boost
in vehicle license fees due to expire July 1. Republican
lawmakers have opposed Brown’s request to put those extensions
up for a referendum.  ‘Sword of Damocles’  “We stand under the sword of Damocles of the U.S. Supreme
Court,” the 73-year-old Democrat said at a press conference
after signing the prison realignment plan in April. “The only
question is how are we going to handle it? Do we just react,
without the money, without the realignment, in a manner that
will be self-defeating?”  The justices, who voted 5-4, said the order would remedy
the constitutionally inadequate level of medical and mental-
health care inmates get.  “This extensive and ongoing constitutional violation
requires a remedy, and a remedy will not be achieved without a
reduction in overcrowding,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote for
the majority.  The case was pressed by prisoners and the union
representing guards who argued that overcrowding led to disease
and violence.  ‘Serious Risk’  “This is an example of legislating from the bench at its
worst,” Connie Conway, the Assembly’s Republican leader, said
in statement today. “As a result of this reckless and
irresponsible decision, innocent Californians could be at
serious risk of becoming victims of crime.”  Matthew Cate, who heads the corrections department, told
reporters May 16 that the system would consider releasing
prisoners on parole without supervision if the court ruling was
announced before Brown could get funding for the realignment.  “It’s those really hard decisions we’re trying to avoid,”
Cate said.  More than 15,500 California prisoners are in other
providers’ facilities under contract, including some in the
states of  Arizona ,  Mississippi  and  Oklahoma , according to
 statistics  on the department’s website.  The case is Brown v. Plata, 09-1233.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 