-- 
California Prisoner Release Order Upheld by U.S. High Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-05-23T20:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/california-prisoner-release-order-upheld-by-u-s-high-court-3-.html
A divided U.S.  Supreme Court ,
pointing to “serious constitutional violations” in
California’s overcrowded prisons, upheld an order requiring the
state to cut its inmate population by tens of thousands.  In a 5-4 vote along ideological lines, the justices said
the order, the largest of its kind in U.S. history, was an
appropriate step to remedy the constitutionally inadequate level
of medical and mental health care prisoners are receiving.  “The medical and mental health care provided by
California’s prisons falls below the standard of decency that
inheres in the Eighth Amendment,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote
for the  majority , referring to the constitutional ban on cruel
and unusual punishment. “This extensive and ongoing
constitutional violation requires a remedy, and a remedy will
not be achieved without a reduction in overcrowding.”  The original court order required  California  to cut its
prison population by 46,000 within two years, and the state has
already begun taking steps to comply. The state still must cut
another 32,000 inmates from its prison rolls, according to
advocates for the inmates.  “This landmark decision not only will help prevent
prisoners from dying of malpractice and neglect, but it will
make the prisons safer for the staff, improve public safety and
save the taxpayers billions of dollars,” said Donald Specter,
the lawyer who argued the case for the inmates and serves as
director of the Prison Law Office in San Quentin, California,  Extension Possible  The ruling won’t necessarily mean that prisoners will be
released. The state has been exploring other options, including
channeling new parole offenders and low-level felons into county
jails.  In April Governor  Jerry Brown  signed legislation that would
transfer tens of thousands of prisoners to local facilities. To
reimburse the counties, the Democratic governor has proposed
extending increases in the sales tax and vehicle license fees.  “We must now secure full and constitutionally guaranteed
funding to put into effect the realignment provisions,” Brown
said in a statement. California’s total prison population now
stands at 163,000, with almost 10,000 of those inmates being
held out of state.  Kennedy said the state could seek an extension from a lower
court, perhaps pushing the deadline back to 2016.  Gambling With Safety?  Justice  Samuel Alito  wrote in dissent that the majority “is
gambling with the safety of the people of California.”  “I fear that today’s decision, like prior prisoner release
orders, will lead to a grim roster of victims,” Alito wrote for
himself and Chief Justice  John Roberts .  Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas  also
dissented. Writing for the pair, Scalia said the Supreme Court
“affirms what is perhaps the most radical injunction issued by
a court in our nation’s history.”  Kennedy said reductions could occur “in a manner
calculated to avoid an undue negative effect on public safety.”  He said overcrowding had already caused “needless
suffering and death” in the state’s prisons, which had operated
at 200 percent of design capacity for at least 11 years. Kennedy
said that as many as 54 prisoners may share a single toilet and
that suicidal inmates have been held in cages the size of a
telephone booth because of a shortage of treatment beds.  Pool of Urine  In one instance, a man held in such a cage for almost 24
hours was “standing in a pool of his own urine, unresponsive
and nearly catatonic,” Kennedy wrote.  The court took the unusual step of attaching three photos
to the majority opinion, including one depicting the holding
cages.  “Prisoners retain the essence of human dignity inherent in
all persons,” Kennedy wrote.  The majority rejected the state’s contentions that the
order runs afoul of a law that limits the power of federal
judges to hear prisoner-rights lawsuits.  California, the nation’s most populous state, didn’t
contest that its prisoners have been held in unconstitutional
conditions. In its appeal, the state focused solely on the
remedy ordered by the lower court, arguing that officials should
have been given more time to address the problems.  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, the state has coped
with $100 billion of budget gaps over the past three years amid
the global recession.  The case is Brown v. Plata, 09-1233.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 