-- 
Campbell’s Profit Rises 11% as Sales of Snacks Increase

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-23T20:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/campbell-s-profit-tops-analysts-estimates.html
Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , the world’s
largest soup maker, posted an 11 percent gain in third-quarter
profit as snack sales increased more than expected.  Net income in the period ended May 1 climbed to $187
million, or 57 cents a share, the Camden, New Jersey-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts projected 52 cents,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the baking and snacks division climbed 10 percent.
Chief Executive Officer Doug Conant, who steps down in July, is
trying to reverse sales declines by building up the snacks
business and expanding abroad. Campbell has been hurt by food
makers touting other ready-to-serve meals, like frozen pizza or
macaroni and cheese.  “While today’s bottom line EPS results were good, the
earnings quality was weak and we look for signals of better top
line trends to more sustainably drive the shares,” Chris Growe,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a report today. The
St. Louis-based analyst recommends holding the shares.  Campbell, the maker of Chunky soup and Pepperidge Farm
crackers, fell 29 cents to $34.95 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares are little changed this
year.  ‘High End’  U.S. soup sales fell 7 percent in the third quarter, hurt
by a decline in promotions which increased soup prices in
stores, the company said. Sales decreased 4 percent in the
second quarter. That business, whose brands include the Chunky
line, accounts for about 40 percent of sales. Baking and
snacking is the company’s second largest segment.  Campbell will come in at the “high end” of its forecasts
for 2011, according to its statement today. The company cut its
2011 sales and profit forecast in February as increased spending
on promotions failed to boost revenue.  In the third quarter, total sales rose less than 1 percent
to $1.81 billion. Net income was $168 million, or 49 cents a
share, a year earlier.  Conant said last year that he will step down as CEO July
31, and operations chief Denise Morrison, who has overseen the
company’s U.S. soup business, will succeed him. Morrison had
spearheaded a push to cut sodium in soups. She will outline her
plans further at a July investor meeting.  Campbell will also raise U.S. soup prices in June as costs
for raw ingredients and packaging materials have increased,
Chief Financial Officer Craig Owens said today in a conference
call with analysts.  “Campbell acknowledges that long-term growth prospects are
better outside U.S. soup,” Ed Aaron, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a report last month. “They’re focused on
expanding baked snacks and beverages and getting bigger
internationally.” The Denver-based analyst has a “sector
perform” rating on the shares.  This month, Don Mulligan, chief financial officer of
 General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the maker of Progresso soups, told investors
that soup makers have focused too much on sodium-reduction over
the past several years. Both Campbell and General Mills have
lately geared their marketing more toward the taste of their
soups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  