-- 
Carlyle Returns Record $6.4 Billion in First Quarter on Strong  Dealmaking

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-05-23T16:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/carlyle-returns-record-6-4-billion-in-first-quarter-on-strong-dealmaking.html
Carlyle Group , the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, invested $7 billion last year, a
third more than in 2009, as buyouts surged.  Carlyle committed $3 billion to deals that closed in the
first quarter of this year, the Washington-based firm said today
in its annual report to clients. Carlyle invested $5.2 billion
in 2009.  Private-equity transactions rose more than fourfold last
year to $183 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after credit markets seized up in mid-2008 and financing for
takeovers dried up. Carlyle is adding or expanding non-buyout
businesses to diversify profits ahead of a potential initial
public offering.  “The past year has been a period of exciting change and
growth at Carlyle with new people, new geographies and new
businesses,” co-founder  David Rubenstein  said in a statement.  The firm is considering an IPO, co-founder  William Conway 
said in December.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co. and Apollo
Global Management LLC, all based in New York, have gone public.
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity company, has
gained 57 percent during the past 12 months.  Carlyle agreed in January to buy AlpInvest Partners NV, a
Dutch  money manager  that oversees about 32 billion euros ($45
billion) in private-equity funds, to expand its asset-management
operations.  The firm also boosted its structured credit offerings,
established an energy mezzanine team and purchased a majority
stake in Claren Road Asset Management LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund with $5 billion in assets under management.  New Investor Capital  Carlyle raised $4.2 billion in commitments from investors
last year, according to the report. The money was spread across
six funds and co-investment deals with limited partners -- the
pensions, endowments and sovereign wealth funds that comprise
private equity’s main investor base. Many of those funds lost
value during 2008 and 2009, preventing them from making new
commitments to private equity.  The firm returned a record $6.4 billion in deal profits to
clients in the first quarter after distributing $7.5 billion
last year. Carlyle said it completed 13 initial public offerings
in 2010 and the first quarter of this year, using those
offerings to pare debt or distribute profits to investors.  “We are pleased that Carlyle continues to earn the
confidence of its investors even during the most turbulent
times,” Carlyle’s founders said in the annual report.  Fundraising has proved difficult for buyout firms even in a
recovering economy. Managers raised $42.3 billion in the first
quarter, the lowest amount in almost eight years, researcher
Preqin Ltd. said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  