-- 
CFTC Budget Scrutinized By House Republicans Seeking 15% Cut

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-05-23T23:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/cftc-budget-scrutinized-by-house-republicans-seeking-15-cut.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , the regulator that’s writing new rules for the
 derivatives market , faces a 15 percent budget cut under a
spending bill circulated by  House Republicans .  The CFTC’s budget would fall to $172 million from $202
million under  the plan  to be considered tomorrow by the
agriculture subcommittee of the  House Appropriations Committee .
It “provides the necessary resources” for the CFTC to fulfill
its duties, Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican
and subcommittee chairman, said in a statement. President  Barack Obama  had requested $308 million in his 2012 budget proposal.  The CFTC and U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
writing regulations, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, for the
$601 trillion swaps market after largely unregulated
transactions helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The CFTC aims
to complete its rulemaking by year-end.  The Republican budget proposal would limit spending to
$3,000 “for official reception and representation expenses”
and to $25,000 for consultations with other regulators and
officials from foreign governments, according to the draft bill.  The plan is “penny-wise and pound-foolish,”  Bart Chilton ,
one of the commission’s three Democrats, said in a statement.
“We went to the brink of economic disaster. Congress gave us
the directives in Dodd-Frank to ensure that doesn’t happen
again, and now there are those who would keep us from having the
budget to do the job.”  The House Financial Services Committee is scheduled to
consider a bill on Tuesday that would delay the mid-July
deadlines for the derivatives rules until the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  