-- 
Charming Shoppes Said to Be Exploring Sale of Fashion Bug Clothing Chain

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-05-23T20:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/charming-shoppes-said-to-be-exploring-sale-of-fashion-bug-clothing-chain.html
Charming Shoppes Inc. (CHRS) , the operator
of the plus-size Lane Bryant chain, is exploring a sale of its
Fashion Bug stores, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Moelis & Co. is advising the retailer on a possible deal,
said the person, who declined to be named because the process
isn’t public. A sale of the unit may be a few weeks away, the
person said. Fashion Bug, aimed at women aged 30 to 50, makes up
about a third of the chain’s more than $2 billion in sales.  Chief Executive Officer Tony Romano is devoting resources
to the more profitable Lane Bryant label to revive earnings
after almost $500 million in losses since 2007. While demand for
plus-size apparel is growing, Fashion Bug’s challenge as a
lower-priced retailer is to deliver stylish clothing without
sacrificing margins, said McMillan Doolittle LLP’s Neil Stern.  "You have a really difficult apparel market that really
hasn’t gotten its footing in say, five years,’’ said Stern, a
senior partner at the retail consulting firm in  Chicago .  Fashion Bug operated about 740 stores as of Jan. 29, mostly
in strip malls, according to regulatory filings. The Bensalem,
Pennsylvania-based company operated almost 2,100 locations at
the end of last year, including about 850 Lane Bryant stores and
outlets and 475 Catherines, aimed at women 45 and older.  Stock Performance  Charming Shoppes rose 8 cents, or 2 percent, to $4.07 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Earlier the
shares advanced as much as 10 percent.  Gayle Coolick, a spokeswoman for Charming Shoppes, said she
couldn’t immediately comment. Andrea Hurst, a spokeswoman for
New York-based Moelis, declined to comment.  Fashion Bug’s sales at stores open at least 13 months rose
4 percent last year, outpacing the company’s average. So-called
same-store sales are considered a key gauge of retail
performance because they strip out the impact of store closings
and openings. Charming Shoppes is scheduled to report first-
quarter results on June 2.  Charming Shoppes began more than 70 years ago when the
Sidewater brothers opened a single apparel store in
Philadelphia. The purchase of the Lane Bryant chain a decade ago
turned Charming Shoppes into the largest plus-size retailer in
the U.S., according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  