-- 
Chelsea Seeks New Manager After Ancelotti’s Second Season Ends Trophyless

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-23T07:09:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/chelsea-seeks-new-manager-after-ancelotti-s-second-season-ends-trophyless.html
Chelsea is seeking a new manager
after  Carlo Ancelotti  ended his second season at the club
without a trophy and the London soccer team’s lowest number of
Premier League points since 2003.  Chelsea said last night it “parted company” with
Ancelotti after a final-day loss at Everton left the defending
champion in second place with 71 points, nine behind Manchester
United. The Italian coach had a year remaining on his contract.  “This season’s performances have fallen short of
expectations and the club feels the time is right to make this
change,” Chelsea said in a  statement  on its website.
“Chelsea’s long-term football objectives and ambitions remain
unchanged and we will now be concentrating all our efforts on
identifying a new manager.”  The club said it would have no further comment until that
appointment, which will bring in Chelsea’s seventh manager since
 Roman Abramovich  bought the Blues in 2003, is made. U.K.
bookmaker William Hill makes Porto’s Andre Villas-Boas the 2-1
favorite to replace Ancelotti. The 33-year-old guided Porto to
four trophies this season.  Chelsea has turned its attention to Turkey coach  Guus Hiddink  and Real Madrid’s  Jose Mourinho , the  Daily Mail  reported
today without saying where it got the information. Both had
previous spells as manager at Stamford Bridge.  First Double  Ancelotti, 51, was hired in June 2009 after winning two
 Champions League  titles in eight seasons at AC Milan. The Blues
won the Premier League and F.A. Cup last year, capturing the
double for the first time in the club’s history.  Chelsea opened its league championship defense with five
straight wins before finishing without a trophy for the first
time since the 2007-08 season. The total of 71 points was four
more than it managed when finishing fourth in 2003.  A mid-season slump dropped the Blues 15 points behind
 Manchester United  in February before a late surge pulled them
within three points heading into a showdown at Old Trafford on
May 8. United won 2-1 before securing its record 19th English
title six days later.  “We cannot say we are happy to reach second place, Chelsea
has to fight for the title all the time,” Ancelotti said after
yesterday’s 1-0 loss to Everton. “Sometimes there are problems
and you are not able to win, this was this year for us.”  The Blues also reached the quarterfinals of the Champions
League, where they lost 3-1 over two games to United. They were
beaten by Everton in a shootout in the fourth round of the F.A.
Cup in February and were eliminated 4-3 by Newcastle in the
third round of the League Cup in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  