-- 
Chile Peso Leads Latin Currency Declines as Trade Outlook Dims

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-23T14:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/chile-peso-leads-latin-currency-declines-as-trade-outlook-dims.html
Chile ’s peso fell the most among
Latin American currencies as slumping copper prices signaled a
lower  trade surplus  for the metal’s top-producing country.  The peso slid 1.2 percent to 472.50 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:27 a.m.  New York  time, from 466.80 on May 20. It was the
steepest drop among regional currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Copper fell the most since November in New York as
manufacturing slowed in  China , the world’s biggest consumer of
the metal. Stocks fell the most in a month, while the euro
weakened to a record low versus the Swiss franc, on signs
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is worsening.  “The external scenario seems clearly inclined toward
strong upward pressure” on the dollar, analysts at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones said today in an e-mailed note to clients.
“The central bank president’s speech last week poured some cold
water on aggressive takes on normalization that we expect to be
interpreted, particularly by foreign investors, as eventual
pauses in interest-rate rises.”  Chile probably will slow the pace of rate increases and may
keep borrowing costs on hold in future meetings, central bank
President Jose De Gregorio said May 20 in comments echoed today
by board member Enrique Marshall.  Chile’s real exchange rate is at the lower end of the range
that is coherent with its long-term fundamentals, Marshall said
in a presentation posted on the bank’s website.  “The peso’s appreciation against the dollar has not been
very different from the currencies of other commodity-exporting
countries that have intervened in their  currency markets ,” he
said.  The MSCI All-Country World Index sank as much as 1.9
percent in New York as the euro depreciated to less than $1.40
for the first time since March 18. Copper for delivery in July
tumbled as much as 4.2 percent on the Comex in New York.  Chile’s central bank paid an average of 472.32 per dollar
for $50 million today as part of a $12 billion effort to limit
the peso’s gain, according to data posted on the bank’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  