-- 
China Golf Courses Grow at Record Pace as Developers Ignore Government

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-23T10:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/china-golf-courses-grow-at-record-pace-as-developers-ignore-government.html
China ’s ban on unauthorized golf
courses failed to stem a record 14 percent increase in such
facilities last year as developers circumvented rules aimed at
halting the erosion of the nation’s farmland.  The world’s fastest-growing major economy added 60 18-hole
courses last year, taking the total to 490, according to a
 report  by  Forward Management Group , a golf tour organizer in
China. Only 10 of the nation’s golf facilities are licensed,
with operators sometimes registering them as country parks or
greenbelt areas, state-run Xinhua News Agency said.  The  Ministry of Land and Resources  banned construction of
golf courses in 2004, and the ban will remain in effect until
new rules are introduced, Gan Zangchun, deputy land inspector at
the ministry,  said  last month. The Forward Management report
highlights the difficulty China faces in stamping out illegal
use of land that threatens the country’s ability to feed itself.  “It goes without saying how important it is to comply with
the government’s farmland threshold policy to ensure grain
security,” said Zhou Li, a professor at the School of
Agricultural Economics and  Rural Development  of Renmin
University of China.  Farmland shrank by 8.33 million hectares in the past 12
years, Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s top agricultural adviser, Chen Xiwen,
said in March. The ruling Communist Party in 2007 set a
 threshold  of 1.8 billion mu (120 million hectares) of farmland
needed to feed the nation’s 1.3 billion people.  Last year 274,500 mu of farmland was used illegally for
projects including golf courses, according to the land
inspector’s annual  report .  Figures Fudged  China’s farmland per capita is less than half the world
average, and one-sixth that of the U.S., according to China
Comment, a Communist Party magazine. Actual land loss may be
greater than the government’s numbers suggest, as local
officials fudge figures and illegal use proliferates.  Golf courses have sprung up all over China, except in  Tibet ,
according to the report by Forward Management, which was
published late last month and reported by Xinhua yesterday.
“The golf tourism market prospect continues to be rosy after
regular golf players jumped 11 percent to 330,000 people last
year,” it said.  The central government failed to effectively curb the
construction of the courses partly because of local government
interests, the land ministry said in December 2009 on its  web
site , without elaborating. Some courses skirted supervision and
won approval under the name of “forest parks,” it said.  Local governments made 2.7 trillion yuan ($415.5 billion)
in 2010 selling rights to farmland for non-agricultural purposes,
with total land sales constituting 60 to 70 percent of revenue,
according to Landesa, a Seattle-based organization that works to
secure land rights for the poor.  --Yidi Zhao in Beijing. Editors: Ben Richardson, John Brinsley  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7575 or  yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  