-- 
China Development Bank Said to Agree to Buy Stake in U.S. Buyout Firm TPG

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-23T06:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/china-development-bank-said-to-agree-to-buy-stake-in-u-s-buyout-firm-tpg.html
China Development Bank  Corp.’s
investment unit agreed to purchase a stake in U.S. buyout firm
TPG Capital, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  TPG co-founder  Jim Coulter  attended a signing ceremony in
Beijing today with  China  Development Bank Capital Co., according
to a copy of the schedule for the event seen by Bloomberg News.
 Michael Fuchs , an external spokesman for TPG, and Zhang Cheng,
vice president of the strategic planning department for CDB
Capital, declined to comment.  China is stepping up efforts to develop its private equity
industry as firms including Morgan Stanley raise yuan funds for
local investments. China Development Bank has been run since
1998 by 66-year-old Chen Yuan and is the country’s only lender
to win a license from the cabinet to set up a private equity
unit. CDB Capital’s funds include the $1 billion China-Africa
Development Fund.  “CDB’s strong client base and government backing may help
TPG get more mega deals in China,” said Sheng Nan, a Shanghai-
based analyst at UOB Kayhian Investment Co. “On the other hand,
it’s a quick way for CDB to benefit from a diversified overseas
portfolio.”  China Development Bank, a state policy lender set up in
1994, had more than 5 trillion yuan ($770 billion) of assets at
the end of December. CDB Capital was established in August 2009
with 35 billion yuan of registered capital to focus on private
equity, direct corporate investment and advisory services.  Separately, the unit said today it will buy 1.92 billion
shares of  New Capital International Investment Ltd. (1062)  for HK$768
million.  Singapore, Kuwait Stakes  TPG and rivals  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group  are
selling stakes in their management companies to raise capital
for expanding beyond buyouts as private-equity fundraising
remains at an eight-year low. China Development Bank has sought
regulatory approval to buy a minority stake in TPG, the
Financial Times reported earlier today, citing people it didn’t
identify.  TPG sold a stake to Government of Singapore Investment Corp.
and the  Kuwait Investment Authority , a person briefed on the
decision said last month. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based firm plans
to use proceeds to finance expansion of new and existing lines
of business and into emerging markets, according to the person.  China Investment Corp., the nation’s $300 billion sovereign
wealth fund, owns a stake in Blackstone and New York-based
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  after it began investing in the U.S. as the
credit crunch took hold in 2007.  World’s Largest Buyout  TPG’s global investments include Energy Future Holdings
Corp., the Texas power producer whose $43.2 billion leveraged
buyout in 2007 was the largest in history.  The buyout firm, which manages about $48 billion, has
invested $8.1 billion in  Asia  since the start of 2008, more than
Carlyle and KKR & Co., according to the Asian Venture Capital
Journal.  More recently, TPG paid $3 billion to acquire J. Crew Group
Inc., the retailer it first bought in 1997 and then took public
in 2006. TPG, most of whose top executives are in  San Francisco ,
also owns broadcaster Univision Communications Inc. and casino
giant Caesars Entertainment Corp.  The largest private-equity firms increasingly are looking
beyond buyouts for fees and profits. At Blackstone, the fund of
hedge funds business is now the firm’s largest by assets. KKR
recently hired a partner to oversee real estate investments and
plans to start its first long-short hedge fund later this year.  --Luo Jun, Cathy Chan, Henry Sanderson. Editors: Chitra Somayaji, Philip Lagerkranser  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6629 or
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  