-- 
China’s Yuan Snaps Four-Day Rally as Greek Debt Crisis Worsens

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-23T09:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/china-s-yuan-snaps-four-day-rally-as-greek-debt-crisis-worsens.html
China ’s yuan weakened, snapping a
four-day rally, as  Greece ’s worsening debt crisis prompted
investors to favor safe-haven assets such as the dollar.  Yuan forwards fell by the most in a week as the Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against the currencies of six
major U.S. trading partners, rose 1.2 percent today after  Fitch
Ratings  cut Greece’s credit rating by three levels on May 20.
The People’s Bank of China set its  reference rate  0.02 percent
weaker at 6.4998 per dollar today.  “For now, the yuan’s setting is in accordance with the
dollar trend,” said Leong Sook Mei, a currency strategist in
Singapore at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The yuan declined 0.19 percent to 6.5050 per dollar as of
5:10 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency isn’t allowed to move more than 0.5
percent either side of the central bank’s daily fixing. In  Hong
Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan dropped 0.20 percent to 6.5065.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slid 0.45 percent to
6.3970 per dollar, a 1.7 percent premium to the onshore spot
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China should get used to an inflation rate between 5
percent and 10 percent for an extended period of time, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing Wang Jian,
secretary general of the National Development and Reform
Commission’s China Society of Macroeconomics.  “It is very unlikely the yuan’s fix will be very low,”
Leong said. “You still have relatively high inflation.”  A stronger currency helps tame inflation by reducing the
cost of imports. Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in April from
a year earlier following a 5.4 percent increase in March that
was the biggest since July 2008. The government aims to limit
inflation to 4 percent this year.  A moderation in China’s economic growth rate could provide
favorable conditions for prices to decline in the second half of
the year and help economic restructuring over the longer term,
the China Securities Journal reported today, citing Fan Jianping,
director of economic forecasting at the State Information Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  