-- 
China Manufacturing May Slow on Tightening Steps

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-23T04:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/china-s-manufacturing-may-slow-on-government-s-tighter-policy-pmi-shows.html
A Chinese manufacturing index fell to
its lowest level in 10 months, adding to signs that economic
growth is cooling after the government raised  interest rates  and
curbed lending to rein in inflation.  The preliminary purchasing managers’ index compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 51.1 in May from a
final reading of 51.8 in April. A number above 50 indicates
expansion.  Stocks in China extended declines after the report, with
the benchmark index dropping to its lowest since February, on
concern the government’s measures to tame inflation will damp
growth and corporate earnings. Vice Premier Wang Qishan
reiterated this month that the government’s top priority is to
control price increases.  The data “confirms growth is slowing, which will likely
dampen price pressures and limit scope for monetary tightening,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB
in  Hong Kong .  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.9 percent to
2,803.15 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, heading for the
third straight daily decline. The yuan declined 0.08 percent to
6.4976 per dollar at 12:09 p.m.  HSBC’s preliminary manufacturing index, called the Flash
PMI, is based on 85 percent to 90 percent of the total responses
to its monthly purchasing managers’ survey sent to executives in
more than 400 manufacturing companies.  Domestic Tightening  New export orders contracted in May and stocks of purchases
and finished goods fell at a faster rate, HSBC said. An output
gauge declined to a 10-month low, although it remained above the
50 level that divides expansion from contraction, the bank said.  The preliminary reading is “well below the series’ long-
term average of 52.3,”  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist
at HSBC, said. Domestic tightening and disruptions to supplies
caused by the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in  Japan 
likely affected manufacturing, he said.  The People’s Bank of China has raised borrowing costs four
times since mid-October and curbed lending by raising banks’
reserve requirements to rein in inflation that’s exceeded the
government’s 2011 target of 4 percent every month this year.
 The central bank is focused on containing inflation and will
“control the monetary conditions behind excessively rapid gains
in prices,” Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in the PBOC’s annual
report released May 17.  Beijing’s Priority  “Price stability will continue to outweigh growth as
Beijing’s top priority in the coming months,” especially as
inflation may accelerate until mid-year, HSBC’s Qu said.
“Current tightening measures must be kept in place for a while
longer to manage inflationary expectations.”  Industrial output growth weakened last month and the worst
power shortage in seven years is hurting production at some
factories as provinces start curtailing electricity supplies.  Many companies in the eastern province of Zhejiang, a
manufacturing hub, are using diesel generators because of
rationing, state-run  China  Petrochemical Corp., the country’s
biggest fuel supplier, said on May 17.  The shortages may depress the nation’s economic growth by
0.4 percentage point this year, Industrial Securities Co. said
in a May 20 report.  Fixed asset investment expanded 25.4 percent in the first
four months of the year and exports jumped 29.9 percent last
month, both exceeding analysts’ estimates, factors that may help
support growth.  Tame Inflation  “Cooling growth is not all bad news as it also helps to
tame inflation,” Qu said. The preliminary index’s input price
gauge was at its lowest level since August 2010 and growth in
output prices eased to 54.6 in May from 55.2 in April, he said.  The economy won’t experience a “hard landing” and any
slowdown is “controllable,” Fan Jianping, director of economic
forecasting at the State Information Center, a research
institute affiliated with the National Development and Reform
Commission, said at a Shanghai conference on May 19. He
estimated growth will moderate to 9.5 percent this year from
10.3 percent in 2010.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Regina Tan in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  