-- 
China Drives Porsche to Record as Buyers Wait for Cayenne

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-23T22:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/china-drives-porsche-to-record-as-cayenne-wait-means-carrera-instead-cars.html
Liu Yirong walked into Porsche SE’s
 Shanghai  dealership planning to buy the carmaker’s $137,000
Cayenne sport-utility vehicle. He left with a coffee-colored 911
Carrera sports car instead.  “I wanted a Cayenne but there weren’t any available,”
said the 32-year-old Liu, who works in the  chemical industry .
“They said I have to wait two years.”  Chinese customers ordering a Cayenne with a 3.0-liter
engine wait an average of 15 months for delivery, the longest
for the vehicle globally. Porsche forecasts record 2011
deliveries globally as China sales grow 35 percent, putting the
Asian nation on track to overtake the U.S. as its largest market
in 2014, said Helmut Broeker, the automaker’s head of China.  Porsche,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz all posted four-month sales increases in China
exceeding 30 percent as rising numbers of wealthy Chinese seek
out German luxury cars as status symbols. The gains are
outpacing a slowing overall market, which advanced 8.1 percent
in the first quarter, the weakest in two years.  “Chinese consumers are becoming increasingly brand savvy
and Porsche is a very potent brand,” said Tim Urquhart, a
senior analyst at industry consultant IHS Automotive in  London .  German luxury carmakers are banking on China to help boost
profit as higher demand in the country for premium goods means
they can charge more for their vehicles. The most basic Cayenne
model costs 893,000 yuan ($137,000) in China, while its closest
competitor, BMW’s X6 SUV, starts at 1.05 million yuan. Both
vehicles sell in China at more than double the U.S. price.  Matching Make-Up  Porsche, which is in the process of merging with  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , said last month first-quarter operating profit at the auto-
making unit more than doubled to 496 million euros ($695
million) on demand for the Cayenne, its best-selling model. The
carmaker aims to sell more than 100,000 cars for the first time
this year and double global deliveries by 2018 to 200,000.  Porsche has been tailoring cars and marketing activities to
Chinese tastes to lock in more buyers. Cup holders have been
replaced by half-liter bottle holders after the company noticed
Chinese buyers with such containers. The carmaker created a new
color called “China Pink” after a customer in Chongqing wanted
her Cayman painted the same shade as her make-up, said Jan
Kuppen, Porsche’s China product manager.  Mongolian Lake  It also spent four days transporting its Boxster, Carrera
and 911 models to a frozen lake in  Inner Mongolia  in March to
allow buyers to test drive them on snow. The drivers sped down a
solid ice lake, throwing up ice clouds in their trail.  The added attention will help lift China to about a quarter
of Porsche’s deliveries in 2014, up from 15 percent now, Broeker
said in an interview in Beijing. The automaker targets record
sales this year in China of more than 20,000 vehicles after
boosting 2010 deliveries on the mainland 63 percent.  “The Cayenne came in 2003 when the market was just taking
off,” Broeker said on May 21. “It was the right product at the
right time. We also found a lot of customers enjoyed a higher
ride in the car in the busy streets of Beijing and Shanghai
because you have a much better view of the traffic situation.”  The 3.0-liter engine used in the carmaker’s Chinese model
is in short supply because the factory which makes the motor,
which is used as well in other Volkswagen group SUVs sold in
 China , can’t keep up with the demand. Porsche is working on ways
to ramp up production and reduce the waiting time for the
Cayenne to six-to-nine months by the end of 2011, Broeker said.  More Dealerships  Porsche plans to triple its dealer network in China to
about 100 from 33 by 2018 at the latest. The carmaker will
inaugurate 10 dealerships a year, with openings in smaller
cities such as Ordos in the northern Chinese province of Inner
Mongolia, and Haikou on Hainan Island in 2011.  Luxury-car sales in China will rise 20 percent this year
after surging 48 percent to 459,000 vehicles last year,
according to industry researcher JD Power & Associates. Total
deliveries in 2010 grew 32 percent to 18.1 million vehicles,
surpassing the U.S. for a second year.  Porsche, maker of the 911 sports car and four-door
Panamera, may consider producing a planned small SUV called the
Cajun in China in the future.  “You need 25,000 cars of one model alone to make it a
viable business case,” Broeker said. “One that could be
considered definitely would be the small Cayenne, the Cajun.”  The Cayenne’s popularity may also have a negative impact if
the carmaker doesn’t shorten waiting times. Tony Tian and his
three business partners dropped by the company’s dealership
along Shanghai’s busy Nanjing Street in search of a company car.  “It’s a powerful car and the exterior looks very
professional,” said Tian, who spent about 20 minutes checking
out the yellow Cayenne on display in the store. Even though the
Cayenne was their first choice, the four were unlikely to wait
and would buy BMW’s X6 SUV instead, the stout 32-year-old said.  “I’m not disappointed,” said Tian. “There are still a
lot of choices out there.”  --Liza Lin in Shanghai, with assistance from Andreas Cremer in
Berlin. Editors: Kae Inoue,  Chad Thomas   To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in  Tokyo  at   kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 