-- 
Slumping China Stocks May Extend Declines, ICBC Credit Suisse, Goldman Say

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-24T07:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/chinese-stocks-not-at-bottom-icbc-credit-suisse.html
China ’s stocks, trading almost 10
percent below this year’s highs, may extend declines as higher
 interest rates  slow economic growth, according to ICBC Credit
Suisse Asset Management Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The Shanghai Composite Index has tumbled 9.5 percent from a
five-month high on April 18, having earlier dropped as much as
10 percent, a level that signifies a correction to some
investors. The gauge slumped the most in four months yesterday,
erasing its advance for the year, after data signaled a slowdown
in manufacturing.  The government has increased  reserve requirements  for banks
11 times and boosted interest rates four times since the start
of 2010 to cool consumer prices, which exceeded economists’
estimates in April with a 5.3 percent increase.  “We remain cautious in the near term and we haven’t seen
the bottom yet,” said Hao Kang, a Beijing-based  fund manager  at
ICBC Credit Suisse Asset, which oversees $8.7 billion. “The
economy’s definitely slowing but we’ve yet to see inflation
easing.”  China should get used to an inflation rate between 5
percent and 10 percent for an extended period of time, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported May 22, citing Wang Jian,
secretary general of the National Development and Reform
Commission’s China Society of Macroeconomics.  The Shanghai Composite dropped 0.3 percent to 2,767.06 at
the 3 p.m. local-time close. The index has fallen 1.5 percent
this year, sending valuations of companies traded on the measure
to 15.5 times reported earnings, a four-month low, compared with
ratios of 9.5 for Brazil, 8 for Russia and 16 for  India .  Clearer Signal  “Although a short-term bounce is possible, it’s not the
time for bottom fishing,” ICBC Credit Suisse’s Hao said. “We
need to see a clearer policy signal.”  Goldman Sachs cut its forecasts for China’s gross domestic
product growth for this year and next to 9.4 percent and 9.2
percent, respectively, while raising its inflation forecasts to
4.7 percent and 3 percent, the brokerage said in a report
without specifying its previous projections.  “We would not rule out a correction of up to 5 percent to
10 percent near term, triggered by earnings per-share cuts, but
would buy on such dips given low earnings risks, valuation,
likely policy inflection,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by Helen Zhu and Timothy Moe wrote in a report today.  ‘Hard Landing’  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  is aiming to tame inflation in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy while sustaining
expansion to create jobs and maintain social stability. The risk
of a “hard landing” in China is rising as property sales
weaken and construction slows due to weaker demand, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said on May 17.  China’s economy  grew 9.7 percent in
the three months to March, slowing from 9.8 percent the previous
quarter.  China may continue to raise interest rates,  Joseph Yam , the
former head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said today. The
people’s Bank of China aims to make the one-year deposit rate
higher than the rate of inflation, Yam told reporters.  The one-year deposit rate stands at 3.25 percent, compared
with April’s consumer-price increase of 5.3 percent.  China’s stocks may “break out” of their trading range as
growth in the world’s second-largest economy slows, reducing the
need for further policy tightening, Citigroup Inc. analysts led
by Minggao Shen wrote in a May 19 report.  Economy ‘Moderating’  “More evidence suggests that the Chinese economy is
moderating,” the analysts wrote. “However, a  hard landing  is
still unlikely barring the possibility of double-dips in the
developed world.”  Chinese stocks declined yesterday after HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics said the preliminary manufacturing index
was at 51.1, compared with the final reading of 51.8 in April.
The reading was the lowest in 10 months, HSBC said. A number
above 50 indicates expansion.  China’s equities haven’t reached a bottom as the market’s
price-to-book value trades higher than average and valuation
gaps between different industries are still high, according to
Hao Hong, a strategist at China International Capital Corp.  The price-to-book ratio, a more reliable valuation
indicator than the price-to-earnings ratio, is still about 10
percent higher than its average over the past seven years, Hong
wrote in a report yesterday. A convergence of price-to-earnings
ratios between different industries is a sign for a market
bottom, the report said.  The Shanghai Composite is valued at 2.4 times book value,
the second-most expensive among the four so-called BRIC nations
that include  Brazil , Russia and India, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. India is the most expensive with a
multiple of 3 times.  “This isn’t the bottom,” CICC’s Hong wrote.  --Zhang Shidong, Irene Shen. Editors: Darren Boey, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  