-- 
Chrysler Will Pay Back U.S. Loans Tomorrow

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-05-23T20:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/chrysler-to-pay-u-s-loans-tomorrow-marchionne.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , expects to pay off its remaining
debt to the U.S. Treasury Department tomorrow, said  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both automakers.  Chrysler raised enough money in a debt offering to pay back
the loans, letting Fiat boost its stake in the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker to 46 percent, Marchionne told
reporters today.  “Tomorrow is payoff day,” Marchionne said at the opening
of a Fiat dealership in Macomb, Michigan. “Chrysler will again
regain its independence.”  Marchionne raised $7.5 billion in loans,  junk bonds  and a
revolving  credit line  to help pay back the government loans. The
face value of debts to the U.S. and Canadian governments was
$7.53 billion, according to Chrysler’s Feb. 25 U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission filing.  Repaying the debt would allow Fiat, which now owns 30
percent of Chrysler, to exercise an option to purchase an
additional 16 percent stake. Fiat gained control of Chrysler as
part of the U.S. automaker’s government-backed restructuring.  Paying off the debt will save Chrysler more than $300
million a year in interest payments, Marchionne said.  Fiat may have 160 U.S. dealers open by the end of the year,
Marchionne said. The brand will introduce a second model for the
U.S. next year, joining the Fiat 500 subcompact, he said, adding
that he hopes Fiat “will become a significant part of the
American auto landscape.”  Marchionne has said he expects to gain an additional 5
percent stake in Chrysler by the end of the year, giving Turin,
Italy-based Fiat a 51 percent stake.  Fiat can get as much as 76 percent of Chrysler by
exercising options to acquire shares owned by the United Auto
Workers union’s retiree health-care trust, Marchionne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  