-- 
Congo Tin Sales Tumble 90 Percent as Companies Avoid ‘Conflict Minerals’

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-05-23T10:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/congo-tin-sales-tumble-90-percent-as-companies-avoid-conflict-minerals-.html
Sales of tin ore from Democratic
Republic of Congo’s North Kivu province fell more than 90
percent in April as companies avoided trade in so-called
“conflict minerals,” a provincial mining official said.  Mineral producers stopped buying from the eastern region in
anticipation of new U.S. rules aiming to prevent armed groups
from profiting from the sale of tin ore, tungsten, gold, and
coltan, the head of North Kivu’s Mines Division, Emmanuel
Ndimubanzi, said.  The government is hastening plans to validate mines in the
region that are free of armed groups and child labor in order to
adhere to the proposed regulations, Ndimubanzi said on May 20 by
phone from Goma, the provincial capital. “We need to validate
the mines so the minerals can be accepted,” he said.  The rules will require U.S. companies to disclose whether
certain minerals used in their products could have supported
conflict in Congo, according to a draft copy on the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s website. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, two electronics-industry trade
groups and the  United Nations  have also developed their own
guidelines with Congolese and regional mining officials to help
regulate the trade.  Congo is the largest supplier of tin ore in Africa, and the
fifth largest in the world. Eastern Congo, which has endured
more than 15 years of conflict, also has large deposits of gold
and coltan, a mineral used in electronics.  Malaysia Smelting  On May 21, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said Malaysia
Smelting Corp., the world’s third-biggest producer of tin and
largest buyer of Congolese tin ore, would contribute $10 million
to a tagging program managed by tin-industry group ITRI Ltd. to
help legitimize the tin ore and coltan trade. MSC will likely
enter into a joint venture with the country to mine tin ore in
the east as part of the deal, Kabwelulu said.  The Penang, Malaysia-based company announced April 1 it
would stop buying ore from Central  Africa  that was not properly
tagged and traced.  “The hope is that companies will be able to trade in Congo
as long as they do their due diligence instead of just pulling
out,” Gregory Mthembu-Salter, author of the UN’s due-diligence
guidelines, said by phone from Kinshasa, the capital. “For the
moment, companies appear to have decided it’s easier not to buy
from Congo than risk damaging their reputations.”  Army Involvement  Congo’s army is removing its soldiers from mines in the
east, including Bisie, Congo’s largest tin ore mine, to allow
trade to resume, army spokesman Lt. Colonel Sylvain Ekenge said
May 20.  Last November, the UN published a report saying almost all
of eastern Congo’s most productive mines were under army or
rebel control.  “Soldiers cannot be in mines and cannot exploit minerals
and they can only enter mines to combat threats to security,”
Ekenge said by phone from Kinshasa. “Once they’ve put down the
threat they must return to their positions.”  Ndimubanzi confirmed that Bisie and the Omate gold mine
were free of Congolese soldiers and that Congolese mining police
would soon secure them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 