-- 
Copper Falls Most in a Week as China’s Manufacturing Eases, Dollar Climbs

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-05-23T18:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/copper-slides-the-most-in-two-weeks-as-manufacturing-slows-down-in-china.html
Copper fell the most in more than a
week in  New York  as manufacturing slowed in China, the world’s
biggest consumer of industrial metals.  A preliminary Chinese purchasing managers’ index compiled
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 51.1 in
May, the lowest in 10 months. The final reading in April was
51.8. The decline added to signs that the economy is cooling
after the government raised  interest rates  and curbed lending to
rein in inflation. Copper also dropped as the dollar climbed,
eroding demand for commodities as an alternative investment.  “Metals are weak due to the combination of a poor Chinese
PMI and the stronger dollar following another bout of concerns
over the European debt crisis,” said  Leon Westgate , an analyst
at Standard Bank Plc in  London .  Copper futures for July delivery fell 13 cents, or 3.2
percent, to $3.9915 a pound at 1:25 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, the biggest drop for a most-active contract since May 11.  China imported 160,236 metric tons of refined copper in
April, down 48 percent from a year earlier, the General
Administration of Customs said today.  The dollar headed for the biggest gain in more than a week
against a basket of six major currencies as Europe’s debt crisis
escalated. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw
materials fell as much as 1.6 percent.  “A strong dollar is once again weighing on commodities,”
 Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in
Darien,  Connecticut , said in a report.  Copper for delivery in three months fell $277, or 3.1
percent, to $8,794 a ton ($3.99 a pound) on the London Metal
Exchange. Aluminum, tin, lead, nickel and zinc also dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 