-- 
Crude Oil Declines on Concern European Debt Crisis Will Reduce Fuel Demand

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-23T20:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/crude-oil-declines-on-concern-european-debt-crisis-will-reduce-fuel-demand.html
Crude oil declined as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis deepened, bolstering concern that economic
growth will slow and fuel consumption decline.  Futures slid 2.4 percent as Greece struggled to complete a
fifth austerity plan to keep pace with its deficit. Belgium had
the outlook on its debt rating lowered to negative at  Fitch
Ratings  today and Standard & Poor’s said on May 20 it may cut
Italy’s credit standing. The dollar rose to a nine-week high
versus the euro, curbing the appeal of commodities.  “Oil is being dragged down by the stronger dollar and
fears about the Greek debt crisis and what that may mean for
demand,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in  New York . “If the
demand outlook looks weak, prices will be weak as well.”  Crude oil for July delivery tumbled $2.40 to settle at
$97.70 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest one-day drop since May 11. Prices are up 39 percent from
a year ago.  Brent crude oil for July settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell $2.29, or 2 percent, to end the
session at $110.10 a barrel.  The euro weakened 0.8 percent against the dollar to $1.4053
at 3:17 p.m. The Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar against
the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose 0.9
percent to 76.13. When the dollar strengthens, investors usually
reduce their holdings of raw materials.  Greek Bonds Decline  Greek government bonds plunged May 20, driving 10-year
yields to a euro-era high, on speculation the nation won’t be
able to avoid reorganizing its debt. The spread, or yield
difference, between the 10-year bonds and similar-maturity
German bunds widened to a record. Fitch cut  Greece ’s credit
rating to B+ from BB+, four notches below investment grade.  Spain ’s governing Socialist party suffered its worst
electoral defeat since the country’s 1979 return to democracy
yesterday, as voters punished the ruling party for austerity
policies. The shift in power in some regions may spark doubts
over Spain’s ability to contain its deficit.  European services and manufacturing growth slowed more than
economists forecast in May. A composite index based on a survey
of euro-area purchasing managers fell to 55.4, a seven-month
low, from 57.8 in April, London-based Markit Economics said
today. That compares with a median forecast for a reading of
57.3 in a Bloomberg survey of 17 economists.  Members of the European Union were responsible for 17
percent of world demand in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  Chinese Manufacturing  A Chinese manufacturing index fell to its lowest level in
10 months, signaling the economy is cooling after the government
raised  interest rates  and curbed lending to rein in inflation.
The preliminary purchasing managers’ index compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 51.1 in May from a
final reading of 51.8 in April.  “Weaker economic data and a stronger dollar are putting
pressure on the oil market,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Demand expectations are being
ratcheted down because of weaker manufacturing numbers.”  Deterioration of the economy is a downside for  oil prices 
in the third quarter, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which
projects Brent oil will average $130 a barrel during the period.  “If the recovery stalls and global economic growth overall
comes in 1 percent below expectations, all else equal this
reduces oil demand growth by about 580,000 barrels a day,” said
JPMorgan analysts, led by  Lawrence Eagles  in New York. “This
could leave the market better balanced.”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index declined 1.1 percent to
1,319.18, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 0.9
percent to 12,398.18 at 3:21 p.m.  IEA Hint  The  International Energy Agency ’s statement last week on a
“clear, urgent need for additional supplies” is a hint that it
may coordinate the release of emergency oil stockpiles if OPEC
doesn’t raise production, the London-based Centre for Global
Energy Studies said in a report today. The Paris-based agency
said on May 19 that high prices threaten economic recovery.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in
Vienna on June 8. The IEA, which was founded in 1974 in response
to the Arab oil embargo, coordinates energy policy of 28
developed countries.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil in New York as the
dollar strengthened. The funds and other large speculators
reduced so-called net long positions, or wagers on rising
prices, by 13 percent in the seven days ended May 17, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of
Traders report.  Net Longs  They dropped to the lowest level since the week ended Feb.
15, when the resignation of Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  sent oil to an
11-week low.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 446,468
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 636,962 on
May 20, 12 percent below the average of the past three months.
Open interest on that day was 1.53 million contracts, the lowest
level since March 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  