-- 
Dartmouth Faculty Calls for More Details of Budget Cuts

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-05-24T00:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/dartmouth-erases-96-million-deficit-by-cutting-jobs-benefits.html
Dartmouth College faculty members
called on the administration for a second time to provide more
detailed accounting of the  Ivy League  school’s budget shortfall
that led to cuts in jobs, benefits and financial aid.  Arts and Sciences faculty members met today to review
documents provided May 20 by the school about the reductions,
which were taken to erase a projected $96 million budget gap.
They said the documents lacked detail, and, in a voice vote,
passed a resolution requesting the school report back before the
first faculty meeting of the 2011-2012 academic year.  The faculty had passed a resolution at a May 9 meeting
demanding the Hanover, New Hampshire-based college produce a
“detailed accounting” of the budget cuts since 2009. Professors
have grown frustrated that the administration of President Jim Kim hasn’t been “transparent” in explaining the source of the
cuts, after several requests, said Ronald Green, a religion
professor who proposed the May 9 resolution as well as the one
approved today.  The Dartmouth administrators feel they have provided the
faculty with everything they’ve requested, and will honor any
new requests, said Justin Anderson, a spokesman for the college.  “We feel like we’ve been responsive,” Anderson said. “We’re
eager to hear exactly what it is they want.”  Student Loans   Dartmouth expected to have a $96 million deficit in the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2012, because of a 20 percent drop
in the value of its endowment in 2009, according to the
documents. Dartmouth anticipates a $2.6 million surplus in
fiscal 2012, according to the documents.  To cut spending, the college fired 40 workers, bought out
an additional 115 and eliminated 82 vacant positions. To save
$12.7 million annually, it reduced money for raises and shifted
more health-care costs to employees. Dartmouth also reinstated
student loans, replacing outright grants, for families earning
more than $75,000 a year.  “We have turned the corner and closed the gap through
significant hard work, savings and new revenues across the
institution,” according to the documents handed over to the
faculty late last week. “Going forward, our budget projections
are in balance through 2014.”  Dartmouth, founded in 1769, has about 5,800 students and is
the smallest institution in the Ivy League, a group of eight
private northeastern universities. Graduates include U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and his immediate
predecessor,  Henry Paulson , as well as  Jeffrey Immelt , chief
executive officer of General Electric Co., based in Fairfield,
 Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  