-- 
German Stocks Slide as Commerzbank Plunges on Share Sale; Lufthansa Drops

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-23T16:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/dax-index-retreats-as-commerzbank-plunges-on-share-sale-lufthansa-drops.html
German stocks fell for a second day,
led by  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , which declined as the lender announced
details of plans to raise capital, and by  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
after  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  said it will cut capacity.  Commerzbank retreated to the lowest in more than two years
after saying it aims to raise about 5.3 billion euros ($7.4
billion) selling new shares to help repay state aid.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s biggest
steelmakers, followed European basic-resource shares lower.
Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-largest airline, sank 3.5 percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 2 percent to 7,121.52 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , the lowest price in more than
a month. The gauge fell the most in two months last week as
Greek 10-year bond yields climbed to a record and Fitch Ratings
downgraded the Mediterranean nation’s credit rating to B+, four
notches below investment grade. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also fell
2 percent today.  “The DAX bulls didn’t grab their opportunity,” said
Ansgar Krekeler, a Dusseldorf-based sales analyst at WGZ Bank
AG. “Europe has to deal with its debt crisis again today. The
signs we’re getting augur nothing good for the coming days.”  The euro touched a record low against the Swiss franc and
reached its lowest in since March against the dollar after
 Spain ’s Socialist Party suffered a defeat in local elections as
voters punished Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s
party for soaring unemployment and spending cuts.  The 17-nation currency also fell after Standard & Poor’s
cut  Italy ’s credit-rating outlook on May 20 to negative from
stable, citing slowing economic growth and “diminished”
prospects for a reduction of government debt.  Commerzbank, ThyssenKrupp  Commerzbank declined 5.3 percent to 3.74 euros after the
lender,  Germany ’s second-biggest, said it will sell 2.44 billion
new shares at 2.18 euros apiece. Shareholders will be allowed to
subscribe to 10 new shares for every 11 already held from May 24
to June 6, the company said. The new shares are expected to
trade on June 7.  ThyssenKrupp and Salzgitter slid 1.8 percent to 32.07 euros
and 2.2 percent to 49.84 euros, respectively. A gauge of
European basic-resource shares fell 2 percent today, as copper,
lead, nickel, tin and zinc prices retreated on the London Metal
Exchange.  Lufthansa tumbled 3.5 percent to 15.03 euros, while  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  slipped 2 percent to 3.03 euros. Dublin-based
Ryanair, Europe’s biggest discount airline, said fiscal-year
profit will be “similar” to last year’s because of rising fuel
costs and slower growth in demand, with the carrier planning the
first networkwide reduction in seating in its history.  EON AG, Germany’s largest utility, fell 2.3 percent to
19.55 euros, while  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s second-biggest, lost
2.2 percent to 40.51 euros. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
set a date to switch off the last of the country’s nuclear power
reactors after she receives a report on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  