-- 
Delta Renews LaGuardia Push as Mergers Boost NYC Competition

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-24T20:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/delta-us-airways-sign-accord-to-swap-slots-at-laguardia-reagan-national.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  sought federal
approval for a second time to expand at New York’s LaGuardia
Airport, saying industry consolidation has helped clear the way
for a trade of landing rights with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   Delta wants to take over 132 pairs of LaGuardia flight
slots held by  US Airways , which would get 42 pairs in exchange
at Washington’s Reagan airport. US Airways also would receive
rights to fly to Sao Paulo and $66.5 million in cash, the two
carriers said yesterday.  The plan, which needs clearance from the U.S. Department of
Transportation, replaces a 2009 accord that met objections from
regulators and rivals including  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  A
successful deal would allow Atlanta-based Delta to boost market
share in  New York , where no airline has a dominant position.  “It is likely that Delta and US Airways received some
indication that the DOT would find the proposal acceptable,”
said Jeff Straebler, a debt strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Given the changed competitive landscape
and Southwest’s growing presence in key East Coast airports, we
think the DOT is more likely to approve this go-round.”  Southwest gained LaGuardia and Reagan flights from its
purchase of  AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI)  this month, and it added slots
at  New Jersey ’s  Newark  airport that  United Airlines  and
Continental Airlines divested as part of their October merger.  LaGuardia Growth  Delta would end up with almost half of the flight slots at
LaGuardia, which chiefly serves domestic routes. The carrier’s
2008 purchase of Northwest Airlines helped push its share of
passengers to 29 percent at the end of 2010 from 22 percent five
years earlier.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  slid to 21 percent
from 24 percent in the same period.  For Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways, the trade would be a
chance to focus on Washington and shrink LaGuardia operations,
where it has said it can’t make money. While the government
approved the airlines’ 2009 proposal, neither carrier accepted
the regulators’ terms for that agreement to proceed.  “We plan to review their application,” said  Bill Mosley ,
a Transportation Department spokesman, who declined to comment
further.  Delta fell 14 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $11.09 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while US Airways slid
26 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $9.74. Shares fell across the
industry as crude oil gained.  Delta and US Airways, the second- and fifth-largest U.S.
carriers by traffic, said yesterday they would shed 16 LaGuardia
slot pairs and eight at  Ronald Reagan Washington National
Airport  to smaller carriers with few or no flights there to help
win regulatory approval.  Trade to Grow  That’s fewer than the 34 slot pairs they were told to give
up in the Transportation Department’s May 2010 ruling that
approved their earlier proposal. Flights are capped at both
airports, so carriers have to trade to expand.  Industry mergers, including the Southwest-AirTran deal,
have brought in new carriers in New York and  Washington  since
their initial plan was unveiled almost two years ago, Delta and
US Airways said yesterday.  “There has been increased competition in that part of the
world since the first deal was announced that would help the
argument,” said  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group LLC
analyst in Stamford who recommends buying Delta and holding US
Airways. “It will probably be approved.”  Under the original August 2009 plan, Delta sought 125 slots
for LaGuardia round-trip flights held by US Airways, in exchange
for 42 such slots at Reagan.  ‘More Slots’  “We are still interested in more slots, which is good for
competition and good for consumers,” said Whitney Eichinger, a
spokeswoman for Dallas-based Southwest. “We’ll be analyzing
this new deal with that in mind.”  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , which is based in New York and has
its largest operations at the city’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport, is interested in growth in New York and
Washington, a spokesman, Real Hamilton-Romeo, said in an e-mail.  “We look forward to evaluating the newest proposal and
governmental view of the situation,” he said.  Delta proposes to take control of US Airways’ Terminal C at
LaGuardia and build a 600-foot connector to link the facility to
its existing terminal for main jet flights. That project and
other upgrades will cost $117 million.  Job Cuts  US Airways would need to cut 300 jobs at its Piedmont
regional unit and an unknown number of additional jobs if the
slot trade goes through, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman. The
carrier expects to add airport customer service jobs at Reagan,
he said. Under the plan, US Airways also would win the right to
operate daily service to  Sao Paulo  in 2015.  The New York region lacks a dominant carrier, with air
traffic spread among LaGuardia, Kennedy and New Jersey’s Newark.
United and Continental airlines led the area with 27 percent of
passengers in 2010, according to the  Port Authority of New York
and New Jersey . Delta had 20 percent, and Fort Worth, Texas-
based American had 13 percent.  “Approval of this deal will sorely challenge” American in
New York, said Straebler, the RBS debt strategist. “United
already has the only true hub in the area at Newark. Now Delta
would be far larger than American when combining LaGuardia and
JFK.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  