-- 
Democrat Hochul Leads in Poll Before Today’s New York Vote for House Seat

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-24T21:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/democrats-seek-major-upheaval-in-new-york-race-driven-by-medicare-fight.html
Democrat Kathy Hochul led Republican
Jane Corwin by four percentage points in the latest  Siena
College  poll before today’s special election for a U.S. House
seat in western  New York  testing the impact of a national debate
over containing Medicare costs.  Hochul, the Erie County clerk, had 42 percent compared with
38 percent for state lawmaker Corwin in the poll of 639 likely
voters conducted May 18-20. Buffalo-area industrialist  Jack
Davis , running on the Tea Party ballot slot, had 12 percent. The
poll’s error margin was plus-or-minus 3.9 percentage points.  The race for a seat opened up by a scandal has turned into
the first electoral test of the Republican plan to privatize
Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly. In the Siena
poll, 21 percent of those surveyed identified Medicare as the
“single most important issue” determining their vote.  In Erie County in the district’s western section, up to 30
percent of registered voters are expected to go to the polls,
based on the day’s turnout pace, county Elections Commissioner
Dennis Ward said. The turnout in special elections normally is
in the low 20-percent range, he said.  Voters “have been pounded with phone calls and door-
knocking,” Ward said. “There are very few people who don’t
know what is going on.”  Candidate Attacks  Hochul has tagged Corwin as a candidate of “special
interests” who would short-change future Medicare recipients to
protect tax breaks for “millionaires and billionaires” and big
companies. Corwin has fought back, saying in a debate last week
that Hochul’s stance is “another scare tactic on the part of a
career politician.”  Davis’s candidacy has added an unpredictable element to the
campaign for the seat long held by Republicans, including the
late Jack Kemp, the party’s 1996 vice presidential nominee.  A Hochul victory would be “a major upheaval,” sending “a
real message to the Republicans in Congress that the Medicare
proposal is deadly,” Len Lenihan,  the Erie County Democratic
chairman,  said in an interview.  Boehner, Cantor Visit  The two top  House Republicans , Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio 
and Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia , visited the
district to help Corwin raise money. National party groups and
their allies have spent more than $1.6 million to saturate local
television with ads.  The special election was forced by the Feb. 9 resignation
of Representative Christopher Lee, who last November won a
second term with more than 70 percent of the vote. Lee, 47,
resigned after Gawker  reported  that the married lawmaker had e-
mailed a bare-chested picture of himself to a woman he had met
through the Craigslist website.  The campaign to replace him drew little national attention
until Hochul, 52, spotlighted Corwin’s endorsement of the
Republican plan to reduce government debt by privatizing
Medicare for people who turn 65 starting in 2022. Under the plan
by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , these
future beneficiaries would receive a government subsidy to help
them buy private health insurance.  Cuts Opposed  An earlier  survey  by Siena College in Loudonville, N.Y.,
conducted April 26-27, found that likely voters in the district
opposed cutting Medicare and Social Security, 59 percent to 38
percent.  Hochul has been “gaining traction” on the Medicare issue,
said Siena pollster Steven Greenberg.  Cantor yesterday disputed the political significance of the
special election, saying Davis’s third-party candidacy has made
“the race a lot closer than anyone had thought.”  The outcome can’t “be seen as a signal” of voter
disapproval of the Republican Medicare plan, he told reporters
in  Washington . “The best signal you can take is the 63 seats
that we picked up” in last November’s election, he said.  Bill Reilich, chairman of the  Republican Party in Monroe
County , which includes Rochester, sees what has happened in the
House campaign differently.  “This is a tight race” because “Democrats were
successful in spinning the Medicare message of fear and voters
heard that,” Reilich said in a May 17 telephone interview.  Whatever the outcome, the election “raises Medicare as an
issue to a higher stage than it was,” Bruce Altschuler, a
political scientist at  State University of New York at Oswego ,
said in an interview.  The 26th House  district  stretches east from the Buffalo
area, through most of four rural counties and into Rochester’s
suburbs. Republican  John McCain  carried it against Democrat
 Barack Obama , 52 percent to 46 percent, in the 2008 presidential
race.  The Medicare plan dominating the current race was part of
the 2012 budget resolution passed April 15 by the Republican-run
House. The measure also would cut the top  tax rate  for wealthy
Americans and corporations to 25 percent from 35 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Greece , N.Y., at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 