-- 
DiMaio Ahmad Capital Opens Singapore Office, Joins Funds Coming to Asia

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-23T04:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/dimaio-ahmad-capital-opens-singapore-office-joins-funds-coming-to-asia.html
DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based asset manager specializing in credit markets, has opened
an office in Singapore, joining funds that have been drawn to
 Asia ’s growth.  DiMaio Ahmad, in which  Morgan Stanley (MS)  holds a minority
stake, registered DA Capital Asia Pte in the city-state,
according to the  Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority ,
which regulates businesses in Singapore. Umesh Patel, who
oversees DiMaio Ahmad’s U.S. operations, didn’t respond to e-
mail queries.  Global managers including Fortress Investment Group LLC and
Algebris Investments LLP have set up in Singapore as Asia’s
economic growth outpaces the world. Singapore continues to
attract fund managers and alternative investment managers
“seeking to tap Asia as a source of funds as well as a source
of excess returns,” Ng Nam Sin, assistant managing director of
the Monetary Authority of Singapore, said earlier this month.  “The low or no-growth developed world is printing cash
that is funding the high-growth developing world, hence if
you’re in an asset business you need to be here,” said  Peter
Douglas , principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which advises
investors seeking to allocate money to  hedge funds  and runs a
wealth-management business.  DiMaio Ahmad manages almost $3 billion, including hedge
funds, two people familiar with the firm said, asking not to be
identified because the information is private. The firm recently
started running a managed account for an institutional investor
focused on Asia, one of the people said.  Minority Stake  New York-based Morgan Stanley bought a minority stake in
DiMaio Ahmad in 2009.Jack DiMaioand Nasser Ahmad started the
investment firm in 2005. DiMaio joined Morgan Stanley in 2009 as
global head of interest rate, credit and  currency trading ,
stepping down as chief executive officer of DiMaio Ahmad. DiMaio
left Morgan Stanley this year.  Ahmad, who no longer runs the firm, joined Seatown Holdings
Pte, a unit started by  Singapore  state-investment company
Temasek Holdings Pte in 2009, as co-CEO.  “Investors like to deal with names they know so there’s a
great opportunity for big U.S. or euro firms to be here,
channeling investments from their existing client bases into an
area that’s seen as hot, but to many U.S. or European investors
scary,” GFIA’s Douglas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  