-- 
Dish CEO Says DirecTV Merger Possible in Present Regulatory Environment

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   J o n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 
2011-05-23T20:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/dish-ceo-says-directv-merger-possible-in-present-regulatory-environment.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and DirecTV may
have a better chance to merge today than when regulators struck
down a deal almost a decade ago, according to newly appointed
Dish Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton.  “I don’t discount any possibility,” Clayton said May 20
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “It’s probably easier
from a regulatory environment today than it was 5 to 10 years
ago, when it was originally proposed. We’re looking at anything
that will help enhance  shareholder value .”  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission rejected a
combination between Englewood, Colorado-based Dish and DirecTV
in 2002, saying the merger would harm consumers. Since then, the
expansion of Internet video and TV distribution from telecom
companies  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Communications Corp. have
increased the availability of pay-TV beyond satellite and cable.  AT&T’s proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA
Inc., if approved, may indicate the regulatory environment has
transformed enough for a deal to be approved, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “It would be very difficult from a public relations
standpoint, if the AT&T deal is approved, for the FCC to explain
that Dish and DirecTV can’t also merge,” said Moffett. “The
economic benefits of putting these two companies together are
still enormous.”  Prospects of a Transaction  AT&T on March 20 proposed buying Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-
Mobile in a deal that would combine the second- and fourth-
largest carriers to create a new market leader, ahead of  Verizon
Wireless . Regulatory approval may take a year, AT&T said when it
announced the proposal.  “The T-Mobile deal is the same concept, you’re removing
one competitor,” said Vijay Jayant, an analyst for Citadel
Securities LLC in New York. “If that gets done with reasonable
concessions, the folks at DirecTV and Dish should be watching.
The prospects of a transaction could increase.”  Darris Gringeri, a DirecTV spokesman, declined to comment.
DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California , is the largest U.S.
satellite-TV provider.  Dish, the second largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, fell 6
cents to $29.42 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares have risen 50 percent this year.  DirecTV (DTV) 
rose 12 cents to $50.18 and has gained 26 percent this year.  Moffett said client inquiries on the possibility of a
merger have been rising in recent months. Even with the
increased competition in video, regulatory approval wouldn’t be
assured, he said. Satellite is still the only way for many rural
Americans who aren’t connected to cable to watch television,
just like ten years ago.  ‘Evolution’  AT&T’s U-Verse and Verizon’s FiOS are available in about 40
percent of the country, according to Jayant, and the “evolution
of wireless technology and Web content” have broadened the
video market since December 2002. That’s when EchoStar
Communications Corp., then the owner of Dish, dropped its $27
billion proposal to buy Hughes Electronics Corp., the parent of
DirecTV at the time and a unit at General Motors Corp.  The same rural Americans who don’t have cable also don’t
have access to broadband, Moffett said, increasing the
possibility that regulators could accept a T-Mobile deal while
denying a Dish-DirecTV merger.  Clayton, who replaced Ergen as Dish’s CEO May 16, said he
was unaware that any merger discussions were ongoing “at this
particular point in time,” although he acknowledged that Dish
talks to DirecTV and watches the company “all the time.”  An approved deal between Dish and DirecTV would result in
“billions of dollars of synergies,” said Jayant. The companies
could stop paying duplicate retransmission fees, the largest
subscriber-related expense for Dish.  An announced deal would likely send shares of both
companies higher, said Jayant, because of the mutual cost
savings. The structure of such a deal would depend on tax
benefits, he said, and could result in either company
controlling the other one. DirecTV’s market cap, at $38.5
billion, is nearly three times the size of Dish’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  