-- 
Don’t Underestimate Republicans in 2012

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-05-23T21:47:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/don-t-underestimate-republicans-in-2012.html
The 2012 presidential race has barely
begun, but it is already time to retire one of its cliches: the
much-repeated claim that "the Republican field is weak."
Liberals say it with a smirk, because they think it will
guarantee President  Barack Obama ’s re-election. Conservatives
say it while begging someone else to enter the race and rescue
them.  Maybe Congressman  Paul Ryan . Or Governor  Chris Christie . Or
Senator  Marco Rubio . Or some other shiny new face. Governor
Mitch Daniels’s decision not to run is sure to make this clamor
louder.  But the Republican field isn’t weak. The three people most
likely to win the Republican nomination --  Mitt Romney ,  Tim Pawlenty  and  Jon Huntsman , according to Intrade.com -- have all
been governors. Two of them were governors of states that Obama
carried in 2008. By contrast, the top three candidates for the
Democratic nomination last time around (Obama,  Hillary Clinton 
and  John Edwards ) had a combined zero days of executive
experience. This time, even some long-shot Republican candidates
have stronger resumes than that: Libertarian gadfly Gary
Johnson, for example, was a two-term governor of  New Mexico .  Romney is well-versed on the issues and fast on his feet.
Pawlenty, by addressing voter concerns about health care and
traffic congestion while holding the line on taxes, managed to
win re-election in deep-blue  Minnesota  in 2006, when Republicans
were routed nationwide. Huntsman was a popular governor of  Utah 
and, as the former ambassador to  China , is knowledgeable about
the country’s most important economic relationship.  Real Accomplishments  All three have real political skills, and real accomplishments.
All can credibly challenge Obama on the economy: Romney and
Huntsman because of their business backgrounds, Pawlenty and
Huntsman because their states did relatively well under their
leadership during the worst of the recession. None of these men
is positioned on the right edge of their party. If one of them
wins the nomination, Democrats may be able to convince voters
that the  Republican Party  as a whole is unsuited for power. But
they won’t be able to make a case that the nominee is a
particularly extreme member of the party.  So why the disrespect? Partly it’s because the number of
serious contenders is small. If Huntsman doesn’t take off, the
race could well be a two-man contest between Romney and
Pawlenty. The Democratic wave elections of 2006 and 2008 left
Republicans with few plausible contenders (although their own
wave election of 2010 gives them a deep bench for 2016). And no
candidate dominates the field, giving a misleading impression
about the strength any of them would bring to the general
election.  Matter of Psychology  Dissatisfaction with the Republican candidates is also a
matter of psychology. Republicans may not like, and some of them
may not even respect, the incumbent president. They nonetheless
see him sitting in the Oval Office and commanding troops. They
see their own candidates, by contrast, sharing a stage with a
bunch of other people, some of them fringe figures. They seem
small. They will keep seeming small until some of them start
winning primaries and one of them wins the nomination.  Offstage, Republicans imagine, is the perfect candidate. He
has to be offstage because nobody onstage is perfect. He also
has to be offstage because not running is part of his
perfection. If he ran, he would be another guy competing for
microphone time at the debates. The other candidates would
suddenly have an incentive to draw attention to his flaws.  Right now, conservatives think of Congressman Ryan as a
bold, free-market visionary. Within weeks of his entering the
race, he would be redefined as the longtime Washington fixture
who voted for TARP, the prescription-drug benefit, the auto
bailout and other bills hated by Republican primary voters.  No White Knight  Fred Thompson mistakenly thought he could play the role of
white knight in 2007. Then, as now, Republicans were complaining
about the lineup of candidates. Rudy Giuliani was a pro-choicer
with a messy personal history, Romney had flip-flopped too much,
 John McCain  had committed a long list of apostasies. Republicans
saw Thompson the way they see Christie today: as a solid
conservative who makes for great tell-it-to-them-straight TV.
They pleaded with him to run. He surged in the polls. Then he
ran, and he stopped looking quite so glamorous. He seemed tired
and uncommitted. He won no states.  The sourness of the national mood, finally, is another
reason the Republican field gets such negative reviews. Nate
Silver, a number-crunching blogger for the New York Times, notes
that the major Republican candidates have lower "favorability
ratings" than candidates in previous presidential elections.
During the first half of 1999, for example, 63 percent of
Americans had a favorable view of then-Governor  George W. Bush 
and only 16 percent had a negative one.  Romney and the rest are currently faring much worse. Silver
concludes that the conventional wisdom is right: The field is
weak. But the public mood was much sunnier back then: 53 percent
of Americans said they were satisfied with the direction of the
country in early 1999, according to a Pew Research Center poll,
while only 30 percent say so now. Partly as a result, the public
is nowadays quick to turn on politicians. Figures as different
as Obama,  Scott Walker  and  Donald Trump  have all seen their
numbers drop quite quickly in recent years.  Obama may well win re-election in 2012. Black and Hispanic
voters will surely turn out in greater numbers than in the 2010
midterms. The economy could improve. The politics of entitlement
reform probably still favors the Democrats. But if Obama does
win, it won’t be because the Republicans didn’t field any strong
opponents.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru in Washington at  rponnuru@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 