-- 
Health Protest, China Audits, Dutch Bank Chief: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-23T11:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/health-protesters-u-k-deals-china-audits-dutch-bank-chief-compliance.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s annual meeting was
disrupted May 20 by placard-carrying protesters demanding the
insurer stop funding political efforts to undo the 2010 health-
care overhaul.  Marc Bertolini, chief executive officer of the third-
largest U.S. insurer, was interrupted as he talked about
implementation of the year-old law by about 10 protesters from a
group called PennAction shouting, “We want our health care.
Aetna unfair.” The group was objecting to the more than $86
million given by insurers to the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  to
work against supporters of the health-care law.  The protest was coordinated by a three-year-old
organization called  Health Care for America Now , a Washington-
based coalition of labor and civil rights groups working to
enact the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Another
affiliate disrupted  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) ’s annual meeting
May 19 in Tyson’s Corner, Virginia. It plans a similar protest
at the  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  meeting on May 23.  The meeting, held in Philadelphia, was only under way about
five minutes before it was brought to a halt. Aetna, based in
Hartford, Connecticut, resumed the proceedings about 15 minutes
later.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Deal Rules Won’t Impede Private Equity Bids, Panel Says  Changing merger and buyout rules to shorten the amount of
time a company has to make a takeover offer won’t impede private
equity bidders, the U.K.’s deal regulator said.  One of the rule changes would require potential buyers to
make a firm offer within four weeks of announcing an approach,
in order to curb so-called virtual offers.  The changes being proposed -- the result of pressure by
politicians following  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s acquisition of Cadbury
Plc last year -- are intended to protect shareholders of
companies that are targets of takeover bids, Robert Gillespie,
the director general of the Takeover Panel, said in a speech May
20. They are also meant to reduce advantages for hostile
bidders, he said.  The regulator started a review of Britain’s takeover code
last year after the Cadbury buyout provoked criticism from
politicians, who said the outcome of the hostile bid was overly
influenced by short-term investors seeking a profit. The
consultation on the rules closes next week, and the changes may
take effect in the second half of the year, Gillespie said at
the  Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales .  Gillespie, a senior managing director at Evercore Partners
Inc. who began a three-year stint at the regulator in September,
said the takeover panel “is confident there will be no
impediment” to private equity because, if both parties want
them, extensions are likely to be granted.  For more, click here.  EU May Hinder Tougher Capital Rules, Osborne, Salgado Say  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , Spain’s
Elena Salgado and five other finance ministers asked the
European Union to scrap plans to prevent national regulators
from setting tougher bank capital rules.  The  European Commission  is seeking to impinge on their
right to force lenders to hold reserves above minimum levels set
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the ministers
said in a May 19 letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “It is not acceptable to have a regulation that prohibits
member states from requiring their banks to hold more capital,”
the ministers said, in response to commission proposals for
applying the Basel measures in the 27-nation EU. It is
“imperative” that nations can decide on whether to toughen
such rules for lenders, as it is their national budgets “that
might bear the considerable costs of instability,” they wrote.  The Group of 20 nations decided to bolster banks’ liquidity
and capital to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis. EU
nations had clashed over the level of severity of the so-called
Basel III measures. France and  Germany  led the push for
softening the Basel rules. The U.K. opposed changes or delays.  Compliance Action  China Says 17 State-Run Companies Misreported Financial Data  China Southern Power Grid Co., the country’s second-biggest
electricity distributor, led 17 state-owned enterprises found to
have misreported financial data, according to the nation’s
government auditor.  China Southern Power Grid overstated its profit for 2009 by
910 million yuan ($140 million), or 26 percent, the  National
Audit Office  said May 19 on its  website . China Unicom ( Hong
Kong ) Ltd., the second-biggest mobile-phone carrier, said the
auditor found “improper” practices that have since been
rectified.  The investigation highlights weaknesses in corporate
governance and accounting practices in an economy where annual
growth of more than 8 percent in the past decade has fueled
rising profits among state-owned companies. The  audit office  has
helped drive efforts to increase transparency at government
departments and state-owned companies by uncovering billions of
dollars in graft, irregularities and waste in the past decade.  FrontPoint Partners to Close Funds After Redemption Requests  FrontPoint Partners LLC will close some of its  hedge funds 
after clients asked to withdraw money amid charges a manager
benefited from an illegal stock tip.  “We have received capital redemption requests from some of
our clients,” Steve Bruce, a spokesman for Greenwich,
Connecticut-based FrontPoint said in a statement May 20. The
firm “will be winding down select strategies.”  FrontPoint oversaw $7 billion at the start of November
before Chip Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of its health-care
funds, was tied to claims by prosecutors that the firm got
advance notice on drug-trial results. FrontPoint will honor
requests by investors to pull money, Bruce said in the
statement. The firm plans to maintain its “core” hedge funds,
he said.  Prosecutors charged Skowron with fraud last month. He was
accused of avoiding more than $30 million of trading losses
after a French doctor serving as a consultant to Rockville,
Maryland-based  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  passed on that a
hepatitis treatment had adverse affects during trials.  Skowron will plead not guilty, his lawyer, James Benjamin
Jr., said in an April 14 statement.  California Agency to Appeal Decision Halting Cap-And-Trade  The California Air Resources Board will appeal a court
ruling that suspends work on a cap-and-trade program to cut
greenhouse gases, the agency said.  The notice of appeal will be filed today, Stanley Young, a
spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail on May 20.  Superior Court Judge Ernest Goldsmith in San Francisco on
Friday ordered the board to halt further rulemaking or
implementation of the program until alternatives are properly
reviewed.  The board violated the “informational requirements” of
the California Environmental Quality Act when it began to make
rules “without first responding to comments, completing the
environmental review process, and approving” the program,
Goldsmith said in the ruling.  The decision is the latest development in a 2009 lawsuit
filed against the board by a coalition that includes Communities
for a Better Environment and the Association of Irritated
Residents. The decision followed a March 18 ruling in which the
court also said the board failed to adequately consider
alternatives to the program to buy and sell pollution permits,
such as a carbon tax.  Interviews/Speeches  Cohan Says Scrutiny on Goldman Is Like ‘Water Torture’  William Cohan, author of “Money and Power: How Goldman
Sachs Came to Rule the World” and a Bloomberg Television
contributing editor, discussed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s public
relations strategy and U.S. Senator Carl Levin’s report on the
firm’s mortgage bets.  Cohan, who spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop,” said “we’re in a very different political
environment now, and a very different feeling in the public,”
which puts pressure on Congress and agencies to continue to look
into what happened during the financial crisis.  For the video, click here.  Danthine Says Curbing Too-Big-To-Fail of ‘Utmost Importance’  Swiss central bank Governing Board member Jean-Pierre
Danthine said it’s of the “utmost importance” to limit threats
from the country’s two largest lenders,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)   He made the remarks at an event in St. Gallen, Switzerland
May 20.  “Resolving the too-big-to-fail issue is a first order of
priority,” Danthine said. “The recent history of developments
has helped us to understand that our two big banks are not only
too big to fail, but that circumstances could arrive under which
they would be too big to be rescued as well”  The Swiss government, which had to prop up UBS in 2008, is
seeking to toughen capital buffers for systematically important
banks to ensure that they won’t turn to taxpayers for support in
future. Under the proposals, UBS and Credit Suisse would have to
hold common equity equal to at least 10 percent of assets,
weighted according to risk, by 2019.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Vanderbilt’s Lewis Risk Division Chief  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has named Craig
M. Lewis, a Vanderbilt University professor who has studied
market volatility and herd behavior by equity analysts, to be
its chief economist and director of a unit responsible for
spotting threats to the financial system.  Lewis, who is currently a visiting scholar at the SEC, will
assume the new role next month, the agency said May 20 in an e-
mail statement. He will replace Henry Hu, the founding director
of the Division of Risk, Strategy, and Financial Innovation, or
RiskFin, who stepped down after just over a year in the post.  RiskFin, the SEC’s first new division in 37 years, was
created by SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in 2009 to act as the
agency’s “think tank.”  Dutch Appoint Knot to Succeed Wellink as Central Bank Chief  The Dutch government appointed Klaas Knot to succeed Nout
Wellink as president of the country’s central bank as of July 1.  Knot “was my first choice and also the central bank’s
first choice,” Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told
reporters in The Hague May 20. Knot will serve a seven-year
term, the ANP news service reported before the decision was
announced.  Wellink’s successor must reform the 197-year-old central
bank, which came under public scrutiny after a government-
commissioned committee said it didn’t act forcefully enough in
supervising Landsbanki Islands hf’s Icesave unit and DSB Bank
NV. Both companies eventually collapsed.  De Jager last year decided a central bank president can no
longer serve a third term, effectively ending the reign of
Wellink, 67.  For more, click here.  Singapore Minister Gets Thai, Philippine Backing for IMF Job  Southeast Asian nations backed Singapore Finance Minister
Tharman Shanmugaratnam as a possible choice to succeed Dominique
Strauss-Kahn as head of the  International Monetary Fund .  Shanmugaratnam “is certainly well qualified” and the IMF
should consider all candidates for the role of managing
director, including those from  Asia  or  Latin America , Philippine
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a Bloomberg Television
interview May 20. Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said
May 19 Asia has good candidates, including Shanmugaratnam.  Strauss-Kahn’s resignation this week after being charged
with attempting to rape a New York hotel maid kicked off a
contest for his successor.  Europe ’s officials have moved to
retain the job as emerging markets including Asia,  South
America , and Russia seek greater representation at the IMF,
which has always been headed by a  European  since it started in
1946.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  