-- 
EBay CEO Weighs Local-Language Sites in Asia, Eastern Europe

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-23T16:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ebay-chief-donahoe-considers-local-language-sites-in-asia-eastern-europe.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  may expand its efforts to
offer local-language portals to shoppers in emerging markets
beyond an existing Russian site, Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe said in an interview.  The owner of the world’s largest online marketplace will
look to  Asia , eastern  Europe ,  Latin America  and the Middle East
for potential new sites, Donahoe said in Paris. The local sites
would give shoppers in those regions access to EBay’s global
network of buyers and sellers, along the template of the Russian
service, which started operations last year.  “We’ll see more and more of that, where we may take and
build a local-language site,” Donahoe, 51, said in the
interview. “They’ll never have the scale to have the full
footprint,” making a system with local-language access to
global EBay users more practical, he added.  Online retailers are looking at new countries and
technologies like mobile shopping as competition intensifies in
the U.S. and Europe.  Rakuten Inc. (4755) ,  Japan ’s biggest online
retailer, is among sites hunting for acquisition targets,
especially in Europe, while  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  last year acquired
Spanish site BuyVIP.  Donahoe, two-thirds of his way through a three-year
turnaround plan, has bought at least seven businesses in the
past year to help revive sales growth and revamp San Jose,
California-based EBay’s main commerce site. The company has held
up its U.K. business as a model for the results it’s trying to
accomplish in the U.S.  PayPal Revenue  The PayPal payment processing unit is driving growth at
EBay, with revenue from the division rising 23 percent to $992
million last quarter. It accounted for 39 percent of EBay’s
sales that quarter and will eventually be larger than the
company’s e-commerce sites, Donahoe has said.  PayPal earlier this year hired Don Kingsborough, the
founder of payment provider Blackhawk Network, to lead an
expansion into physical stores. Large U.S. retailers will begin
“a few pilots” using PayPal for physical transactions this
year, Donahoe said today.  EBay has also pushed deeper into mobile services with the
acquisitions of Red Laser, Milo and Where.com, positioning
itself to benefit from a shift to shopping on smartphones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  