-- 
Hedge-Fund Manager Fortuna Still Cooperating in Galleon Probe, U.S. Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-23T20:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/hedge-fund-manager-fortuna-still-cooperating-in-galleon-probe-u-s-says.html
Steven Fortuna, a hedge-fund manager
who pleaded guilty and agreed to assist a U.S. insider-trading
probe of Galleon Group LLC, continues to provide information
against others who haven’t been charged, a prosecutor said.  The cooperation of Fortuna, the co-founder and former
managing director at S2 Capital in  Boston  who pleaded guilty to
federal charges in 2009, “is ongoing,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jonathan Streeter told U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  at a
hearing today.  Stein inquired today whether Fortuna’s sentencing, which
was postponed in February, could now go forward. Prosecutors had
said his testimony might be needed at the trial of Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Fortuna didn’t testify against
Rajaratnam, who was found guilty by a jury May 11 of all 14
counts against him in the largest illegal stock-tipping case in
a generation.  “Mr. Fortuna’s cooperation was relevant to one of the
defendants who has pled guilty,” Streeter said.  The U.S. has previously said Fortuna’s case was related to
the prosecution of Rajaratnam’s co-defendant,  Danielle Chiesi , a
portfolio manager of New Castle Partners LLC who pleaded guilty
to federal charges in January. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a civil complaint against Chiesi that she
passed inside information to Fortuna and Rajaratnam.  ‘Other Individuals’  “There are other individuals he provided information
about, that we’re still in the process of reviewing,” Streeter
said today. “His cooperation is ongoing. We need to make the
determination about other individuals who’ve not been charged.”  Stein gave Fortuna permission today to replace his lawyer.
No reason was given for the change.  Fortuna’s new attorney, Michael Marino, a partner at
Plourde Bogue Moylan & Marino LLP, told the judge he consented
to the sentencing postponement. He declined to comment after
court.  When Fortuna pleaded guilty in October 2009 to conspiracy
and  securities fraud , he said he was tipped to inside
information by “several individuals” at other funds, according
to a court transcript. He didn’t identify the tipsters.  “My criminal conduct relates to my participation in a
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, with the assistance of
several individuals at other  hedge funds , and indirectly from
technology companies,” he told Stein at the time.  Fortuna is one of 22 people who have pleaded guilty in the
Galleon probe.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  