-- 
Egypt Yields Signal Higher Cost for $1 Billion Bond Sale as Economy Rocked

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-05-24T14:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/egypt-yields-signal-higher-cost-for-1-billion-bond-sale-as-economy-rocked.html
Egypt , struggling to raise funds at
local government debt auctions, is turning to international
markets for the first time since a popular revolt in February
ended the three-decade rule of President  Hosni Mubarak .  Egypt’s 10-year dollar bonds, sold in April 2010 at a yield
of 5.75 percent, fell, pushing up the rate 2 basis points to
5.94 percent. The yield climbed five basis points yesterday
after Finance Minister Samir Radwan said he plans to “quickly”
raise $1 billion through foreign notes backed by a U.S.
“sovereign guarantee.” He cited the need to diversify
financing sources as the government sold 51 percent of the
amount offered at a local auction and the average yield on 252-
day bills rose to 12.869 percent, the highest since November
2008.  The government will probably pay more to borrow overseas
than in 2010, said  Win Thin , the head of emerging-market
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. The  budget deficit  may
grow to the widest in more than a decade in 2012 after Mubarak’s
fall led tourists to flee and agencies to cut the country’s
credit ratings, according to the Ministry of Finance.  Selling international bonds “seems crazy,” Thin said in
an interview from New York. “Egypt has a shaky story right
now.”  Insuring Against Default  The cost of insuring the country’s debt against default
rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 332 today,
after gaining 6 basis points yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Similar contracts trade at 360 basis points for Lebanon, 226 for
Bahrain and 98 for  Abu Dhabi .  The extra yield investors demand to own Egyptian dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries fell 1 basis point to 324 yesterday.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  promised Egypt last week $2
billion in loan guarantees and debt forgiveness. The government
has had to rely on local banks to buy the local currency
treasury bills it sells weekly to finance its budget deficit.  The North African country’s central bank today accepted 6
billion pounds in seven-day  repurchase agreements , which allow
banks to sell  government securities  back at a cost of a 9.25
percent interest rate. The central bank had started the facility
in March to boost liquidity among local banks as foreigners
shunned the country’s local currency debt. In a debt auction on
May 22, the government sold 2.825 billion pounds ($474 million)
of the 5.5 billion pounds offered.  "Squeezed" Local Market  “We should tap the market quickly,” Radwan said in a
telephone interview from Cairo yesterday. “We need to diversify
because the local market is squeezed.”  Global stocks sank the most in two months yesterday, while
the euro touched an all-time low versus the Swiss franc and
commodities plunged, amid signs  Europe ’s government-debt crisis
is worsening and the economic recovery is slowing. Egypt’s EGX
30 Index lost 0.8 percent to 5,291.81 at 1:33 p.m. in Cairo,
extending its drop for the year to 26 percent, the biggest among
90 equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  “The timing is not the best in terms of the global
environment and in terms of the region,” said  Nick Chamie ,
global head of emerging markets at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto. “There’s a great deal of uncertainty in the way
forward in Egypt and the way it’s going to organize its society
and economics.”  Slower Growth  Egypt’s economy may grow 1 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in April, the slowest pace
since 1992. The nation had its  credit rating  lowered to Ba3,
three levels below investment grade, at Moody’s Investors
Service in March and to BB at S&P in February.  The North African country had $35 billion in international
debt at the end of 2010, according to  data  on the central bank’s
website, making up 14.7 percent of gross domestic product. The
government depends on the sale of t-bills to finance the
deficit, which may reach 11 percent of gross domestic product in
the fiscal year ending June 2012, according to Finance Ministry
data.  The ministry hasn’t hired banks to manage the international
sale, Radwan said. The bonds will follow the issuance of $1.5
billion in Eurobonds in 2010, which included $1 billion in 10-
year bonds and $500 million in debt due to mature in 2040.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  