-- 
Egypt Plans to Raise $1 Billion From Sale of Eurobond as Budget Gap Widens

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-05-23T12:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/egypt-will-sell-1-billion-of-five-year-eurobonds-this-year-radwan-says.html
Egypt  plans to raise $1 billion by
selling Eurobonds this year to diversify borrowing and finance a
widening budget deficit after its economy was rocked by the
worst political crisis in 30 years.  The five-year bonds will be backed by a U.S. “sovereign
guarantee,” Finance Minister Samir Radwan said by telephone
from Cairo today. “We should tap the market quickly. We need to
diversify because the local market is squeezed.”  Egypt’s budget gap may widen to the highest level in more
than a decade in 2012 after a popular revolt ended the three-
decade rule of President  Hosni Mubarak , according to the
Ministry of Finance. The turmoil prompted tourists to flee,
lowered the country’s credit ratings and raised borrowing costs.
President  Barack Obama  promised last week $2 billion in loan
guarantees and debt forgiveness.  “The sale announcement is positive because will help the
government bridge the gap in its finances as a result of the
revolution,” said Wael Ziada, head of research at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded investment bank.
“The size is not significant but the backing from the U.S. will
help raise the money at a relatively inexpensive cost.”  Yields Climb  The  finance ministry  hasn’t hired banks to manage the
sale, Radwan said. The bonds will follow the issuance of $1.5
billion in Eurobonds in 2010, which included a $1 billion in 10-
year bonds and $500 million in debt due to mature in 2040.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due April
2020 rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.89
percent at 2:01 p.m. in Cairo. The rate plunged 33 basis points
on May 19, the day of Obama’s aid announcement. The cost of
insuring the country’s debt against default climbed 7 basis
points to 332 today, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Saudi Arabia  also pledged to give Egypt $4 billion in soft
loans, deposits and grants, the state-run Saudi Press Agency
reported on May 21. The Arab country is close to signing an
agreement for a $2.2 billion soft loan from the  World Bank , the
Ministry of Finance said this month.  ‘No Choice’  The planned Eurobond sale “may satisfy short-term
financing needs but the American backing limits the ability of
Egypt as an independent entity to ask for funds in the
international market in the long term,” said Moustafa Assal,
head of fixed income at Beltone Financial, a Cairo-based
investment bank. “At the moment the aid is welcome because
Egypt has no choice but to go to the international market to get
the economy back on its feet.”  Egypt’s economic growth may slow to 1 percent this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said in April, the lowest level
since 1992. The nation had its  credit rating  lowered to Ba3 at
Moody’s Investors Service and to BB at  Standard & Poor’s , the
third- and second-highest non-investment grades.  The North African country had $35 billion in external debt
at the end of 2010, according to  data  on the central bank’s
website, making up 14.7 percent of gross domestic product. The
government depends on the sale of treasury bills to finance the
deficit, which may reach 11 percent of GDP in the fiscal year
ending June 2012, according to finance ministry data.  The ministry has struggled to raise its targeted amounts at
weekly auctions of t-bills since the uprising as yields soared.
Yesterday it raised 2.825 billion pounds ($474 million) of the
5.5 billion pounds sought by selling three-month and nine-month
notes. The average yield on the 252-day notes climbed to 12.869
percent, the highest since November 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  