-- 
Egypt May Put Off Fourth Mobile-Phone License, Reviews Intervention Law

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-23T23:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/egypt-may-put-off-fourth-mobile-license-reviews-intervention.html
Egypt ’s government may put off a
fourth mobile-phone license following the ousting of the former
regime, potentially prompting Telecom Egypt to consider a new
bid for the rest of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s local unit.  “There are a lot of changes in Egypt now and we are not
sure whether launching a new license at this moment is the right
decision from the economic point of view,” Communications
Minister  Magued Osman  said yesterday in a phone interview.  Telecom Egypt, the fixed-line monopoly that owns 45 percent
of Vodafone’s local unit, has said it wants to offer mobile-
phone services and is prepared to acquire an existing operator
if it can’t gain a wireless license. Vodafone, the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, ended talks last June to sell the
business after  Telecom Egypt (ETEL)  initiated negotiations.  “They were looking to sell previously,” said James Crawshaw, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research. “It
could be another boost for the shares if they can sell it for a
good valuation,” he said, adding that Vodafone is focusing on
selling its stake in Polish operator Polkomtel SA.  Vodafone has risen 31 percent in the last 12 months,
compared with a 15 percent gain in the U.K.’s FTSE 100 benchmark
index. Sanford C Bernstein’s  Robin Bienenstock  last year valued
the company’s holding in Vodafone Egypt Telecommunications Co.
at about 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion).  Vodafone spokesman Simon Gordon declined to comment.
Spokesmen for Telecom Egypt couldn’t immediately be reached.  ‘All Options’  Egypt’s Telecommunications Regulatory Authority is studying
the possibility of offering a fourth mobile-phone license,  Al
Ahram  reported in April last year, citing Amr Badawi, executive
president of the agency. The study will evaluate the impact of
the proposed license on competitiveness in the Egyptian market,
the newspaper said at the time.  The ministry is working with Telecom Egypt and the
country’s three mobile-phone operators -- Vodafone, Mobinil and
Etisalat -- and is considering “all options,” Osman said
yesterday.  During the protests, which ended the three-decade rule of
President  Hosni Mubarak , Egyptian authorities cut  Internet
access  and mobile-phone service and instructed operators to send
out  text messages  on its behalf.  “This was a decision that has negatively reflected on all
citizens in Egypt,” Osman said. The ministry is currently
revising the law to make clear who is responsible for such a
decision and aims to publish its draft within three weeks.  Emergency Powers  Vodafone in February said that the authorities can instruct
the operators to send messages under emergency powers provisions
and that the messages were not written by the company.  “We would like to be more specific in terms of identifying
who should be in charge to take that decision if needed,” Osman
said, adding that he’d prefer the president or prime minister to
be responsible if the government needed to take over mobile
services again.  Mubarak resigned on Feb. 11 after 18 days of mass rallies,
handing power to the military, which suspended the constitution
and announced plans to hold parliamentary and presidential
elections this year. Egypt’s ruling military council said in
March that it will continue to run the country’s affairs until
there’s a new president.  Telecom Egypt, whose Chief Executive Officer Tarek Tantawy
resigned last month, is seeking to offer mobile services in a
country where about 95 percent of Egyptians are clients of a
mobile-phone network. The local government owns a majority stake
in the company.  Minority Asset Sales  Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao has said that the company is
focused on sub-Saharan  Africa . When the company halted talks
about the Egyptian unit last year, analysts said Vodafone didn’t
have much negotiating power as there was only one bidder.  Colao, who took charge in 2008, has sold minority assets to
unwind some of the takeovers by his predecessors. Arun Sarin
pushed Vodafone into markets such as Ghana and  Turkey .
Christopher Gent led Vodafone through a six-year $300 billion
acquisition spree.  Vodafone sold stakes in China Mobile, reduced interests in
 Japan ’s Softbank Corp. and in April agreed to sell a 44 percent
stake in French operator SFR for 7.95 billion euros to Vivendi
SA. The sale brought the total value of Vodafone’s disposals to
about $22.8 billion since September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  