-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Tumble as BRIC Index Heads for Correction

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-05-23T23:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/emerging-stocks-slide-most-since-june-as-bric-index-heads-for-correction.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with the
benchmark index posting its biggest tumble since June, as a
gauge of Chinese manufacturing sank to a 10-month low and
investors speculated  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 2.3 percent to
1,113.80 in New York, the biggest slide since June 29. The MSCI
BRIC Index of shares in the four largest emerging markets
dropped 2.2 percent, extending its slide from an April 8 high to
11 percent. Malaysia’s ringgit and the South Korean won weakened
more than 1.3 percent against the dollar. Brazil’s real dropped
for the third day, the longest losing streak in six weeks.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 2.9 percent
after the preliminary purchasing managers’ index compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 51.1 in May
from a final reading of 51.8 in April.  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock
index fell to a 10-month low. Benchmark stock gauges in Poland
and Hungary fell after Spain’s ruling party suffered its worst
defeat in more than 30 years in local elections and Italy’s
credit-rating outlook was cut to negative from stable by
 Standard & Poor’s .  “Euro-area news over the weekend has been the main focus
at the start of the week,” emerging-market strategists at  RBC
Capital Markets  led by  Nick Chamie  in Toronto wrote in an e-
mailed note. “It does not look like the Greece debt crisis will
be resolved imminently.”  BRIC Retreat  The 21-country MSCI emerging-market gauge has retreated 3.3
percent this year amid slowing growth in the developed world and
tighter monetary policy in Brazil, Russia, India and China. The
 MSCI BRIC (MXBRIC)  gauge is down 5.3 percent in 2011, compared with a 1.8
percent gain in the MSCI World Index of advanced-country shares.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 302, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging Europe, the Middle East and
Africa widened five basis points to 196, according to data
provider CMA in  London .  The Bovespa dropped 0.4 percent. Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, fell after saying output
of crude and natural-gas equivalent fell from a month earlier,
and as  oil prices  slipped in  New York .  China’s Shanghai Composite retreated the most in four
months. The gauge extended early declines after the PMI report
on concern the government’s measures to tame inflation will damp
growth and corporate earnings. Vice Premier Wang Qishan
reiterated this month that the government’s top priority is to
control price increases.  Vietnam Plunge  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index sank 1.8
percent after Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, speaking at a
banking industry meeting on May 21 in Mumbai, said inflation is
a “major challenge” in the short term.  Vietnam’s Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange plunged 3.5
percent on concern that inflation will spur the central bank to
tighten monetary policy further, according to Nguyen Duy Phong,
a Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at ACB Securities Inc.  Poland ’s WIG20 Index lost 0.5 percent, the Czech PX Index
declined 0.8 percent and Hungary’s BUX Index retreated 0.7
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  