-- 
Tepco’s Choice of 36-Year Veteran Spurs Investor Calls for Government Role

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-05-23T08:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/tepco-picks-36-year-insider-to-salvage-reactors-fix-culture-of-complicity.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s choice of
a 36-year company veteran to resolve the worst nuclear crisis
since Chernobyl and avert bankruptcy prompted calls for the
government to take a more direct role in managing the utility.  Tepco, as the company is called, on May 20 picked Toshio Nishizawa, 60, to replace Masataka Shimizu, who resigned
following a $15 billion loss, the biggest on record for a non-
financial Japanese company. Nishizawa spent most of his career
in corporate planning, a period that saw a series of scandals
causing the departure of three previous presidents. Tepco shares
fell 9 percent today after the loss.  “This is beyond what a company can bear,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which
manages about $7.4 billion in Tokyo. “The government should be
in charge, including compensation.”  Tepco has sought government aid to help cover compensation
costs from the disaster at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant crippled
by a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11. The
utility, which had admitted to faking hundreds of safety reports
in the past, was criticized by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  for a
slow response to the accident that caused radiation leaks and
forced the evacuation of about 50,000 families.  “People want a scapegoat,” Sakurai said. “The biggest
issue is not who the head of Tepco is. If we keep on discussing
who is responsible for what, things won’t move along.
Temporarily, the government should make the decisions and make
the payments, then consider how much Tepco is responsible for.”  Kan Outburst  On March 15, an hour-long delay in Tepco informing the
prime minister of a reactor building fire prompted Kan to demand
of utility officials “What the hell is going on?” news
agencies cited him as saying within earshot of reporters.  In parting comments on Friday, Shimizu, 66, said the
culture at Tepco needs to change and become more “customer
oriented.”  Shimizu, who was hospitalized for about a week for
hypertension during the crisis, became president in June 2008
after a temblor shut Tepco’s biggest atomic plant at Kashiwazaki
Kariwa and stoked mistrust among the public about nuclear
safety.  Shimizu’s predecessor,  Tsunehisa Katsumata , also became
president amid controversy. He was promoted in 2002 after
Hiroshi Araki and Nobuya Minami, chairman and president at that
time, stepped down to take responsibility for more than 200
cases of falsified maintenance reports at its nuclear plants.  Falling Shares  Nishizawa, Katsumata and Minami spent most of their careers
at Tepco in the corporate planning department, spokesman Naoyuki
Matsumoto said today. The section formulates overall strategy at
the company including  capital investment , Matsumoto said, adding
those in department often deal with officials at the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry, which regulates power utilities.  Tepco’s board and shareholders will vote on the appointment
of Nishizawa at meetings scheduled on June 28.  The stock fell 9 percent to 339 yen today in Tokyo after
Tepco on May 20 announced a 1.1 trillion yen charge related to
costs for the Fukushima accident in its earnings report for the
year to March 31. The shares are down 84 percent since March 10.
The cost of protecting Tepco’s debt rose to a record.  Nishizawa will be leading a drive to raise more than 600
billion yen from selling assets and complete a restructuring
plan by the year-end. Costs for the disaster may reach as much
as 11 trillion yen, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Averting Bankruptcy  The government this month outlined a plan to shield Tepco
from bankruptcy and a group of banks led by Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. earlier advanced 2 trillion yen of
emergency loans to the utility. Tepco will seek low-interest
loans from Japanese private and state-run banks, Shimizu said at
the earnings briefing.  “How we deal with Tepco is about what Japan should do
about its  energy policy  and other power companies,” said
Sakurai at Fukoku Capital. “Nationalizing all power companies
could be one option. But to nationalize them, you need to be
convinced nationalization is better than privatization.”  While there is a “strong case” for nationalization,
nuclear energy has been at the heart of Japan’s national
strategy for the last 50 years, said  Jesper Koll , head of equity
research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  “To change overnight, to change even in a couple of months
is simply something that is unrealistic,” Koll said on
Bloomberg Television.  Calling Elections  Kan should call an election to resolve this issue and how
the government will rebuild the Tohoku region north of Tokyo
where more than 24,000 people were killed or are missing after
the quake and tsunami, Koll said.  Tepco’s loss eclipsed the 812 billion yen deficit reported
by Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in the year ended March
2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mizuho Financial
Group Inc.’s 2.38 trillion yen loss the following year is the
largest in  Japan .  On May 15, more than two months after the Fukushima
disaster, Tepco said conditions were worse than believed in
reactor No. 1 where all the uranium fuel rods had melted. The
utility reiterated last week the schedule on its so-called road
map announced a month earlier to achieve cold shutdown of the
three radiation-leaking reactors as early as October.  “I want Mr. Nishizawa to create a new management style
that clarifies responsibility,” said Tetsuro Ii, chief
executive of Tokyo-based Commons Asset Management. “The
management style at Tepco is unique and tends to obscure
responsibility.”  Tainted Water  More than 10 million liters (2.6 million gallons) of
radiation-contaminated water have leaked or been released into
the sea, while millions of liters of tainted water is sloshing
around basements and trenches at the station from leaking
reactor vessels and piping.  Japan’s government in April raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster. The station, which has
experienced hundreds of aftershocks since the March 11 quake,
may release more radiation than Chernobyl before the crisis is
contained, Tepco officials have said.  At the May 20 press conference introducing Nishizawa, he
said taking over as president at the time of such an
unprecedented crisis is a tremendous responsibility.  “I thought it was my destiny to deal with this, so I
accepted it."  To contact the reporters on this story: Tsuyoshi Inajima in
Tokyo at   tinajima@bloomberg.net ; Kana
Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net  