-- 
ESPN’s History Isn’t All Flatulence Contests, Mooning: Review

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-05-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/espn-s-history-isn-t-all-flatulence-contests-highway-mooning-book-review.html
Everything about television sports
network  ESPN  is bigger than life.  There are the personalities that light up SportsCenter. The
big attitude and grand showmanship. The titanic rivalries, the
scandals, the intrigues. The fortunes risked and made. And now
the oral history that has been so heavily promoted.  “ Those Guys Have All the Fun ,” by James Andrew Miller and
Tom Shales, is bigger than life all right. At 763 pages, it’s
twice the length of the new translation of “ Madame Bovary”  --
but not likely to remain on bookshelves nearly as long.  Advance tales of the juicy stuff in this volume have been
burning up the Internet. Sex, drugs and play-by-play, you might
say. Except there’s not much sex, very little drugs and far, far
too much of the play-by-play of how ESPN went from being a
network to a brand, from an idea to an ethos -- or from a buffet
of televised sports to a conglomerate that even includes
restaurants.  There are some intriguing nuggets in this too-high
haystack, and most of them have to do with business rather than
sports or even the business of sports. That’s because the story
of ESPN is in part the story of money -- first Getty Oil Co.
money, then Anheuser-Busch advertising money, finally big-time
television money beginning when it was bought by ABC in 1984.  In short, it’s more about the entrepreneurial spirit than
the spirited high jinks of the guys who have all the fun by
going to games, or talking about games, for a living.  Michael Eisner  The passages about  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  chief executive Michael Eisner, for example, will draw substantial attention. Eisner
says here that in the days before “The  Lion King ” hit the
screen in 1994 he was searching for “an acquisition that would
add a new dimension” to Disney.  He went after Capital Cities/ABC but says his eyes were
really on the company’s ESPN unit.  “It was all about ESPN, and only ESPN,” he says. “The
valuation that we at Disney made for the ABC network during our
due diligence for the acquisition of all the CapCities/ABC
assets was zero.”  Steve Bornstein, former chief executive of ESPN, says
Eisner is full of malarkey, considering that ABC was the No. 1
network at the time and was “probably throwing off a billion
dollars.”  “Michael Eisner will turn any circumstance into why he was
a prescient genius,” Bornstein says.  If you pick up this volume looking for the dirt rather than
the deals, you will happily learn about the flatulence
competition, though of course this dreary derby went by a much
cruder name, and find a gripping account of how Dan Patrick, one
of the ESPN anchors, mooned his colleague  Gary Miller  on
Interstate 84 in  Connecticut .  No Gay Talese  This is, in short, not “ The Kingdom and the Power ,” the
classic 1969 Gay Talese chronicle of the dramas inside the  New
York  Times. It is, instead, comprehensive to a fault and
compelling only if your entire life revolves around SportsCenter
and you’re determined to learn the inside story about the
Peeping Tom episode involving reporter Erin Andrews, and you
know who you are.  As oral history, “Those Guys” will be a valuable resource
to the fellows who decide to write a real book about ESPN, which
besides being the go-to place for college basketball, Sunday
night baseball and the  World Series  of Poker, is a legitimate
cultural force in American life.  These pages are stuffed with interviews, some with an
appealing back-and-forth rhythm, much like a tennis game. But
it’s not a narrative, and the casual reader, or worse yet the
casual ESPN grazer, will have virtually no idea what the book is
about, to say nothing of what the fuss is about.  “Those Guys Have All the Fun: Inside the World of ESPN”
is published by Little, Brown (763 pages, $27.99). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 