-- 
Tessera Loses Appeal Over Semiconductors in Patent Dispute

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-23T21:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/tessera-loses-appeal-over-semiconductors-in-patent-dispute-1-.html
Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA)  lost an
appeals court ruling in its efforts to get new licensing revenue
from makers of computer-memory chips, including  Acer Inc. (2353)  and
 Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)   The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit today
upheld a trade agency’s finding that the companies weren’t
infringing a Tessera patent. The court vacated the agency’s
finding of no violation of two other patents because they have
expired.  Tessera owns patents related to packaging that protects
silicon wafers from damage while allowing the chips to be made
smaller and faster. The patent that was the subject of the case
before the U.S. International Trade Commission covers a method
for encapsulating wafers without contaminating the terminals
that connect the chips to a circuit board.  The appeals court said today that the commission was
correct to find in December 2009 that the patented innovation
related to a different layer of the packaging than what is used
by the chipmakers.  The court also said Tessera couldn’t make a claim against
products made by  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  of  Tokyo  because the company
bought its products from firms that already had a license with
Tessera, exhausting the patent rights.  Tessera General Counsel Barney Cassidy said in an interview
that the company may file a request asking the Federal Circuit
to reconsider the court’s non-infringement  finding and the
Elpida issue.  Pursuing Claims  The company also is pursuing patent claims against the
chipmakers in district court. By vacating the non-infringement
finding on the other two patents, the Federal Circuit eliminated
the ability of the chipmakers to use the ITC finding in the
civil suit, he said.  “It would have been a weapon the defendants used against
us and we neutralized it,” he said, adding the company will
continue to ask that the chipmakers license its entire patent
portfolio.  Tessera fell 82 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $17.26 at 4:29
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  San Jose , California-based Tessera filed complaints against
companies that refused to license the technology and in December
won an appeals court ruling against  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,   Spansion
Inc. (CODE)  and STMicroelectronics NV.  Import Ban  The ITC, a quasi-judicial agency that investigates claims
of unfair trade practices, said the computer-chip makers weren’t
violating Tessera’s rights. Tessera had sought an import ban on
certain dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, chips that act as
the main memory in computers and electronics.  Royalties and licensing fees accounted for $279.6 million,
or 93 percent of the company’s 2010 revenue, Tessera said in its
annual report.  The companies named in Tessera’s complaint included Acer of
Taipei; Kingston Technology Co. of Fountain Valley,  California ;
Nanya of Taoyuan,  Taiwan ; Powerchip Semiconductor Corp. of
Hsinchu, Taiwan; Ramaxel Technology Ltd. of  Hong Kong ; and Smart
Modular Technologies Inc. of Fremont, California.  The case is Tessera Inc. v. ITC, 10-1176,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The ITC case is In
the Matter of Semiconductor Chips with Minimized Chip Packaging,
337-630, U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  