-- 
Ethiopian Political Activists Opposed to Meles Claim Power-Cable Sabotage

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-23T11:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ethiopian-political-activists-opposed-to-meles-claim-power-cable-sabotage.html
Ethiopian political activists opposed
to Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi ’s rule said they sabotaged  power
lines  in the west of the country as part of a campaign against
the government.  The Tinsae Ethiopian Patriots Union said it cut electricity
cables in Awi Zone on May 20, causing outages in towns including
Asosa, 477 kilometers (296 miles) west of Addis Ababa, and
Metekel, 400 northwest of the capital. Power still hasn’t been
restored in some parts of the region, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. The group posted pictures on its  website  that
it said showed the damaged cables.  “They must be joking,” Communications Minister Bereket
Simon said a phone interview. “There were problems with power
supply, but it’s not related to sabotage,” he said, adding that
he had only previously heard of Tinsae on “some foreign blogs.”  Tinsae said it and other groups are planning a campaign of
“peaceful civil resistance” to bring about “multiparty Western-
style democracy where government exists to serve the people” in
Ethiopia. A  Facebook group  calling for protests on May 28
against the rule of Meles’s  Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary
Democratic Front  said 3,112 people had confirmed they would
attend. The date is the 20th anniversary of when rebels marched
into  Addis Ababa  to remove Mengistu Haile Mariam’s Marxist
military junta from power.  Crackdown  Tinsae says it is composed of members of the now defunct
Coalition for Unity and Democracy that led street protests after
a disputed 2005 election resulting in a crackdown by security
forces that left 193 people dead.  In March, the group said it distributed pamphlets in three
of the major Ethiopian languages calling for protests this
month. At the time, the group also appealed to the country’s
armed forces to support its campaign.  The EPRDF won more than 99 percent of 547 parliamentary
seats in May 2010 elections that European Union observers said
failed to meet certain “international commitments.”  Ethiopia ’s economy has grown by an average of 11 percent
for the last 7 years, International Monetary Fund data shows.
The country ranks 157th out of 169 countries ranked in the
United Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index ,
which measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 