-- 
EU May Delay Decision on Basel Leverage, Liquidity Rules

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-24T17:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/eu-may-delay-decision-on-basel-s-bank-leverage-liquidity-rules.html
The European Union may delay a
decision on whether to adopt two parts of global banking rules
designed to limit lenders’ debt and force them to hold long-term
funds.  The European Commission said it’s too soon for the EU to
commit to binding measures because their likely effects haven’t
been fully examined, according to draft proposals obtained by
Bloomberg News. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
included the so-called  leverage ratio  and net stable funding
ratio in international standards agreed on last year to mitigate
the effects of future banking crises.  “A leverage ratio is a new regulatory and supervisory tool
for the EU,” according to the plans drawn up by the commission.
“Before deciding on whether or not it should be made into a
binding minimum requirement, a thorough review of the impacts of
its introduction is necessary.”  EU nations have clashed over the severity of the new
requirements, known as Basel III, which were endorsed by the
Group of 20  last year . The accord includes limits on leverage to
prevent banks building up too much debt, and minimum liquidity
rules to ensure they can survive a credit crunch. Nout Wellink,
chairman of the Basel committee, said today that leverage and
liquidity ratios are “critical additions” to the rulebook.  The benefits of Basel III, which also seek to bolster
banks’ capital, “will fall short if the framework is not
implemented fully and in a consistent manner,” Wellink said in
prepared remarks for a speech in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia .  ‘Lack of Clarity’  Michel Barnier , the European financial services
commissioner, said today he doesn’t intend to propose a legally
binding leverage ratio “at this stage.”  “There is a lack of clarity about the effectiveness” of
such a ratio, and its possible consequences, he told lawmakers
at the European Parliament in Brussels. “I have to be
careful.”  Basel’s proposed leverage ratio would require a bank to
have Tier-1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of its assets,
preventing it from accumulating assets worth more than 33 times
its capital level.  ‘Blunt Tool’  It’s “one hell of a blunt tool,” Bob Penn, financial
regulation partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in  London , said
in a phone interview, as it doesn’t recognize the differences in
the risk level between different banking activities.  The NSFR aims to limit the mismatch between the duration of
loans and deposits, to ensure that banks don’t face cash-flow
shortages.  The commission falls short of promising to seek a mandatory
adoption of the NSFR, according to the draft proposals for
implementing the Basel rules in the EU. Instead, it says it will
“consider proposing” such a requirement “after an observation
and review period.”  That decision is a “recognition as far as the net stable
funding ratio is concerned that Basel was flying blind,” said
Penn.  Lenders have warned that the ratios risk raising borrowing
costs for businesses and consumers, and  hampering  global
economic recovery.  Under the terms of the Basel accord, both ratios are
scheduled to become binding at the start of 2018 after
regulators in the committee decide on any final adjustments.  Benchmarks  Regardless of whether the ratios are eventually made
binding, lenders would still be expected to report to their
national regulators on how they measure up against the
benchmarks, without being legally obliged to meet them.  While the Basel agreement is designed for internationally
active lenders, the EU intends to apply the rules to “all kinds
of banks including small local savings banks and cooperatives
and also investment firms,” Monika Mars, a
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG director, said in a phone interview.  “Defining one ratio that works across all these different
business models is virtually impossible and could create
unintended consequences,” Mars said. “Certain business models
could be disadvantaged.”  Barnier, who is responsible for preparing draft EU
financial-services laws, said today he intends to publish his
plans on Basel III by “the end of July.”  “My intention is to take the Basel recommendations and try
to implement the salient points,” he told the Parliament. “I
want to make sure that the general principles and balance of the
Basel proposals are maintained.”  Final Version  EU governments and lawmakers at the Parliament need to
agree on the final version of the commission proposals on how to
implement the Basel rules before they can take effect in the
region.  The G-20 sought to bolster bank’s reserves to prevent a
repeat of turmoil in financial markets that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  The Basel III agreement more than doubles the amount of
high-quality capital that banks must hold to cushion against
possible losses.  Basel III and an earlier increase in  capital requirements 
set in 2009 will require EU-based banks to raise about 460
billion euros ($648 billion) in “own funds” to comply with the
requirements, the commission document says.  Of this total, 84 billion euros will need to be raised by
2015. The figures reflect “a number of studies prepared by both
public and private sectors,” the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 