-- 
EU Offers $6.7 Billion Bonds for Portugal, Ireland Bailouts

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-23T15:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/eu-s-bailout-fund-starts-selling-6-7-billion-bonds-for-portugal-ireland.html
The European Union is selling 4.75
billion euros ($6.7 billion) of 10-year bonds to help fund the
bailouts of Ireland and  Portugal .  The EU is offering the bonds through its European Financial
Stabilisation Mechanism, or EFSM, according to three people with
knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be identified
before it’s completed. The deal is the third from the fund and
follows Portugal’s request for rescue loans on April 7.  “The sale should be very well-supported given it’s a
triple A rated asset,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .  The EU is preparing to sell the top-rated bonds after
saying last week it plans to raise a total of 15.3 billion euros
for the two nations by July 15, through the EFSM and another
fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility. Global
markets have been roiled by concern some euro region countries
won’t be able to repay their debt.  Amadeu Altafaj, economic policy spokesman at the Brussels-
based European Commission, which runs the EFSM, didn’t reply to
an e-mailed request for comment.  The bonds may be priced to yield about 16 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate and the sale’s due to be completed
tomorrow, said the people. The deal is being managed by BNP
Paribas SA, Credit Agricole CIB, Credit Suisse Group AG, DZ Bank
AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co, the people said.  Five-Year Sale  The EFSM will subsequently issue five-year notes in a deal
to be arranged by Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, Societe
Generale SA and UBS AG, another banker said.  The price of the EFSM’s 4.6 billion of existing 2018
securities sold in March climbed to 100.60 from 99.53 when it
started trading, while its 5 billion euros of bonds due December
2015 fell to 99.39 from 100.34 on Jan. 10, according to
Bloomberg composite prices.  The EFSF -- which is overseen by euro-area governments --
made its debut bond sale in January.  The EU rescue funds will sell four benchmark bonds in the
second quarter valued at 3 billion euros to 5 billion euros
each, and a further six deals in the second half, the commission
said in a May 19 statement.  The two funds are each providing 26 billion euros for
Portugal, which is also getting an equivalent amount from the
 International Monetary Fund . For Ireland, the EFSF is providing
17.7 billion euros and the EFSM 22.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  