-- 
EU’s Web Privacy Law on ‘Cookies’ May Trigger Legal Confusion

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/eu-s-web-privacy-law-on-cookies-may-trigger-legal-uncertainty.html
European Union data privacy rules
forcing companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  to seek
consent before targeting users with online advertising may sow
confusion because of national differences in the way they are
applied.  A day before countries are meant to put in place a 2009
law including restrictions on so-called cookies, industry groups
and lawyers say it’s unclear how the rules will be implemented
across the 27-nation region.  “What we see is that the member states transpose it in a
totally fragmented manner,” said Kimon Zorbas, vice-president
of  IAB Europe , a digital advertising group whose members include
Google, Yahoo and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The law’s text, which is a
mixture of old and amended articles, is “quite messy” which in
turn “brings huge legal uncertainty in the markets and
nervousness” as to which rights apply when doing business
across the EU, he said.  The EU is cracking down on companies invading Web users’
privacy, by promising people more control over their data and
harsher sanctions, including criminal penalties, against
violations. Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and Facebook Inc., the top
social-networking service, are among several Internet companies
under scrutiny for possible privacy-rule breaches.  Under the new e-privacy law, technology companies will be
obliged to get user consent whenever they want to store or
access data on a computer for a service the user hasn’t
explicitly requested. The consent requirement affects the use of
cookies, which are small data files that track browsing habits
and can help online advertisers figure out which ads work with
which Internet users.  Implementation a ‘Problem’  “The problem is how to implement it,” said Quentin Archer, a technology specialist at law firm Hogan Lovells LLP in
 London . The method of consent can differ from one cookie to
another, with some being very intrusive while others are
necessary for the operation of a service, he said.  “Because there are so many different types of cookies it’s
not really possible to give precise guidance, so businesses are
left looking at the general principles.”  The European Commission has been working closely with
governments to help them implement the law, said Jonathan Todd,
a spokesman for Commissioner Neelie Kroes who is in charge of
the e-privacy legislation.  ‘Very Clear’  The law has “very clear rules” as to what the
requirements are, Todd said. “If those requirements are not met
in a particular member state then they will be subject to
infringement proceedings.” The Brussels-based commission has
the power to sue countries that don’t implement agreements in
the correct way.  Todd said Denmark and  Estonia  are so far the only two
countries to implement the law.  “We’re due for a period of some confusion because
implementation seems to be happening in a drip-drip fashion at
the moment,” said Sally Annereau, a data privacy analyst with
Taylor Wessing LLP in London.  National data protection agencies have the power to impose
sanctions for non-compliance by companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  