-- 
Euro Falls for Third Day Versus Yen on Region’s Debt Concern; Pound Drops

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-24T07:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/euro-falls-for-third-day-on-sovereign-debt-concern-slowing-growth-outlook.html
The euro weakened for a third day
against the yen on speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening and as the region’s industrial expansion slows.  Europe’s common currency approached a nine-week low against
the dollar before a report that economists said will show the
region’s industrial orders fell in March. The pound fell versus
all 16 of its major counterparts after Moody’s Investors Service
placed 14 U.K. financial institutions on review for possible
downgrade. New Zealand’s dollar rose as company executives
raised their expectations for inflation.  “Not only are the sovereign-debt concerns weighing on the
euro, there’s the additional headache of weaker data now which
is adding to the selling pressure,” said Mike Jones, a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “With
uncertainty now seemingly pervading the outlook, you’re going to
see support for the yen on a safe-haven basis.”  The euro declined to 115 yen as of 8:32 a.m. in  London ,
from 115.20 yen in  New York  yesterday, when it dropped 0.4
percent. The European shared currency traded at $1.4066, from
$1.4048 yesterday, when it depreciated to $1.3970, the weakest
since March 17. The dollar fell to 81.77 yen from 82.01 yen.  Industrial orders in the euro area declined 1.1 percent in
March from the previous month, when they increased 0.5 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey before the European Union’s
statistics office releases the data today.  Debt Crisis  Europe’s debt crisis has deepened as the region’s political
leaders clashed with central bankers after floating the prospect
of extending maturities on Greek bonds. Fitch Ratings yesterday
lowered the outlook on  Belgium ’s credit rating to negative,
following Standard & Poor’s May 20 announcement that Italy’s
debt rating was at risk of a downgrade.  The Greek government has endorsed an accelerated asset-sale
plan and 6 billion euros of budget cuts to win extra aid and
stem a market slide that threatens to swamp the most debt-laden
euro-area nations.  The euro has declined 1.6 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar, yen and
Swiss franc all rose more than 2 percent, the indexes show.  Pound Drops  The pound fell for a third day against the dollar after
Moody’s announced rating reviews for 14 of the 18 U.K. financial
institutions whose debt and deposit ratings assume some support
from the government.  “The possibility that Moody’s may cut the ratings of
British banks is not good news for the U.K.’s financial
industry,” said Takashi Kudo, senior manager of the foreign-
exchange division support center in  Tokyo  at NTT SmartTrade
Inc., a unit of  Japan ’s largest phone company. “This is likely
causing selling of the pound.”  The pound weakened to $1.6117, from $1.6123 yesterday when
it slid 0.7 percent.  New Zealand ’s currency climbed versus the dollar and yen as
company executives said inflation will average 3 percent in two
years, according to a survey for the central bank. Expectations
rose from 2.6 percent in the previous survey in February and are
the highest since the third quarter of 2008.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand will raise  interest rates 
four times next year, helping the so-called kiwi outperform
against a trade-weighted basket of currencies, said  Adrian Foster , head of financial-market research for  Asia  at Rabobank
Groep NV in  Hong Kong .  The New Zealand dollar rose 0.7 percent to 79.58 U.S.
cents, and gained 0.4 percent to 65.06 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 