-- 
European Online Poker Sites Yet to Benefit From U.S. Crackdown

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-05-23T06:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/european-online-poker-sites-yet-to-benefit-from-u-s-crackdown.html
Bwin.party digital entertainment Plc
and other U.K.-based companies offering online poker have yet to
see significant gains from last month’s U.S. Justice Department
crackdown on rival Internet gambling companies, according to
company executives and industry analysts.  Founders of Pokerstars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker
were among 11 people charged by the U.S. on April 15 with
offenses including bank fraud,  money laundering  and illegal
gambling. Bwin’s shares soared 30 percent on the first trading
day after the announcement as investors speculated it would gain
players who would have previously tried for higher-stakes games
with U.S. competitors.  “There was huge excitement in the market; a lot of the
problems in poker have been due to PokerStars,” said James Hollins, an online betting-industry analyst with Evolution
Group. “But they’ve spent the past few years recycling a huge
amount of the U.S. money in Europe, and the returns have been
enormous. They’ve still got lots and lots of money, and a fair
bit of brand power.”  PokerStars lost 29 percent of its players after it had to
stop offering online poker to Americans, and Full Tilt Poker
decreased 36 percent, comparing May 8-14 with April 1-14,
according to  PokerScout , a Las Vegas-based website that monitors
poker traffic.  Still, Bwin.party’s PartyPoker site only gained 1 percent,
and its Ongame system lost 10 percent. Microgaming, a system
used by  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , lost 5 percent, and 888 Holdings Plc’s
poker site increased 3 percent, PokerScout said.  Poker Traffic  PokerStars and Full Tilt Poker remain overwhelmingly the
world’s biggest Internet poker sites, though world poker traffic
is down 16 percent over the same period a year earlier,
according to PokerScout.  Bwin.party executives said it had an “encouraging” 33
percent gain in average daily new player signups in April’s
second half over the first.  “We think it represents a meaningful, albeit small, first
step towards returning our poker business to growth,” Co-Chief
Executive  Jim Ryan  told analysts May 6. He said it was too early
to assess the full impact, as PokerStars and Full Tilt still
have a “formidable presence” in  Europe .  PokerStars and Full Tilt are still so big, players know
they can get the game of their choice at the stakes they want at
any time, according to Dan Stewart, owner of PokerScout.  “PokerStars has a $1 million guaranteed tournament,” he
said. “PartyPoker can’t match that kind of turnout.”  PokerScout, PartyPoker  PokerScout data on May 20 showed PokerStars had more than
six times as many online cash players as PartyPoker, the third-
biggest poker site. Full Tilt had almost three times as many.  PokerStars, based on the  Isle of Man , Ireland’s Full Tilt
Poker, and Absolute Poker of  Costa Rica  have agreed to return
funds owed to U.S. customers and can continue to solicit non-
U.S. customers.  The Internet poker market was $5.1 billion last year, 7.1
percent higher than 2009, according to U.K.-based H2 Gambling
Capital, which supplies data on the industry. The global online
gambling market now is about $30 billion.  The indictment and a related civil complaint filed by U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office seek at least $3 billion in
money laundering penalties and forfeiture from the poker
companies and the defendants.  Marketing Spend  “Those figures would put a significant dent into their
ability to fund such aggressive marketing,” said Gavin Kelleher, an online gambling analyst for Dublin-based  Goodbody
Stockbrokers .  The mixed results came even though the companies stepped up
promotions after what U.S. poker players now call Black Friday
on April 15. Ladbrokes added new daily free rolls, new
tournaments, and briefly had a $675 “welcome” bonus, according
to spokesman Ciaran O’Brien.  Chief executives of William Hill and gambling  software
company  Playtech say they didn’t expect a quick payoff.  “Certain monies made in the U.S. by certain companies will
now invest their money in Europe,” Playtech’s Mor Weizer said
in an April 28 telephone interview. “We don’t expect them to go
away soon.”  William Hill’s Ralph Topping told analysts April 21, “no
major change, and we wouldn’t expect that it would be in the
short term.”  Still, gains for the European online gambling companies may
be in the future. A conviction could cost PokerStars and Full
Tilt their Italian and French licenses, and might hamper their
attempts to gain approval in other European countries, said
David Jennings, an analyst with Dublin-based Davy.  “I think this story is going to take a while to play
out,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  