-- 
European Stocks Sink as Debt Concern Deepens; Ryanair Slumps

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-23T16:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/european-index-futures-sink-as-debt-crisis-deepens-commerzbank-may-slide.html
European stocks dropped to a one-
month low after Spain’s ruling party suffered its worst election
defeat in 30 years and  Standard & Poor’s  warned it may downgrade
Italy’s debt.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest bank, and Italy’s
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  led a selloff in financial shares, both
falling more than 1.5 percent.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  plunged 5.3
percent after the German lender announced a 5.3 billion-euro
($7.4 billion) share sale. Airlines tumbled after  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  reported earnings and a volcanic eruption in
 Iceland  threatened to disrupt trans-Atlantic flights.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropped 1.7 percent to
274.78 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, erasing its gain for
the year. The gauge fell last week after Greek 10-year bond
yields climbed to a record and Fitch Ratings cut Greece’s credit
rating to B+, four notches below investment grade.  “Whilst the euro-area outlook deteriorates, the general
buoyancy of financial markets has also disappeared in the last
few days,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate
and institutional treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in  London .
“It seems this week will be pivotal to the immediate future of
the structure of euro-zone debt, with announcements and further
downgrades possible through the week.”  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index of shares in the euro zone
retreated 2.1 percent to 2,794.26, for its biggest two-day drop
since March.  Euro Declines  The euro touched a record low against the Swiss franc and
reached its lowest in a week against the dollar after Spain’s
Socialist Party suffered a defeat in local elections as voters
punished Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s party for
soaring unemployment and spending cuts.  The 17-nation currency also fell after S&P on May 20 cut
Italy’s credit-rating outlook to negative from stable, citing
slowing economic growth and “diminished” prospects for a
reduction of government debt. Italy’s Treasury said in a
statement from Rome that it will “intensify” structural
changes in the economy and push ahead with measures to balance
the budget by 2014.  Italy’s  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  tumbled 3.3 percent, the largest
drop of the 18 western European benchmarks, as 27 companies
including  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Intesa Sanpaolo traded without the right
to their latest dividend. Spain’s benchmark IBEX Index retreated
1.4 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 2 percent.  European Markets  National benchmark indexes retreated in all 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 1.9 percent and
France’s CAC 40 Index dropped 2.1 percent, dragged lower by
 Total SA (FP)  as the  oil company  traded without the right to its
latest dividend. Germany’s DAX Index retreated 2 percent.  European services and manufacturing growth slowed more in
May than economists had forecast, a report from London-based
Markit Economic showed today, suggesting that the region’s
economy is struggling to maintain momentum amid surging energy
costs and tougher government austerity measures.  Santander declined 1.7 percent to 7.77 euros in  Madrid .
Intesa, Italy’s second-biggest bank, dropped 2.8 percent to 1.69
euros. Bank of Ireland Plc retreated 5.4 percent to 20.3 euro
cents in Dublin.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  sank 3 percent to 10.53 euros after S&P
downgraded the counterparty credit rating for France’s third-
largest lender to A+/A-1 from AA-/A-1+, saying the bank has a
“significant sensitivity” to Greece’s creditworthiness and
economic prospects.  Commerzbank lost 5.3 percent to 3.74 euros in  Frankfurt 
after announcing plans to raise capital by selling new shares to
help repay state aid. Germany’s second-biggest bank will sell
2.44 billion new shares at 2.18 euros apiece. Shareholders will
be allowed to subscribe to 10 new shares for every 11 already
held from May 24 to June 6, the company said.  Icelandic Volcano  Ryanair retreated 5.3 percent to 3.36 euros as Europe’s
biggest discount airline said it will cut capacity for the first
time in its history next winter as higher fuel costs threaten to
render swathes of the network unprofitable.  The airline said annual profit will be “similar” to last
year’s amid slower growth in demand. The airline still reported
a 26 percent jump in full-year adjusted profit after taxes to
401 million euros.  Airlines also retreated as Britain’s weather agency said
that ash from the volcanic eruption that began on May 21 under
Europe’s largest glacier, Vatnajokull, may reach the U.K. as
early as tonight, threatening trans-Atlantic air traffic.  Predictive charts on the U.K. Met Office website show ash
from the Grimsvotn volcano stretching south from Iceland as far
as the western isles of Scotland by midnight tonight, mainly at
lower altitudes.  Air France, EasyJet  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group slumped 4.5 percent to 11.46 euros in
Paris trading, while EasyJet Plc lost 4.9 percent to 345.1
pence. Lufthansa, Europe’s biggest airline by sales, sank 3.5
percent to 15.03 euros.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  led a selloff
in commodity producers as base metals fell in London and crude
oil tumbled in  New York . Anglo American declined 4.1 percent to
2,830.5 pence,  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  lost 3.9 percent to 1,160 pence
and Shell dropped 2.3 percent to 2,095 pence.  Copper, Metals Slide  Copper dropped the most in two weeks on the London Metal
Exchange as figures showed weaker manufacturing growth in  China ,
the world’s biggest consumer of the metal. Crude oil fell after
the dollar rose to a nine-week high against the euro.  British Land Co. declined 2.8 percent to 576 pence. The
U.K.’s second-largest real-estate investment trust posted a 26
percent drop in full-year profit to 840 million pounds ($1.4
billion) after the company’s shopping centers and office
buildings appreciated at a slower rate.  Ericsson AB lost 3 percent to 91.95 kronor after BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research lowered its recommendation to
“underperform” from “neutral,” which said expectations for
earnings in coming quarters may be too high.  Pandora A/S, the Danish maker of charm bracelets, extended
last week’s drop, sinking 11 percent to 178 kroner. The stock
fell 22 percent on May 19 after first-quarter sales missed most
estimates, hurt by weakness in Australia and  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  