-- 
European Commercial Property Deals to Outpace U.S. as Banks Divest Assets

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/european-commercial-property-deals-to-rise-as-banks-sell-assets.html
Investors will buy and sell more
commercial real estate in  Europe  than anywhere else in the world
this year as banks dispose of riskier properties and purchasers
find it easier to borrow money, DTZ Group Plc said.  European transactions will probably rise 20 percent to $164
billion, the London-based property broker said in a report
today, citing surveys of banks and investors that own more than
$1 trillion of assets or loans. Sales in  Asia  will probably be
little changed at $158 billion, while U.S. deals will rise 9
percent to $50 billion.  Investors have earmarked about $140 billion to spend on
European real estate during the next three years and most of
those surveyed by DTZ said borrowing has become easier, the firm
said. Though there currently isn’t enough available credit to
cover all the property debt maturing through 2013, the shortfall
narrowed by 6 percent since November after prices recovered,
banks made provisions for bad loans and new lenders such as
insurers entered the market  “Bridging the funding gap may not be as difficult as
originally anticipated by many,” said Magali Marton, head of
research for Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  at DTZ.  While 80 percent of banks surveyed said they have dealt
with delinquent loans tied to prime properties, most haven’t
addressed bad debt tied to lower quality buildings in less
desirable locations. Most respondents said they expect sales of
distressed non-prime properties to accelerate, and 89 percent
said that more of it will be put on the market in 2012.  Sixty-four percent of investors surveyed said they had no
difficulty finding non-prime properties to buy and 58 percent
said obtaining new acquisition finance isn’t a problem.  DTZ surveyed lenders with real estate loans totaling $334
billion and investors that own or manage assets valued at $708
billion. The firm conducted the survey in  March and April .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 