-- 
Dollar Gains Versus Most-Traded Counterparts as Stocks Tumble; Euro Drops

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-23T21:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/euro-declines-to-one-week-low-on-concern-european-debt-crisis-will-deepen.html
The dollar rose versus all of its 16
most-traded peers as deepening concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis will worsen sent stocks tumbling and Wall Street’s
so-called fear gauge to the highest level in two months.  The euro tumbled to a record low against the Swiss franc
and dropped to the weakest level in two months versus the
greenback as  Italy  faced a possible credit-rating cut and
Spain’s ruling party was routed in local voting. Australia’s
currency was among the worst performers versus the  U.S. dollar 
after a Chinese manufacturing gauge fell to a 10-month low.  “We’ve moved a notch above looking at Portugal, Greece and
Ireland and are evaluating prospects for what are the relatively
stronger nations of Spain and Italy,” said  Andrew Wilkinson ,
senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut. “In terms of impact on the commodity-
sensitive currencies, Chinese manufacturing is up on the agenda
as an uncomfortable fundamental for the bigger picture.”  The dollar strengthened 0.8 percent against the euro to
$1.4048 at 5 p.m. in New York, from $1.4161 on May 20. It gained
as much as 1.4 percent to touch $1.3970, the strongest level
since March 17. The greenback appreciated 0.4 percent versus the
yen to 82.01, from 81.70.  The euro slipped 0.1 percent to 1.2415 francs after earlier
reaching 1.2324, the weakest level since its 1999 debut. It
dropped 0.4 percent to 115.20 yen, from 115.69 yen on May 20.  Decline for Week  Europe’s shared currency declined 0.6 percent over the past
week, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The
greenback gained 0.2 percent and the franc, perceived as a
refuge currency, was up 0.4 percent.  The VIX, the index of market volatility nicknamed the fear
gauge, climbed as much as 15 percent to 20, the highest level
since March 23. Stocks dropped, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index losing 1.2 percent. Implied volatility among currencies of
the Group of Seven nations jumped 2.7 percent, the biggest
increase on a closing basis since March 16.  Bonds tumbled in Ireland,  Portugal , Greece, Spain and
Italy, pushing yields up. The 10-year Greek security’s yield
climbed to 17.07 percent, and the Irish 10-year yield touched
10.88 percent, both euro-era records.  “The  bond market  is the only language that policy makers
will listen too,” said  Axel Merk , president and chief
investment officer of  Palo Alto , California-based Merk
Investments LLC in a Bloomberg Television interview on “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “Once the bond market imposes austerity
on the country, that’s when policy makers follow through.”  Bailout Renegotiation  Wolfgang Franz, head of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
council of economic advisers, said the euro region’s permanent
rescue fund needs to be renegotiated. He spoke at a conference
in Vienna.  Spanish voters punished Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s party yesterday for soaring unemployment and spending
cuts that aimed at shielding the nation from Europe’s debt
crisis. S&P on May 20 cut Italy’s credit-rating outlook to
negative from stable, citing slowing economic growth and
“diminished” prospects for a reduction of government debt.  The  European Central Bank  will accept  Greece ’s government
bonds as collateral in its refinancing operations as long as the
country’s consolidation program stays on track,  Ewald Nowotny ,
an ECB Governing Council member, told reporters in Vienna today.
Officials said last week it may not be able to take Greek
sovereign debt as collateral if bond maturities are extended.  ‘Considerable’ Risks  “With the authorities still seemingly divided over how to
proceed with the debt crisis, there remain considerable short-
term risks for the euro,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of
currency research Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London 
wrote in a client note today.  The euro may extend its decline against the dollar as long
as it trades below a so-called key resistance level of $1.4373,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Resistance is an area on a
chart where sell orders may be clustered.  The yen was one of the best performers after the dollar
among the most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg as the
preliminary purchasing managers’ index for  China  compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 51.1 in May. It
was 51.8 in April. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  The Australian dollar slid 1.5 percent to $1.0505 and
touched $1.0479, the weakest since April 19. It fell 1.1 percent
to 86.13 yen. China is  Australia ’s biggest trading partner.  ‘Counts as Quality’  “The dollar counts as quality today, and it’s more of a
risk-aversion trade than a safe haven in anticipation that this
European problem is going to take quite a while to solve, with
an outcome that is quite uncertain,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head
of U.S. currency sales in New York at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. “China is obviously a huge catalyst in terms of the world
economy.”  The  Mexican peso  fell the most in more than a week versus
the greenback as speculation Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
cut demand for emerging-market assets. The currency slid as much
as 0.9 percent, the most on an intraday basis since May 13, to
11.7523 per dollar before trading at 11.7443, down 0.8 percent.  South Africa’s rand was the worst performer against the
dollar among its most-traded counterparts, sinking 1.6 percent
to 7.0286 per greenback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  