-- 
Europe Wants to Keep IMF Top Job as Economic Clout Wanes: Chart of the Day

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-23T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/europe-wants-to-keep-imf-top-job-as-economic-clout-wanes-chart-of-the-day.html
As European policy makers aim to keep
their hold on the International Monetary Fund’s top job, changes
to the fund’s voting power may support those who want to see the
first non-European managing director.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that  China ’s voting share at the
Washington-based lender is falling further behind its relative
economic size. The Asian nation currently has 3.8 percent of the
fund’s votes, and about 13 percent of global economic output.
The combined voting share of  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. is
about 14 percent, with the three European countries responsible
for about 10 percent of the world’s output.  Proposed changes at the IMF would see China’s voting share
rise to 6.1 percent, while the combined U.K., German and French
shares would fall to 13.4 percent.  The IMF has been led by a European since its founding in
1946 while the U.S. had the top job at the  World Bank .  “Many people believe this convention that Europeans should
head the fund and U.S. citizens should head the World Bank is an
anachronism,” said  Edwin Truman , a former U.S. Federal Reserve
and Treasury official who is now a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics.  Truman also rejected the argument that a European would be
best to help the IMF handle that continent’s banking and
sovereign-debt turmoil, saying “I don’t think the Europeans
were saying during the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s
that the IMF should be led by a Latin American.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 