-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Slaine Says He Recorded Meetings With Zvi Goffer for FBI

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-23T23:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ex-galleon-trader-slaine-jury-hear-recordings-of-him-talking-with-goffer.html
David Slaine, a former Galleon Group
LLC employee who pleaded guilty to criminal charges, told jurors
in the  insider-trading  trial of Zvi Goffer that he wore a body
wire to help gather evidence for the government.  Slaine, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in December 2009, testified today in federal court in
 Manhattan  that he cooperated with federal agents for about 2 1/2
years to try to avoid prison. Prosecutors played recordings of
meetings in which Slaine, pretending to be considering a
position with Goffer’s firm Incremental Capital LLC, tried to
learn the source of Goffer’s tips.  “Obviously the guy’s wired into somebody or he is
somebody,” Slaine said to Goffer in a secretly recorded meeting
in December 2007. “He’s talking to some lawyer, he’s talking to
some banker -- he’s talking to somebody.”  Prosecutors claim Goffer’s source was Jason Goldfarb, a
 Brooklyn , New York, lawyer who got tips from Brien Santarlas and
Arthur Cutillo, two former lawyers in the New York office of the
firm Ropes & Gray LLP. Santarlas, who has pleaded guilty and is
also cooperating with the government, completed his testimony
today. Goldfarb and Cutillo have also pleaded guilty.  Fired From Galleon  Goffer, 34, founded Incremental Capital after he was fired
from Galleon, his lawyer, William Barzee, said in his opening
statement to jurors May 18. Goffer is being tried with his
brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael Kimelman, 40, both
former traders at Incremental.  Slaine, who said he faces as much as 25 years in prison
when he’s sentenced, testified that he became friends with Craig Drimal, another former Galleon trader charged with insider
trading, in the late 1980s or early 1990s.  Drimal pleaded guilty last month to conspiracy and five
counts of  securities fraud . Slaine testified that Drimal went
broke at least twice and that he lent him money. At one time in
their friendship the men spoke as many as five or six times a
day, he said.  All three men are charged with securities fraud and
conspiracy, stemming from one of three overlapping rings tied to
Galleon, prosecutors said. They face as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of fraud.  “They gave me a job to do,” Slaine testified on cross-
examination, referring to the government agents in charge of his
case. “I listened to them and did what they told me.”  Santarlas testified earlier today that he never met Zvi
Goffer, who was known to him, through Goldfarb, only as “the
trader.”  Santarlas told jurors last week that Goldfarb gave him two
envelopes with $25,000 and $7,500 for his tips on deals
involving 3Com Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  