-- 
Mexico’s Carstens Says Emerging-Market Nations Need a Larger Role in IMF

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-23T23:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/mexico-s-carstens-plans-to-announce-his-proposals-for-imf-policies-today.html
Mexico ’s Agustin Carstens, the
governor of the country’s central bank and a candidate to head
the  International Monetary Fund , said emerging-market nations
need a larger role in designing and implementing the IMF’s
policies.  “While emerging markets representation has been
strengthened in global economic decision making, it is
imperative that they have a stronger voice,” Carstens wrote in
a letter to the multilateral lenders’ board distributed today by
Mexico’s central bank.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s decision last week to resign as
president of the IMF to defend himself against criminal charges
including attempted rape has revived calls from emerging market
governments for  Europe  to relinquish its 65-year hold on the
job. Officials from  Australia  to  Brazil  are urging a selection
based on “merit” rather than nationality.  “To remain relevant, the fund will have to deliver on
improving the international monetary system,” Carstens wrote in
the letter, without providing further details of what
improvements he would implement. He also said poorer nations
need “special attention” from the IMF.  The Washington-based fund plans to complete its search for
a managing director by June 30.  ‘Open Selection’  “The selection should be open,” Carstens said today as
the first formal candidate to replace Strauss-Kahn. Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan yesterday said the position shouldn’t be
“limited” to any one nation or continent.  Mexico’s Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said Carstens,
who was deputy managing director at the IMF from 2003 to 2006
and a one-time finance minister of Mexico, has all the required
credentials to lead the multilateral lender.  “We need to recognize the role and greater stature of
emerging countries,” Carstens, 52, said in an interview with
Mexico City-based Radio Formula.  Earlier today, Carstens said emerging markets should unite
behind a common candidate for the IMF post.  “The challenge of the emerging countries is that we can
unite around a name, and this person can put up a fight against
the Europeans,” Carstens said in an interview broadcast on
Radio Formula.  ‘National Interests’  “It’s a difficult process because there are a lot of
national interests,” Carstens said on Radio Formula.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said his
government will look closely at all candidates to become the new
IMF head before deciding whom to support.  “We will examine all applications,” Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia, when asked whether Brazil would support
Mexico’s nomination of Carstens. “I want to know his
proposals,” Mantega said, adding that Brazil will support
someone who shares its views.  The ideal candidate to lead the Washington-based lender
would be someone with experience regardless of nationality and a
current or one-time Group of 20 finance minister or central bank
president, Mantega said.  Voting Power  Carstens, who has a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Chicago  and is a Chicago Cubs fan, led Mexico’s
response to the global financial crisis as finance minister.  In 2009, Mexico was the first nation to request a flexible
 credit line  from the IMF, a mechanism to help support economies
seeking strong macroeconomic policies.  Mexico leads a group of eight countries with 117,045 votes,
or  4.66 percent  of the total IMF ballot base, according to the
multilateral lender’s website. The group is the seventh largest,
measured by voting power, behind the U.S.,  Japan ,  Germany ,
 France , the U.K. and 10 nations led by  Belgium .  As chief economist for Mexico’s central bank from 1994 to
1999, he co-wrote a paper in which he pushed for market
participants to have broader access to central bank data. The
bank this year began publishing the minutes of policy meetings
for the first time.  Flexible Credit  The IMF renewed and boosted Mexico’s flexible credit line
to $72 billion in January, replacing a $48 billion facility.
Mexico first sought the line in 2009 to bolster confidence in
the economy, which contracted the most since 1995 that year.  Colombia and  Poland  were the only other two nations to
enter similar agreements with the IMF, which the lender said
were reserved for nations with strong economic policies.  The economy grew 5.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in
10 years, and may expand as much as 5 percent this year,
Carstens said May 11.  Policy makers boosted their forecast for growth this year
without changing their forecast for inflation of 3 percent to 4
percent. Annual inflation slowed to 3.36 in April, near the
five-year low set in March and half that of Brazil. The central
bank has a target of 3 percent inflation.  Mexico has been buying as much as $600 million in dollars
monthly through dollar options since March 2010, boosting
foreign reserves rose to a record $125.8 billion this year,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net  