-- 
Falkland Islands Abound in Slumbering Seals, Penguins, Foxholes

-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 
2011-05-23T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/falkland-islands-abound-in-slumbering-seals-penguins-foxholes.html
Lorraine McGill scanned the South
Atlantic Ocean from her window, the morning sun shining in her
brown eyes.  “Sometimes they come right up to the garden, and you find
the little fellows burrowing under the plants,” she said about
the playful penguins near her house in the  Falkland Islands .  The view wasn’t always so tranquil. She recalled an
incident three decades ago when an Argentine soldier aimed a gun
at her and “gave me such a fright.”  Such contradictions aren’t unusual in the Falklands, a
British territory off the east coast of  Argentina .  Abounding in wildlife, this cold, remote and sparsely
populated (about 2,500 residents) archipelago about the size of
 Connecticut  was visited by Charles Darwin during his Beagle
voyage. Amidst the flora and fauna, though, are decaying signs
of the 1982 war between Argentina and the U.K. for control of
the islands.  Lorraine and I were on Carcass Island in the archipelago’s
northwest section. She and her husband, Rob McGill, both
Falkland natives, are the owners and only year-round residents
of the 4,680-acre island. They’ve opened their sheep farm for
visitors, an indication that tourism has supplanted agriculture
as their main source of income.  Rob says the gentoo penguin colony in Leopard Beach is his
favorite part of the island, and I can see why.  Slumbering Seals  The area is protected by 15- to 20-foot-high dunes covered
in tussac grass. It was molting season when I visited and the
colony was blanketed in snowy feathers covered by a paste of
penguin droppings.  Penguins belly-flopped down the dunes and I followed their
paths to a sandy cliff overlooking the beach. Caracaras, with
wing spans of almost three feet, screamed and hovered inches
from my head. The tussac was so high that it hid a group of
slumbering elephant seals. As I stood there, reluctant to
disturb their dreams of yummy squid, tiny tussac birds used
their elongated snouts as landing pads.  From there I head to  Sea Lion Island  in the southeast
corner of the Falklands. It’s home to Sea Lion Lodge, often
called the southernmost hotel under British domain. Beyond,
there is only open ocean to Antarctica.  Near the water’s edge, I hear loud snorting coming from
dozens of sea lions that blend in with the rocks they’re resting
on. They are as curious about me as I am of them, tilting their
heads for a better look, sniffing the air for my scent and using
their flippers to scratch above their eyes.  Ship Memorial  The island is also home to a memorial for the HMS
Sheffield, which was sunk during the Falklands War. It contains
a steel cross in a horseshoe-shaped rock enclosure, a few
plaques and a glass box.  The monument sits on an oceanside cliff, surrounded by a
rockhopper penguin colony. Yellow and black feathers spike from
their heads and they have sunglass-like bands around their eyes,
making them look like avian versions of Rod Stewart.  Because of lingering resentment over losing the Falklands,
which Argentina calls Islas Malvinas, the country restricts
travel to the islands.  Last year, Argentina approved stricter registration
requirements for  cruise ships  traveling from its shore to the
islands. Argentina also allows only one flight per month to the
Falklands. It goes from Rio Gallegos in southeastern Argentina
to the Falklands so veterans can visit the graves of fallen
comrades there.  On my flight I met Falklands War veteran Luis Aparicio.  “We were just conscripts,” he said. “Think of it like
the people in your country who went to  Vietnam .”  Rotting Blanket  A few hours later I was walking around the cemetery with
Ken Greenland, who owns nearby Darwin Lodge.  Names of the 649 Argentine soldiers who died in the war are
listed on memorial plaques, but most bodies were never
identified. Inside a nearby foxhole we see a faded, rotting
blanket that was used to keep a soldier warm.  The setting sun cast a golden tinge on the hills cascading
toward the settlement of Goose Green. Cold drizzle fell as we
approached a lone cross, the grave of British Royal Air Force
pilot Nick Taylor. Suddenly a rainbow appeared, one of many I
saw during my visit.  On my last full day nature photographer Derek Pettersson
gave me a tour of Mount Longdon, which is still dotted with
shelters used by Argentine soldiers during the war. Some are
made of wood and tin, while others are slab-shaped boulders
forming Flintstones-like houses. Gun mounts rust near the
shelters, but I’m struck most by the scattered sneakers and
leather boots once worn by the soldiers who fought there.  Crosses, Candles  The mountain summit is covered with crosses, plaques,
candles and offerings. The moment we reach it, the skies break
into a torrent of sleet. We hide under the rocky outcroppings
but my legs stick out and get soaked.  As we headed back to the capital of Stanley, Derek paused
and said, “I prefer wildlife tours because I think that is what
the islands should be about.”  Americans heading to the Falkland Islands can connect
through Santiago,  Chile , via  LAN airline . But there’s only one
flight per week, and it’s on Saturday. The return flight to
Santiago has the same once-a-week schedule.  For ideas on where to stay and what to see, visit the
 Falkland Islands Tourism Board  website, which also has
information on government-run flights between the islands.  It can be complicated to coordinate flights, hotels
sightseeing on your own.  Ladatco , a tour company based in
Coconut Grove,  Florida , specializes in the Falklands.  (Michael Luongo writes on travel for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Luongo at  mtluongo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 