-- 
FIFA’s Sepp Blatter Says He’s Determined to End Soccer’s Corruption Claims

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-23T11:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/fifa-s-sepp-blatter-says-he-s-determined-to-end-soccer-s-corruption-claims.html
FIFA president Sepp Blatter said he’s
had first-hand experience of corruption threatening soccer’s
governing body, and will try to “stop once and for all” the
alleged graft should he be re-elected to a fourth term.  Blatter, 75, has been president of FIFA for almost 12 of
his 36 years with the Zurich-based organization. In the last six
months, FIFA has faced allegations of possible corruption in the
bidding for the 2018 and 2022  World Cup  hosts.  He said someone attempted to bribe him when he was general
secretary, a post he held until 1998, by putting an envelope
containing cash into his jacket pocket. He declined to identify
the person in an interview last week, and said the money was
returned the next day.  “I couldn’t refuse because he put it in my pocket,”
Blatter said, unbuttoning the golden buttons of his navy sports
jacket to reveal a pocket. “I came here to the home of FIFA and
gave it to the finance director and he put this money on the
account of the Swiss Bank Corp.”  Blatter has been meeting in the past few weeks with some of
the 208 national federations that will decide on June 1 whether
he or challenger Mohamed Bin Hammam, a Qatari who’s responsible
for soccer in  Asia , will lead the organization until 2015.  FIFA has revenue of more than $1 billion a year, and
questions have been raised in a U.K. parliamentary committee
about the conduct of its officials.  Allegations  Former English Football Association chairman  David Triesman 
told Parliament that four senior FIFA members asked for favors
in exchange for their votes during the race to host the 2018
World Cup, which was won by  Russia . The Sunday Times newspaper
claimed that two others were paid $1.5 million to choose World
Cup 2022 host Qatar. Two others were suspended last year.  The allegations have followed Blatter on his global tour.
Last weekend in  South Africa , he banged a table with his fist
while saying FIFA wasn’t a corrupt organization.  The public perception of FIFA “hurts me,” Blatter said,
speaking to a small group of reporters in a conference room
called ‘Fair Play’ on the first floor of FIFA’s $200 million
 glass-clad Zurich headquarters .  FIFA opened its new home in 2006 saying its design would
“allow light to shine through the building and create the
transparency we all stand for.”  Blatter said the organization may have to improve its
communication, particularly when it comes to dealing with
impropriety. He’s pledged a “zero tolerance’ approach to
governance and compliance within FIFA if he’s re-elected. He
says there are people inside soccer’s governing body that ‘don’t
deserve to be.” The 2001 collapse of marketing partner ISL
revealed some FIFA officials had been paid bribes for decades.
An out of court settlement was agreed last year.  Sponsors’ Concerns  Corruption has affected FIFA’s relationship with sponsors
that contribute much of the $4 billion the governing body gets
from its World Cup. In October Sony Corp.’s head of sponsorship
said the electronics maker preferred to be associated with the
tournament and not the governing body. Sportswear maker Adidas
AG in statement said “the negative tenor of public debates is
neither good for the sport of football nor for FIFA as an
institution and its partners.”  Next week FIFA will meet the former Qatari bid employee who
made the allegations about the country’s World Cup process.
Qatar today said the bribe allegations are “completely false”
and based on “worthless” evidence. FIFA is also awaiting
details from the U.K. about Triesman’s allegations.  Blatter conceded that whatever the results of the
investigation FIFA needs to urgently deal with damage corruption
allegations have done to it.  “We shall find a solution to handle the past in order that
we can stop once and forever all these images and damaging
things about FIFA,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 