-- 
Fifth Third Reviews Hybrid Securities Trading After 54-Fold Volume Surge

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-05-23T17:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/fifth-third-reviews-hybrid-securities-trading-after-54-fold-volume-surge.html
Fifth Third Bancorp. (FITB)  is reviewing
trading last week in hybrid securities that the bank said it
plans to redeem after they plunged the most in two years on
volume that surged to 54 times the prior year’s average.  Fifth Third’s $400 million of 8.875 percent trust preferred
securities fell 3.7 percent to $25.68 on May 18, before the
Cincinnati-based bank released a regulatory filing at 11:29 a.m.
saying it would repurchase the shares at $25 plus a pro-rated
dividend.  “Fifth Third is reviewing the facts and the trading
activity surrounding this announcement to determine if any
further actions would be appropriate,” spokeswoman Debra DeCourcy said today in an e-mailed statement.  The bank informed the trustee, Wilmington Trust, on May 16
of its intention to redeem the 8.875 percent securities next
month, DeCourcy said. Fifth Third then announced to the public
through a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and a news release.  Megen Morris, a spokeswoman for Wilmington Trust, didn’t
return two telephone calls seeking comment.  Nasdaq Stock Market halted trading in the hybrids about 4
minutes after the regulatory filing was issued. Nasdaq allowed
trading to resume the next day, according to its  records .  Volume in the so-called TruPS between 9:30 a.m. and 11:20
a.m. on May 18 was 2.03 million, compared with a daily average
of 37,145 trades in the previous year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Within 20 minutes of the May 18 opening,
107,194 shares had changed hands, compared with 1,779 shares
over the same period the day before, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Volume Spikes’  “We have a pretty deep set of laws and cases where some
kind of insider trading was alleged, and the warning signs are
usually volume spikes or price gaps up or down,” said  Bruce
Weber , a professor of information management at the  London
Business School  who teaches about U.S.  insider trading  law.
“This has all the tell-tale signs.”  A test for regulators investigating potential insider
trading is whether an investor using only publicly available
information could have inferred what was happening regarding the
price movement, Weber said. The infrequent trading in the Fifth
Third TruPS will make the investigation more difficult because
they most likely are bought and sold through market makers and
dealers, he said. “It looks very suspicious,” Weber said.  The SEC regulates how companies communicate with investors
and other market participants. In 2000, the agency passed
Regulation FD, standing for fair disclosure, barring officers
from intentionally slipping market-moving news to favored
investors before general dissemination. The rule was part of a
package of measures aimed at curbing insider trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net  or
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 