-- 
Food-Price Volatility to Persist on Supply-Demand Mismatch, UN’S FAO Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-23T13:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/food-price-volatility-to-persist-on-supply-demand-mismatch-un-s-fao-says.html
Agricultural-commodity price swings
will persist in coming years because of a mismatch between
supply and demand, the  United Nations ’ Food and Agricultural
 Organization  said.  “We expect prices actually to remain volatile for the next
few years,” Hafez Ghanem, assistant director-general at the
FAO, said in Brussels today. “Volatility has increased since
2005-06 and we expect prices to continue to be high and
volatile.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index rallied 6.4
percent since May 13 as European farmers contend with the driest
growing conditions in more than three decades, drought threatens
crops in  China  and flooding and heat ruin harvests in the U.S.
The gauge of eight commodities is 73 percent higher than a year
ago and the UN said May 5 that global food prices rose to near a
record last month, adding to inflation that has spurred at least
two dozen central banks and the  European Central Bank  to raise
 interest rates  this year.  Costlier food also contributed to riots across northern
 Africa  and the Middle East that toppled leaders in Egypt and
 Tunisia  this year.  World food production will have to rise 70 percent by 2050
to feed a population forecast to grow to 9 billion people, the
Rome-based FAO has said.  The rate of yield growth for cereals has slowed to about 1
percent a year from 3 percent a year in the 1960s, while annual
demand is rising at a pace of 2 percent, according to Ghanem.  ‘Tighter’ Markets  “Markets are tighter,” the FAO director said at a food-
security conference in the Belgian capital organized by the
European Economic and Social Committee. “Any shock, from
weather events for example, has a bigger effect on prices.” The
“long-run cause for price volatility in our view is the
mismatch between demand and supply,” he added.  Wheat prices surged last year after drought wiped out crops
in  Russia , prompting the country to ban grain exports.  Price swings for agricultural commodities are also caused
by a growing link with oil as crops are increasingly used to
make fuel, according to Ghanem. The correlation between food
prices and  oil prices  has risen to 80 percent from 50 percent
five years ago, the FAO director said.  “There is really a need to review policies on biofuels,”
Ghanem said. “It doesn’t make sense that today, when maize
prices are 70 percent higher than a year ago, nearly 40 percent
of maize produced in the U.S. goes to ethanol rather than
food,” he said, referring to corn used to make fuel.  A decline in food stocks held by countries and companies
has also contributed to price swings, as well as a lack of
information on production and inventory levels, Ghanem said.  ‘Inadequate’ Information  “There has been inadequate information about what is going
on in the world, what are the production levels, what are the
stock levels,” the FAO director said. “In mid-2006 there were
already signs we were heading to a food crisis, the information
was not credible enough for policy makers to act on.”  A plan by  France , which presides over the Group of 20
nations this year, to create a global information-sharing system
for agriculture is gaining support from G-20 countries, Jean-
Marc Bournigal, director of the cabinet of French Farm Minister
Bruno Le Maire, said at the conference.  The proposal for a shared international database of crop
data and harvest forecasts “is starting to gather consensus,”
Bournigal said.  France is seeking tighter commodity-market rules as it
heads the G-20. Le Maire has been lobbying his G-20 counterparts
in the past months, travelling to Russia, the U.S., China and
 India . Le Maire said last month  Australia  was “reticent” about
any accord on agriculture within the framework of the G-20
because it questioned the legitimacy of the group as a forum to
discuss the subject.  Framework Needed  “We need to improve the working of the futures market,”
Dacian Ciolos, the European Union’s agriculture commissioner,
said at the meeting. “There is maybe a need for more of a
framework for the financial markets, for the  futures markets .”  Volatility in the agricultural commodity markets holds back
farm investment because it reduces farmers’ visibility on future
earnings, according to Ciolos.  France has asked the UN’s  World Food Programme  to develop
proposals for regional food stockpiles that can be used in case
of humanitarian emergencies, in preparation of the G-20 farm
ministers meeting on June 22-23.  The plan isn’t for “buffer stocks to try and control
prices,” Sheila Sisulu, deputy executive director for hunger
solutions at the WFP, said at the conference. “It will not be
subsidized. It will be a last resort for food access.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Brussels at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 