-- 
Forint Drops to 2-Month Low on Euro Debt Concern, Mortgage Plan

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-05-23T15:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/forint-drops-to-2-month-low-on-mortgage-plan-euro-debt-concern.html
The forint dropped to the lowest in
two months as talks between the Hungarian government and lenders
on a plan to fix exchange rates on mortgages added to concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening. Stocks slumped.  The forint dropped 1.3 percent to 218.323 against the Swiss
franc, the weakest level since March 17, by the 5 p.m. close in
Budapest. The Hungarian currency depreciated 0.6 percent against
the euro to 270.35, the lowest since March 23.  Hungarian lenders and the government agreed to temporarily
fix exchange rates on household mortgage loans at 180 forint per
Swiss franc for either three years or three-and-a-half years,
Janos Muller, the chief adviser of the country’s  Banking
Association , said by phone on May 20. A comprehensive deal,
aimed at relieving borrowers from the pressure of mounting
payments, will be announced tomorrow, Muller said. The rate for
euro- and yen-denominated mortgages will also be fixed, Muller
said, without giving a rate.  “The fixing of the  exchange rate  for indebted households
will buy some time but will only postpone the problems into the
future,”  Elisabeth Andreew , strategist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in
Copenhagen, wrote in a research note today. The forint was
weakening because of the mortgage plan, according to Andreew.  The benchmark BUX stock index dropped 0.7 percent to
22,463.57 as OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s biggest lender,
declined 0.8 percent to 5,875 forint.  The forint has weakened 2.2 percent versus the European
common currency this month, the worst among more than 20
emerging-markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary ’s currency slid
5.5 percent against the franc.  Temporary Relief  The mortgage plan may hit the forint, Hungary’s Eurobonds,
bank shares and credit-default swaps offering protection against
a government default, according to Andras Oszlay, an economist
at DZ Bank AG in Budapest. Fixing rates will only temporarily
alleviate the debt burden on households, which will face a jump
in their loan payments from 2014 when the plan runs out, while
hitting bank profits, Oszlay wrote in a research note today.  Strategists at  Unicredit SpA (UCG)  said investors should buy the
forint against the euro as the deal looked a “workable
compromise” crucial to re-ignite bank lending.  Global stocks slumped today as Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist party suffered its worst
defeat in more than 30 years in local elections amid a backlash
over austerity measures. Italy’s credit-rating outlook was
revised to negative from stable by S&P on May 20. Data today
showed  China ’s manufacturing may expand at a slower pace this
month.  “The cut in the Italian outlook is only the icing on the
cake as the Greek and Portuguese problems remain unresolved,”
traders at Commerzbank AG including Peter Karsai wrote in an e-
mail to clients commenting on the forint’s slide versus the
euro. “So the week is starting off on a gloomy note.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  