-- 
Former Minnesota Governor Pawlenty Enters ’12 Republican Presidential Race

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-23T19:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/former-minnesota-governor-pawlenty-enters-12-republican-presidential-race.html
Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  sought to present himself as a Republican presidential
candidate willing to take unpopular stands as he entered the
2012 race today with a speech in Iowa.  Along with an assault on President Barack Obama’s economic
policies, priorities and leadership, Pawlenty said it was a
“time for truth” in U.S. politics and called for shared
sacrifice to help balance the federal budget. That included his
call for an end to federal aid for ethanol production, a subsidy
that benefits Iowa farmers by creating more demand for corn.  “The truth about federal energy subsidies, including
federal subsidies for ethanol, is that they have to be phased
out,” Pawlenty said in Des Moines,  Iowa . “We need to do it
gradually. We need to do it fairly. But we need to do it.”  Pawlenty, 50, promised similar tough talk in appearances
later this week in Florida, New York and  Washington . In Florida,
he said he will say that federal entitlement programs such as
Social Security and Medicare are “on an unsustainable path and
that inaction is no longer an option.” He called for means
testing for Social Security’s annual cost-of-living adjustment,
as well as a gradual increase in the program’s retirement age.  In New York, Pawlenty said he would suggest that no company
is too big to fail.  No More ‘Bailouts’  “I’m going to  New York  City, and I’m going to tell  Wall
Street  that if I’m elected, the era of bailouts, handouts and
carve outs are over,” he said.  Speaking to about 200 people on the rooftop of a state
history building and with Iowa’s capitol as his backdrop,
Pawlenty said he realized the popularity of ethanol subsidies.  “The industry has made large investments, and it wouldn’t
be fair to pull the rug out from under them immediately,” he
said. “But we must face the truth that if we want to invite
more competition, more investment and more innovation into an
industry -- we need to get government out.”  Pawlenty said he knows some of his positions will be
unpopular in some quarters.  “Conventional wisdom says you can’t talk about ethanol in
Iowa or Social Security in  Florida  or financial reform on Wall
Street,” he said.  Iowa Focus  The decision to kick off his bid in his neighboring state
of Iowa underscores its importance to Pawlenty’s campaign. Less
well known than some potential rivals in the Republican race, he
will seek a strong showing in Iowa’s caucuses to build momentum
for his candidacy. The caucuses, scheduled for Feb. 6, will be
the first balloting in next year’s nomination contest.  Another Minnesota Republican, Representative  Michele Bachmann , is scheduled to speak at a party dinner in Des Moines
on May 26, fueling speculation  among party activists  that she
could announce her presidential candidacy then.  Pawlenty also called for a smaller federal government. “If
we want to grow our economy, we need to shrink our government,”
he said. “If we want to create jobs, we need to encourage job
creators. If we want our children to be free to pursue their
dreams, we can’t shackle them with our debts.”  Daniels Decision  Pawlenty’s speech follows yesterday’s announcement by
Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels that he won’t join the Republican
field because of family considerations, as the field of actual
candidates gradually gains some clarity.  In a video released yesterday in advance of his formal
announcement speech, Pawlenty suggested Obama over-promised in
2008 and has had success because of “fancy speeches” and
campaign flourishes.  “I could stand here and tell you that we can solve
America’s debt crisis and fix our economy without making any
tough choices,” he said in his speech. “Fluffy promises of
hope and change don’t buy our groceries, make our mortgage
payments, put gas in our car, or pay for our children’s school
clothes.”  Ken Martin, the Democratic chairman in  Minnesota , told
reporters after the speech that Pawlenty is a “political
chameleon,” as he criticized his home-state record.  “There is nothing in Governor Pawlenty’s record that would
warrant a promotion,” he said.  Today’s speech marks Pawlenty’s 14th visit to Iowa since
November 2008, according to the  IowaPolitics.com  website.  McCain’s List  Pawlenty, who was elected governor in 2002 and served two
terms after spending a decade in Minnesota’s legislature, was on
the short list of prospective running mates for 2008 Republican
presidential nominee  John McCain , who eventually chose then-
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin.  He has built a team of experienced political operatives,
especially in Iowa, including Chuck Larson Jr., a former Iowa
Republican Party chairman, and Eric Woolson, who led the winning
2008 Iowa caucuses campaign for former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee .  In early polling, Pawlenty has trailed most of the
potential Republican field. He received 4 percent in an April
26-May 1 survey by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut .  Daniels’s announcement followed similar decisions to stay
on the sidelines by Huckabee, real estate magnate  Donald Trump 
and Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour.  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  and
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  have both formally announced
their candidacies.  Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts governor considering a
second White House bid, has filed paperwork with the  Federal
Election Commission  to raise money for a potential race, as has
former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania . Other potential
candidates include Palin and Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah
governor and U.S. ambassador to  China .  Herman Cain, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson have declared their candidacies. And
former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-
Republican, has formed an exploratory committee.  “In 2008, President Obama told us he would change America,
and he has,” Pawlenty said near the end of his speech. “In
2012, we will change America again, and this time, it’ll be for
the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  