-- 
Franzen Pleads Guilty to Internet Gambling Charges, Cooperates With U.S.

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-23T18:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/franzen-pleads-guilty-to-internet-gambling-charges-cooperates-with-u-s-.html
Bradley Franzen, accused of helping
to disguise  Internet gambling  payments, pleaded guilty to three
counts, including taking part in conspiracies to commit bank
fraud and money-laundering.  Franzen, 41, of  Illinois  and Costa Rica, was one of 11
people charged with violating U.S. laws prohibiting Internet
gambling in a case filed by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office. Franzen is cooperating with prosecutors, the
office said in a letter.  Franzen told U.S. Magistrate Judge Nathaniel Fox today
that he owns a company that helps merchants process customer
payments. After an Internet poker operator contacted him in 2009
to help handle checks from U.S. customers, he lied to banks and
created fake companies and websites to hide the payments,
Franzen said.  “I knew that U.S. law prohibits this,” Franzen said.  Franzen faces as long as 30 years in prison when he is
sentenced on Aug. 26, Fox said. He can seek a shorter sentence
under his cooperation agreement, prosecutors said. Franzen also
will forfeit an unspecified amount of money earned in the
scheme, Fox said.  Sam Schmidt, Franzen’s lawyer, declined to comment.  Bharara’s office on April 15 announced an expanded a
indictment against the founders of PokerStars, based on the  Isle
of Man ; Full Tilt Poker, based in Ireland; and Costa Rica-based
Absolute Poker.  The companies are accused of using fraudulent means to
circumvent federal laws and “trick” banks into processing
payments on their behalf. The government seeks at least $3
billion in forfeitures and penalties.  The case is U.S. v. Tzvetkoff, 10-CR-336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  