-- 
French Auditor Faults EDF, GDF Workers’ Committee Operations

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-23T16:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/french-auditor-faults-edf-gdf-workers-committee-operations-1-.html
Electricite de  France  SA and GDF Suez
SA’s gas and power workers’ committee, the country’s richest is
poorly managed and needs an overhaul due to “serious
irregularities,” the state auditing office said.  The  Cour des Comptes  recommended the utilities’ management
have oversight over the fund that manages leisure activities and
complementary medical coverage, according to the probe published
on its  website  today. The auditor also advised changes to
financing of the committee, which collected 470 million euros
($658 million) in 2009 and had about 710 million euros at its
disposal that year.  “Management has deteriorated” and “serious
irregularities continue,” according to the auditor, adding that
high costs incurred by the committee for managing its budget
amount to “financial waste.”  French Industry Minister Eric Besson backs reform of the
committee, according to an official at the ministry who declined
to be named in line with government policy. Management and
unions must make proposals about financing, oversight and
governance, according to the person.  ‘Attack on Unions’  The works committee, which finances leisure activities for
652,000 French energy workers who are mostly current and retired
employees at EDF and  GDF Suez (GSZ) , gets 1 percent of the utilities’
gas and electricity sales in France under a law dating back to
1946. It’s administered by union representatives. The national
audit office previously found a lack of accounting transparency
and excessive operating costs in an investigation  published  in
2007.  The auditor is “biased” and the probe is an “attack on
the unions” infringing on what should be part of negotiations
between labor and management, said Michael Fieschi, head of the
committee, the Caisse Centrale d’Activites Sociales. The report
is “political” and “belittles” the financing of important
social causes for employees, he said in a  video comment  on the
fund’s website.  Representatives of GDF Suez and EDF declined to comment on
the report.  The CCAS made an operating loss of 26 million euros in
2009, according to the auditor, which recommended “swift” and
“in-depth” changes to operations of the committee. One
recommendation is for funds to be collected based on the total
compensation of workers in the industry, a system used at other
French companies.  The committee has made some changes to the organization of
the funds it manages although the new structure is more
complicated that the previous one, according to the auditor.
There’s no oversight from the government, the utilities’
management nor an independent body.  “The reform has not modified decision-making and
management in any tangible way,” according to the report,
adding that the system remains inefficient, opaque and too
loosely controlled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  