-- 
French Open Champion Schiavone Starts With Victory Over America’s Oudin

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-23T10:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/french-open-champion-schiavone-starts-with-victory-over-america-s-oudin.html
Defending champion Francesca Schiavone started her opening round at the  French Open  with a
straight-set win over  Melanie Oudin .  Schiavone, the first Italian to win one of the four tennis
majors, defeated the American 6-2, 6-0 on Court Philippe
Chatrier at  Roland Garros  in Paris.  Oudin, a quarterfinalist at the 2009  U.S. Open , struggled
with her serve from the start against the Italian, who beat
Australia’s Samantha Stosur in last year’s final. Oudin, one of
9 American women in the draw on the Parisian clay courts, is now
1-9 on clay courts this year. The American has dropped to No. 88
in the rankings, after a career-best No. 31 in April last year.  This season, the now fifth-seeded Schiavone has slowly
found the clay-court form that helped her win her first Grand
Slam title. She lost her opening round in Stuttgart, made the
third round in  Madrid , and lost in the quarterfinals in Rome to
Stosur. Schiavone made the semifinals in Brussels last week,
where she was beaten by No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark.  In an interview in Rome, Schiavone said defending her
 French Open  trophy will be “very, very tough. But I know that I
have the quality, and that’s a good step and a way to start. At
the same time, you have to win seven matches. It’s really
long.”  Also in action today is Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic, who plays Thiemo de Bakker of the Netherlands. The
second-ranked Djokovic, unbeaten this season in 37 straight
matches, may take the No. 1 ranking from five-time champion
 Rafael Nadal  of Spain if he makes the final.  Men’s Grand Slam record holder Roger Federer, who won the
title in 2009, meets Spain’s  Feliciano Lopez . The third-ranked
Swiss hasn’t won a major since he clinched a record-extending
16th Grand Slam title at the 2010 Australian Open. Juan Martin del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion, faces Croatia’s Ivo Karlovic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  