-- 
Fusion-Io to Be Worth as Much as $1.17 Billion in Initial Public Offering

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-23T19:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/fusion-io-to-be-worth-as-much-as-1-17-billion-in-initial-public-offering.html
Fusion-io Inc., a maker of flash-
memory technology for companies including Facebook Inc., plans
to sell shares in its initial public offering for $13 to $15
apiece, valuing the company at as much as $1.17 billion.  Fusion-io said it will sell 10.8 million shares along with
an additional 1.54 million to be sold by other stockholders,
according to a regulatory filing today. The stock will trade on
the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker FIO.  The Salt Lake City-based company aims to raise as much as
$212.2 million, up from the $150 million offering announced in
March. The increase follows last week’s IPO of LinkedIn Corp.,
which more than doubled in value on its first day of trading,
even after raising the per-share price. Founded in 2005, Fusion-
io is benefiting from a shift among corporations to flash memory
from traditional storage drives.  Flash has no moving parts and can access data more quickly
than disks, which rely on spinning platters to hold information.
Facebook, owner of the world’s biggest social network, is
Fusion-io’s largest customer, accounting for 47 percent of
revenue in the nine months ended March 31.  Fusion-io has raised more than $110 million in  venture
capital , and it counts Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Wozniak among
its top executives.  Sales Surge  Sales in the first quarter surged fivefold to $67.3
million, from $13.4 million a year earlier, according to the
filing. Assuming the same revenue over the next three quarters
and a $1.17 billion valuation, Fusion-io will be valued at 4.35
times sales, compared with a price-to-sales ratio of about 11
for LinkedIn when its shares started trading.  Fusion-io turned profitable in the first quarter, reporting
net income of $7.04 million, compared with a $6.71 million loss
a year earlier.  The company’s biggest shareholder is venture firm  New
Enterprise Associates , which owns 39 percent of the company.
Lightspeed Venture Partners holds 13 percent, and Chief
Executive Officer David Flynn controls 10 percent.  Fusion-io said in January that it’s shipped more than 15
petabytes of  flash memory  to corporations in the past year --
enough to hold more than 199 years’ worth of continuously played
high-definition video. Fusion-io combines software and memory
chips to speed the rate that server computers can access data.  Its products are sold through  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Dell Inc. The bulk of
Fusion-io’s purchases come from a limited number of partners,
with the 10 largest customers accounting for 91 percent of
revenue in the nine months ended March 31.  “As a consequence of our limited number of customers and
the concentrated nature of their purchases, our quarterly
revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to
quarter and are difficult to estimate,” the company said in
today’s filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  