-- 
Future Capital Partners Working With Natixis to Get $129 Million Debt

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-23T12:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/future-capital-partners-working-with-natixis-to-get-129-million-debt.html
Future Capital Partners Ltd., a
London-based investment firm, said it’s working with  Natixis (KN) 
bank to raise about 80 million pounds ($129 million) in debt for
its planned wheat-to-ethanol plant in northeast  England .  The project in Grimsby already raised 15 million pounds of
equity, and the boutique is looking for 25 million pounds more
from wealthy individuals and companies, it said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The facility, owned by Future Fuels No. 1 LLP, is expected
to cost as much as 175 million pounds. Future Capital said in
February it was finalizing mezzanine finance of 25 million
pounds. Remaining funds have been provided from investors,
including partners and private equity companies.  “We expect to have the equity, mezzanine and 80 million
pounds senior debt all finalized by September, and we’ll break
ground on the plant a matter of weeks after that,” Tim Levy,
chief executive officer of Future Capital, said today by e-mail.  The plant will eventually convert wheat otherwise used for
 animal feed  into about 200 million liters (53 million gallons)
of ethanol a year. This can be blended with gasoline and sold as
a clean vehicle fuel.  Government Support  Britain’s Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation, which came
into effect in April 2008, requires fossil-fuel suppliers to
ensure that from 2010 to 2011 biofuels account for 3.5 percent
of the fuel supplied to the nation’s motorists.  That portion will rise to 5 percent by 2013 to 2014. The
European Union has set a binding minimum target for renewable
fuels to have a 10 percent energy share of the transport fuels
market by 2020.  “The legally mandated growth of the renewable transport
fuel market allows for highly attractive returns, while the
downside protection offered by the tax structure of the
investment makes this a low-risk opportunity,” Levy said in the
statement.  The plant is scheduled to start operating by early 2013 and
be operated by Yorkshire-based Vireol Ltd.  An agreement has already been reached with a global
investment bank with a commodities division, which covers the
purchase of the ethanol over the first 10 years of production.
An agreement has also been signed with Lincolnshire-based
Gleadell Agriculture Ltd. for the supply of wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  