-- 
GE Joins Intel to Advise Obama as Overseas Holdings Expand

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-23T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ge-joins-intel-to-advise-obama-as-overseas-holdings-expand.html
Seven publicly traded U.S.
corporations represented on President Barack Obama’s advisory
council for jobs and competitiveness -- including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  -- have devoted a growing pool of
their non-U.S. earnings to investments in other countries.  As a group, multinational companies with current or former
chief executive officers on Obama’s  jobs council  have, over the
past four years, almost doubled the cumulative amounts they’ve
reinvested overseas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By doing so, companies may be able to take advantage of
faster-growing markets or lower production costs, and they can
defer U.S. income taxes on profits from overseas sales.
Underscoring the difference between corporate interests and the
national interest, they’re also investing money elsewhere that
could be helping the  U.S. economy , said former U.S. Labor
Secretary Robert Reich.  “That’s a signal that they are betting less on America,”
Reich said. “We’ve got to understand there’s a fundamental
difference between the competitiveness of these companies and
the competitiveness of America and American workers.”  GE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt is chairman of the 26-
member President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. Members
from U.S. multinational corporations include Intel CEO and
President Paul Otellini,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman Richard Parsons,  American Express Co. (AXP)  Chairman and CEO Kenneth Chenault,
DuPont Co. Chairman and CEO Ellen Kullman,  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) 
Chairman and CEO Antonio Perez, and former  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
Chairman A.G. Lafley.  Emerging Markets  Jim Owens , former  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  chairman and CEO, who
isn’t on the council, said large U.S.-based companies generally
are expanding overseas investments as economic growth rates in
emerging markets offer better opportunities. Executives from
those companies can offer the Obama administration useful advice
on making the U.S. more competitive, he said.  “The reality is that corporations make investments to the
best advantage of their shareholders,” Owens said. “The United
States government should be in the business of stimulating
economic growth and making sure our economy is competitive in
the world market. That will attract more investment from U.S
firms, as well as foreign firms.”  In addition to the seven companies that have disclosed
growing international investments since 2005, Obama’s council
includes executives from some public companies that don’t have
international sales or aren’t based in the U.S., and some
closely held corporations that don’t have to disclose earnings
information. Two union officials and two academics are also on
the panel.  ‘Permanently Reinvested Earnings’  At  Xerox Corp. (XRX) , where advisory council member Ursula Burns
is chairman and CEO, reinvested earnings for 2010 were the same
as they were in 2005.  AOL Inc. (AOL) , whose founder Steve Case is on
the council, was spun off from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in 2009 and
hadn’t made disclosure filings for all of the past five years.  Overall, the U.S. public companies represented on the
council reported $197 billion of what are known as “permanently
reinvested earnings” as of 2010, up from $103 billion in 2006,
according to annual reports and disclosures filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Companies can defer U.S. taxes on profits of foreign
subsidiaries until the income is brought home to the U.S.
parent. Companies that would owe U.S. taxes on overseas profits
can avoid payment by reinvesting the proceeds abroad.  Overseas Holdings Grow  The companies represented on the White House council
continued to reinvest earnings abroad even when U.S. profits and
tax liabilities plunged during the recession.  GE’s earnings reinvested abroad grew to a total of $94
billion in 2010 from $47 billion in 2006, according to
disclosure filings.  At the end of last year, 54 percent of GE’s 287,000
employees worked outside the U.S. As recently as Dec. 31, 2005,
a majority worked in the U.S., according to disclosure reports
filed by the company. The portion of the company’s revenue that
comes from U.S. sales fell to 47 percent in 2010 from 56 percent
in 2005.  Andrew Williams , a GE spokesman, said the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company “is investing heavily in American
jobs and American manufacturing.” In the last two years, he
said, “GE has announced the creation of more than 6,500
manufacturing jobs in Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
Kentucky, Mississippi,  New York , Pennsylvania, Texas, and
 Washington .”  Parochial Interest  Earnings reinvested overseas give White House advisory
council executives a parochial interest in debates over tax laws
regarding the treatment of foreign profits, said Paul Hughes, a
Bloomberg Government economist who analyzed the tax data.  As Congress and the White House consider proposals to
overhaul the U.S. tax code, GE is among companies that have
backed a change to a territorial system that would tax earnings
from U.S. operations rather than global profit.  Companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  are pushing Congress to set up a temporary period
when U.S. multinational corporations could bring home overseas
profits at a reduced  tax rate . A previous tax holiday in 2005
temporarily cut corporate taxes on repatriated earnings by 85
percent.  “Some of the council’s members clearly have strong
interests in having another amnesty or moving to a territorial
tax system,” Hughes said.  Some companies may be keeping cash abroad in anticipation
of another tax holiday.  Kodak repatriated $580 million under the last tax break and
is part of a  coalition  advocating another repatriation holiday.
Kodak’s earnings reinvested abroad grew to $2.4 billion in 2010
from $2 billion in 2006.  ‘An Exception’  GE “may prove to be an exception” in potential gains from
a temporary rate cut, Hughes said.  In 2005, GE repatriated $1.2 billion when Congress offered
the lower tax rate -- less than 6 percent of the total it
reported as being reinvested overseas in 2003, the last year
before the company could plan for the tax holiday.  Intel repatriated $6.2 billion in 2005, more than 88
percent of the earnings it held for reinvestment overseas in
2003. Santa Clara, California-based Intel’s earnings reinvested
abroad grew to $11.8 billion in 2010 from $4.9 billion in 2006.  Intel spokeswoman Laura Anderson said that “even with
three-fourths of our sales coming from overseas, we continue to
invest in our U.S. manufacturing and research development
facilities.” The company has announced plans to invest more
than $11 billion in U.S. facilities over the next several years,
Anderson said.  ‘Constantly Investing’  Citigroup spokeswoman Anu Ahluwalia said the New York-based
financial services company “is constantly investing in the
 United States , our home for almost 200 years.” She said the
company has almost 100,000 employees in the country.  Tara Stewart, a DuPont spokeswoman, said “the bulk of our
workers and the bulk of our manufacturing is not only here in
the United States, it’s staying here.” More than half the
company’s workers, and more than two-thirds of its manufacturing
base, are in the U.S., she said. 