-- 
German Business Confidence Probably Dropped for Third Month on Debt Crisis

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/german-business-confidence-probably-dropped-for-third-month-on-debt-crisis.html
German business confidence probably
fell for a third month in May after a worsening debt crisis
clouded the euro region’s growth outlook and rising energy costs
threatened to sap earnings.  The  Ifo institute’s  business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 113.7 from 114.2 in
April, the median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey shows. Ifo releases today’s report at 10 a.m. in Munich.  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, may struggle to
maintain its growth momentum as euro-region governments toughen
austerity measures to lower budget deficits, while surging
energy costs squeeze household incomes. German investor
confidence declined more than economists forecast in May.  “Even if Ifo falls from stratospheric levels, German
business managers are still fairly sanguine about the future,”
said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at Nomura in
 London . “That should support investment in the next couple of
quarters, even as German exports take a hit from fading global-
growth momentum, while higher  oil prices  will hurt disposable
income, risking weaker consumption.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may have eased to
120.7 from 121, while an index measuring executives’
expectations probably dropped to 107 from 107.7, the Bloomberg
survey shows.  Easing Growth  The research institute this month reweighted its time lines
and updated the base year. Business confidence for April was
previously at 110.4, the assessment of current conditions at
116.3 and expectations at 104.7, it said on May 19.  Surging company investment, a rebound in construction and
increasing household demand probably helped fuel the economy’s
expansion in the first quarter, with gross domestic product
rising 1.5 percent from the previous three months. The Federal
Statistics Office will release a breakdown at 8 a.m. today.  “Growth is likely to ease somewhat in the foreseeable
future,” the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in its monthly
report on May 20. “Output growth was clearly lifted during the
reporting period by backloading and catching-up effects.”  With euro-region governments from  Spain  to Ireland
toughening spending cuts to lower their budget shortfalls,
German companies have relied on faster-growing economies to
bolster sales. The global economy may grow 4.4 percent this
year, with  China  expanding 9.6 percent and India 8.2 percent,
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast last month.  ‘Transitory Drags’  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
on May 5 reported its highest profit in more than three years
and said it will “comfortably achieve” full-year targets.
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of  luxury
vehicles , earlier this month reported record profit per car,
partly on surging demand in China.  A 39 percent increase in crude oil prices over the past
year is adding pressure on companies to pass on higher costs to
protect earnings. German producer prices rose more than
economists forecast in April, increasing 6.4 percent from a year
earlier, and inflation quickened to 2.4 percent in April. That’s
the fastest rate since October 2008.  BASF SE (BAS)  on May 6 beat analysts’ first-quarter profit
estimates as recovering demand helped the world’s largest
chemical company push through price increases to offset higher
raw-material costs. The Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said
it aims for a “significant improvement” in full-year earnings.  “There are increasing signs that the global economy has
lost some pace,” said  Nick Kounis , chief economist at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam. “However, the proximate sources of the
slowdown” such as rising oil prices “will most likely prove to
be transitory drags. We therefore expect the global economy to
shake off the soft patch later this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  