-- 
Greek, Irish, Italian Bonds Slide on Debt Concern; CDS, German Bunds Rally

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-23T16:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/german-bunds-gain-on-haven-demand-as-euro-sovereign-debt-concern-flares.html
Greek and Irish bonds led declines in
the securities of the euro-area’s most indebted nations, while
the cost of default insurance rose and German bunds rallied, on
concern that the region’s fiscal crisis is deepening.  Italian bonds dropped after the nation’s credit-rating
outlook was revised to negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s 
on May 20. Yields on 10-year Greek and Irish debt rose to euro-
era records, while those on Spanish and Portuguese bonds also
climbed. German bund yields fell to a four-month low as a report
showed European services and manufacturing growth slowed in May
by more than economists predicted.  Today’s declines are “partly down to concern that policy
makers will be unable to come up with any concrete solution to
the debt crisis,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist
at WestLB AG in London. “There’s a growing realization that a
pain-free solution for Greece may not be there.” Today’s
manufacturing and services data “suggest that we might be
seeing a sharper slowing in growth than people were expecting,”
he said.  Greek 10-year yields jumped 46 basis points to 17.03
percent as of 5:03 p.m. in  London , while yields on two-year
notes climbed 79 basis points to 26.25 percent. Irish 10-year
yields advanced 32 basis points to 10.86 percent, with Italian
securities of similar maturity up three basis points to 4.81
percent. The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose three basis
points to 5.51 percent.  Italian Response  S&P’s statement that it may cut Italy’s ranking risks
worsening Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis as investors demand
higher interest payments in exchange for lending to some of the
nations in the 17-member currency bloc. Italy pledged to
“intensify” efforts to make structural changes to its economy
and balance its budget by 2014.  Declines in so-called euro-region peripheral bonds have
deepened amid speculation that Greece will need to restructure
its debt as it struggles to avoid default. The nation’s
securities have lost 13 percent this year, with Portugal losing
14 percent and Ireland 7.1 percent, according to indexes from
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  Stocks have also faltered, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
sliding as much as 1.7 percent today, erasing its gain for the
year. Yields on German bunds, the region’s benchmark government
securities, fell four basis points to 3.01 percent, while the
yield on the 10-year  U.S. Treasury  declined four basis points to
3.10 percent.  ‘Risk-Off Sentiment’  “General risk-off sentiment still appears to have further
to run,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds
Bank Corporate Markets in London. “There’s a general flight-to-
quality into bunds, and that’s pushed yields close to 3 percent.
Sovereign debt worries have driven money back to the core
markets, and there appears to be no immediate resolution.”  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Spanish 10-year bonds instead of bunds increased seven basis
points to 250 basis points, or 2.50 percentage points.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s
Socialist party had its worst electoral setback in more than 30
years, prompting a shift in regional governments that risks
reviving concern over public finances.  The Greek-German spread widened 50 basis points to 14.02
percentage points, while the Irish-bund gap increased 36 basis
points to 7.84 percentage points. The Italian and Portuguese
spreads also widened.  ECB Collateral  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said he expects a decision on how to help  Greece  meet
its funding needs to be made “in coming days or weeks,”
according to a statement to reporters in Vienna today. European
Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny also said in
Vienna the bank will accept Greek  government bonds  as collateral
in its refinancing operations provided the country’s fiscal
consolidation program remains on track.  “Even if officials come up with” a solution, “it may not
remove the uncertainty because there may be enough players in
the market saying ‘it won’t work,” said WestLB’s Davies.  The cost of insuring euro-region government debt rose,
according to traders of credit-default swaps. Contracts on
Greece soared 29 basis points to a record 1,373, Ireland jumped
14 to 655 and  Portugal  gained nine to 649, while Italy increased
14 to 174 and Spain climbed 13 to 275, CMA prices show. A basis
point on a credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros ($14
million) of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
1,000 euros a year.  Euro Weakens  The euro fell as much as 1.4 percent to $1.3970, weakening
to less than $1.40 for the first time since March 18, and
depreciated to a record low against the Swiss franc.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is set to brief his
Cabinet today on additional budget cuts and asset sales as part
of efforts to keep aid flowing to the country. The country is
under European pressure to sell 15 billion euros of state assets
by the end of 2012, a year ahead of schedule, to win a new
three-year loan package, a person familiar with the talks said.  Greece will take the decisions necessary to avert risks and
there is no margin to backtrack, government spokesman  George Petalotis  said in  Athens  today, citing comments made by
Papandreou in a Cabinet meeting.  European Industry  “Greece aside, the Italian outlook downgrade will raise
concerns about  Spain  and possibly  Belgium ,” said Wand. “The
political story in Spain also weighs on the peripherals.”  Belgian 10-year bonds erased declines after the nation
raised 3.39 billion euros from four auctions, the most in almost
11 months. Yields on 10-year Belgian debt were little changed at
4.22 percent, after climbing as high as 4.29 percent.  Germany ’s 3.25 percent security due July 2021 gained 0.370,
or 3.70 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.015. Yields on
two-year German note yields slid eight basis points to 1.69
percent.  A composite gauge of euro-area manufacturing and services
industries slipped to 55.4 from 57.8 in April, London-based
Markit Economics said today. That was lower than the 57.3 median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
March 2012 contract down eight basis points to 2.06 percent, as
investors reduced bets that the ECB will raise  interest rates .  Policy makers left their benchmark rate at 1.25 percent on
May 5 and signaled it may wait until after June before raising
borrowing costs to contain inflation. The central bank raised
the key rate from a record low of 1 percent in April, the first
increase in almost three years.  German government bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.5
percent this year, Effas indexes show, while Treasuries have
returned 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  