-- 
Glyndebourne Stirs Loud Thrills, ENO’s Midsummer Is Gray: Warwick Thompson

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/glyndebourne-stirs-loud-thrills-eno-s-midsummer-is-gray-warwick-thompson.html
With more than 200 performers in
front of a 1,200-seat auditorium,  Glyndebourne ’s “Die
Meistersinger” has the highest stage-audience ratio in the
company’s history. It makes for an eardrum-rattling show.  The intimate countryside U.K. opera house has picked
Wagner’s most densely populated piece for its second-ever
production of a work by the composer. (The first was “Tristan
und Isolde” in 2003).  When the groups of apprentices start entering in the final
procession, climaxing in the arrival of the 12 mastersingers
themselves, the decibel level is almost indecently thrilling.  With ex-Glyndebourne chorus member Gerald Finley singing
his first Hans Sachs, there are further delights too. His warm,
overtone-rich voice sails over the orchestra, and his complex
interpretation of the cobbler-poet as world weary and angry is
intriguing. The scenic details are telling. He convincingly
trims leather at his cobblers’ last, and his fingers are
smothered in dye and dirt from his efforts.  David McVicar’s production is handsome, slickly stage
managed, and full of fascinating details that illuminate the
relationships between characters. On the downside, it feels a
tad safe and decorative.  He sets the action in the early 19th century, when the
various principalities and dukedoms of  Germany  were beginning to
search for a new form of common identity through art.  Bonnets, Crowds  On paper, that seems like a great idea for an opera about a
singing contest that transforms the society that holds it. On
stage, the alchemy doesn’t fire up. It’s lovely to look at the
gorgeous bonnets, frock coats and Empire-line dresses, and
wallow in the well-choreographed crowd scenes. On a deeper
level, the updated setting doesn’t offer many new insights into
the dynamics of the piece.  On Vicki Mortimer’s set, everything takes place under an
impressive piece of stone vaulting in high-Gothic style. That’s
wonderful for the opening church scene. It’s slightly curious
for the street scene of Act 2. You have to accept that the
houses of Sachs and his neighbor Pogner lie under a highly
decorated stone canopy. Maybe it’s meant to be a medieval
shopping arcade, or maybe not.  The final scene is set in a meadow by a river. It’s really
not the sort of place you’d expect to find the same barrel-
vaulted chunk of cathedral roof.  Finley’s vocal triumph is matched by Johannes Martin
Kranzle as his comical nemesis Beckmesser.  Marco Jentzsch and Topi Lehtipuu don’t quite cut the
mustard in the tenor roles of Walter and David, respectively,
and both sound strained at the top of their voices. Anna Gabler
looks and sounds delightful as the heroine Eva, and Vladimir Jurowski fires on all cylinders in the pit.  If it’s not quite the last word in Meistersingers, this is
an undisputed triumph for a small, privately funded company.  Rating: ***.  Britten’s Dream  The action of “Die Meistersinger” takes place on
midsummer’s day. The summery, optimistic tone of the piece
couldn’t be further from  English National Opera ’s new staging of
Britten’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”  Director Christopher Alden chooses to emphasize brutality
and viciousness in his production. He sets the story in an
oppressive grammar school (an academically high-achieving state
school) in the 1950s.  Oberon is a pedophile headmaster who has been abusing his
Head Boy, Puck. He then turns his attentions to a new boy.
Tytania is a gray, desiccated music mistress. Bottom and his
crew of laborers are caretakers at the school. The four lovers
are students at the school.  Creepy Thoughts  The relationship between Oberon and Puck is full of
interest. The young man misunderstands the abusive nature of
Oberon’s former affection for him, and is angry and forlorn when
overthrown. It’s creepy and thought provoking.  The rest of the production is dire. The ugly static set is
a gray school playground, all the relationships are brutal, and
the comic scenes are as funny as self-trepanning. The concept
has to be strained to fit the plot of the opera.  Britten’s score is a magical mix of light and shade. It
does the piece a major disservice only to emphasize the latter
and ignore the former.  The singers work hard. Willard White (Bottom) has the vocal
chops for his role, while Allan Clayton and Kate Valentine are
stylish as Lysander and Helena. Leo Hussain’s conducting is
spirited in parts, unclear in others.  Overall, distinctly undreamy.  Rating: *.  “Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg” is in repertory at
Glyndebourne through June 26. Information:
 http://www.glyndebourne.com  or +44-1273-813813.  “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is in repertory at ENO until
June 30. Information:  http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson in London at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 