-- 
Goldman’s Market-Implied Credit Rating Declining, Moody’s Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-05-23T18:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/goldman-s-market-implied-credit-rating-declining-moody-s-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the U.S.
bank that gets most of its revenue from trading, is facing a
widening gap between its assigned credit rating and that implied
by market performance,  Moody’s Capital Markets Research  said in
a note to clients.  The ratings implied by the performance of Goldman Sachs’s
securities in the stock, bond and credit-default swap markets
are each at least four grades below the firm’s credit rating of
A1, analyst Allerton Smith said today. Moody’s Capital Markets
Research is separate from the Moody’s ratings company that has
assigned Goldman an A1 rating and negative outlook.  Goldman’s equity-implied rating has fallen two grades to
Ba2, below investment grade, and seven grades below its actual
rating, as its shares have dropped 19 percent this year.
Investors are concerned about the firm’s reputation after
investigations into its collateralized debt obligations
business, Smith wrote.  “Given Goldman’s current franchise issues and reputational
challenges, as well as its negative rating outlook, investors
should be wary of additional headline driven spread
deterioration and the company’s continued decline in market-
implied ratings, which signal underperformance in the credit
markets,” Smith said in the note.  CDS contracts on Goldman Sachs have widened the most of any
major U.S. bank this year, leading to its CDS-implied rating
dropping one grade to Baa3, according to the note. The firm’s
bond-implied rating also has dropped one grade this year to
Baa2. Those implied ratings were the same as  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as of May 18, according
to the note.  Government Backing  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Goldman’s A1 rating from the Moody’s ratings company
includes a one-grade increase from the assumption of government
support, and the negative outlook reflects the possibility that
assumption may be removed, according to the note.  The U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
led by Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin, used Goldman Sachs as a
case study in its two-year examination of the financial crisis.
When the subcommittee released its 640-page report last month,
Levin said that Goldman Sachs misled clients and Congress about
the firm’s bets on the housing market.  “The testimony we gave was truthful and accurate and this
is confirmed by the subcommittee’s own report,” Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, said at the time.  Levin and Oklahoma Senator Thomas A. Coburn, the
subcommittee’s ranking Republican, formally referred their
report to the  Department of Justice  and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which are reviewing the findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 