-- 
Goldman Sachs Banker Bostandjiev Hired by VTB to Lead Overseas Expansion

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-05-24T08:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/goldman-sachs-banker-hired-by-vtb-capital-to-lead-overseas-unit.html
VTB Capital Plc, the investment-
banking arm of Russia’s second-largest lender, hired Atanas Bostandjiev from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as its U.K. and
international head.  Bostandjiev will be responsible for Europe, Asia, the
Middle East and Americas, according to an e-mailed statement
from the bank. He takes up a role previously held by  Herbert Moos , who was  promoted  to chief financial officer of the parent
bank in 2009, according to a VTB Capital spokesman who declined
to be named, citing company policy.  At Goldman Sachs, Bostandjiev was a partner responsible for
the firm’s emerging-market client business in central and
eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, according to the
statement. Prior to that, he held senior sales management roles
at Merrill Lynch & Co. in London.  VTB Group Chief Executive Officer  Andrei Kostin  said in
March 2008 that the state-run bank would spend half a billion
dollars to build VTB Capital into one of the top three
investment banks in the former  Soviet Union . VTB Capital was the
leading organizer of equity sales last year in Russia and the
second-biggest underwriter of Eurobonds last year behind
 Barclays Capital , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kostin hired more than 100 people from Deutsche Bank AG,
including Yuri Soloviev, VTB Capital’s president. The company
wants to add to its presence in Moscow, London, Dubai and
Singapore by opening a branch in Hong Kong and expanding in the
U.S. this year, Soloviev said in an interview last year.  Bostandjiev is “one of the most experienced European
market professionals,” Soloviev said in the statement.  Bostandjiev said his priority is to increase VTB Capital’s
market share by expanding internationally, according to the e-
mail.  Andrea Rachman , a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in New York,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  