-- 
Goldman Finding Third Time a Charm as Blankfein Courts Kremlin

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-05-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/goldman-finding-third-time-in-russia-a-charm-as-blankfein-courts-kremlin.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is making a
third attempt in 17 years to crack the Russian market, this time
by leveraging a $1 billion private-equity bet to win deals and
wooing the Kremlin for roles in asset sales.  The effort is paying off. The firm has jumped to second
place in advising on Russian mergers and acquisitions this year,
behind Morgan Stanley, after failing to make the top three for
more than a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It has also
secured pledges from companies including  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  and
Tinkoff Credit Systems to arrange equity and Eurobond deals in
return for investing more than $1 billion of its own money.  The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein ,
who visited  Russia  twice in the past year, struggled after
opening its first office in Moscow in 1994. It scaled back soon
after as part of a worldwide retrenchment, returned in 1998
weeks before Russia defaulted, withdrew almost entirely after
the crisis and ramped up again in 2006. Since then, the firm has
more than tripled its workforce in Moscow to 150.  “The old perception of Goldman Sachs in Russia is that we
haven’t been consistent in our efforts in this country,” said
Christopher Barter, co-head of Goldman Sachs in Russia, in an
interview in Moscow May 12. “This is not the reality today.”  Advising Medvedev  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
jumped to fourth place in handling equity sales for Russian
companies last year, its highest position ever, behind VTB
Capital and Renaissance Capital, both based in Moscow, and
Morgan Stanley. The company has underwritten the third-largest
amount of foreign debt this year, up from 13th place in 2010.  While Goldman Sachs has been slower to expand in Russia
than rivals such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
because of concerns about the  integrity of financial markets , it
may become a co-investor alongside a new $10 billion state-owned
private-equity fund, according to two sources familiar with the
matter. Blankfein, 56, who along with other bank executives is
advising Russian President Dmitry Medvedev on transforming
Moscow into a global financial center, is also pushing to win
mandates for the Kremlin’s $30 billion privatization program.  The key to success has been private equity, according to
Barter, who called it “a major differentiator.”  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, has made more direct
investments in privately held Russian businesses than any
foreign bank, buying stakes in  15 companies  totaling more than
$1 billion since 2007, Barter said. The firm’s four private-
equity bankers in Moscow made the purchases on the condition
that Goldman Sachs get mandates later, according to a person
familiar with the deals who asked not to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to speak about them.  Mail.ru Stake  “That has been a magnet for companies wanting pre-IPO
financing,” said Barter, who has worked for Goldman Sachs since
1993 and became co-head of the Moscow office in 2007. A Russian
speaker, he shares the job with Jean Raby, a French-Canadian who
relocated to Moscow in January from Paris, where he headed
operations, and is just learning the language.  Goldman Sachs’s investment in Moscow-based Mail.ru helped
the bank score a role in the Russian internet company’s $912
million initial public offering in  London  in November. The stock
surged as much as 41 percent on its first day of trading as the
IPO was more than 20 times oversubscribed. Goldman Sachs has
since helped Mail.ru founder Yuri Milner, CEO of Russian
venture-capital firm Digital Sky Technologies, and his partner,
 Alisher Usmanov , raise $1 billion to finance future investments.  ‘Global Behemoth’  “DST is an amazing case study,” said Barter, whose first
client in Russia was Milner, 49. “Something really small and
unknown in Russia that develops into something truly
entrepreneurial, and then grows into a global behemoth by
focusing on the Internet and not the commodity space.”  DST Global, Milner’s first fund, owns about 10 percent of
social-networking company Facebook Inc., based in Palo Alto,
 California . He and Usmanov have backed some of Silicon Valley’s
fastest-growing businesses. They led a $135 million investment
last year in Groupon Inc., the largest provider of online daily
deal coupons, and were part of a group that put $180 million
into Zynga Game Network Inc., a social-gaming service, in 2009.  Goldman Sachs raised $1.5 billion for Facebook in January
in a round of financing that valued the firm at $50 billion.  Along with Deutsche Bank and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs
is also managing this week’s IPO on the Nasdaq Stock Market for
Yandex NV, the owner of Russia’s most  popular search engine .  Private-Equity Fund  “Goldman is a credible player in Russia, and now it has
individual success stories like Mail.ru to showcase,” said
Kirill Dmitriev, a former Goldman Sachs banker appointed May 18
to run the government’s $10 billion private-equity fund.  The bank also acquired a stake in  Tinkoff , a Moscow-based
credit-card issuer, in 2007, according to two people familiar
with the matter. Goldman Sachs and Citigroup Inc. managed the
sale of $175 million of Tinkoff bonds in April. Barter declined
to discuss the firm’s clients, and Oleg Tinkov, the owner of the
company, couldn’t be reached for comment.  The same month Goldman Sachs also managed the sale of $1
billion of 10-year bonds for Alfa Bank, Russia’s biggest private
lender, and $850 million of Eurobonds for Evraz Group SA, the
country’s second-largest steelmaker.  Foreign private-equity companies, except Forth Worth,
Texas-based TPG Capital, have avoided Russia, which remains a
difficult place to do business. The country is the world’s most
corrupt major economy, according to Berlin-based Transparency
International’s  2010 Corruption Perceptions Index . It ranked
154th among 178 countries, tied with Tajikistan and Kenya.  Investor ‘Uncertainty’  “There’s political uncertainty for investors ahead of next
year’s presidential elections, but also uncertainty about
reasonable investor interests being upheld in many cases,” said
Richard Hainsworth, CEO of RusRating, an independent credit-
ratings firm in Moscow.  David A. Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer,
expressed similar concerns to investors in February 2006, four
months before Blankfein was appointed chairman and CEO, saying
it isn’t “clear to us that the Russian authorities are as set
on turning the financial markets into modern financial markets
with the rule of law as the Chinese authorities are.”  Goldman Sachs first did business in Russia in 1926, when
Western banks, including many from the U.S., helped the
Communist government raise cash for rural electrification and
other projects. The window closed in 1929 when Josef Stalin
consolidated power and the U.S. stock market crashed.  1994 Opening  The 142-year-old firm didn’t open an office in Russia until
1994, after the collapse of the  Soviet Union , only to pull back
in a global retrenchment. The bank returned in June 1998, weeks
before the Russian government defaulted on ruble debt, causing
hundreds of millions of dollars in trading losses for securities
firms worldwide. While the company maintained a representative
office in Moscow after the default, it significantly scaled back
operations, according to a person familiar with the matter.  “They didn’t see how they could make money then,” said
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow. “Goldman has been accused of many things, but it has
never been confused with a charity. It’s always all about making
money, and Russia is no different.”  Not long after Blankfein took over in June 2006, he sent
David Schwimmer, his Russian-speaking former chief of staff, to
Moscow to help run investment banking. The firm won approval
that year to become a stand-alone broker-dealer and opened an
office in 2007 to accommodate securities sales and trading. In
2008, it got permission to set up a bank.  Letter to Putin  Blankfein has been courting the Kremlin since at least
April 2007, when he wrote to then-President Vladimir Putin
seeking a meeting to discuss expanding operations. He told
investors in  New York  in June 2007 that the firm couldn’t afford
to miss opportunities in Russia and other developing economies.  “If you forgo the opportunities in emerging markets,
you’re putting your global franchise at risk,” Blankfein said
at the time, acknowledging that he had built his career “in
part on not being seduced by certain fads of people investing in
emerging markets.”  The bank’s board of directors travelled to Russia in June
2008 for a four-day meeting split between  St. Petersburg  and
Moscow. The trip included a tour of the State Hermitage Museum,
a private session with Putin and a speech by former Russian
leader Mikhail Gorbachev, according to an account in Andrew Ross Sorkin’s book about the 2008 global financial crisis.  BRIC Capital  Today, deploying capital to the so-called BRIC countries --
 Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China  -- is a priority for Goldman
Sachs’s securities division, Barclays analysts wrote in a
research note on May 11 after meeting with Viniar and David B. Heller and Harvey M. Schwartz, two of four co-heads at the
bank’s securities unit.  Part of the allure for foreign investment banks is advisory
work on the government’s plan to sell $30 billion of assets by
2015 to replenish state coffers and improve corporate
governance. The Kremlin is auctioning companies including OAO
Sovcomflot, Russia’s biggest shipper, and OAO Russian Railways,
the rail monopoly, to help cover a budget shortfall it sees at
about 1 percent of gross domestic product this year. It expects
privatizations to generate about 1 trillion rubles ($32 billion)
in the next three years.  Russia’s last major IPO of a state-owned company was in
2007, when VTB Group, the country’s second-biggest lender,
raised $8 billion. Goldman Sachs, which worked alongside
Deutsche Bank and New York-based Citigroup on the offering, was
selected with 22 other lenders to be an adviser on the new round
of asset sales.  ‘Greater Opportunity’  “Banks, such as Goldman, will have a considerably greater
opportunity to earn fees from deals and advisory work than was
the case over the past 10 years,” said UralSib’s Weafer. “The
next government will have to accelerate efforts to make the
economy more efficient and to raise investment spending to
create new industries and to improve infrastructure. Otherwise
the country faces a much slower growth outlook and, potentially,
a risk of social instability.”  Russia will emerge from the global financial crisis by 2012
and must double productivity over the next decade to achieve its
goal of becoming one of the top five economies, Putin, now prime
minister, said on April 20. The economy expanded 4 percent last
year, rebounding from the worst recession since the Soviet era.
It contracted 7.8 percent in 2009, in the wake of the global
credit crunch, after posting an average annual growth rate of
almost 7 percent from 1999 to 2008.  Deutsche Bank Falters  While investment-banking competition has stiffened with the
emergence of domestic players such as VTB, Goldman Sachs is
doing better than Deutsche Bank, which has regressed since 2007,
when it was the top manager of equity sales in Russia, second in
M&A and third in Eurobonds. VTB, which created a brokerage in
2008, has hired more than 100 people from its German rival. Last
year, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank was sixth in equities and
M&A and seventh in Eurobonds.  Andrew Chulack, head of global banking at Deutsche Bank in
Russia, said his company is “well-positioned” and had regained
momentum following the financial crisis. Deutsche Bank is the
second-biggest manager of equity deals this year, having worked
on a $640 million IPO for Nomos Bank and VTB’s $3 billion share
sale. In the Eurobond market, its bankers are in seventh place.  VTB’s emergence hurt domestic banks more than foreign ones,
Chulack said.  ‘Good Niche’  “VTB has a good niche, is very well-positioned locally,
but is not a direct competitor to us or other foreign investment
banks on deals,” he said.  Renaissance Capital , a Moscow-based investment bank half
owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , declined to comment, as
did  Troika Dialog , Moscow’s oldest brokerage, which is being
acquired by OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender.  “The independent banks were under pressure because they
didn’t have big balance sheets,” said Rustam Botashev, deputy
head of research at UniCredit SpA in Moscow.  Morgan Stanley and Zurich-based Credit Suisse have both
profited in Russia because of consistent commitment and strong
leadership, RusRating’s Hainsworth said.  “A great deal of work here is down to relationship with
the company or the oligarch,” he said.  Last year was the biggest for Russian M&A since 2007,
helped by 96 deals worth $50.9 billion in the fourth quarter
alone, according to Bloomberg data. Goldman Sachs, second to New
York-based Morgan Stanley last year, advised on 21 deals worth
$36 billion, including Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA’s $6.5 billion
merger in April with VimpelCom Ltd., Russia’s third-largest
mobile phone operator.  The bank is currently advising Russian potash producer OAO
Uralkali on its $7.8 billion acquisition of rival OAO Silvinit.  Bond-Sale Fees  Managing bond sales helps banks to increase their role in
other revenue-generating businesses, including trading the debt
and providing borrowers with hedging instruments and loans. Fees
from debt origination account at most for about 2 percent of
banks’ revenue, according to Mark Rubinstein, deputy head of
research at IFC Metropol in Moscow.  Banks get lower fees for underwriting ruble bonds compared
with sales in the U.S. Underwriters charge between 0.05 percent
of the issue and 0.15 percent for the most creditworthy issuers,
and as much as 0.2 percent for “second-tier” companies, said
Evgeny Vorobyev, a fixed-income analyst at Otkritie Financial
Corp., a brokerage in Moscow partly owned by VTB. The rates
compare with average fees of 0.593 percent for U.S. corporate
bonds sold this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Goldman Sachs, which has an offshore Russian wealth-
management unit in London, plans to hire more personnel in the
Russian capital, according to Raby, co-head of the office there.  Hainsworth, a former Renaissance Capital banker who has
worked in Russia since 1981, remains skeptical about the bank’s
prospects, notwithstanding its recent advances.  “Each time, Goldman has come with a big fanfare and said
they were committed before turning on their tails and running,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  