-- 
Republican Senator Brown Cites Medicare in Deciding to Oppose Ryan Budget

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-24T04:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/gop-senator-brown-opposes-ryan-on-medicare.html
Republican Senator  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts split with his party and came out against a budget
plan to privatize Medicare, saying the U.S. health program for
the elderly could be cut without changing it “as we know it.”  Brown disclosed his position in an opinion article
appearing yesterday in  Politico . His decision came a little over
a week after he told constituents in his home state that he
would vote for the Medicare revamp, while predicting the measure
would fail in the Senate. Democrats pounced, charging that his
position contradicted Brown’s assertions that he is an
independent-minded moderate.  The announcement by Brown, who is seeking election next
year to his first full term in Democratic-leaning Massachusetts,
highlighted the challenges in the budget debate confronting
lawmakers preparing to face voters in 2012.  Republicans and Democrats alike say Congress must do
something dramatic to tackle the government’s debt, and various
negotiations are under way to try to achieve that goal. Yet the
proposed overhaul of Medicare that the Republican-controlled
House passed last month hasn’t been fully embraced within the
party.  It drew fire last week from Republican presidential
candidate  Newt Gingrich , who called it “right-wing social
engineering” and “radical change” -- remarks for which he
later apologized.  House Race  Attacks on the Medicare proposal, written by House Budget
Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin , also have buoyed
Democratic hopes of capturing a traditionally Republican U.S.
House district in special election in western New York today.
The Democratic candidate, Kathy Hochul, surged in the polls
after focusing her fire on the Ryan plan.  Republicans, too, are using the budget dispute as campaign
fodder against Democrats. The National Republican Senatorial
Committee distributed statements May 19 criticizing Democrats
running for re-election next year, including Senators Debbie Stabenow of  Michigan , Bill Nelson of  Florida , Robert Menendez of
 New Jersey , Bob Casey of  Pennsylvania , Sherrod Brown of  Ohio  and
Jon Tester of  Montana , for their party’s failure so far to
produce its own budget blueprint.  NRSC spokesman Jahan Wilcox said the Democrats have “been
content to kick the can down the road and keep maxing out the
government credit card.”  Senate Vote  The impasse will be on display this week, when a vote in
the Democratic-controlled Senate is expected to defeat the Ryan
budget plan.  “By the end of this week, it will be clear to the nation
which side put Medicare on the chopping block, which side stood
up to defend it,” Senator Chuck Schumer of  New York , the
chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, told reporters in a conference
call yesterday.  Republican Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the chamber’s
second-ranking Republican, said members of his party shouldn’t
shy away from embracing the Ryan plan because it’s a broad
statement of principle without the force of law.  “The reason I’m not as concerned as my colleagues who are
running for re-election -- and I would hope that they too would
support it -- is that as with any budget it is notional, it is
aspirational, it does not have the specific legislative
provisions that would be necessary to implement it,” said Kyl,
who in February announced he wouldn’t seek another term next
year.  Budget Talks  Vice President Joe Biden and top White House officials are
to meet today at the Capitol with lawmakers from both parties,
including Kyl, to continue talks seeking a bipartisan budget
deal. Such an accord is regarded as a prerequisite to a vote
to raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, which
Treasury officials have said is needed by Aug. 2 to avoid a
government default. Kyl said he doubted an accord would emerge
for several weeks.  The fate of Medicare has become central in the emerging
2012 presidential campaign, with a political group with ties to
Obama making the Ryan budget plan the focus of its first ad
targeting former  Massachusetts  Governor  Mitt Romney , a
Republican. The spot by Priorities USA Action asks whether
Romney backs the proposal. It notes the comments by Gingrich,
the former House speaker from  Georgia , who walked back from his
criticism under pressure from other Republicans.  The Ryan budget proposal,  passed 235-193  by the House on
April 15, would transform Medicare starting in 2022 from a
government-provided health plan into a subsidy program that
gives those 65 and older money to purchase private insurance.  Kennedy Replacement  Brown, who in January 2010 won a special election for the
seat Democrat Edward Kennedy held for more than 36 years until
his death in August 2009, wrote in his article that “while I
applaud Ryan for getting the conversation started, I cannot
support his specific plan.”  He said seniors “will be forced to pay ever higher
deductibles” under the plan, and that Medicare has already been
cut too much, including as part of the 2010 health-care overhaul
Obama pushed through Congress. That measure was financed in part
by cutting  $136 billion  in subsidies to so-called Medicare
Advantage plans in which private companies contract with the
government to provide health coverage to seniors.  Poll Results  The public is divided on the issue. A  USA Today /Gallup Poll
last month found 44 percent supporting Obama’s budget compared
with 43 percent backing Ryan’s. Still, 66 percent said they were
worried the Republican plan would cut Medicare too much, while
71 percent said they were afraid Democrats wouldn’t go far
enough in addressing the deficit.  At the same time, a new Associated Press/GfK Poll found
that 54 percent think the budget can be balanced without cutting
Medicare, compared with 44 percent who believe spending for the
program must be curtailed. The survey found that the public
trusts Democrats more than Republicans to handle Medicare, by a
margin of 54 percent to 33 percent.  Just four House Republicans voted against Ryan’s plan, and
Brown is the second senator in the party to announce plans to
oppose it. Maine Senator  Susan Collins  -- who isn’t up for re-
election next year -- previously said she would vote against it.
Referring to Ryan, she told reporters yesterday, “I commend the
congressman for putting forth a budget, and I wish the
president would do the same, with that kind of commitment, but I
cannot support it in its present form.”  ‘Creative Thinking’  Senator Dick Lugar, an Indiana Republican running for his
seventh term, said he would support the Ryan plan, calling it a
“constructive budget” that shows “creative thinking.”  Senator Lisa Murkowski of  Alaska , who won re-election last
fall as a write-in candidate after losing the Republican primary
to a Tea Party-backed candidate, didn’t respond to reporters
yesterday asking her how she plans to vote on the proposal.  Democrats have called on those facing re-election to
denounce the budget proposal.  “It is not enough for these politicians to simply vote
against the Ryan plan. They must tell the Republican
establishment why this extreme plan goes too far,” Matt Canter,
a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee
said in a statement that singled out Brown, Lugar, Maine Senator
Olympia Snowe and Nevada Senator Dean Heller.  Some leading Republicans want to make the plan a
centerpiece of the 2012 campaign. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia  yesterday called on the party’s presidential
prospects to embrace it.  Asked whether Ryan should run for president himself, Cantor
told reporters in  Washington , “Sure,” adding, “Paul’s about
real leadership. That’s what this public so desperately wants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  