-- 
Greece Will Accelerate State Asset Sales to Stem Debt Crisis as Bonds Drop

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-24T08:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/greece-to-accelerate-asset-sales-as-bonds-drop.html
The Greek government endorsed an
accelerated asset-sale plan and 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion)
of budget cuts to win extra aid and stem a market slide that
threatens to swamp debt-laden euro-area nations.  Belgium had the outlook on its AA+ investment-grade credit
rating lowered to negative by Fitch Ratings yesterday as the
cost to insure Greek debt against default rose to a record and
the yield on its 10-year bonds increased to a euro-era high.  Europe ’s debt crisis has deepened as euro political leaders
clashed with central bankers after floating the prospect of
extending maturities on Greek bonds. That “soft” restructuring
may also be accompanied by more loans to Greece, which received
a 110 billion-euro bailout last year, now that the government
has delivered the additional budget cuts and pledged to speed
asset sales.  “There may be slipping, sliding into some sort of re-
profiling of Greek debt,”  Simon Johnson , an economist at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , told Bloomberg
Television’s In the Loop yesterday. “They may be about to face
their own special European Lehman moment.”  To avert that possibility, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s Cabinet agreed yesterday to sell stakes in  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  by the end of next month, as
well as  Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , Hellenic Postbank SA, and the
country’s ports.  Stakes’ Value  The state’s stakes in those three companies currently have
a market value of 2.1 billion euros. The government also said it
would create a fund comprising assets to accelerate the sales,
intended to raise 50 billion euros by 2015. The bulk of that
will come from selling 35 billion euros of real estate.  Greek 10-year yields were little changed at a record 17
percent, while yields on two-year notes slipped 18 basis points
to 26.07 percent. Contracts on Greek default insurance jumped 27
basis points to a record 1,400.  The government plans to complete the sale of Postbank by
the end of the year, and to sell 75 percent stakes in Piraeus
 Port Authority  and Thessaloniki Port Authority SA. It also
intends to extend the concession for Athens International
Airport this year.  Greece owns 20 percent of Hellenic Telecommunications, or
OTE, which has a market value of 3.2 billion euros. It has the
right to sell a 10 percent stake to Deutsche Telekom AG, which
already holds 30 percent. The government is seeking financial
advisers to exercise the  put option , and for the sale of a
further 6 percent of the company, the  finance ministry  said.  Budget Cuts  The Cabinet also announced the additional budget cuts worth
about 2.8 percent of gross domestic product needed to reach a
7.5 percent deficit target for 2011 even as its economy
contracts for a third year, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said.  “With an economy still in recession, it’s very difficult to
keep piling on larger amounts of fiscal tightening,” said David Mackie, London-based chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. on a conference call yesterday. “I think instead we are
moving to an environment where asset sales are going to be used
as the key means of signaling  Greece ’s commitment here.”  Greece has a “refinancing hole” of 30 billion euros for
both 2012 and 2013 each, according to economist  Nouriel Roubini .
The nation could restructure by issuing debt with lower interest
payments and extend maturities as it’s unlikely the nation will
“regain  market access  for the next five to 10 years,” he said
in an interview last week.  Deficit Forecasts  The European Commission on May 13 said that the deficit
would be 9.5 percent of GDP this year, more than three times the
EU limit, without the additional budget cuts approved yesterday.
Debt, already the euro area’s biggest relative to economic
output, may reach 158 percent of GDP this year and peak at 166
percent next year.  Investment-grade  Belgium  also took a hit as Fitch followed
 Standard & Poor’s  in saying that political deadlock complicates
efforts to cut the euro area’s third-highest debt load.  Fitch may cut Belgium’s grade, the second-highest rating,
should the country fail to adhere to its deficit targets,
according to a statement. Belgium needs to reduce its shortfall
to less than 3 percent of GDP next year and balance its books by
2015, as agreed with the European Commission.  A caretaker administration has ruled Belgium since
elections last June as tensions in the linguistically divided
nation led to the longest postwar political stalemate in Western
Europe. A strengthening economic recovery has helped shrink the
deficit to an estimated 3.6 percent of GDP this year from 5.9
percent in 2009, though reducing the debt will require political
resolve, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  