-- 
Greece May Sell All of Hellenic Telecom By End Of Second Quarter This Year

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-05-23T18:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/greece-may-sell-hellenic-telecom-stake-by-june-to-help-pay-nation-s-debt.html
Greece  may sell all of its holding in
phone operator Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA by
the end of the second quarter this year.  The government is seeking financial advisers to exercise a
 put option  for 10 percent of Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA and the sale of a further 6 percent, the Athens-
based  Finance Ministry  said today.  Greece owns a 20 percent stake in Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization, or OTE, and has the right to
sell a 10 percent stake to  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which already
has a 30 percent holding. In 2007, European Union regulators
approved a plan by the Greek government which would
transfer a 4 percent stake to the company’s pension fund.  Greece said Apr. 15 that it wants to sell its OTE stake
this year as part of a 50 billion-euro ($70 billion) asset sale
plan to cut the highest debt ratio in the European Union.
Deutsche Telekom has said there is “no scope for negotiations”
if the Greek government chooses to use an option to sell another
10 percent stake as the German operator is standing by its
obligations in the shareholders’ agreement.  Deutsche Telekom fully consolidates OTE, determines its
management, and has the right of first refusal for the remainder
of the government holding. The company has said the Greek
government has the right to sell an additional 10 percent to
Deutsche Telekom at 15 percent above the average market price of
the past 20 days.  OTE dropped 2.6 percent to 6.49 euros in Athens trading
today, valuing the government’s 20 percent stake at about 636
million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  