-- 
Greece Said to Face Earlier Asset-Sale Deadline to Win Further Aid

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-05-23T12:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/greece-said-to-face-earlier-asset-sale-deadline-to-win-fresh-loan-package.html
Greece  faces European pressure to
sell 15 billion euros ($21 billion) of state assets by the end
of 2012, a year ahead of schedule, in order to win a new three-
year loan package, a person familiar with the talks said.  Greece would also need to outline new deficit cuts to
persuade European governments and the  International Monetary
Fund  to offer loans on top of last year’s 110 billion-euro
package, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations are in progress.  Greek 10-year bond yields rose to a euro-era high today and
the cost of default insurance hit a record, dramatizing the need
for follow-up aid. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
Cabinet today began outlining a fifth austerity package since
last year’s European-led rescue made Greece the first of three
countries to tap official aid to escape default.  The bond slump “is partly down to concern that policy
makers will be unable to come up with any concrete solution to
the debt crisis,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist
at WestLB AG in London. “There’s a growing realization that a
pain-free solution for Greece may not be there.”  So far, Papandreou has set an end-2013 deadline to reach 15
billion euros in state asset sales, with the goal of upping the
figure to 50 billion euros by the end of 2015.  A Greek Finance Ministry spokesman didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the asset-sale
plan.  Greek 10-year yields soared as much as 43 basis points to
17 percent today. The extra yield over German bonds, a measure
of the risk of investing in Greece, widened by 48 basis points
to 14 percentage points.  Asset-Sale Agency  Requiring Greece to set up a special agency to manage the
asset sales “is one option we’re exploring among several
options,” European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner
Olli Rehn said in Vienna today.  The use of state holdings or asset-sale revenue as
collateral, as sought by countries including  Finland , probably
won’t work because that would rule out using that money to pay
down debt, the person close to the talks said.  Euro-area governments also want bondholders to buy new
Greek bonds to replace maturing debt, stopping short of the debt
extension, or “reprofiling,” floated by Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  last week, the person said.  Such a postponement of debt redemptions would be classified
as a default,  Fitch Ratings  said last week when it cut Greece’s
credit rating by three levels to B+.  Debt concerns propelled the euro to an all-time low against
the Swiss franc today. The 17-nation currency dropped as low as
1.2349 francs. It fetched 1.2392 francs at 12:15 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  