-- 
Liberty’s Malone Says Buyout of Live Nation May Make Sense

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-07-07T20:18:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/liberty-s-greg-maffei-says-barnes-noble-stores-can-drive-digital-sales.html
Liberty Media Corp. Chairman  John Malone  said it may make sense to buy out the public shareholders
in  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  and  HSN Inc. (HSNI) , two companies in
which Liberty has stakes.  Taking Live Nation private would give the concert and
ticketing company a chance to clean up operations out of public
spotlight, Malone told reporters in  Sun Valley ,  Idaho . Liberty
is Live Nation’s largest shareholder with a 22 percent stake.  “It would probably be nice for it to be private for a
period of time, to settle down,” said Malone, “to get
everything working smoothly, having predictable financial
outcomes.”  Malone, through Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty, has
taken stakes in businesses from the home-shopping service HSN
and  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  to the Atlanta Braves baseball team. In
May, Liberty offered $17 a share to take bookseller  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  private.  Malone said much of the recent deal-making is being driven
by Gregory Maffei, Liberty’s chief executive officer who has had
strong returns on deals such as Sirius XM.  “Maffei is batting 1,000,” Malone said in the interview.
“Even the Braves are doing well. So if Maffei says ‘Do it,’ you
write a check.”  Standing nearby, Maffei said the Barnes & Noble’s deal will
depend on what a board committee says about Liberty’s offer.  “What happens next is up to the special committee,” he
said.  ‘Major Financial Challenge’  Live Nation rose 75 cents, or 6.5 percent, to $12.26 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. The stock has added 7.4
percent this year. HSN climbed $1.27, or 3.8 percent, to $35 on
the Nasdaq Stock Market and has gained 14 percent this year.  Malone said that a deal for Live Nation could be difficult
financially.  “Could we afford it? It may be a little out of reach right
now,” he said. “Between here and getting it done is a pretty
major financial challenge.”  Buying out HSN, in which Liberty has a 32 percent stake,
may make sense because of the opportunities for cooperation with
QVC, another home-shopping network in which Liberty has a stake,
Malone said.  “Would we ultimately, when the parallel lines on the
highway come together, think that HSN and QVC should be under
the same umbrella? Yeah, we do,” said Malone. “We think there
are synergies in that.”  “Do we see that happening in the near term?” he said.
“That’s a function of markets and the attitude of control of
the other side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  