-- 
Volcano Ash Plume From Iceland May Reach U.K. Tonight, Weather Agency Says

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n   a n d   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-23T18:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/iceland-volcano-ash-may-reach-u-k-this-week.html
An Icelandic volcanic eruption that
began May 21 under  Europe ’s largest glacier could threaten air
traffic with ash reaching the U.K. as early as tonight.  Predictive  charts  from the U.K. Met Office’s Volcanic Ash
Advisory Center show ash from the Grimsvotn volcano beneath the
Vatnajokull icecap stretching south over most of  Scotland  as of
early morning tomorrow, mainly at lower altitudes.  “The ash plume has been coming down a bit but the fact
that the cloud is getting a little lower doesn’t indicate that
the eruption is slowing,” said Elin Jonasdottir, meteorologist
with Iceland’s Met Office, by phone. “Our measurements show
that the eruption has been rather stable since yesterday.”  Eurocontrol, which oversees European air traffic, said in a
statement there had been “no significant impact” today. The
group has convened the European Aviation Crisis Coordination
Cell, established after a volcanic eruption in Iceland last year
shut air traffic for six days and grounded 100,000 flights.  The potential for flight disruptions prompted U.S.
President  Barack Obama  to cut short a visit to Ireland, the
first leg of his six-day trip to Europe. Josh Earnest, a White
House spokesman, said Air Force One will leave for the U.K.
tonight rather than tomorrow as planned. Obama and other world
leaders are scheduled to convene for a meeting of the Group of
Eight nations May 26 and 27 in Deauville,  France .  Airport Closure  This week’s eruption has so far led to the closing of
Iceland’s main  airport in Keflavik .  Icelandair Group hf (ICEAIR) , which
canceled all European flights today, said in a statement that
based on new ash forecasts the airport will reopen tonight and
that its flights will be back on schedule tomorrow.  Avinor, which operates Norwegian airports, said today that
ash is expected to enter the Nordic country’s airspace in the
“afternoon” and that it may have to close air traffic between
the mainland and the Svalbard islands from 8 p.m.  Air Greenland canceled a flight from Copenhagen to its home
market and suspended ticket sales to at least May 27, the
company said in a statement. Danish authorities, which
administer Greenland airspace, have restricted flights in the
eastern part of the Arctic island.  2010 Eruption  Last year, an eruption beneath the Eyjafjallajokull glacier
on April 14 closed European airspace for six days, grounding
flights at a cost of $1.7 billion, the  International Air
Transport Association  estimated. Obama, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  were forced to
cancel plans then to attend the funeral of Polish President  Lech Kaczynski . Iceland, with a population of about 320,000, is one
of the world’s most volcanically and geologically active
countries with frequent eruptions.  The Bloomberg World Airlines index, which comprises 31
carriers, fell 3.1 percent to 76.92 points as of 2:30 p.m. New
York time.  Limits on flying may mirror the looser restrictions imposed
toward the end of last year’s eruption. Airspace and runway
closures were gradually eased after airlines complained that
measures were too strict, with the level of dust through which
aircraft could fly increased twice.  Changed Policies  The U.K.  Civil Aviation Authority  has revised its policies
since last year. Airlines will be allowed to fly in ash density
of two grams or less per 10 cubic meters of air. Airlines will
also be allowed to fly where the density measures between two
and four grams per 10 cubic meters, provided they prove that
their planes can safely cope with that amount. At levels above 4
grams all airplanes are still banned from flying.  “Our number one priority is to ensure the safety of people
both onboard aircraft and on the ground,” Andrew Haines, chief
executive of the CAA, said in a statement. “We can’t rule out
disruption, but the new arrangements that have been put in place
since last year’s ash cloud mean the aviation sector is better
prepared and will help to reduce any disruption in the event
that volcanic ash affects U.K. airspace.”  Germany ’s Transport Ministry today imposed rules regulating
the conditions under which planes are allowed to fly when the
airspace is contaminated with ash. While there is “no danger at
present” to flights in Germany’s airspace from volcanic ash
emanating from  Iceland , the ministry said that “binding rules”
have to be set in ash endangers air traffic.  Flights will be allowed under certain conditions up to a
contamination of 2 milligrams per cubic meter and banned “in
general” above that level, it said.  Plume Height  The height of the ash plume from the eruption diminished to
10 kilometers (6.3 miles) from 20 kilometers on May 21,
according to  Iceland’s Met Office . Meteorologists are using a
new weather radar system to monitor the development.  Saturday’s eruption began at about 6 p.m., about 220
kilometers southeast of Reykjavik. The volcano’s latest venting
ended in 2004. Grimsvotn and Eyjafjallajokull are about 150
kilometers apart.  Ash covered small towns on Iceland’s southeast cost
immediately following the eruption. Last night a dark cloud of
ash reached Reykjavik, prompting city officials to  warn people 
with asthma or other breathing disorders against going outside.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  