-- 
Microsoft Says EU’s 899 Million-Euro Antitrust Fine Was ‘Unfair’

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-24T11:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/microsoft-appeal-of-899-million-euro-fine-may-limit-eu-powers.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  challenged as
“unfair” a European Union penalty of 899 million-euros ($1.26
billion) it received for failing to comply with an antitrust
ruling.  The world’s largest software company told judges at an
appeal hearing today that the 2008 European Commission fine was
“especially unfair” because the regulator failed to give it
sufficient guidance to avoid the fine. The court should annul
the “unnecessary, unlawful and totally disproportionate
penalty,” Microsoft lawyer Jean-Francois Bellis told the court.  Microsoft is the only company in more than 50 years of EU
competition policy to be penalized for failing to comply with an
order. Today’s case is the last remnant of years of disputes
with the commission that resulted in fines totaling 1.68 billion
euros. Microsoft agreed to a settlement in 2009 in a bid to
repair the company’s uneasy relationship with the EU regulator.  The Brussels-based commission said Microsoft breached an
earlier ruling by overcharging for licenses that rivals needed
to connect products to Windows computers. As the first appeal of
such a decision, the judges at the  EU General Court  in
Luxembourg will clarify the scope of the commission’s power.  “This case would not have arisen if the commission had
been as explicit with respect to the rates which it wanted
Microsoft to charge as it had been with all the other aspects of
the licensing terms proposed by Microsoft,” Bellis told a
three-judge panel.  Periodic Penalty  The commission, the EU’s antitrust authority, imposed the
899 million-euro fine as a so-called  periodic penalty  payment on
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft for failing to comply with a
2004 antitrust order.  The punishment “served no purpose other than pressuring
Microsoft into coming up with an outcome” that the EU could
have come up with “from the outset,” Bellis said.  Under the initial decision, Microsoft was fined 497 million
euros and ordered to provide data to competitors to allow
servers to connect to computers using the  Windows operating
system .  Microsoft was also required to limit to a “reasonable”
amount the royalties it charged for the technology. An EU court
in September 2007 rejected Microsoft’s appeal of that decision.  “This is a case about a gambler who doubled up on a losing
bet, lost again and now wants his money back,” Nicholas Khan, a
lawyer for the commission, told the court. The 2007 EU court
decision “meant that the gamble failed” and “Microsoft wants
to unwind the bet. These gambling instincts persist in the
manner of conducting these proceedings.”  Compete With Microsoft  The only reason why competitors wanted the inter-
operability information from Microsoft was not to add features
to their products, it was because rivals needed to be able to
compete, said Thomas Vinje, a lawyer who spoke on behalf of some
of the interveners, including  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   “In light of all of the information available to it,
Microsoft must have know that the licensing terms it offered
were unreasonable,” said Vinje, a lawyer with Clifford Chance
LLP. “Only a few weeks after this court’s” September 2007
“ruling, Microsoft claimed it understood what was reasonable
and started offering” such licensing terms.  Microsoft’s appeal is supported by industry association
CompTIA and the Association for Competitive Technology. The
commission’s case is supported by seven interveners, including
IBM and Oracle.  488 Days  The EU assessed Microsoft’s proposals for 306 days of the
EU’s 488-day periodic penalty, said the company’s lawyer Bellis,
who works at law firm  Van Bael & Bellis  in Brussels.  “Why did it take the commission so long to review them?”
asked Bellis. “How can the commission fine Microsoft for
failing to apply reasonable rates from June 2006 to October 2007
when the final parameters were only determined on October 22,
2007?”  Microsoft also questions the validity of the EU’s
assessment reports prepared by a trustee charged with monitoring
the company’s compliance with the 2004 decision.  The trustee mechanism was the only part the EU court
invalidated in its 2007 decision, saying the regulator had been
wrong to force the company to give powers to an independent
trustee who had access to its documents, premises and software
source code.  A case at the lower court takes between 3 to 4 years from
appeal to ruling date, according to court  statistics . Microsoft
can appeal any decision to the  European Court  of Justice.  The case is T-167/08, Microsoft v. European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  