-- 
Tidy the President’s Crowded Cabinet

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-05-23T19:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/tidy-the-president-s-crowded-cabinet.html
During my tenure in the White House,
there was always an unintentionally funny moment when the
Cabinet sat down each month to meet with the president -– and I
do mean, literally, when it sat down.  Because the number of Cabinet members has grown over the
years, and the size of the room in which they gather hasn’t, the
top officials of our government are crammed around the table
closer together than at Thanksgiving dinner with all the
cousins. Virtually every meeting began with one secretary having
to climb over a chair arm, or squeeze their rump past a
colleague’s face, to reach their seat.  The awkward seating problem illustrates a bigger point: The
modern Cabinet has grown too large to be an effective tool to
help run the federal government. Seventeen department and agency
heads (joined by three top Executive Office of the President
officials, the United Nations ambassador and the vice president)
now make up a  22-person Cabinet ; can you name any U.S. corporate
chief executive with that many direct reports?  These unwieldy meetings become show-and-tell sessions where
many top officials don’t get to speak; too many talented Cabinet
secretaries go weeks without meaningful interactions with the
president; and increasingly large and complex mechanisms have
sprouted up at the White House to manage, coordinate and resolve
disputes among those with overlapping turf.  In his State of the Union address this year, President
 Barack Obama  got some bipartisan laughs for making fun of the
way the government is organized, and he promised a response. All
indications are that he will come forward with a positive, but
modest, proposal for change.  Congressional Oversight  There are powerful forces arrayed against a more
substantial transformation. Targeting a Cabinet department for
elimination runs into opposition from constituents who are
served by it, and from the chairmen of congressional oversight
panels who derive power from their jurisdiction over it. And so,
in the 222 years since President  George Washington  convened the
first Cabinet meeting with just four department heads, the size
of our Cabinet has only grown. No president has ever shrunk it.  The time is ripe for a bold plan to change this. We should
return to a Cabinet small enough to allow its members to
directly report to the president, without the buffer of White
House aides; lessen the need for White House coordination and
conflict resolution; and help reduce spending by streamlining at
the top, instead of cutting front-line workers or reducing
services.  From 17 to 7  Specifically, we should collapse the 17 Cabinet departments
to just seven. These would be the original four -- State,
Defense, Treasury and Justice (which would absorb  Homeland
Security ) -- plus new departments of Natural Resources
(absorbing Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, parts
of the Energy and Agriculture departments, and Commerce’s
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ); Human
Resources (Education, Labor, Health and Human Services, and
 Veterans Affairs ); and Economic Development (Commerce, Housing
and Urban Development, Transportation, the United States Trade
Representative and the rest of Energy and Agriculture).  The plan, admittedly, has its roots in an idea that
President  Richard Nixon  proposed in 1971. While it was rejected
then, the case for action is even more compelling now: In the 40
years that have elapsed, five more departments have been added.  In the short term, any reorganization would cost money
before it produced savings, and create chaos in the agencies
before things settled down. But there would be substantial long-
term advantages if the president and the Congress met the
challenge.  Greater Stature  First, with the Cabinet reduced to seven members, each
secretary could truly work for the president -- see him weekly,
report to him -- and gain the stature and responsibility that
too few achieve today. Moreover, because this proposal doesn’t
“abolish” one or two targeted departments -- but rather,
consolidates virtually all of them -- no constituency or group
can say it is being singled out for punishment.  Unlike some Cabinet reform plans that are motivated by a
desire to “de-federalize” policy in education, labor, energy
or transportation, the goal of my proposal isn’t to lessen the
federal role in these areas; it is to create fewer, but more
powerful, Cabinet members to lead it.  Second, the elaborate White House mechanisms needed to
coordinate between Cabinet departments and resolve their
disputes could be streamlined, and anxiety about a proliferation
of White House “czars” could be ended. The White House
shouldn’t have to invest as much energy as it does in managing
disputes among members of the “Green Cabinet” or the “Health
Cabinet” or the “Economic Cabinet.” The president should have
fewer, but more empowered, Cabinet members leading policy in
these areas, with the White House staff providing him with the
overarching advice and support he needs.  Administrative Posts  Third, because each Cabinet department has its own heavy
layer of top administrative jobs -- the alphabet soup of CTOs,
CFOs, CIOs, IGs, GCs, CAOs, PROs, and so on -- collapsing the
departments could allow for the elimination of countless
administrative, non-programmatic officials and their staffs.
With cuts now certain under any of the pending budget plans,
isn’t it better to target agencies’ executive offices rather
than their front lines? Isn’t it better to reduce spending at
headquarters so that more programs in the field can be
preserved?  Fourth, similar savings can be achieved by closing
duplicative programs when agencies are combined. Why are there
job-training programs scattered through nine Cabinet departments
-- with nine program directors, nine program public-relations
officials, nine program evaluators, and so on -- when a single
program in a single department would suffice? Consolidation
would move resources from the administrative costs of
duplicative programs to enable more investment in the programs
themselves.  Shift in Congress  Finally, collapsing Cabinet departments would force a
dramatic shift in Congressional committee oversight and the
confirmation delays that paralyze  Washington . The current array
of 17 Cabinet-level departments and agencies means that more
than 15 committees (and as many as 50 subcommittees) in both the
Senate and the House have oversight fiefdoms -- with the Senate
panels also having confirmation responsibilities, which are
causing longer delays each year.  Fewer committees supervising fewer departments and needing
to confirm fewer officials can only improve the way Congress
works, and will spare senators and representatives their current
overload of assignments.  As a progressive who believes that a vibrant government is
critical to our national objectives, I think that reorganizing
the Cabinet shouldn’t be limited to incremental change: It
should be bold and transformational. Why not try fewer “silos”
and more integration, less duplication and more concentration of
resources in coherent programs, fewer chieftains and more true
chiefs? Rather than cut, cut, cut our existing government, we
should fundamentally reshape it for the 21st century.  ( Ron Klain  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For related news and information:  To contact the writer of this column: Ron Klain in Washington at
 Rklain@AOL.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column: Max Berley in
Washington at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 