-- 
U.K. Curbs on Shale Exploration Aren’t Necessary, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   S t e p h e n   C u n n i n g h a m
-- 
2011-05-23T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/igas-jumps-to-2-month-high-on-coal-bed-methane-drilling-plans.html
U.K. lawmakers said there’s no need
to impose curbs on shale gas exploration, though the development
of unconventional resources in Britain is unlikely to prove a
“game changer” as in the U.S.  There’s no evidence that the process of hydraulic
fracturing, known as fracking, poses a direct risk to
underground water supplies provided that the well-casing is
intact, Parliament’s  Energy and Climate Change Committee  said in
a report today.  “There has been a lot of hot air recently about the
dangers of shale gas drilling, but our inquiry found no evidence
to support the main concern -- that U.K. water supplies would be
put at risk,” committee chairman  Tim Yeo  said in a statement.  Environmental concerns linked to the risk of water
contamination from shale gas exploration has led to lawsuits and
a temporary moratorium on new permits for fracking in the state
of  New York . The lower house of the French parliament has voted
in favor of a permanent ban on shale exploration.  The U.K.’s onshore shale gas resources could be as much as
150 billion cubic meters, equivalent to 1.5 years of total U.K.
gas consumption, based on British Geological Survey estimates.
In contrast, the development of shale fields made the U.S. the
world’s largest gas producer in 2009 and caused prices to slump.  While the U.K. report found that shale gas could help
reduce the the country’s dependence on imported gas, it’s
unlikely to have a significant effect on domestic gas prices.  Offshore Shale  The committee called on the government to encourage the
development of the offshore shale gas industry, which could
dwarf onshore supplies.  “Offshore reserves may be much higher and, while more
costly to recover, could potentially deliver self-sufficiency in
gas for the U.K.,” Yeo said.  Shale gas could reduce carbon dioxide emissions globally,
the report said, by encouraging a switch from coal to gas for
electricity generation. “But if it has a downward effect on gas
prices it could divert much needed investment away from lower
carbon technologies like solar, wind, wave or tidal power,” Yeo
said.  Shale formations consist of dense rock that can be broken
apart to release trapped oil and gas. Advances in directional
drilling and fracking techniques have increased production from
shale fields. Fracking is a process in which millions of gallons
of water, sand and chemicals are pumped underground to break
apart a rock formation and release natural gas.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Cunningham in London at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  