-- 
Tiger Asia Fund Said to Fall 16% on China Stock Shorts

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-05-23T22:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/tiger-asia-fund-said-to-fall-16-on-china-stock-shorts-correct-.html
(Corrects date of Tiger Management founding in last
paragraph.)  Tiger  Asia  Management LLC, the New
York-based hedge fund being investigated by U.S. and Hong Kong
regulators, fell 16 percent this year, hurt by bets against
Chinese stocks, said a person with knowledge of the firm.  The decline through May 15 was softened by a 10 percent
gain in the first two weeks of this month, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the fund is
private. Assets dropped to $1.3 billion in April from $2 billion
on Dec. 31 and $3 billion at the end of September.  Bill Hwang, who founded Tiger Asia in 2001, had more than
90 percent of his short positions in  China  in the first quarter,
betting that prices for financial, Internet and media companies
would fall, the person said.  Hedge funds  that both buy stocks
and sell short fell an average of 6.4 percent through May 13,
according Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “It’s extremely difficult for managers to be short,” said
Stewart Massey, chief investment officer at Massey, Quick & Co.
in Morristown,  New Jersey , which manages $3 billion on behalf of
endowments, foundations and wealthy clients. “Valuations for
companies that look fairly valued or even overvalued keep
rising.”  Hwang said in a February investor letter that he was
disappointed with the fund’s 0.5 percent gain in 2010, citing
shorts as a “major drag on returns.” Short sellers seek to
profit from price declines by selling borrowed securities, with
the aim of replacing them with stock bought at lower levels.  Analyst Turnover  Tiger Asia’s loss this year compares with gains through May
13, including dividends, of 1.93 percent by  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Composite Index and 3.4 percent by the Kospi benchmark in
 South Korea . The CSI 300 gauge in China was little changed and
 Japan ’s Topix dropped 5.6 percent.  Four analysts left Tiger Asia earlier this year, while it
made one hire from Kelusa Capital, the person said. The company
employs seven analysts and two traders.  Patrick Clifford , a
Tiger Asia spokesman, declined to comment.  The firm told clients in October that it had received a
subpoena from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
following allegations of  insider trading  from Hong Kong’s
securities regulator. Tiger Asia, which denied any wrongdoing,
told clients it’s cooperating with the SEC and was fighting an
injunction to freeze some of its assets filed by the Hong Kong
Securities and Futures Commission.  Backing From Robertson  There is nothing new to report on the ongoing
investigations, the firm told investors in a May 10 note,
according to the person. The firm is also being investigated in
a parallel review by the U.S. Attorney’s office for the district
of New Jersey, according to a Nov. 9 note to investors.  Tiger Asia is one of the Tiger Cubs, a group of hedge-fund
managers that received backing from  Julian Robertson  or worked
at Tiger Management LLC. Robertson founded the New York-based
firm in 1980 and built it into one of the world’s largest hedge-
fund managers before returning clients money in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 