-- 
Highland Capital Sued by Houston Pension Plan Over Failed Crusader Fund

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-24T01:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/highland-capital-sued-by-houston-pension-plan-over-failed-crusader-fund.html
Highland Capital Management LP, the
debt manager with about $22 billion in assets under management,
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were sued by a Houston pension plan
over claims that willful looting led to the demise of the
Highland Crusader Fund.  Highland co-founders James Dondero and Mark Okada caused
the Crusader Fund to engage in “dozens of self-interested
transactions” with Highland affiliates designed to benefit the
firm at the fund’s expense, the Houston Municipal Employees
Pension System said in the complaint. The pension plan, which
invested $15 million in the fund, is seeking unspecified losses
caused by the alleged wrongdoing.  The Crusader Fund “was harmed by virtue of being stuck
with poor quality assets that it would not have had if the
partnership had been managed in the best interests of the
partnership and its limited partners,” lawyers for the pension
plan said in the complaint filed in Delaware Chancery Court.  Highland, founded by Dondero and Okada in  Dallas  in 1993,
announced plans in October 2008 to shutter its flagship Crusader
Fund and the Highland Credit Strategies Fund over a three-year
period after suffering losses on high-yield, high-risk loans and
other types of debt. Since then, the firm and two JPMorgan units
that administered the funds have been sued over claims of
fraudulently misleading investors about the health of the funds
and failing to provide accurate monthly statements.  ‘Equitable Solution’  “We are extremely disappointed by the action filed today
by a single law firm in the Delaware Court, which is an attempt
to derail the continued hard work of over 100 investors,”  Armel Leslie , a Highland Capital spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “As highlighted by the recently announced agreement
among investors in the Highland Credit Strategies hedge fund, we
are confident that an equitable solution that benefits all
Crusader investors will be reached.  Highland announced in April that it had won approval from a
court in  Bermuda  to distribute assets of the Highland Credit
Strategies fund.  Highland froze limited partner withdrawals from the funds
in 2008 even while it managed to reduce its own investment in
the Crusader Fund from $395 million to $16 million, according to
the pension plan’s complaint.  “In accomplishing this task, Highland stripped the master
fund of its investment-grade assets, leaving it with only junk-
rated (or unrated) investments,” lawyers for the pension plan
said in the court filing.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, had no
immediate comment on the complaint.  Employee Lawsuit  A former JPMorgan employee claimed in a lawsuit filed in
June that Highland, with the bank’s assistance, purposefully
placed poorly performing assets into the Crusader Fund to shield
other Highland portfolios, the Houston pension plan said in its
complaint. Highland also artificially manipulated the net asset
value of certain  hedge funds  and back-dated cross trades among
certain Highland funds, according to the complaint.  JPMorgan, which provided back-office services for the
Crusader Fund, was aware of Highland’s improper practices “yet
consciously chose to do nothing to stop them,” according to the
complaint.  At the height of the credit crisis, Okada and Dondero
caused the Crusader Fund to “radically” increase the number
and size of its transactions with other Highland affiliates,
according to the complaint.  Sale Transactions  “In just two months in 2008, September and October,
Highland now admits to having caused the Crusader Fund to engage
in no fewer than 56 purchase and sale transactions with Highland
and its affiliates,” the pension plan said in the complaint
citing a summary of transactions reported to Crusader Fund
investors in April 2009, six months after the partnership
closed.  The Houston plan is seeking the return of all
administration fees and all management fees to the fund as well
as unspecified damages.  The case is Houston Municipal Employees Pension System v.
Highland Crusader Fund GP, CA6510, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  