-- 
IMF Head Should Be Chosen on Merit, Likely European, Zeti Says

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-05-23T04:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/imf-head-should-be-chosen-on-merit-likely-european-zeti-says.html
Malaysia’s central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz comments on the International Monetary Fund’s next
head, inflation and subsidy cuts. She made these remarks to
reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  On the International Monetary Fund’s next head:  “We haven’t really made any discussion with the Ministry
of Finance. We jointly participate in the IMF. Traditionally, it
has been a European and most likely it is going to be a
European.”  On whether Malaysia may join the call for an Asian to head the
fund:  “We believe whoever heads the IMF, the selection should be
based on merit. It should be someone who will work towards the
greater good of this world.”  On whether she would be interested in the job:  “I have just been extended for another five years and I am
very determined to make sure that  Malaysia  transitions to
becoming a developed economy. I am going to be here in Malaysia.
No, it would be a European.”  On the likely impact of state subsidy cuts on Malaysian
inflation this year:  “We have already priced in some increases in these rates.
If it’s within the extent that we have priced in, then the range
will be what we have said, within the band of 3 to 3.5 percent
on an average for the year. But if it’s more than what we
have priced in, it may be revised upwards.”  On the impact of high oil prices on Malaysian economic growth:  “We saw that when the  oil prices  increased to $147 per
barrel, of course it has an impact on the global economy. We
will not be immune and we’d be affected as well. So there are
varying degrees, but now our economy is in a much better
position to absorb such higher costs. So the extent shouldn’t be
as bad as previously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  