-- 
IMF’s Lipsky Expects New Managing Director by End of June

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   P i m m   F o x
-- 
2011-05-23T22:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/imf-s-lipsky-expects-new-managing-director-by-end-of-june-1-.html
John Lipsky , the International
Monetary Fund’s acting chief, said today that a new leader will
be found by the end of next month, while he declined to comment
on whether a U.S. citizen should keep the fund’s No. 2 slot.  In an interview with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s
“Taking Stock,” Lipsky also said the bailout programs for
Ireland, Portugal and Greece that the IMF co-funded with the
European Union will produce results and avoid default if the
plans are followed.  The measures attached to the loans for the three countries
are “very detailed and quite strenuous” and “do not
contemplate debt restructuring,” Lipsky said. “We are
convinced that if the programs are fully implemented, that they
will succeed in restoring economic health to these countries.”  The Washington-based IMF is seeking to find a replacement
by June 30 for  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who resigned last week
following his arrest on sexual assault charges in  New York .
Meanwhile, the bond-market selloff has been worsening across
Europe.  More than a year after European policy makers approved a
750 billion-euro ($1.1 trillion) bailout blueprint to stem the
sovereign crisis, bond yields in debt-laden peripheral countries
are at record highs and officials are floating plans to extend
Greek repayments. Italy had its credit-rating outlook put on
negative review by  Standard & Poor’s  on May 20, hours after
 Fitch Ratings  cut Greece three levels. Spain’s ruling party was
routed in local voting yesterday.  ‘Excellent’ Lagarde  Support mounted for French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  to head the IMF. In an interview with CNBC television
today, Lipsky said she would make an “excellent” managing
director.  “She’s done an excellent job as a finance minister and I’m
sure she would be an excellent managing director,” Lipsky said
today. He said other candidates who have been nominated and
publicly mentioned also “all seem excellent names.”  Mexico has offered its central bank governor, Agustin Carstens, as an emerging-market candidate, challenging  Europe ’s
65-year hold on the job.  Developing countries have so far shown little evidence of
coordination, with Thailand,  Russia  and  South Africa  supporting
policy makers from their own parts of the world. The deadline
for nominating candidates is June 10.  Lipsky said the IMF staff and management play no role in
the selection of the institution’s head. He said he’s confident
the recruitment process outlined by the IMF board last week will
lead to an “excellent” choice.  His own mandate as first deputy managing director ends Aug.
31 and he has said he doesn’t plan to renew it. The U.S. has
traditionally picked the official holding the post.  Asked if the position should remain in U.S. hands, Lipsky
said that “this is a choice that is left to the managing
director with the approval and agreement of the executive board
so I’ll leave that question to them.” 