-- 
LinkedIn May Plunge to $30 Once Insiders Sell Shares, Gamco’s Haverty Says

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-23T21:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/linkedin-may-plunge-to-30-a-share-once-insiders-able-to-sell-gamco-says.html
LinkedIn  Corp., the professional-
networking website that sold shares in an initial public
offering last week, may fall as low as $30 a share once insiders
are able to pare their holdings, according to Lawrence Haverty
of Gamco Investors Inc.  The company sold 7.84 million shares at $45 apiece on May
18, and the stock surged as high as $122.70 the next day.
Insiders and money managers have 85.7 million Class B shares of
LinkedIn, based in  Mountain View , California, that cannot be
sold until 180 days after the IPO, regulatory filings show.  “The supply is going to increase,” he said today during
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
with  Tom Keene . “As the supply increases, Econ 101 says the
price is going to go down,” said Haverty, who helps oversee $35
billion at Rye, New York-based Gamco. “The only question for
the investor is how soon they should sell.”  Surging demand for social-media stock and a comeback in
venture-backed IPOs propelled LinkedIn to more than double on
its first trading day. The company’s ability to convert revenue
to cash will be curbed by wage increases, Haverty said. LinkedIn
is probably able to convert about 40 percent of its sales into
 cash flow , he said. Based on this valuation, the stock is worth
about $30 to $35, he added.  LinkedIn produced net income of $15.4 million in 2010 after
losing money in 2008 and 2009, regulatory filings show.  California  Taxes  “I used to think a good  Internet company , once they hit
breakeven, which is where LinkedIn is, could convert 70
percent” of revenue into cash flow,” he said. “Because wages
are going up in Silicon Valley and we know that California tax
receipts are way higher than people have thought, we know
there’s going to be a cost problem for these companies.”  LinkedIn fell 5.2 percent to $88.30 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
today. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.2 percent, the
most since March 16.  About 62 percent of the shares in the offering were being
sold by LinkedIn, according to the IPO prospectus. Other sellers
include a venture capital affiliate of Bain Capital LLC, McGraw-
Hill Cos.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and founder and Chairman
 Reid Hoffman .  LinkedIn members use the site to search for jobs, recruit
employees and find industry experts. While users can create
personal profiles for free, paid subscriptions were introduced
in 2005, giving recruiters more access to candidates and
providing professionals ways to communicate with one another.  “This is not something we even consider investing in at
Gamco,” Haverty said. “This is a sideshow, it’s a magic
show.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  