-- 
Minnesota’s Pawlenty Will Formally Enter 2012 Republican Presidential Race

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-23T12:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/minnesota-s-pawlenty-will-formally-enter-2012-republican-presidential-race.html
Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  is poised to enter the 2012 Republican presidential
race with a speech today in Iowa, the early nominating state
where he is placing his greatest campaign emphasis.  His speech in  Des Moines  will follow yesterday’s
announcement by Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels that he won’t
join the Republican field because of family considerations.  Pawlenty will seek to present himself as a truth-teller in
troubled financial times.  “The changes history is calling on America to make today
cannot be shouldered only by people richer than us, or poorer
than us -- but by us, too,” he will say, according to excerpts
of his speech released in advance. “Politicians are often
afraid that if they’re too honest, they might lose an election.
I’m afraid that in 2012, if we’re not honest enough, we may lose
our country.”  Pawlenty, 50, will also call for a smaller federal
government, according to the excerpts.  “If we want to grow our economy, we need to shrink our
government,” he will say. “If we want to create jobs, we need
to encourage job creators. If we want our children to be free to
pursue their dreams, we can’t shackle them with our debts. This
is a time for truth.”  In a video released yesterday, Pawlenty suggested President
 Barack Obama  over-promised in 2008 and has had success because
of “fancy speeches” and campaign flourishes.  “We need a president who understands that our problems are
deep and who has the courage to face them,” he said.
“President Obama doesn’t. I do.”  Lacks ‘Coherent Vision’  Hari Sevugan, a spokesman for the Democratic National
Committee, said in a statement today that Pawlenty lacks a
“coherent vision” for the country.  “He may want to be all things to all people, but
desperately trying to ingratiate himself with everyone, anyone,
is not a substitute for strong presidential leadership,”
Sevugan said.  The Minnesotan’s decision to kick off his bid in the
neighboring state of Iowa underscores its importance for
Pawlenty’s campaign, which is seeking a strong showing in the
nominating caucuses there in hopes of building momentum for a
candidate less well-known than some potential rivals. The  Iowa 
caucuses, scheduled for Feb. 6, will be the first balloting in
next year’s nomination contest.  The speech marks Pawlenty’s 14th visit to Iowa since
November 2008, according to the  IowaPolitics.com  website.  Short List for 2008  Pawlenty, who was elected governor in 2002 and served two
terms after spending a decade in Minnesota’s legislature, was on
the short list of prospective running mates for 2008 Republican
presidential nominee  John McCain , who eventually chose then-
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin.  He has built a team of experienced political operatives,
especially in Iowa, including Chuck Larson Jr., a former Iowa
Republican Party chairman, and Eric Woolson, who led the winning
2008 Iowa caucuses campaign for former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee .  In early polling, Pawlenty has trailed most of the
potential Republican field. He received 4 percent in an April
26-May 1 survey by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden, Connecticut.  Daniels’s announcement followed similar decisions to stay
on the sidelines by Huckabee, real estate magnate  Donald Trump ,
and Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour .  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia and
Representative Ron Paul of Texas have both formally announced
their candidacies.  Romney, Santorum  Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts governor considering a
second White House bid, has filed paperwork with the Federal
Election Commission to raise money for a potential race, as has
former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania.  Other potential candidates include Palin and Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who is scheduled to give a speech
later this week in Iowa. Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah
governor and U.S. ambassador to  China , is also considering a
run.  Herman Cain, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson also have declared their candidacies. And
former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-
Republican, has formed an exploratory committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  