-- 
Institutions Plan to Keep Boosting Use of ETFs, Greenwich Says

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-23T17:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/institutions-plan-to-keep-boosting-use-of-etfs-greenwich-says.html
Demand by institutional and asset
management firms for exchange-traded funds has climbed as
investors use the products more for “active” investing
strategies,  Greenwich Associates  said.  About 48 percent of asset management firms and one-third of
institutional funds plan to increase their allocations to ETFs
in the next two years, according to a report published today by
Greenwich. That compares with another study by the Stamford,
Connecticut-based firm in late 2010, which found that 15 percent
of U.S. institutional funds used ETFs. No asset managers said
they expect to cut their ETF allocation by 2013, the study said.  “The perception of ETFs as a retail product is clearly out
of date,” the report said. “They are currently being used in
institutional portfolios for a variety of strategic and tactical
purposes and as a means of obtaining both passive and tactical
active exposures.”  Global ETF assets surged to $1.37 trillion as of February,
from $74.3 billion in 2000, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  The
Greenwich study is based on interviews with 45 institutional
funds, including pensions, endowments and foundations, as well
as 25 U.S. asset management firms. The institutions together
manage $7.5 trillion. Interviews were conducted between February
and April of this year.  Many respondents said they use ETFs for “active” purposes
to implement their investment strategies, according to
Greenwich. ETFs, which trade all day like stocks, originally
were conceived to mimic gauges such as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Because ETFs usually track an index, they are typically
considered passive investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  