-- 
Intel Names Maloney Chairman of China Unit Amid Demand Surge

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-23T23:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/intel-s-sean-maloney-is-named-chairman-of-intel-china-to-oversee-strategy.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  Executive Vice President
 Sean Maloney  will move to Beijing to take up the newly created
position of chairman for Intel China, underscoring the country’s
importance in fueling sales growth.  Maloney, 54, will be responsible for overseeing the
company’s strategy for China, said  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for
Santa Clara, California-based Intel, the world’s largest
computer-chip maker.  “It’s unprecedented for us,” Mulloy said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve never put someone at that high a level in
another country.”  Maloney, who returned to work in January after recovering
from a stroke he suffered 15 months ago, is being tapped to lead
the company’s plans in a country that Intel predicts will become
the world’s largest personal-computer market next year. Intel’s
chips are the main component of more than 80 percent of the
world’s computers.  “ China  is the primary focus for our industry,” said  Jim McGregor , chief technology strategist for market researcher In-
Stat in Scottsdale, Arizona. “China is not just important for
PCs, but all the different markets that Intel is trying to get
into.”  The Asia-Pacific region, which includes China, provided
$7.26 billion, or 56 percent, of Intel’s revenue in the first
quarter, compared with 21 percent for the Americas. Intel
doesn’t provide a breakdown for China only.  Medical Leave  Maloney was one of two executive vice presidents running
Intel’s main chip business, reporting directly to Chief
Executive Officer Paul Otellini, until his stroke, which left
him unable to speak. He went on medical leave in March 2010 and
has regained much of his speaking ability.  In previous positions at Intel, Maloney has run sales in
 Asia  and the company as a whole. Executive Vice President Dadi Perlmutter will take over Maloney’s general corporate
responsibilities when he moves to Asia, Mulloy said.  Intel shares fell 36 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $22.86 at
4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has advanced
8.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  