-- 
Hintz Says Smith Barney Is ‘Checkmated’ by Krawcheck, McCann: Tom Keene

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-23T15:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/hintz-says-smith-barney-is-checkmated-by-krawcheck-tom-keene.html
Morgan Stanley’s brokerage unit must
keep compensation costs high to retain top financial advisers
because the business is “checkmated” by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , which are looking to poach employees, said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  can’t
cut expenses at the joint venture with  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s  Smith
Barney  as fast as he would like because “he’s being checkmated
by  Sallie Krawcheck  and Bob McCann,” Hintz said today in an
interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s Bloomberg
Surveillance.  Krawcheck, 46, leads Bank of America’s wealth-management
unit and McCann, 53, is head of UBS’s U.S. brokerage. “Both of
them have bids in the market for his brokers, so if you come in
and are heartless on the integration, the retail brokers will
raise their hand and hit the bid, and he’ll end up with fewer
brokers,” Hintz said.  Compensation costs at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s wealth management
unit, which includes Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, were 62
percent of revenue at the New York-based company in 2010, down
from 65 percent in 2009. The ratio compared with 43 percent in
the firm’s investment bank and 41 percent in its asset-
management division.  Profit Goal  Hintz said investors and analysts have been disappointed by
the speed of the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney integration. The
unit posted a  pretax margin  of 9 percent in 2010, less than half
Gorman’s goal of more than 20 percent. Bank of America’s wealth
and investment management division, which includes its Merrill
Lynch brokerage and U.S. Trust, had a margin of about 15
percent.  Morgan Stanley paid $2.75 billion in 2009 to gain a
controlling stake in the joint venture with Smith Barney, giving
it the world’s biggest brokerage with 17,800 financial advisers
and $1.72 trillion in client assets at the end of the first
quarter. Morgan Stanley has the option to buy the rest of
Citigroup’s stake by 2014.  Gorman, 52, placed his former Merrill Lynch & Co. colleague
 Greg Fleming  in charge of the brokerage unit earlier this year.
Gorman said in February the firm is focused on keeping attrition
among its top 40 percent of advisers under 5 percent.  Bank of America more than tripled the size of its wealth-
management business with its 2009 purchase of Merrill Lynch. The
 unit  had 15,695 advisers at the end of the first quarter, when
Merrill Lynch had $1.55 trillion in client assets.  McCann who previously led the Merrill Lynch brokerage, was
hired by UBS in 2009 to turn around its U.S. wealth-management
unit, which had 6,811 financial advisers and 750 billion Swiss
francs ($850 billion) of client assets as of March 31. He said
at the time of his hiring that UBS wouldn’t be the “high bid”
in the market for financial advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 