-- 
Apple Risks IPad Production Loss of 500,000 After Blast

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-05-23T23:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ipad-2-may-have-production-losses-on-foxconn-explosion-ihs-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may face a production loss
of 500,000 iPad 2 tablets after the explosion at Foxconn
Technology Group’s plant in Chengdu,  China , according to
research firm IHS ISuppli.  The drop in manufacturing will depend on how long the plant
is closed following a May 20 explosion that killed three people
and injured at least 15, according to ISuppli. The total could
be even greater if the suspension of operations at the facility
lasts longer than a month, the firm said.  Another Foxconn factory in Shenzhen that produces iPads may
not be able to make up for the lost output, ISuppli said. The
manufacturing breakdown may lead Apple to miss ISuppli’s
forecast of 7.4 million iPad 2 shipments in the quarter ending
in June, the El Segundo, California-based research firm said.  Mike Abramsky , a technology analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets , speculated last week that the impact may be larger. If
Chengdu is where Apple manufactures most of its iPads, instead
of the Shenzhen factory, the blast could lead to lost production
of 1.8 million to 2.8 million iPads, he said. Abramsky had
predicted 8 million iPad shipments during the period.  By contrast, Shaw Wu, an analyst with Sterne Agee in  San
Francisco , said in a report today that the concerns are
“overdone” and that production at other facilities is being
ramped up to make up for the shortfalls. He expects Apple to
sell 6.8 million iPads in the June quarter.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell 82 cents to
$334.40 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
risen 3.7 percent this year.  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, said last week that the
company is working closely with its Taiwanese partner to
determine the cause of the explosion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  