-- 
Fischer Raises Israel Rate for Fourth Time to 3.25% as Prices Exceed Goal

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-05-23T16:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/israel-raises-benchmark-rate-to-3-25-on-inflation-threat-weaker-currency.html
Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  increased the benchmark interest rate for a fourth time
this year as the economy expands, inflation expectations exceed
the government’s target and the shekel weakens.  Fischer raised the rate by a quarter percentage point to
3.25 percent, the Jerusalem-based central bank said today.
Eleven of the 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast
the decision, while 10 predicted he would leave it unchanged.  “The deciding factor in favor of the increase was that
inflation is still 1 percentage point higher than the upper
limit of the target,” said Yossi Shvimer, chief economist at
Migdal Capital Markets Ltd. “The comfortable timing for the
move was provided by the  exchange rate , which weakened enough to
allow this step.”  Fischer has been gradually increasing the benchmark rate
from a record low of 0.5 percent in August 2009, picking up the
pace in the first three months of this year after growth surged
to 7.6 percent in the fourth quarter. He left the rate unchanged
a month ago after increasing it by a total of 1 percentage point
in the previous three decisions.  The shekel strengthened to 3.5020 per dollar at 6:25 p.m.
in  Tel Aviv . The currency traded at 3.5161 per dollar before the
decision was announced.  While inflation slowed to 4 percent in April from 4.3
percent in March, it was still above the upper limit of the
government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target for a fourth month.
Housing prices, which are helping to fuel inflation, have risen
14 percent in 12 months.  Forecaster Survey  Inflation expectations as derived from the  capital market 
averaged 3.3 percent this month, the bank said in the decision,
up from 3.1 percent in April. A survey of forecasters over the
last 30 days showed one-year inflation at 3.1 percent, the same
as in April.  The Bank of  Israel  staff forecast that inflation is likely
to slow to within the target range by the first quarter of 2012
compared with their previous forecast of mid-2012, according to
the bank’s statement. The benchmark interest rate is likely to
rise to 4.2 percent, according to their forecast, compared with
a previous 4.4 percent.  While the shekel has strengthened by about 9 percent
against the dollar during the past year, the Israeli currency
slid by more than 3 percent since the beginning of the month,
easing conditions for exporters and leaving room for the Bank of
Israel to raise  interest rates  further. Exports make up about
half of Israel’s gross domestic product.  Export Figures  Strong export figures also support the rate increase, Amir Haik, chief economist at Union Bank of Israel Ltd., said in a
telephone interview before the announcement. Exports rose 16
percent in the first quarter, the  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said May 16.  “The rapid expansion of activity continued in the first
quarter of 2011 and in April, specifically on the export side,”
the bank said in its decision. It said that first quarter
figures indicate that growth may be higher than the 4.5 percent
Bank of Israel forecast for 2011.  The TA-25 benchmark index has risen by about 13 percent in
the past year, led by Avner Oil Exploration-L.P. and Delek
Drilling-L.P., partners in gas fields off the country’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 