-- 
Missouri Tornado Kills at Least 116 in Deadliest U.S. Twister Since 1953

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-23T20:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/missouri-tornado-kills-at-least-116-in-deadliest-u-s-twister-since-1953.html
The tornado that killed 116 people in
Joplin,  Missouri , was the deadliest single U.S. twister since
1953, with winds that may have reached 198 miles per hour (319
kph), according to Jack Hayes, director of the National Weather
Service.  At least 481 people have died in tornadoes so far this
year, the earliest such a high toll has ever been reached, said
Russell Schneider, director of the weather service’s  Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma. Tomorrow is expected to
be another active day for tornados from Kansas to  Texas .  “We are now on pace for a record year for tornado
fatalities,” Schneider said on conference call with reporters
today. “I think we have to be aware that we are just now
entering the peak of the season.”  The deadliest year for tornadoes in the U.S. was 1925, when
794 people were killed, according to the  National Oceanographic
and Atmospheric Administration . Yesterday’s Joplin twister is
tied with a 1953 Flint,  Michigan , tornado as the single
deadliest in records going back to 1950.  The three-quarter-mile wide tornado tore through Joplin, a
city of 50,000 about 290 miles southwest of St. Louis, at 6 p.m.
yesterday, destroying and damaging many homes and buildings,
including St. John’s Regional Medical Center, according to state
and local statements. City Manager Mark Rohr announced the
latest death toll at a press conference today.  National Guard Assist  Joplin Mayor Mike Woolston declared a local disaster,
according to the city’s website, while Missouri Governor Jay Nixon declared a state of emergency and sent National Guard
troops to help.  The outbreak comes about a month after at least 305
tornadoes tore through the U.S. South, killing 327 people,
mostly in  Alabama , the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration said. The damage from the storms April 25 to
April 27 was estimated to be as much as $5 billion, according to
catastrophic risk modeler  Eqecat Inc.  in Oakland,  California .  This year’s stormy season may be caused by a waning La
Nina, a cooling in the  Pacific Ocean , that is focusing the track
for severe storms at just the right distance from warm moist air
coming north from the  Gulf of Mexico .  Sea surface temperatures in the Gulf are now 3 degrees
Fahrenheit warmer than the pre-1970 average, said Kevin
Trenberth, distinguished senior scientist at the  National Center
for Atmospheric Research  in Boulder,  Colorado .  Ocean Warming  “Two degrees of that can be attributed to natural
variability while one degree Fahrenheit is associated with
 climate change ,” said Trenberth in an interview today. “Some
part of it is global warming-climate change and some part is
natural variability.”  Hayes, Schneider and Thomas Schwein, deputy director of the
weather service’s central region, who was also on the conference
call, weren’t ready to attribute the outbreaks to climate
change.  “This is certainly a rich topic for research,” Schneider
said.  Schneider said there is “emerging research” to suggest
that years like 2011 in which a La Nina fades tend to produce
more tornadoes.  More deadly tornadoes may develop tomorrow from  Kansas  to
Texas, Schneider said.  “There are some very dense population areas,” Schneider
said. “This is a very serious situation that is brewing.”  Dave Samuel, senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania , said he doesn’t see much relief
from the storms.  “I would be surprised if there is a day this week where
there wasn’t a tornado report,” said Samuels. “There is going
to be a nasty storm Tuesday through Thursday. I don’t see any
big break coming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  