-- 
Mitie Profit Rises; Aims to Boost Energy-Services Offerings

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-05-23T15:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/mitie-profit-rises-aims-to-boost-energy-services-offerings.html
Mitie Group Plc (MTO) , the services company
that provides guards for law courts in England and  Wales , posted
full-year profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said it’s
looking to boost revenue through energy-efficiency offerings.  Net income for the year through March climbed 14 percent to
65.2 million pounds ($105 million), from 57.1 million pounds a
year earlier, the Bristol, England-based company said in a
statement today. The average estimate of seven analysts compiled
by Bloomberg was 60.2 million pounds. Revenue climbed 10 percent
to 1.89 billion pounds.  Energy services generated 34 percent of sales, with the
company offering combined facilities and energy management
services to customers such as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Rolls-Royce
Group Plc. Energy services could make up as much as 40 percent
of sales in the next two to three years, Mitie Chief Executive
Officer Ruby McGregor-Smith said in a telephone interview.  “Energy costs are going up and companies are looking more
to save money and we can provide the service and technology,”
the CEO said.  Mitie’s CarbonCare unit has a contract with  London  Fire
Brigade to reduce  carbon emissions  at 10 of the brigade’s
buildings by installing motion-sensor lighting, energy efficient
boilers and solar panels. The company is also working with
Waitrose Ltd. to deliver the retailer’s first biomass-powered
store on the Isle of Wight.  Mitie shares rose 5 percent, the most since September 2009,
to close at 220.4 pence at 4:30 p.m. in London, giving the
company a market value of 788.6 million pounds.  Prison Management  Mitie also wants to manage  prisons  as the government
outsources contracts, the CEO said.  “Over the next two years, we will look at managing prisons
which is a new area for us,” she said  Mitie already runs an immigration center for the  U.K.
Border Agency  and opened a center in Hollesley Bay Prison in
Suffolk to train ex-offenders.  The U.K. government in March awarded contracts to run three
prisons to  G4S Plc (GFS)  and  Serco Group Plc. (SRP)  Privately managed
prisons were introduced to the U.K. in the 1990s, according to
the HM Prison Service website.  Mitie said today 81 percent of its budgeted revenue for
this fiscal year has been secured compared with 75 percent in
the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 