-- 
Livestock Producers, Food Buyers to Pay as Dry Weather Persists

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-05-23T16:58:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/livestock-producers-food-buyers-to-pay-as-dry-weather-persists.html
Livestock farmers and grocery
shoppers are going to pay as dry weather persists in  Europe , the
U.S. and  China , increasing the cost of grains used to feed
animals and make staples such as bread and pasta.  About 61 percent of normal rain has fallen in the past
three months in the U.K., according to the Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. River flows in  England ,
which had its hottest April in at least 352 years, are
“exceptionally” low, Defra said on its  website . Soils in
 France ’s northern half were the driest in 50 years at the end of
April, the  Environment Ministry  reported last week.  Dry weather may cut U.K. grain and oilseed yields by as
much as 20 percent, Allan Wilkinson, head of agriculture for
 HSBC Bank , said in an interview today. To offset rising prices,
livestock producers should buy grain in advance to avoid paying
more when prices increase, he said. The dry weather also will
cause food costs at retail outlets to surge, Wilkinson said.  “The cost of commodities is going to generally be higher,
and this weather issue is going to exaggerate that,” Wilkinson
said. “Food costs are going to go up. In terms of the livestock
sector, they should make sure they’ve bought forward feedstocks
for the coming winter, or at least have a strategy for what
those costs may be.”  Wheat Surges  Wheat futures in  Chicago , the world benchmark, gained 68
percent in the past year. Milling wheat in Paris surged 74
percent and feed wheat in London jumped 93 percent. Corn, the
main ingredient in  animal feed , more than doubled.  French farmers blocked exit roads May 21 to protest local
government bans on water use, Le Figaro reported. Authorities
widened water-use restrictions to 42 of the country’s mainland
departments because of drought conditions in the European
Union’s largest agricultural producer, the Environmental
Ministry said on its website.  Soils in France’s northern half, where grains, grapes and
rapeseed are grown, were the driest in 50 years at the end of
April, the Environment Ministry reported last week. The quantity
of water stored as mountain snow was “very inferior” to the
average from 1995 to 2005 as of May 1, it said. France is the
biggest wheat producer in the European Union, followed by
 Germany  and the U.K., International Grains Council data show.  Food Prices  The United Nations Food Price Index that tracks 55
commodities rose to 232.07 points last month after touching a
record 237.24 points in February. The index will top 240 points
by the end of the year, said  William Adams , a  fund manager  for
Resilience AG in Zurich.  In the U.K., farmers who rely on water from rivers will
probably feel the effects of the dry weather the most, according
to a report from the  Environment Agency .  “The irrigation season has started early, but the amount
of use is dependent on crop type and geographical area,” the
agency said. “The main risk is for those license holders
reliant on abstracting water from rivers. The impact is likely
to increase during June and July, when demands for water will be
at their highest and flows at lowest.”  Straw and corn used to feed livestock that are planted in
the spring are more at risk than plants seeded in the winter
such as wheat and rapeseed, or canola, HSBC’s Wilkinson said.
Those planted last fall have moist soil in which to grow roots,
while spring crops lack the same conditions, he said.  “There’s some straw in some places that’s coming in at 20
centimeters (7.9 inches), when it would normally come in a 40
centimeters,” Wilkinson said. “Straw is going to be very
expensive. In all of my farming years, on the farm and now at
the bank, I’ve never known anything like this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  