-- 
J&J AIDS Pill Signals $9 Billion in Sales to Ease Recall Woes

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-23T20:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/j-j-aids-pill-signals-9-billion-in-sales-to-ease-recall-woes.html
Johnson & Johnson, the drugmaker that
won approval last week for the first new AIDS medicine since
2008, plans to introduce four drugs this year that may combine
for annual sales of $9 billion, helping to offset product
recalls and declining profit for medical devices.  The AIDS pill and therapies for prostate cancer, hepatitis
C and stroke make  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s program
“among the most exciting in the industry” and should help it
outpace profit growth at drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Merck
& Co. and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , said Jami Rubin, a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analyst in  New York .  The prospects have helped push J&J shares up 6 percent this
year, defying a decline for artificial hip sales and recalls for
over-the-counter medicines such as Tylenol. The drugs, developed
through an acquisition and licensing deals, show J&J hasn’t lost
the ability to pick a winner, said  Christopher Molloy , dean of
Rutgers University’s School of Pharmacy in Piscataway,  New
Jersey .  “They’ve placed a lot of big bets and four of them are
coming in,” said Molloy, a former researcher at Bristol-Myers
and J&J, in a telephone interview. “What J&J has been very
nimble at is identifying good  prospects  and bringing them
along.”  J&J, the second-biggest seller of health products after
Pfizer, fell 13 cents to $65.56 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Share Rise  The shares reached their low for the year on March 16, a
week after the company settled a U.S. lawsuit over its recalls
by giving regulators expanded oversight at three plants. Since
then, the stock has increased 14 percent, helped by the April 27
announcement that J&J would buy device maker  Synthes Inc. (SYST)  for
$21.3 billion. The deal would be the biggest in J&J’s 125-year
history.  The anticipated drug approvals are “a signal that things
are improving” for a pharmaceutical unit that has seen sales
slide 3.7 percent since 2006 amid competition from generic
drugs, said  Les Funtleyder , a  fund manager  at Miller Tabak & Co.
in New York who holds J&J shares, in a telephone interview.  “If you combine that with Synthes, which should bolster
their device side, that means that they just need to clean up
their consumer unit and they can get back to faster growth.”  J&J will gather analysts in New Brunswick on May 26 for a
meeting to showcase the drug division.  Rival Treatments  The new medicines will face competition, some from
treatments already with a head start in the market, and the
company must persuade doctors and patients that the products
offer greater benefits than their rivals, Funtleyder said.  Zytiga, a prostate cancer therapy gained in the $877.8
million acquisition of Cougar Biotechnology Inc. in 2009, was
cleared for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on
April 28, two months ahead of schedule. Last week, the agency
approved Edurant, the first new AIDS treatment in three years.  J&J also is awaiting European approval for telaprevir, a
treatment for the liver disease hepatitis C licensed from
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  It’s
seeking U.S. approval for Xarelto, a blood thinner to prevent
strokes shared with  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of Leverkusen,  Germany .  Addressing conditions that affect millions of people,
Zytiga and telaprevir may each reach peak sales of $3 billion
while Xarelto may generate $2 billion annually, said Goldman
Sachs’s Rubin in a May 11 note to investors.  Profit Expectations  Profit may grow by about 10 percent a share annually the
next three years, making J&J “the only accelerating earnings
story across global pharma,” she wrote. Adjusted earnings grew
3 percent a share in 2010 and 2 percent the year before.  Edurant will be sold in a combination pill with Foster
City, California-based  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s biggest
seller of AIDS drugs, and may generate sales of $870 million for
J&J in 2015, said  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst
in New York, in a May 20 note.  J&J’s drug-development approach “starts with the unmet
medical need,” said Sheri McCoy, a vice chairman of the
company’s executive committee, in an e-mail. “We have extremely
talented R&D leaders who are passionate about addressing
critical medical needs and they value both internal and external
sources of innovation. And our commercial teams have a strong
track record of successfully launching new products.”  The company is “rigorous about prioritizing our
investments, with a view for the long term,” she said.  Merck, Pfizer  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey, won FDA
approval this month for its hepatitis C drug, Victrelis. Xarelto
may face products from Pfizer and Bristol-Myers, both based in
New York, and closely held German drugmaker Boehringer Ingelheim
GmbH.  Medivation Inc. (MDVN)  of  San Francisco  is developing a prostate-
cancer pill to compete with Zytiga.  The opportunities are big enough, and J&J’s clinical
results are good enough for its drugs to stand their own, Rubin
said. Prostate cancer affects 550,000 people in the U.S. and
 Europe  annually, and markets to treat hepatitis C and atrial
fibrillation, an irregular heartbeat that can cause stroke, are
expected to reach at least $10 billion a year each, she said.  J&J has marketing rights to Xarelto in the U.S. and for
telaprevir in Europe,  South America ,  Australia  and the Middle
East.  The company had $61.6 billion in revenue last year, down
3.3 percent in the past two years.  Timing Helps  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  may be benefitting from timing as much as
anything else, with four drug approvals lining up at a time
rivals have hit pipeline delays, said David Maris, a Credit
Agricole Securities analyst in New York.  J&J isn’t known for having the biggest or most innovative
 drug research  program, praise more often applied to Merck or
Bristol-Myers, Maris, Molloy and Funtleyder each said. Merck’s
anti-cholesterol candidate, anacetrapib, may generate more than
$10 billion in yearly sales if it works as expected, Maris said.  “Saying you have a great pipeline and taking credit for a
drug you didn’t develop is really like saying, ‘we have a lot of
cash and we have an ability to identify other people’s good
science,’” he said in a telephone interview.  What J&J has done better than its peers is strike a balance
between spending on internal drug-research and finding
outsiders’ compounds to acquire or license, Molloy said.  “They’re looking for a product that’s pretty far along,
already in clinical trials and that is showing a proof of
concept or pretty close to showing proof,” he said. “That
requires a lot of investment and a little bit of risk, too.”  J&J has also benefitted from a corporate culture that’s
long given individual units the freedom to make their own
decisions, said Barbara Ryan, a Deutsche Bank analyst in New
York. It’s a model fellow drugmakers have pursued with mixed
success, she said.  “They’ve been able to acquire companies that were
entrepreneurial and productive and allowed them the integrity to
continue to do so,” she said in a telephone interview. “Each
company runs at its full speed rather than trying to have it
integrated and moving in lock step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 