-- 
Japan’s Benchmark Yields Near Six-Month Low as Europe Crisis Boosts Demand

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-05-24T06:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/japan-bonds-may-rise-for-a-third-day-as-europe-debt-crisis-boosts-demand.html
Japan ’s 10-year bond yields were less
than two basis points from a six-month low as signs  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis is worsening boosted demand for safer
assets.  Bonds maintained yesterday’s gains as  Greece  struggles to
complete an austerity plan to tackle its deficit and after the
cost to insure its debt rose to a record high. Japan’s bond
futures advanced before a report forecast to show U.S. new home
sales were unchanged last month, adding to signs the global
economic recovery is losing momentum.  “The sovereign issue is lingering in Europe, and economic
data are deteriorating in the U.S.,” said Jun Fukashiro, a
 money manager  who helps oversee about $16.6 billion at Toyota
Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo . “We don’t see a reason to sell
bonds.”  The yield on the 1.1 percent bond due March 2021 was at
1.120 percent at 3:05 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price was at
99.823 yen.  The yield reached 1.105 percent on May 16, the lowest since
Nov. 24. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Ten-year bond
futures for June delivery gained 0.03 to 140.82 at the Tokyo
Stock Exchange.  The Greek government yesterday endorsed an accelerated
asset-sale plan and 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) of budget
cuts. Credit default swaps protecting Greek debt against default
rose to a record and the yield on its 10-year bonds increased to
a euro-era high.  Tax Opposition  U.S. new home sales were unchanged at a 300,000 annual pace
in April, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Commerce
Department reports the data today.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is facing a backlash from
ruling party lawmakers over plans to raise taxes to pay for
earthquake reconstruction, stoking concern he will be unable to
contain the world’s largest debt.  Kan will find it “difficult” to convince politicians in
his  Democratic Party  of Japan of the need for tax increases when
the economy is shrinking, DPJ tax panel head Sakihito Ozawa said
in a May 20 interview. Ozawa instead advocated bond sales and
central bank purchases of debt -- steps opposed by senior
Cabinet members including the economy minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 