-- 
JFK-Plot Defendant Testifies He Hoped Bombing Scheme ‘Would Fizzle Out’

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-23T20:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/jfk-plot-defendant-testifies-he-hoped-bombing-scheme-would-fizzle-out-.html
A Trinidadian man accused of being
part of a failed plot to blow up  New York ’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport never intended to join the scheme when two
men presented it to him in May 2007, he testified at his trial.  “I didn’t think they were serious -- two or three or five
or six men to be able to pull off a job like that,”  Kareem
Ibrahim  testified today in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York.
“I just went along and hoped it would fizzle out.”  Ibrahim, 65, offered to find people who might fund the
scheme, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch. Ibrahim testified that he burned video and a map
of the airport given to him by the two men when they stayed at
his house in Trinidad. The men were  Russell Defreitas , a former
cargo worker at the airport who prosecutors say hatched the
plot, and Steven Francis, a government informant.  The plot was designed to blow up fuel lines and tanks and,
ultimately, “the whole of Kennedy,” Defreitas said in a
recorded conversation. The plan surrounding the Queens, New
York, airport was foiled in its planning stages with the aid of
Francis, who infiltrated the group. Three men, including
Defreitas, have already been sentenced in the case, presided
over by U.S. District Judge Dora Irizarry.  Others Sentenced  Defreitas, 67, a U.S. citizen and native of  Guyana , and
 Abdul Kadir , 59, a former member of Guyana’s parliament, were
sentenced to life in prison after their jury convictions in
August. Abdel Nur, 61, a Guyanese citizen who pleaded guilty on
the eve of last year’s trial, was sentenced to 15 years.  Ibrahim testified that he never asked anyone or any group
for money to finance the plan to blow up the airport.  “It wasn’t my intention to further the plot,” he said.  Two of Ibrahim’s daughters testified today that their
father always promoted peace. On cross-examination, Ibrahim
admitted that he had given sermons that spoke favorably about
 suicide bombers  in Lebanon.  Ibrahim also admitted on cross-examination that he offered
to locate international contacts to support the plot.  “The time will come when the brothers will move the war
into America itself,” Ibrahim said in the same conversation in
which Defreitas and Francis revealed the plot to him. Jurors
heard the recording Francis made of that conversation.  “That’s why I tell you the World Trade Center didn’t do
nothing,” Defreitas said. “This here will break the economy of
them and they will be crying.”  Terrorist Threats  The plot members sought support from Abu Bakr, leader of
the group Jamaat Al Muslimeen, or JAM, which had staged a 1990
coup attempt in Trinidad that resulted in “numerous deaths,”
according to court papers. Ibrahim testified that he knew Bakr.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Berit Berger told the jury earlier
in the trial that the JFK plotters hoped to get help either from
JAM directly or by JAM introducing them to Adnan G. El
Shukrijumah. Shukrijumah is wanted in connection with possible
terrorist threats against the U.S. and is a member of al-Qaeda,
the Muslim terrorist group formerly led by  Osama bin Laden ,
according to court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 