-- 
HSBC, JPMorgan, Strauss-Kahn, Lehman, Galleon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-23T10:18:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/jpmorgan-strauss-kahn-lehman-bp-mitsui-hsbc-galleon-in-court-news.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  lost a bid to
dismiss a lawsuit by a group of Taiwanese banks that accuse HSBC
Bank USA of helping deceased financier Danny Pang’s PEMGroup
defraud them of more than $500 million.  U.S. District Judge Philip Gutierrez on May 19 rejected
HSBC’s arguments that the banks should have brought their claims
in the British Virgin Islands, where the PEMGroup entities that
issued the securities were based, rather than in  Los Angeles . He
also dismissed contentions that the banks didn’t provide enough
facts to support their fraud and conspiracy claims.  “These allegations, taken together, create a reasonable
inference that, based on the close business relationship between
HSBC and PEM Group, as well as the material incentives HSBC
stood to gain by providing investors with misleading or
inaccurate data regarding the investments, HSBC had sufficient
knowledge of PEM Group’s fraud,” Gutierrez said in his order.  Hua Nan Commercial Bank claimed $191 million in losses; Hua
Nan Investment Trust, $48 million;  Cosmos Bank Taiwan (2837) , $45
million;  EnTie Commercial Bank (2849) , $50 million; Bank SinoPac, $122
million; and  Taichung Commercial Bank (2812) , $70 million, according to
their October complaint.  The banks said HSBC, the cash and asset custodian for the
PEMGroup securities, lied to investors about how long the bank
had serviced PEMGroup’s investments and falsely represented that
PEMGroup’s prior investment products had been performing in
conformity with their offering memoranda.  Gutierrez dismissed fraud and negligent misrepresentation
claims by EnTie and Taichung. The banks were allowed to restate
their claims in an amended complaint.  Juanita Gutierrez, a spokesman for HSBC in  New York , said
the bank wouldn’t comment on pending litigation.  Pang committed suicide in September 2009.  The case is Hua Nan Commercial Bank v. HSBC Bank USA, 10-
8773, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  For more, click here.  Strauss-Kahn Lawyer Says Accusations Will Be Proven False  Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer said the first findings of
his investigation show that accusations by a hotel maid that the
former International Monetary Fund chief tried to rape her are
false.  Benjamin Brafman, the lawyer, said he is “confident”
Strauss-Kahn will be acquitted after a trial. Brafman spoke in
an interview with  France ’s national TF1 television from Israel,
where he was staying for personal reasons, according to the
French broadcaster.  “From what I have seen already in the file, I am
confident,” said Brafman, whose comments in English were
translated into French for broadcast. “If he can have a fair
trial, at the end of the hearings he will be acquitted. From the
investigations we have carried out, I believe the accusations
will prove false.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is charged in state court in New York
with sexual assault and attempted rape of a hotel housekeeper in
Manhattan on May 14. Strauss-Kahn, who resigned as IMF managing
director on May 18, was released from the Rikers Island jail
complex on May 20 after posting $1 million to the court as part
of his bail agreement. He also posted a $5 million bond as a
guarantee that he will appear for trial.  The former French finance minister is staying temporarily
at a building in lower Manhattan that includes residential
units.  In an indictment filed May 19, Strauss-Kahn is charged with
criminal sex acts, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful
imprisonment and forcible touching. While he has denied the
accusations, he hasn’t entered a formal plea to any of the
charges. He is scheduled to be arraigned June 6.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11,  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Banque Syz Sued by Madoff Trustee for $73.3 Million  Banque Syz & Co. was sued for $73.3 million by the trustee
liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm.  The Swiss bank, which received the money from so-called
feeder funds, “knew or should have known of numerous
irregularities” about the con man’s firm because of its
expertise in private banking and institutional asset management,
trustee  Irving Picard  said in a May 20 bankruptcy court filling.  Calls to the Geneva bank’s main number went unanswered
outside of regular business hours.  Banque Syz, which had an account in New York with Madoff’s
firm, filed a customer claim seeking to recover funds it said it
lost on Madoff investments, according to Picard’s filing. In the
process, the bank “submitted” to the jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy court and “should reasonably expect to be subject to
New York jurisdiction,” the trustee said.  The case is Irving H. Picard v. Banque Syz & Co., 11-02149,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  JPMorgan Sued by NES Financial Over 2008 Sale of Business  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was sued by NES Financial Corp. for
allegedly defrauding it in the purchase of a tax-related
business, leaving NES with billions of dollars in potential
liability.  NES Financial, in a complaint filed in federal court in
Manhattan May 19, claimed that JPMorgan improperly hid a
“lengthy history of legal violations” when it sold its Section
1031 tax-deferred exchange business to NES in 2008.  “While NESF thought it was purchasing a business that
would solidify its reputation for quality and trustworthiness,
it received a business that saddled it with potentially massive
liability,” the company claimed in its complaint.  As a result, NES Financial said, it is unable to raise
capital from outside investors and its value dropped to $7
million from about $41 million before the sale.  NES Financial helps its clients avoid U.S. taxes by
facilitating so-called 1031 exchanges, according to its  website .
 Section 1031  of the U.S. Tax Code permits the owners of certain
types of property used for business or investment to exchange
them “for property of like kind,” without recognizing a loss
or gain for tax purposes.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan Chase spokeswoman, didn’t
return a phone message seeking comment on the suit.  The case is NES Financial Corp. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA,
11-cv-3437, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Wal-Mart, CVS Drug Case Sent Back to  West Virginia  Court  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and four other
drug retailers lost their bid to move to federal court a lawsuit
by the state of West Virginia over pricing of generic drugs on
claims the case was a class action.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, said May
20 that the drug retailers failed to show that the state was
pursuing a group lawsuit, or class action, which would have
required the litigation to be handled by a federal court. The
four other defendants are  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ,  Kroger Co. (KR) 
and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s Kmart chain.  The lawsuit “was brought under a West Virginia statute
regulating the practice of pharmacy and the West Virginia
Consumer Credit Protection Act, neither of which includes
provisions providing for a typical class action,” the appeals
court wrote in its 2-1 decision.  West Virginia Attorney General Darrell McGraw sued the
retailers in state court in Boone County, alleging the stores
overcharged state residents while filling prescriptions in
violation of two state laws. West Virginia law requires
substitution of generic drugs when available and requires
pharmacies to pass on the savings from using generics to
consumers, according to the state’s lawsuit.  The defendants sought to move the case to federal court in
Charleston, West Virginia, claiming the lawsuit was a
“disguised class action.”  In a dissent, U.S. appeals judge Ronald Lee Gilman, said
West Virginia’s case has the elements of a class action and
should remain with the federal court.  “There is a saying that if something looks like a duck,
walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it is probably a
duck,” Gilman said.  Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, said Gilman’s dissent sums up the company’s view
“nicely.”  Molly Koenst, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based Target,
declined to comment.  Kimberly Freely, a spokeswoman for Sears, based in Hoffman
Estates,  Illinois , and Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Cincinnati-
based Kroger, declined to comment. Tiffani  Washington , a
spokeswoman for Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreen, and
Christine Cramer, a spokeswoman for Woonsocket, Rhode Island-
based CVS Caremark, also declined to comment.  The case is West Virginia v. CVS Pharmacy Inc., 11-1251,
4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Richmond).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  J&J Unit Ordered to Pay $10 Million Over Motrin Injuries  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit must pay $10 million in damages to
the family of a 13-year-old girl who suffered skin burns and eye
damage after she took Children’s Motrin to treat a fever and
cough, a Pennsylvania jury ruled.  Jurors in state court in Philadelphia deliberated for 10
hours over two days before holding J&J’s McNeil Consumer
Products unit liable for Brianna Maya’s injuries. Maya, now 13,
was left blind in one eye and suffered burns over 84 percent of
her body after taking Motrin in 2000 when she was 3 1/2.  The ruling means that “J&J and McNeil will be called to
task” for failing to properly warn parents about Motrin’s
risks, Keith Jensen, a lawyer for Maya and her family, said in
an interview after the verdict was announced May 20.  J&J , the world’s second-biggest seller of medical products,
recalled more than 40 consumer brands last year, among them
varieties of children’s and infants’ Tylenol, Motrin and St.
Joseph Aspirin, over fears they had been tainted by production
problems. The withdrawals cost the New Brunswick, New Jersey-
based company $900 million in sales and prompted regulators to
exercise more oversight at McNeil plants.  The drugmaker “strongly disagrees with today’s verdict and
we are considering out legal options,”  Marc Boston , a McNeil
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Maya v. Johnson & Johnson, 002879, February
Term 2009, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Sirius XM Wins Preliminary Approval of Class-Action Accord  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  won a judge’s preliminary approval to
settle a class-action lawsuit by a group of subscribers who
claimed the satellite-radio company violated antitrust law by
boosting prices after acquiring its only rival.  A hearing will be held Aug. 8 to determine whether the
settlement, valued at $180 million, is “fair, reasonable and
adequate to the class,” U.S. District Judge Harold Baer said,
according to a filing May 20 in Manhattan. No cash payments will
be made under the deal, court papers show.  Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. bought XM Satellite Holdings
Inc., its only competitor, in 2008. A subscriber, Carl Blessing,
sued in December 2009 claiming the company “abused its monopoly
power” after the merger by raising prices, breaching subscriber
contracts and making false and misleading statements to the
public.  Baer certified the complaint as a class action in March. A
settlement was reached before the judge ruled on whether New
York-based Sirius XM violated antitrust law.  Patrick Reilly, a Sirius XM spokesman, and James Sabella, a
lawyer for the subscribers, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  Under the settlement, Sirius agreed to not raise prices
this year, deferring a plan to boost the monthly price by $2.
Many class members paid a monthly multiradio charge of $8.99,
according to court filings.  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio Inc., 09-10035,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  Hong Kong ’s Lehman Minibond Holders Approve Settlement Offer  Hong Kong investors in notes tied to failed  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  approved a settlement agreement that would return
as much as 96.5 percent of their original investment.  More than the required 75 percent of holders of the
structured notes, or so-called minibonds, passed the accord
following three days of meetings in Hong Kong, according to a
statement from receiver PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP May 20. The
payments may be made in June, it said.  A successful settlement would help end discontent that led
investors to hold almost daily protests outside bank branches in
Hong Kong, featuring banging of cymbals and bullhorns blaring,
after New York-based Lehman’s collapse in September 2008 wiped
out their investments. About 43,000 Hong Kong investors had
bought an estimated $1.8 billion of the minibonds from lenders.  The agreement covers about 31,000 buyers. Investors in the
24 series of bonds will get 70 percent to 93 percent of their
money back, PwC said in  March . Banks distributing the minibonds
offered an additional payment that would bring eligible
investors’ recovery levels to as much as 96.5 percent.  A July 2009 repayment offer from 16 banks of at least 60
cents on the dollar for a total of HK$6.3 billion ($810 million)
failed to mollify some investors.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ’s Hong Kong
unit was the biggest seller of the notes on the island, while
HSBC Holdings Plc is the trustee for the minibonds program.  The notes were sold to investors including the elderly and
poorly educated people as well as mentally ill individuals,
according to an investigation by the city’s de facto central
bank that was made public by lawmakers in April 2009.  The current settlement, reached between HSBC and the Lehman
estate, is conditional upon the court order being valid.  BP Says Mitsui Will Pay $1 Billion in Gulf Spill Settlement  BP Plc (BP/)  said a unit of Mitsui & Co. will pay $1.065 billion
to settle claims from last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill, the
first payment by one of the U.K. oil producer’s partners in the
failed Macondo well.  BP reached an agreement with MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, which
had a 10 percent stake in the well, covering all claims between
the companies related to the spill, the London-based company
said May 20 in a statement. Mitsui  said  BP had claimed about
$2.1 billion. BP shares rose the most since January.  “To have one, admittedly the smaller of the two partners,
settling” and “joining sides is significant from the moral
point of view,” David Stedman, a London-based analyst at Daiwa
Securities, said by phone. “It looks on paper as a reasonably
good deal for Mitsui,”  The Macondo well blowout, which killed 11 workers and
caused the biggest U.S. oil spill, led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors. BP said it’s
working to ensure other parties, including  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) , which held 25 percent in Macondo, rig owner  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG)  and cement provider  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , contribute
“appropriately.”  For more, click here.  SEB, HVB Lose Asia Pacific Breweries Gambler Fraud Appeal  Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG and SEB AB lost an
appeal to  Singapore ’s top court seeking to recover $58.6 million
in loans taken out by a former  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) 
executive to fund his gambling habits.  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, also known as SEB, and HVB
were among four banks that had handed out S$117.1 million ($94.6
million) in loans in an “elaborate fraud” engineered by Chia
Teck Leng, the brewer’s former finance manager, Chief Justice
Chan Sek Keong wrote in a 99-page ruling May 20.  Japan ’s Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. withdrew their case against Singapore-based
Asia Pacific Breweries, which makes Tiger Beer, and Chia on the
seventh day of the trial.  “They tell a cautionary tale of how two foreign banks in
their eagerness to secure a banking relationship” with Asia
Pacific Breweries failed to exercise due diligence, Judge Chan
wrote. Chia, called a “compulsive gambler,” was jailed for 42
years in 2004 for cheating and forgery.  Asia Pacific Breweries “was itself a victim of fraud and
is not responsible to repay loans,” Chief Executive Officer
Roland Pirmez said in a statement to the Singapore Exchange May
20.  Both European banks had argued that Asia Pacific Breweries
should be liable for their losses as Chia was the most senior
finance person in the brewer’s Singapore unit and responsible
for financial matters.  The case is  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA) , Singapore
Branch v Asia Pacific Breweries (Singapore) Pte Ltd. & Another
CA121/2009 and Bayerische Hypo-Und Vereinsbank
Aktieengesellschaft v Asia Pacific Breweries (Singapore) Pte
Ltd. & Another CA122/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  Sirius XM Wins Preliminary Approval of Class-Action Accord  Sirius XM Radio Inc. won a judge’s preliminary approval to
settle a class-action lawsuit by subscribers who claimed the
satellite-radio company violated antitrust law.  A final hearing will be held Aug. 8 to determine whether
the settlement, valued at $180 million, is “fair, reasonable
and adequate to the class,” U.S. District Judge Harold Baer
said, according to a filing May 20 in Manhattan. No cash
payments will be made under the deal, court papers show.  Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. bought XM Satellite Holdings
Inc., its only rival, in 2008. A subscriber, Carl Blessing, sued
in December 2009 claiming the company “abused its monopoly
power” after the merger by raising prices, breaching subscriber
contracts and making false and misleading statements to the
public.  Baer certified the complaint as a class action in March. A
settlement was reached before the judge ruled on whether New
York-based Sirius XM violated antitrust law.  Patrick Reilly, a Sirius XM spokesman, and James Sabella, a
lawyer for the subscribers, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  Under the settlement, Sirius agreed to not raise prices
this year, deferring a plan to boost the monthly price by $2.
Many class members paid a monthly multiradio charge of $8.99,
according to court filings.  Former subscribers who canceled service would be entitled
to one month of free service.  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio Inc., 09-10035,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Lehman Paid Weil Gotshal $45.9 Million in Four Months  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. paid its lead bankruptcy law
firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP $45.9 million in fees plus $1.1
million in expenses from Feb. 1 through May 31, 2010, according
to a court filing May 20.  The New York-based firm, where partner  Harvey Miller  is the
defunct firm’s top legal adviser, asked for $46.7 million plus
expenses of $1.1 million for the period, and was paid almost all
it requested. Miller billed Lehman at $990 an hour for 477.1
hours, or a total of $468,369.  Lehman’s fees to managers and advisers have exceeded $1.2
billion during its bankruptcy, according to court documents.  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, the law firm for
Lehman’s committee of creditors, was paid $19 million in fees
plus $847,210 in expenses for the four months, according to the
filing. The law firm said it spent $544,240 on computer-database
research and $102,392 on photocopies.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  Rajaratnam Criminal Docket Most Popular on Bloomberg  Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund tycoon and Galleon Group LLC
co-founder, who was found guilty of 14 counts against him in the
largest illegal stock-tipping case in a generation, had the
most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week.  A jury of eight women and four men in Manhattan returned
the verdict May 11 after hearing evidence that Rajaratnam, 53,
engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He gained $63.8 million, prosecutors said.  Defense attorney John Dowd said that he would appeal the
verdict to the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  