-- 
JPMorgan, UBS, Deutsche Bank Said to Face N.Y. Mortgage Probe

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/jpmorgan-ubs-deutsche-bank-said-to-be-added-to-new-york-s-mortgage-probe.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are being investigated as part of New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ’s expanded probe of mortgage
securitization, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Four bond insurers also were subpoenaed:  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) ,  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ,  Syncora Holdings Ltd. (SYCRF)  and  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , according to the person, who couldn’t be
identified because the probe isn’t public.  Schneiderman is seeking information on claims paid out
during and after the economic crisis and any information or
documents related to litigation or settlements with the banks,
according to the person. The expanded investigation was reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  were already part of the probe, the person said earlier
this month. Schneiderman, who took office in January, is
examining mortgage practices and the packaging and sale of loans
to investors, according to the person.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for the New York attorney
general, declined to comment yesterday. Michael Fitzgerald, a
spokesman for New York-based Ambac, Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman
for Zurich-based UBS, Tom Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based
UBS and  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment yesterday.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is also one of the
companies being investigated by the attorney general, the
Financial Times reported. Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman
for the Edinburgh-based bank in the U.S., didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday.  ‘Accelerate’ Resolution  “We support the attorney general with their investigation
which will hopefully accelerate the resolution of mortgage
origination, securitization and servicing problems,” Ashweeta Durani, a spokeswoman for Hamilton-Bermuda-based Assured
Guaranty, said in an e-mailed statement. “We prefer not to
confirm whether or not we have received a subpoena.”  New York-based Syncora’s Syncora Guarantee Inc. subsidiary
received a subpoena from the  New York  attorney general “to
provide certain information” about mortgage-backed securities
lawsuits and settlements, repurchase requests and regulatory
inquiries, Syncora spokesman Michael Corbally said in an e-mail.
He declined to comment further.  Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based MBIA,
confirmed that the company has received a subpoena and that
“the information sought in the subpoena relates to the
allegations in our various RMBS complaints.” RMBS refers to
residential mortgage-backed securities. MBIA is suing banks for
allegedly breaching representations and warranties on loans that
are pooled into those securities.  50-State Probe  Federal regulators and all 50 state attorneys general are
scrutinizing how the biggest U.S. financial firms handle home
loans. Last month, as states coordinated settlement talks with
banks over foreclosure practices, Schneiderman said that any
joint accord shouldn’t preclude individual states, such as New
York, from continuing their own inquiries.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris set up a  task
force  to investigate mortgage fraud, her office said yesterday
in a statement. The group, made up of 25 attorneys and
investigators, will work in three teams: consumer enforcement,
criminal enforcement and corporate fraud.  The task force’s work will include investigations into the
origination of mortgage loans, the marketing of mortgage-backed
securities, and false or fraudulent claims made to the state
with respect to subprime mortgages, according to the statement.
It will also target predatory lending as well as loan
modification and foreclosure scams.  ‘Safeguard the Homeowner’  “We will work to safeguard the homeowner at every step of
the process -- from origination of a loan to its securitization,
and we will prosecute to the fullest extent of the law those who
take advantage of trusting California families,” Harris said in
the statement.  In April, Bank of America was among 14 of the largest U.S.
mortgage servicers that signed consent decrees with authorities
including the  Federal Reserve  to improve foreclosure methods.
The firms promised to conduct reviews, overhaul procedures for
loan modifications and refinancing and pay back homeowners for
losses from home seizures that were mishandled.  Last July, Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle civil
fraud charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission
over the 2007 sale of a mortgage-linked investment called
Abacus. The firm said it made a “mistake” by failing to
disclose to investors that a hedge fund was involved both in
structuring the investment and planning to bet against it.  One-Time Payment  MBIA, the company that backed some of Wall Street’s most
toxic debt securities, settled $19 billion in guarantees with
five financial institutions since September, resolving the
obligations with a one-time payment.  Its MBIA Insurance Corp. unit paid the firms to tear up
contracts insuring against losses on corporate, residential and
commercial-mortgage bonds and derivatives, the company said in a
statement that didn’t disclose the settlement amounts. The deals
terminated guarantees on $15.7 billion of debt in the fourth
quarter and $3.3 billion during the first two months of 2011,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  