-- 
New Jersey Supreme Court to Rule Today on Christie’s School Funding Cuts

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/n-j-supreme-court-to-rule-on-christie-s-school-funding-plan-tomorrow.html
A ruling from the New Jersey Supreme
Court is expected today on whether Governor  Chris Christie ’s
cuts to public school funding violated the state constitution
and left schools underfunded by as much as $1.7 billion.  The court will decide a lawsuit that claims the cuts
violated a 2008 funding formula to support the state’s poorest
school districts. Christie, a Republican, said the reductions
were necessary to balance the budget and the court should let
him resolve the question with the Democratic-controlled
legislature. He has warned of “unthinkable” cuts in other
state programs if the court rules against him.  The Education Law Center , a Newark-based advocate for the
poorest districts, wants the Supreme Court to order the funding
restored. Christie, 48, has threatened to defy the court if it
orders higher spending. The ruling may lay the groundwork for
Christie to appeal to voters again, said  Brigid Harrison , a
professor of law and politics at  Montclair State University .  “He really has staked out an area where it’s very easy for
him to win politically no matter what the court’s decision is,”
Harrison said in a phone interview. If the court rules against
him, “he becomes the fiscally conservative governor who’s
willing to defy his Supreme Court, which will garner him another
round of national media headlines.”  The Trenton-based court heard arguments April 20 on the
case, Abbott v. Burke, which has vexed governors and lawmakers
for three decades. Christie’s lawyer, Peter Verniero, argued
that ordering funding restored would violate the state’s
constitutional obligation to balance the budget. Christie has
vowed to avoid tax increases to balance the budget.  ‘Efficient System’  Education Law Center attorney David G. Sciarra said failing
to restore the funding would violate the constitution’s
guarantee of a “thorough and efficient system of free public
schools.” A state court judge studied the issue and reached the
same conclusion in March, saying the next step was up to the
 Supreme Court .  The underfunding, in violation of a formula set up by the
School Funding Reform Act of 2008, was hardest on districts
“least able to withstand the reductions,” Judge Peter Doyne
wrote in a 96-page report.  Harrison said possible recusals by the seven-judge panel
may allow Christie to claim that any decision isn’t legitimate.
In a May 19 radio call-in show, he said he hasn’t decided how he
will proceed if the court orders the funding restored.  “I’m going to wait and see what the court does, and I’m
not going to take any options off the table,” he said in his
monthly “Ask the Governor” radio appearance on WKXW-FM in
Ewing.  State Aid  In other forums, Christie has said the 31 poorest districts
receive 59 percent of state education aid, putting a fiscal
strain on the other 573 districts. The court’s decision may
bolster his case for lowering the percentage of state education
funding funneled into the poorest districts.  The decision may allow Christie to reset state funding on
education at a level lower than that mandated by the school
funding formula put in place by his predecessor  Jon Corzine , the
Democrat he unseated in the November 2009 election.  Harrison said she expects any decision to be appealed by
the losing side based upon the number of justices who rule. She
said Education Law Center may cite the 14th Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution guaranteeing equal protection under the law
because so many students in the affected districts are
minorities.  “This is a watershed in terms of Christie’s plans and what
he can do in terms of the state budget,” she said. “This is an
ideological watershed because you see him saying he won’t comply
with the decision.”  The case is Abbott v. Burke, M-1293, New Jersey Supreme
Court (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Princeton, New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 