-- 
Next Few Days Crucial for Corn Choices, DuPont’s Schickler Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-23T22:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/next-few-days-crucial-for-corn-choices-dupont-s-schickler-says.html
U.S. corn farmers who have yet to
plant their crop have only a few days left before they may need
to switch to lower-yielding seeds or soybeans, according to Paul Schickler, the president of DuPont’s  Pioneer Hi-Bred  unit.  “We’ve got to get some progress in corn planting before we
get farmers switching to earlier maturity seeds with lower
yields,” Schickler said today in an interview in  Washington .
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont is the world’s second-biggest
seed seller, after  Monsanto Co. (MON)   About 79 percent of the U.S. crop, the world’s biggest, was
 planted  as of yesterday, the Department of Agriculture said
today in a  report . That compares with 92 percent a year earlier
and the previous five-year average of 87 percent. Wet weather
has delayed fieldwork in many areas, leaving the planting of
corn, soybeans, spring wheat and cotton behind the pace of
recent years.  Farmers try to plant corn before mid-May in most areas so
that the crop can enter its reproductive stage before the
hottest days of summer. Soybeans can be planted later than corn
with less threat of reduced yields.  Many growing areas east of the  Mississippi River , as well
as sections of Missouri, Arkansas and North Dakota, received
twice the normal amount of rainfall in the past 30 days,
according to the  National Weather Service . Flooding also
inundated farms along the Mississippi River and its tributaries,
leaving fields too muddy to support equipment.  Schickler also said seed discounting across the industry
may be less this year than in the past.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth in Chicago at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 