-- 
Nigeria Likely to Keep Its Key Interest Rate at 7.5% to Stimulate Lending

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-05-23T14:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/nigeria-likely-to-keep-key-interest-rate-at-7-5-percent-to-boost-lending.html
Nigeria ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow to help
stimulate lending in  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, a survey of
economists shows.  Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi will leave the rate at 7.5
percent, according to five of six economists.  Razia Khan , head
of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London ,
forecast a half-point increase. Sanusi is due to announce the
decision in a televised press conference starting at about 2:30
p.m. local time on May 24.  The central bank on March 22 raised its key interest rate
for the second time this year, lifting it 1 percentage point, as
it struggles to stabilize the naira and help bring inflation
down below 10 percent. Sanusi indicated in an interview on May 4
that further rate increases may be limited.  “The monetary policy council will want to wait for the
effects of the previous hike to be fully absorbed before
adjusting rates again,”  Alan Cameron , a London-based analyst at
CSL Stockbrokers Ltd., said on May 20 in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The rate increase in March was the biggest in four years
and left the key rate at the highest in almost two years.  “We frontloaded a lot of the increase that people thought
we’d do gradually over the year,” Sanusi said May 4.  Industry Lending  A decline in lending to private industry in Nigeria is
adding to pressure on the central bank not to raise rates.
Lending dropped 6.9 percent in April from the year earlier, the
fifth consecutive decline.  At the same time, the inflation rate fell to 11.3 percent
in April from 12.8 percent the month before, the statistics
office said on May 18.  The central bank is unlikely to lower rates while pressure
remains on the naira to weaken. The  bank  has been defending the
currency, keeping it within a range of between 3 percent above
or below 150 per dollar at twice weekly auctions, in a bid to
curb inflation in sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy.  The bank sold all of the foreign currency sought by lenders
for the first time in five auctions on May 16, fending off
pressure that sent the nation’s currency to its lowest  interbank
rate  in 21 months.  The bank sold $499.8 million at the auction, the fourth
largest amount in two years. Dollars were sold for between
153.05 naira and 153.25 naira, compared with 156.7 naira on the
 interbank market  on May 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 