-- 
Nuclear Nightmare, Sunken Korea Warship Haunt New York Art Show

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-23T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/nuclear-nightmare-clouds-sunken-korean-warship-haunt-new-york-art-exhibit.html
The panoramic view is stunning.
 Korea ’s landscape stretches out, as far as the eye can see.
Islands rise from the ocean, mountains soar above tiny matchbox
houses. Look harder, and you notice the nuclear bomb’s mushroom
cloud in the distance and a torpedoed warship on the waves.  The oil-painted landscapes by Lee Sea Hyun are on show in
 New York  and Beijing. The artist resurrects from the sea a
corvette, Cheonan, which sank with the loss of 46 lives. Koreans
living on a divided and heavily armed peninsula face each other
across the Cold War’s most enduring border.  Lee’s paintings are inspired by his view of North Korea
during military service at a guard post along the Demilitarized
Zone. He recalls the “fear and sorrow” he felt looking at the
terrain through the stark night-vision goggles.  “I had trouble digesting these two conflicting emotions,”
Lee, 44, said in an interview at his studio in Paju,  South
Korea , less than 10 miles from the zone. “I was scared out of
my wits at the idea of having to kill somebody if it came to
that, yet the serenity of the North Korean landscape was
breathtaking.”  Lee’s art underscores South Koreans’ mixed emotions toward
their northern kin. They lived together as one people until
1948, when separate governments were established in Seoul and
Pyongyang.  “North Koreans are our brothers, but at the same time,
enemies to kill,” Lee said, sitting on a couch with books and
magazines scattered to one side.  Seeing Red  Lee was studying for a master’s degree at  Chelsea College
of Art and Design  in  London  when he started painting in red --
the color he saw through the night-vision goggles, because it
also matched the beauty and horror playing on his emotions.  The choice has sometimes been misinterpreted in South
Korea, where red means communism to many people.  “I’m not trying to make any political statement here,”
said Lee, who wears thick-rimmed glasses, jeans, gray jacket and
a black hooded tee-shirt. “All I want to say is that living in
a divided nation is part of what makes us who we are as
Koreans.”  His paintings also lament the destruction of nature through
urban sprawl and the rapid economic development that’s propelled
South Korea into the Group of 20 club of advanced nations.  What appear to be stretches of North Korean countryside at
first glance in fact reveal glimpses of a disappearing rural
landscape in South Korea. In “Between Red 111,” battleships
jockey between mountains that float like islands and mountains
are dotted with rice fields.  No More Sunshine  North Korea ’s artillery bombardment of a disputed island in
November, which killed four South Koreans, and the attack on the
Cheonan in March 2010, accelerated President  Lee Myung Bak ’s
rollback of moves toward engagement with Kim Jong Il’s regime
made by previous administrations under a so-called “Sunshine
Policy.”  Kim’s government denies responsibility for the sinking,
which an international investigation said was the work of a
North Korean torpedo, and it hasn’t said how many of its own
people may have been killed when South Korea launched a counter
artillery attack on its positions.  The artillery exchange was the North’s first shelling of
South Korean soil since the 1950-53 conflict, which ended only
with a ceasefire and leaves the two sides technically at war.  More than a simple longing for what’s been lost, Lee wants
to create a “utopia, where brothers live together holding
hands, surrounded by the beauty of nature.”  That sentiment struck a chord during a recent trip to
Beijing, where Lee said he met a North Korean waitress at a
restaurant run by  Kim Jong Il ’s regime. She cried when Lee
showed her photos of his paintings saved on his mobile phone.  “That was the first time I saw anyone in tears over my
work,” Lee recalled, pouring Pu’er tea from a porcelain teapot.
“That’s when I realized I should continue with these paintings,
for the people out there who feel the pain of living in a
divided nation.”  Lee’s work regularly appears at auction, selling for as
much as much as 34,850 pounds ($56,500), according to the  Artnet 
database.  “Between Red” is at  Nicholas Robinson Gallery , 535 West
20th Street, New York, through May 27. Information: 
+001-212-560-9075 or  http://www.nrgallery.com/index1.php   Lee’s works are also on display at Pin Gallery, 798 Art
District, No. 2 Jiuxianqiao Road, Chaoyang, Beijing, through
June 30. The show, titled “Bad Exhibition,” also has pieces by
other Asian artists such as Fang Lijun, Odani Motohiko and
Justin Ponmany. Information:  http://tinyurl.com/44eljv9   To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 