-- 
Nuveen Fined $3 Million Over Marketing of Preferred Shares

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-05-23T19:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/nuveen-fined-3-million-over-misleading-customers-on-auction-rate-shares.html
Nuveen Investments Inc., the largest
manager of closed-end funds, was fined $3 million by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority for misleading customers
on the safety of auction-rate securities before the market for
those investments collapsed in February 2008.  The Chicago-based company “failed to adequately disclose
liquidity risks” for auction-rate preferred shares issued by
its closed-end funds in marketing material used by brokers to
sell the securities, the self-regulatory body known as Finra
said in a statement today.  “Nuveen was aware of the facts that raised significant red
flags about the ability of investors to obtain liquidity for
their Nuveen auction-rate securities yet failed to revise their
marketing brochures,” Brad Bennett, Finra’s chief of
enforcement, said in the statement.  Closed-end funds used to sell preferred shares on the
auction-rate market to increase the amount of money they could
invest by as much as 50 percent, boosting returns for common
shareholders. Preferred-share investors treated the securities
as a highly liquid alternative to money-market funds until the
market collapsed during the early stages of the credit crisis.
The events left preferred shareholders unable to sell.  Redeemed $14.2 Billion  Regulators forced eight broker-dealers, including  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBS) , to buy back about $45 billion of auction-rate
securities. Some auction-rate bonds and preferred shares remain
frozen.  Nuveen’s funds had $15.4 billion in preferred shares
outstanding when the market crumbled. The company has since
redeemed $14.2 billion, freeing those investors by selling
alternate forms of debt or preferred shares to replace leverage
provided by the frozen shares.  “We are pleased to put this matter behind us so that we
can continue to focus our efforts on refinancing the Nuveen
closed-end funds’ remaining auction-rate preferred shares,”
Kathleen Cardoza, a Nuveen spokeswoman, said in a separate
statement.  The company, along with  New York ’s  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
 Calamos Asset Management Inc. (CLMS)  in Naperville,  Illinois , was sued
in 2010 by investors for allegedly harming common shareholders
through those refinancing moves.  Nuveen, owned by Chicago-based private-equity firm Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC, “neither admits to nor denies Finra’s
allegations,” the company said its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  