-- 
Nymex Trader Says Oil Prices Are ‘Nuts,’ Blames Goldman: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/nymex-trader-says-oil-prices-have-gone-just-nuts-blames-goldman-books.html
Dan Dicker could be forgiven if he
hooted in vindication as crude plunged 15 percent in the first
week of May. He concluded long ago that petroleum prices have
become “just nuts,” as he says in “Oil’s Endless Bid.”  Oil markets are defying the normal laws of supply and
demand, he argues in this timely book, and a large share of the
blame belongs to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
other banks. A longtime floor trader, he brings valuable
insights to bear on a contentious subject that affects us all.  Dicker spent 25 years trading crude, natural gas, unleaded
gasoline and heating fuel at the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Bit by bit, he saw Goldman -- “the devil to be feared,” he
says -- and its Wall Street brethren muscle into a sleepy market
that was once dominated by  oil companies  seeking to hedge the
risks of physical assets.  Soon a flood of “dumb money” from investors was gushing
into funds pegged to the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index, he says.
This high tide of cash, totaling billions of dollars, exerted an
upward price pressure on oil that burdens American business and
threatens to derail a U.S. economic recovery.  “We are all invested in oil, whether we like it or not,”
he writes.  ‘Peak Oil’  Dicker understands the prevailing wisdom about high oil
prices yet remains unimpressed. Has he noticed how the rise of
 China  and other emerging nations has driven up demand? Yes, he
has. Is he ignoring evidence that the planet will one day run
out of cheap, easily tapped black gunk? No, he’s not.  He says he believes in “peak oil,” the theory that
petroleum production will inevitably peak, plateau and decline.
Yet when he examines this and other explanations for recent
energy-price spikes -- a falling dollar, for example -- he
concludes that they amount to “a bad alibi.”  His argument, brutally compacted, goes like this: Oil today
is overpriced, driven ever higher by the new flow of money
funneled through investment banks, energy hedge funds and
exchange-traded and index funds. Feeding the frenzy are bets
from the same kind of American investors who moan about paying
almost $4 a gallon to fill up their SUVs.  This new dynamic has led to wild fluctuations, Dicker says.
Remember how oil surged in 2008 to more than $145 a barrel in
July, only to plunge to less than $34 by late December?  “Nothing proved a speculative bubble more convincingly
than the rapid price collapse we saw then,” he writes.  ‘Assetization’  In swaggering prose, Dicker marches us through momentous
changes that began rocking oil markets a decade ago. Chief among
them is “the assetization of oil,” his infelicitous term for
new instruments -- think commodity index funds --that make
investing in petro prices as easy as buying stocks.  Dicker frowns on this. Just because everyone can now trade
oil -- Mom, Pop and Aunt Erma, too -- doesn’t mean they should,
he argues, determined to dissuade the very people who are most
likely to buy his book. The notion that we can invest in oil as
if it were a stock or bond is “the single most diabolical
source of our pricing problem,” he writes.  Oil isn’t a stock or a bond. You don’t get dividends,
interest or a way to reinvest profits and compound returns, he
explains. All you get is a wager on  oil prices  -- a futures
contract with a short shelf life. Your bet “self-destructs
every 30 days,” as Dicker says.  Barrels on Doorsteps  Many people, heeding the growth of emerging nations, peak-
oil arguments and the upheaval in  Libya , are betting oil will go
up. Being accustomed to stocks, they want to buy and hold. The
only way to do that, unless you want a contract for 1,000
barrels of oil delivered to your doorstep, is to roll your
position over by retiring an old contract and initiating a new
one with a later expiration date.  This may expose you to a tax liability, not to mention
commissions and fees on two trades (for getting out and getting
back in). Imagine, too, what happens when commodity index funds
roll their positions all at once, as they do on certain days
each month. This mechanical reset is called the Goldman Roll,
after the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index. It winds up amplifying
any fundamental arguments for higher prices, Dicker says.  Can this be fixed? Yes, says Dicker, though his solution
would mean forbidding most individuals from trading oil (and
handing some clout back to pros such as himself). If he had his
way, commodity index investing would be banned, along with
exchange-traded funds that engage in futures.  Nostalgia for “the good old days of oil trading” tinge
this book, which is enlivened with memories of “standing
shoulder to shoulder with another 120 sweaty, smelly traders.”
Yet it’s the future, by this account, that may really stink.  “Oil’s Endless Bid: Taming the Unreliable Price of Oil to
Secure Our Economy” is from  Wiley  (338 pages, $34.95, 28 euros,
23.99 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 