-- 
Obama, In Ireland, Says Its Resilient Spirit Will Drive Economic Recovery

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/obama-says-ireland-s-resilience-will-drive-economic-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  appealed to
Ireland’s resilient spirit to overcome the threat from a slow
economy and  Europe ’s government-debt crisis as he celebrated the
country’s ties to the U.S. as well as those of his own family.  “Yours is a history frequently marked by the greatest of
trials, and the deepest of sorrows, but yours is also a history
of proud and defiant endurance,” he said at an address in the
heart of Dublin last night, before he left for the  United
Kingdom  earlier than scheduled to stay ahead of a volcanic ash
cloud spewing from Iceland.  Citing the long relationship between the U.S. and Ireland
and the parallels of their histories, Obama said, “As trying as
these times are, I know our future is still is as big as bright
as our children expect it to be.”  The speech at College Green capped what was supposed to be
a day of Gaelic nostalgia before his arrival in the U.K. for a
state dinner with  Queen Elizabeth II , followed by meetings Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and a summit of leaders from the Group of
Eight nations. The six-day European trip will be anchored by his
address to U.K.’s Parliament on May 25, in which the president
will aim to reaffirm and refine the trans-Atlantic alliance amid
economic and political upheaval.  Obama departed Ireland last night rather than today because
of the potential threat to flights from the ash cloud that is
drifting toward Europe. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said
the president’s schedule for today will proceed as planned.  Security Coordination  While in  London , he’ll announce the creation of a new joint
U.S.-British  security council , according to an administration
official. The White House will rely on the Joint Strategy Board
to help coordinate long-term strategy on security issues and
greater sharing of intelligence, said the official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss an initiative before it was
announced.  Obama’s remarks in Dublin were punctuated by applause and
cheers as he drew on the Irish heritage of his mother’s ancestor
who emigrated to the U.S. from the hamlet of Moneygall.  “My name is Barack Obama, of the Moneygall Obamas,” the
president said to laughter. “And I’ve come home to find the
apostrophe that we lost somewhere along the way.”  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  introduced Obama at the
event and said that his visit to Ireland is different from those
of earlier U.S. presidents “because he doesn’t just speak about
the American dream, he is the American dream.”  While the visit to Ireland, Obama’s first stop of a six-day
trip to Europe, wasn’t intended to focus on policy, economic
issues remained at the forefront.  Ireland’s Recovery  After a meeting with Kenny earlier in the day, Obama, 49,
pledged the U.S. will “do everything that we can to be
helpful” to aid Ireland’s economic recovery.  “We’re glad to see that progress is being made in
stabilizing the economic situation here,” he said. “I know
it’s a hard road, but it’s one that the Irish people are more
than up to the task in achieving.”  Ireland became the second euro-area nation, following
 Greece , to receive an international bailout last year to end
speculation that the cost of propping up its banks would
overwhelm the nation’s finances. Kenny’s government, elected in
February, is seeking to cut Ireland’s deficit below the EU limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015 from about 12
percent last year.  Kenny said he and Obama talked about “our seriousness of
intent in dealing with” the  budget deficit  and the economy.  Markets Decline  Global stocks sank the most in two months amid signs
Europe’s government-debt crisis is worsening with Greece
struggling to complete a fifth austerity plan to keep pace with
its mounting deficit, Italy facing a possible credit-rating cut
and  Spain ’s ruling party being routed in local voting.  Ten-year bond yields reached euro-era records in Greece and
Ireland and climbed in Portugal, Spain and  Italy .  Obama said he told Kenny that the U.S. wants to strengthen
trade with Ireland. He said the U.S. is “rooting for Ireland’s
success.”  The president’s 11 hours in Ireland was heavy on his
verified, if distant, ancestral links to a Moneygall, about 85
miles (137 kilometers) from Dublin.  During the 2008 presidential campaign, a local Anglican
priest named Stephen Neill located baptismal records that showed
Obama’s great-great-great grandfather on his mother’s side,
Falmouth Kearney, sailed for America in 1850 at the age of 19,
according to Ireland’s Ambassador to the U.S.  Michael Collins .  Moneygall Visit  Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama  visited the one-street
town with a population of about 300 people shaking hands as they
made their way along the cheering and singing crowd gather at
the curb.  Ireland’s economy was also on the minds of local residents.  Obama’s heritage has “put Moneygall on the map,” said
Orla Clarke, 30, who lives in the town and brought her mother
and father to try to meet the president, showing up four hours
before the president’s arrival.  “I’m sure it will help the economy here,” she said.  Aileen Spillane, 50, a school secretary who has lived in
the town for 26 years, also said she saw benefits to Obama’s
visit, pointing to a souvenir shop and a coffeehouse that have
opened recently.  If Obama’s link hadn’t been revealed “shops here would
have closed just like everywhere else,” she said.  Obama stopped in the house where his ancestor lived as well
as a pub a few doors away. At the pub, he greeted the owner and
posed for photographs before sipping a pint of stout, which he
said “tastes so much better here than it does in the states.”  The early departure from Ireland marked the third time
Obama’s travels were disrupted by a volcano. Last year, he had
to leave  Indonesia  ahead of schedule in November because of a
volcanic eruption and another Icelandic  ash cloud  forced him to
cancel plans in April attend the funeral of Polish President
 Lech Kaczynski .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Dublin at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Dublin at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  