-- 
Obama to Rally Europeans on Democracy Movements

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-23T10:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/obama-seeks-to-rally-european-support-for-democracy-movements.html
President  Barack Obama  arrived in
 Europe  today seeking more resources to promote and support the
pro-democracy movements in the Middle East and North Africa that
have supplanted the economy at the top of his international
agenda.  The six-day trip is anchored by Obama’s address to U.K.’s
Parliament on May 25 in which the president aims to reaffirm and
refine the trans-Atlantic alliance amid economic and political
upheaval.  The president’s remarks to Parliament will try to
“reframe” the U.S-European relationship, said Heather Conley,
director of the Europe Program at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.   “The irrational exuberance of Europe when President Obama
was inaugurated has now met, two and a half years later, with a
daunting list of domestic challenges, international challenges,
and we have to understand how this relationship is going to work
within that complexity,” Conley said at a briefing last week.  Obama began in Ireland where he will visit the birthplace
of his great-great-great-grandfather in Moneygall, a town with a
population of about 300. He signed a guest book and planted a
tree at Irish President Mary McAleese’s residence. Obama plans
to deliver remarks at College Green at  Trinity College  in Dublin
and meet with Prime Minister  Enda Kenny . He also will attend a
meeting of leaders from the Group of Eight nations in  France  at
which turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa will be a
prime topic.  Core Alliance  “This is a very important trip for the president to
reaffirm our core alliances in the world,”  Ben Rhodes , deputy
national security adviser, told reporters in a May 20 preview of
the president’s trip. Europe and the U.S. are “bound by a set
of values” that have resonance “at a time when we see people
reaching for those values around the world,” he said.  A goal of the G-8 summit in Deauville, France, on May 26-27
will be an expected agreement drawing from the president’s
address last week that framed U.S. policy in the wake of pro-
democracy movements sweeping through the region, said Michael Froman, Obama’s deputy national security adviser for
international economic affairs. The president will ask G-8
member countries to support “financial stabilization,
modernization and reform of the economies in the region,” he
said.  Obama has proposed $2 billion in U.S. assistance for  Egypt ,
$1 billion in loan guarantees through the  Overseas Private
Investment Corp.  and cancellation of $1 billion in debt, about a
third of what Egypt owes the U.S. The administration plans to
work with Congress to create “enterprise funds” to invest in
Tunisia and Egypt, modeled on similar funds that supported
democratic transitions in Eastern Europe, Obama said on May 19.  International Help  The U.S. is asking the  World Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund  to present a plan at the G-8 summit for what needs
to be done to stabilize the economies of Egypt and Tunisia,
Obama said. He also wants the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development to refocus on aiding the region and for the U.S.
and European Union promote trade.  The U.S. pledge and a promise of $4 billion in aid from
 Saudi Arabia  helped Egypt’s shares gain the most in almost two
months. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  climbed 3 percent, the most since March
29, to 5,405.52 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The gauge has
declined 24 percent so far this year.  Rhodes said other topics on Obama’s agenda include the war
in  Afghanistan , trade, the NATO-led military campaign in  Libya 
and nuclear power security in the wake of an earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  that set off the worst nuclear catastrophe
since Chernobyl at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power plant.  Sovereign Debt  While not a major focus of the trip, the president would be
remiss not to discuss the “extraordinary and profound impact”
of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, Conley said.  Ireland received an 85 billion-euro ($121 billion) bailout
in November, led by the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund,  making it the second euro-region nation to get
aid after  Greece  in May 2010. In the U.K., Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition government has embarked on the deepest
public spending reductions since World War II as he seeks to
reduce a fiscal deficit of almost 10 percent of gross domestic
product.  The president will arrive tomorrow in  London , where he will
be greeted by Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace and meet
with Cameron followed by a state dinner at the palace. The next
day Obama will deliver a speech to both houses of Parliament in
Westminster Hall, the first time a U.S. president has delivered
such a speech there.  Leader Meetings  While at the G-8 summit, the president plans separate
meetings with French President Nicolas Sarkozy, Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Japanese prime Minister Naoto Kan,
Rhodes said.  The pro-democracy movements in the Middle East and North
Africa also will come up as Obama wraps up his trip with his
first visit to  Poland .  Poland’s Ambassador to the U.S. Robert Kupiecki told
reporters at a May 20 briefing that Poland, a former Soviet bloc
country that went through a democratic transition of its own, is
uniquely able to help guide changes in the Middle East and North
Africa. He said while in Poland Obama will meet with former
Polish President Lech Walesa, who visited  Tunisia  and met with
members of the interim legislative body.  In meetings with Poland’s President  Bronislaw Komorowski 
and Prime Minister Donald Tusk, Obama also will discuss troop
commitments in Afghanistan, defense cooperation, shale gas
development in the country and Poland’s concerns about a program
that doesn’t allow Polish citizens to visit the U.S. without a
visa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Dublin at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  