-- 
Obama Pledges Support for Ireland’s Economic Effort as Europe Tour Starts

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-23T18:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/obama-promises-u-s-support-for-irish-economy.html
President Barack Obama, on the first
stop of a four-country European trip, pledged the U.S. will “do
everything that we can to be helpful” to aid Ireland’s economic
recovery.  “We’re glad to see that progress is being made in
stabilizing the economic situation here,” he said after meeting
with Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  in Dublin. “I know it’s a
hard road, but it’s one that the Irish people are more than up
to the task in achieving.”  Ireland became the second euro-area nation, following
 Greece , to receive an international bailout last year to end
speculation that the cost of propping up its banks would
overwhelm the nation’s finances. Kenny’s government, elected in
February, is seeking to cut Ireland’s deficit below the EU limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015 from about 12
percent last year.  Kenny said he and Obama talked about “our seriousness of
intent in dealing with” the  budget deficit  and the economy.  Global stocks sank the most in a month amid signs  Europe ’s
government-debt crisis is worsening with Greece struggling to
complete a fifth austerity plan to keep pace with its widening
deficit,  Italy  facing a possible credit-rating cut and  Spain ’s
ruling party being routed in local voting.  Bonds tumbled in Ireland,  Portugal , Greece, Spain and
Italy, while U.S. Treasuries increased to their highs of the
year.  Trade Ties  Obama said he told Kenny that the U.S. wants to strengthen
trade with Ireland. He said the U.S. is “rooting for Ireland’s
success and we’ll do everything that we can to be helpful on the
path to recovery.”  The U.S. president is cutting his visit to Ireland short
because of the potential threat to  air travel  from a cloud of
volcanic ash drifting toward Europe. He will leave for the U.K.
tonight rather than tomorrow, Josh Earnest, a White House
spokesman, said.  Ash from the Grimsvotn volcano beneath the Vatnajokull
icecap is forecast to stretch south over most of  Scotland  as of
early morning tomorrow, mainly at lower altitudes.  This evening, Obama spoke before a crowd of about 25,000
people at an Irish cultural celebration at College Green in the
heart of Dublin. He was introduced by Kenny who said Obama’s
visit to Ireland is different from those of earlier U.S.
presidents “because he doesn’t just speak about the American
dream, he is the American dream.”  Links to Ireland  Obama drew cheers as he spoke about the ties between
Ireland and the U.S. and his own link to the island.  “An American doesn’t really require Irish blood to
understand that ours is a proud, enduring, centuries old
relationship,” he said. “That we are bound by history, and
friendship and shared values. And that’s why I have come here
today as an American president to reaffirm those bonds of
affection.”  During the 2008 presidential campaign, a local Anglican
priest named Stephen Neill located baptismal records that
established ties between Obama and the town of Moneygall, a
hamlet about 85 miles from Dublin. In 1850, Obama’s great-great-
great grandfather on his mother’s side, Falmouth Kearney, sailed
for America at the age of 19, according to Ireland’s Ambassador
to the U.S.  Michael Collins .  Obama’s Ancestry  The president made reference to his ancestry, opening his
remarks by joking that he was  Barack Obama  “of the Moneygall
Obamas. I come home to find the apostrophe we lost somewhere
along the way.”  Earlier he visited the one-street town with a population of
about 300 people. The president and first lady  Michelle Obama 
shook hands as they made their way along the curb. He held a
baby that was passed to him through the cheering and singing
crowd.  Ireland’s economy was in the forefront for some local
residents.  Obama’s heritage has “put Moneygall on the map,” said
Orla Clarke, 30, who lives in the town and brought her mother
and father to try to meet the president, showing up four hours
before the president’s arrival.  “I’m sure it will help the economy here,” she said.  Aileen Spillane, 50, a school secretary who has lived in
the town for 26 years, also said she saw benefits to Obama’s
visit, pointing to a souvenir shop and a coffeehouse that have
opened recently.  Closed Shops  If Obama’s link hadn’t been revealed “shops here would
have closed just like everywhere else,” she said.  Obama stopped in the house where his ancestor lived as well
as a pub a few doors away. At the pub, he greeted the owner and
posed for photographs before sipping a pint of stout, which he
said “tastes so much better here than it does in the states.”  The president is at the beginning of a six-day European
trip that will be anchored by his address to U.K.’s Parliament
on May 25 in which the president aims to reaffirm and refine the
trans-Atlantic alliance amid economic and political upheaval.  He arrives in  London  tomorrow for a two-day state visit and
meetings with British officials including Prime Minister  David Cameron .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Dublin at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Dublin at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  