-- 
Oil Rises After Biggest Loss in Week; Goldman Sachs Boosts Price Forecast

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-24T06:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/oil-declines-for-second-day-on-concern-european-debt-crisis-to-cut-demand.html
Oil rose in  New York , trimming the
biggest loss in more than a week, as speculation that Libyan
supply cuts will reduce OPEC’s spare production capacity
countered concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading.  Futures climbed as much as 0.9 percent, reversing earlier
declines, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
increased their oil-price forecasts as conflict in  Libya 
prolonged the loss of output. An Energy Department report
tomorrow may show U.S. crude inventories fell last week. Prices
slumped 2.4 percent yesterday after the Greek government
endorsed budget cuts to win extra aid and stem a market slide.  “More and more, the market is coming to terms with the
fact that spare capacity is indeed going to dwindle with Libyan
production being out and the unrest in the Middle East, meaning
there could be more risks to the upside for prices,” said Xin Yi Chen, a Singapore-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , which
forecasts Brent will average $120 a barrel this quarter. “The
fundamentals are still very strong.”  Crude for July delivery rose as much as 83 cents to $98.53
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $98.25 at 2:48 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract earlier fell as much as $1.09, or 1.1 percent, to
$96.61. It tumbled $2.40 to $97.70 yesterday, the biggest drop
since May 11. Prices are up 40 percent from a year earlier.  Brent crude for July settlement gained 83 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $110.93 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It earlier lost as much as 60 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $109.50. The contract plunged $2.29, or 2 percent,
to $110.10 yesterday. Prices are up 56 percent the past year.  ‘Matter of Time’  “It is only a matter of time until inventories and OPEC
spare capacity will become effectively exhausted, requiring
higher  oil prices  to restrain demand, keeping it in line with
available supplies,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by New York-
based  David Greely  said in a note e-mailed today.  Crude exports from Libya, holder of  Africa ’s biggest
reserves, slumped 79 percent in March from February, as
political unrest curbed shipments, official data posted on the
Joint Organization Data Initiative website showed May 18.  Morgan Stanley increased its forecast for average Brent
crude this year by 20 percent to $120 a barrel and by 24 percent
for 2012 to $130 a barrel, the report shows. Goldman Sachs
raised its 12-month price estimate for the European benchmark to
$130 a barrel and recommended investors buy Brent for settlement
in December 2012, a separate report dated May 23 shows.  Brent traded at a premium of $12.60 a barrel to U.S.
futures, compared with $12.40 yesterday. The difference between
front-month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record
$19.54 on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  OPEC Help  “OPEC has probably got room to increase production, so if
the market is tight in any way they can come in and help,” said
David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, who
predicted oil will average $115 this year.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in
Vienna on June 8. The  International Energy Agency ’s statement
last week on a “clear, urgent need for additional supplies” is
a hint that it may coordinate the release of emergency oil
stockpiles if OPEC doesn’t raise production, the London-based
Centre for Global Energy Studies said in a report yesterday.  The IEA, which was founded in 1974 in response to the Arab
oil embargo, coordinates energy policy of 28 developed
countries. It said May 19 that high prices threaten economic
recovery.  Brent crude  has climbed 17 percent this year as unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to Libya, Iran and  Syria . Gunmen from Yemen’s
most influential tribe clashed with security forces loyal to Ali Abdullah Saleh in the capital, Sana’a, a day after the president
refused to sign an accord requiring him to give up power.  Oil Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles dropped 1.9 million barrels last week
from 370.3 million, according to the median of 11 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies probably
gained 500,000 barrels, the survey showed. The industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  will report its own data today.  Fitch Ratings  may cut  Belgium ’s AA+ rating, the second-
highest investment grade, should the country fail to adhere to
its deficit targets, it said yesterday. The rating agency joined
 Standard & Poor’s  in saying political deadlock is complicating
efforts to cut the euro area’s third-highest debt load.  Members of the European Union were responsible for 17
percent of world oil demand in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  The Greek Cabinet announced additional budget cuts worth
about 2.8 percent of gross domestic product, needed to reach a
7.5 percent deficit target for 2011 even as its economy
contracts for a third year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  