-- 
Oman Says Sur Power Project May Add 2,000 Megawatts Capacity

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-05-23T16:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/oman-says-sur-power-project-may-add-2-000-megawatts-capacity-1-.html
Oman will award a contract “very
soon” for construction of the planned Sur Power Plant as it
struggles to meet a projected 9 percent annual increase in
electricity demand, the head of the utilities authority said.  The economy of Oman, the largest oil producer in the
 Persian Gulf  that isn’t a member of OPEC, has expanded at a
rapid and accelerating rate over the last decade, Mohammed
Abdullah al-Mahrouqi, chairman of the public authority for
electricity and water, said today at a conference in the capital
city, Muscat.  “This economic growth has been combined with a substantial
increase in demand for both electricity and water,” he told the
Oman Power and Water Summit.  The Sur project will add 1,500 to 2,000 megawatts of
additional generating capacity by 2014, Alan Davies, manager of
strategic studies for Oman Power and Water Procurement Co., said
at the conference. An early stage of the plant may add 400
megawatts of power to the country’s grid by 2013, he said.  Oman, like its Gulf neighbors the  United Arab Emirates  and
 Kuwait , faces a challenge trying to meet surging demand for
power given the limited availability of natural gas to use as
fuel in generating plants. Oman’s gas reserves rank seventh in
size in the Middle East, according to BP Plc.  Record Power Demand  The country’s electricity consumption peaked at a record
3,900 megawatts on May 21, 10 percent higher than peak demand in
2010 and in excess of its installed generating capacity, John Cunneen, executive director of the Authority for Electricity
Regulation, said yesterday. Omanis used reserve diesel
generators to make up for shortfalls on the national grid, and
the authority doesn’t expect blackouts to be a problem this
summer, Cunneen said.  Oman will have sufficient gas to supply the Sur plant, Bob
Whitelaw, Oman Power and Water Procurement’s chief executive
officer, said today. The country, which imports gas from  Qatar 
through a pipeline, is looking at alternatives for producing
power in the future, including coal, nuclear energy and seaborne
imports of liquefied natural gas, Whitelaw said. Marubeni Corp.
and Mitsui & Co. are among five bidders seeking to build the Sur
plant, Ahmed al-Busaidi of Oman Power and Water Procurement said
in Dubai on May 16.  Oman plans to add 700 megawatts of generating capacity by
next year with the start of phase 1 of the Baka 3 and Sohar 2
plants, Cunneen said yesterday. Oman also wants to raise output
of fresh water and plans to seek bids in the fourth quarter of
this year for the construction of the planned 42 million-gallon
Gubrah desalination plant, al-Mahrouqi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  