-- 
Hong Kong Banks May Slow Loan Growth as Outlook Too Aggressive, HKMA Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-23T06:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/hong-kong-banks-may-moderate-credit-growth.html
Hong Kong  banks may slow lending this
year after the  Hong Kong Monetary Authority  said expectations
for deposit and loan growth were aggressive.  “For some banks, the assumptions for their deposit and
loan business growth may be quite aggressive,” HKMA Chief
Executive  Norman Chan  told lawmakers in Hong Kong today. “We
are talking to them to see if they need to slow the growth in
their loan business.”  Hong Kong dollar lending has been growing faster than
deposits, pushing the local currency loan-to-deposit ratio for
lenders in the city to 81.7 percent by the end of March from 71
percent in early 2010, the HKMA said this month. The city’s de-
factor central bank is in talks with some lenders on their
deposit levels, as concern grows over credit growth, the
government said last week.  “The system’s loan-to-deposit ratio of 81.7 percent is not
worrying in itself, however among smaller banks the HK-dollar-
LDR is in some cases now above 90 percent,” Tom Quarmby,
Barclays Capital’s analyst for regional banks, said in an e-
mailed reply to queries from Bloomberg News.  Bank credit expanded at an annual rate of 26 percent in the
first two months of this year, after climbing 29 percent last
year, according to a statement from the HKMA in April.  More Measures  “If necessary, we will adopt more measures to stabilize
the banking industry,” Chan said today, adding that demand for
loans remains strong in the near term.  The HKMA, also the banking regulator, last month asked
lenders to submit their business plans and funding strategies
for it to review by April 30. The HKMA said that credit growth
was “very rapid” and may lead to funding problems for banks.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and other lenders raised  mortgage rates 
in Hong Kong this month after the central bank in April warned
of the risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  “I believe the larger banks, such as HSBC Holdings,  Hang
Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (2888)  have higher growth
aspirations,” Quarmby said. “Although I would not consider
these aggressive given their relatively strong funding position
compared to peers in the Hong Kong market.”  Home prices  in Hong Kong have surged about 70 percent since
the start of 2009 on record-low mortgage rates and the influx of
Chinese buyers. Hong Kong’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  robs
the city of an independent monetary policy and the HKMA has held
the  base rate  at 0.5 percent since December 2008.  “If there is change in our interest rate cycle, for sure
it will rise and won’t fall,” Chan said today. “I constantly
remind residents to carefully manage the interest-rate risk.”  Average mortgage rates were more than 10 percent in 1997,
compared with the current rates of 1 percent or less, according
to Chan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  