-- 
Hong Kong’s April Inflation Accelerates to 32-Month High on Food, Housing

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-23T09:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/hong-kong-s-april-inflation-accelerates-to-32-month-high-on-food-housing.html
Hong Kong ’s inflation accelerated to
a 32-month high of 4.6 percent in April from a year earlier,
driven by higher food and housing rental costs.  Today’s figure, released by the government on its website,
matched the median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey and was higher than the revised 4.4 percent gain in March.  The government raised its annual inflation forecast to the
highest in 14 years on May 13 on more expensive food, labor and
import costs. Hong Kong’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  robs
the city of an independent interest-rate policy, leaving the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, de-facto central bank, with
limited tools to combat higher prices.  “Inflation is brewing in Hong Kong, fanned by a wide-
ranging mix of drivers, with mainland food prices and housing
rental costs leading the pack,” Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said before the report. “The
sting of higher prices may cool household spending growth by
mid-year.”  The government boosted its estimate for inflation this year
to 5.4 percent, from a previous forecast of 4.5 percent, which
would be the highest since 1997. It also increased its estimate
for economic expansion this year to 5 percent to 6 percent from
a previous range of 4 percent to 5 percent due to “robust”
domestic demand.  Inflationary Pressure  Consumer-price gains must “be viewed against the
background of the sustained above-trend growth of the local
economy, elevated food and commodity prices in the international
markets amid abundant liquidity, and stronger inflationary
pressures in the region,” the government said in today’s
statement. “Inflation is likely to climb up further in the
coming months with domestic and external factors both adding to
price pressures.”  Financial Secretary John Tsang announced in the  February
budget  that the government will pay each household HK$1,800 as a
subsidy on their electricity bills and waive public housing
rentals for two months. The temporary measures, starting in
April for the fiscal year ending March 2012, aim to ease the
impact of rising costs on residents, he said.  The relief may distort Hong Kong’s consumer-price readings.
Excluding such effects, inflation was 4.4 percent last month,
compared with a revised 4.3 percent in March, today’s report
showed.  Hong Kong introduced an HK$28 ($3.6) per-hour minimum wage
on May 1, a move that may fuel consumer-price increases, the
government has said. Salaries may rise “with the economy near
full employment,” the government said on May 13.  The jobless rate was 3.5 percent in the three months
through April, a May 19 report showed, after dropping to 3.4
percent, the lowest since September 2008 in the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  