-- 
Deloitte Quits as Auditor of Hong Kong’s Longtop as U.S. SEC Probes Claims

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-23T20:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/longtop-says-auditor-deloitte-resigns-as-sec-initiates-inquiry.html
Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT) ,
a Hong Kong-based maker of financial software, said auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. resigned and a U.S. regulator
started a probe of the company’s financial reports.  Longtop, whose 2007 U.S. initial public offering was
underwritten by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
said Deloitte and Chief Financial Officer Derek Palaschuk
resigned because of “falsity of the company’s financial records
in relation to cash at bank and loan balances (and possibly in
sales revenue)” among other issues, according to a press
release today. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
informed Longtop that it is investigating matters related to
Deloitte’s claims, the company said.  The probe of Longtop, which has been  suspended  in  New York 
trading since May 17 as it delayed filing its annual report,
represents an expansion of regulatory scrutiny beyond smaller
Chinese companies listed in the U.S. by reverse mergers. The SEC
launched an investigation last year into the use of reverse
takeovers, in which a closely held firm acquires one that’s
publicly traded, enabling it to sell shares without the
regulatory and investor examination of an IPO.  “We learned that there’s no such thing as pedigree anymore
in the Chinese market,” said Andrew Left, Los Angeles-based
founder and owner of Citron Research, who wrote reports
questioning Longtop’s financials. “This company had Goldman at
their IPO, Deloitte as their auditor, and major firms as their
investors. You couldn’t ask for a better structure.”  Deloitte’s Misgivings  Deloitte said in its resignation letter from May 22 that it
found falsehoods in the company’s financial statements and
experienced “deliberate interference by certain members of
Longtop management” in the audit process, including “unlawful
detention” of audit files, according to the statement from
Longtop.  Deloitte said its previous audit reports cannot be trusted
because the auditor can’t rely on management’s representations
and “declined to be associated with any of the company’s
financial communications in 2010 and 2011,” according to the
statement.  Lauren Mistretta, a Chicago-based spokeswoman for  Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu , didn’t respond to a phone call and an e-mail
message seeking comment.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman,
declined to comment.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment. Scott Helfman, a spokesman for
Deutsche Bank in New York, declined to comment.  Registrations Revoked  The SEC has revoked the registrations of eight China-based
companies since December, and more than 24 firms have disclosed
auditor resignations or accounting problems to the agency since
March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an April 27 letter.
Longtop said today it is cooperating with the SEC’s inquiry into
its financial statements as well as conducting its own
investigation into Deloitte’s claims.  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, which is the auditor’s
international entity under which member firms operate, said in
its letter that it was contacted on May 20 by Longtop’s
chairman, Jia Xiao Gong, who told the auditor that “‘there were
fake revenue in the past so there were fake cash recorded on the
books.’  ‘‘Mr. Jia did not answer when questioned as to the extent
and duration of the discrepancies. When asked who was involved,
Mr. Jia answered: ‘senior management’,’’ Deloitte wrote in the
letter, which was addressed to Longtop’s audit committee and
included in a regulatory filing.  Second Resignation  It is at least the second time this year that Deloitte quit
as accountant for a U.S.-traded Chinese company because of lack
of trust in executives’ representations. In March, the firm said
it was resigning as auditor for Hong Kong-based  China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) , the provider of advertising on buses
in  China  whose stock is being delisted from Nasdaq. China
MediaExpress’ Chief Financial Officer Jacky Lam also resigned at
the time as Deloitte said it was ‘‘no longer able to rely on the
representations of management” and called for an investigation.  Longtop raised $210 million in October 2007, and shares hit
a high of $42.73 last November. They have declined 56 percent
since, cutting the company’s market value by more than $1
billion, amid allegations by  Citron Research  and  OLP Global LLC 
that Longtop inflated margins by hiding expenses and underpaying
employee benefits through a related-party staffing firm.  ‘Baseless Allegations’  Palaschuk, Longtop’s chief financial officer who resigned
on May 19, said on a call with analysts April 28 that Citron had
compared Longtop’s profit margins with firms that aren’t
“direct competitors” and that the company would defend itself
against “these absolutely baseless allegations.” Longtop also
said on the call that it would double a share buyback.  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, totaled a near-record of 20 percent of
Longtop’s shares available for trading as of May 19, up from 4.1
percent at the beginning of the year, according to Data
Explorers, a New York-based research firm. Bearish wagers
against the stock were at 12 percent of the float on April 25,
the day before the Citron report.  Short-sellers were trading against “buy” recommendations
made by 10 of 13 brokerages rating the stock as of May 18,
including IPO underwriters Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs. The
average target price estimated by the 10 analysts who set one
was $43.20, a 128 percent gain from the most recent price.
Analysts at Goldman Sachs and Janney Montgomery Scott LLC have
suspended their rating of the stock since then.  Biggest Positions  Longtop’s biggest shareholders as of March 31 included
mutual-fund investor Fidelity Management & Research Co., which
held 12.9 percent of the shares, Maverick Capital Ltd., a New
York-based hedge fund founded by  Lee Ainslie  that reported a 9.9
percent stake, and Tiger Global Management LLC with 4.5 percent.
Investment firms Lone Pine Capital LLC and Eton Park Capital
Management LP exited positions in the company in the first
quarter, according to SEC filings.  Trading of Longtop was  suspended  on May 17, and the company
announced on May 19 that it wouldn’t file financial results for
the fourth quarter or its annual report for fiscal year 2011 on
May 23 as previously planned. The company said today it doesn’t
know when it will be able to file. The stock has lost 48 percent
this year, closing at $18.93 before it was halted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  