-- 
Moody’s to Place 14 U.K. Banks on Review for Downgrade, Sky News Reports

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-24T02:16:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/moody-s-to-place-u-k-banks-on-review-for-downgrade-sky-reports.html
Moody’s Investors Service is likely
to say it will consider downgrading debt for 14 of the 18
British banks and building societies it covers as withdrawal of
government support may increase credit risk, Sky News said.  More than one of the U.K.’s four biggest banks will be
among the lenders to be put on review today, Sky reported in a
blog on its website, citing people close to the ratings company.  British banks accepted about 1 trillion pounds ($1.6
trillion) in government bailouts and guarantees following the
2008 financial crisis, support that Moody’s will say accounts
for between two and five credit grades for larger U.K. lenders
and one to five notches for smaller firms, Sky said. The review
comes as stocks slump globally amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
is worsening and the global economic recovery is waning.  Tim Osborne, a Sydney-based spokesman for Moody’s, declined
to comment when contacted by telephone by Bloomberg News.  New York-based Moody’s cut  Australia ’s four largest banks
by one level to Aa2 last week, citing their reliance on
wholesale debt markets.  Moody’s may say its review of the U.K. lenders will take
about three months to gauge the level of state support that
should be incorporated into the credit rating of each bank, Sky
said. That’s the same time it took on the Australian assessment.  Politicians and business groups have criticized British
lenders for failing to boost credit and fuel the nation’s
economy even after receiving government support.  Lawmaker Criticism  A cross-party panel of British lawmakers said April 20 that
it is “inappropriate” for banks to award staff large bonuses
and reap excessive profits while they rely on support from
taxpayers. The House of Commons Public Accounts Committee said
British banks benefit from an “implicit expectation” that
taxpayers will rescue them.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Santander U.K. Plc agreed
in February to make credit available to businesses and foster
demand for loans to aid economic recovery. RBS and Lloyds are
Britain’s biggest taxpayer-aided banks.  Moody’s will say that the review of the creditworthiness of
British banks wasn’t triggered by any specific deterioration in
the banking system or of the government, Sky said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net  