-- 
Ordonez Says Spain Must Face Problems, Not Blame Markets

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-23T11:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ordonez-says-spain-must-face-problems-not-blame-markets-1-.html
Bank of  Spain  Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez urged the country to face up to its problems,
saying it’s a “waste of time” to blame markets for a surge in
borrowing costs.  Spain has to “recognize we have problems,” including
“massive unemployment” and the “suspicious attitude of the
markets that we have to use to finance ourselves,” Ordonez, who
is also a member of the European Central Bank Governing Council,
told a conference in Madrid today.  Spain has the highest  unemployment rate  in  Europe , at 21
percent, and the figure rises to 45 percent among young people.
The Socialist government, which suffered its worst defeat in
three decades in local elections yesterday, has pledged to cut
the euro area’s third-largest budget deficit and is negotiating
with unions a second overhaul of  labor laws  in an attempt to win
back investors’ confidence.  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
widened to 257 basis points today, the most in four months,
compared with 243 basis points on May 20.  “Blaming the wickedness or avarice of markets would be a
waste of time that could distract us from the fact that this
cost can only be reduced if we adopt the necessary internal
reforms and measures as soon as possible,” Ordonez said.  Ordonez said employers in Spain are reluctant to hire
because of the legal and institutional framework, which the
government should change.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero reduced firing
costs for employers last year and made it easier for companies
in economic difficulty to dismiss workers. Unions and employers
are now in long-delayed talks over proposed changes to wage-
bargaining rules. Employers want the overhaul to sever the link
between wage increases and inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  