-- 
Morgan Stanley In Talks to Fund More Asian Hedge Funds Start-Ups This Year

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-05-24T03:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/morgan-stanley-sees-more-seeding-acceleration-deals-for-asian-hedge-funds.html
More institutions and wealthy
individuals are looking to provide startup and expansion capital
to profit from new Asian hedge funds and help them expand,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  prime brokers said.  The New York-based bank is helping negotiate several
opportunities for investors to give money to new hedge funds 
for a share of their fee revenue and deals in which they will 
provide capital to expand assets across Asia, said Hugh Abdullah, 
its Hong Kong-based head of capital introductions in the region. 
In demand are event-driven funds and equity long-short managers 
who bet on rising and falling stocks, he said.  “True hedge fund talent is a scarcer resource out here,”
said Abdullah in an interview yesterday. “People always want to
find the next winner.”  Investors added $3.6 billion of capital to Asia-focused
hedge funds in the first three months, the largest quarterly
inflow they have attracted since Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc. started to track such data. Managers in the region
are courting seeders and those who can provide so-called
acceleration capital because the $88 billion Asian industry is
still hovering at 79 percent of its 2007 size, even after global
hedge fund assets hit a record $2.02 trillion by March,
according to HFR.  Investors provide  seed capital  to new hedge funds typically
in exchange for a share of their fee revenue and sometimes an
equity stake in the business. Acceleration capital helps small
managers which have been in operation for a few years to expand
assets to a size that could attract institutional capital.  Raising the Odds  “If you can find a very good manager in Asia, and they’re
of institutional quality, and you build up the right business
around them, the probability of their success of raising
additional funds is usually a little bit higher,” Abdullah said.  Growth in assets in the region has been concentrated in a
small group of managers, Abdullah said.  “In  Asia , a number of funds are entertaining using a
seeder to boost their assets to the $50 million to $100 million
level just to be viewed as being more investable by other
investors,” Abdullah said.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s $150 million seed capital helped
former Citadel LLC trader Nick Taylor to start his own Senrigan
Capital Group Ltd. The Hong Kong-based event-driven fund --
which wagers on securities affected by mergers, acquisitions,
reorganizations, and asset spinoffs -- in April became the first
Asian hedge fund startup since 2009 to reach $1 billion in
assets, two people with knowledge of the matter said then.  Scouting Opportunities  Azentus Capital Management Ltd., a hedge fund run Morgan
Sze, a former global head of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
principal strategies proprietary trading, started trading on
April 1 after raising $1.06 billion, the most by an Asia-based
hedge fund startup since at least 2007, said three people
familiar with the fund earlier this month.  There are a mixture of specialized hedge-fund seeding
companies, funds of hedge funds and high-net-worth individuals
from the U.S.,  Europe , and to a lesser extent from Asia,
scouting for such opportunities, Abdullah said.  The deals Morgan Stanley is helping to negotiate involve
investments ranging from $30 million to more than $70 million,
Abdullah said, declining to identify them as the talks are
confidential.  “You are starting to see certain people offering much
larger tickets,” he said. “However, there are only a handful
of groups which can realistically write tickets of $100 million
plus.”  Blackstone  Blackstone recently raised $2.4 billion for its second
seeding fund, the industry’s biggest. Goldman Sachs has spent
the past year trying to attract clients for a similar pool.
Reservoir Capital Group, Larch Lane Advisors LLC and PineBridge
Investments LLC also are marketing new funds for such
investments.  Pulse Capital Partners LLC, a U.S.-based provider of seed
and acceleration capital, announced earlier this month it was
backing new Asian event-driven fund Ardon Capital Management Ltd.
The amount of Pulse’s investment wasn’t disclosed in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  