-- 
Tornadoes, Severe Storms Kill at Least 91 in U.S.; Missouri Is Hit Hardest

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-23T16:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/tornadoes-severe-storms-kill-at-least-91-in-u-s-missouri-is-hit-hardest.html
A second deadly outbreak of tornadoes
in less than a month swept across the Midwest yesterday, causing
damage from  Wisconsin  to  Texas  and killing at least 91 people.
Severe weather probably will continue through the week.  In Joplin, Missouri, 89 people are confirmed dead,
according to the Associated Press, citing local emergency
officials at a press conference today. At least one person was
killed in Minneapolis yesterday and another in Kansas on May 21,
according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
Oklahoma.  “I would be surprised if there is a day this week where
there wasn’t a tornado report,” said Dave Samuel, senior
meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. “There is going to be a nasty storm Tuesday
through Thursday. I don’t see any big break coming.”  The outbreak comes about a month after at least 305
tornadoes tore through the U.S. South, killing 327 people,
mostly in  Alabama , the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration said. The damage from the storms April 25 to
April 27 was estimated to be as much as $5 billion, according to
catastrophic risk modeler  Eqecat Inc.  in Oakland,  California .  Yesterday’s tornadoes weren’t as severe as those that
rampaged across the South last month, Samuel said. The tornado
in Joplin just hit “the wrong spot,” he said.  Hospital Hit  The half-mile wide tornado tore through Joplin, about 290
miles southwest of  St. Louis , at 6 p.m. yesterday, destroying
and damaging many homes and buildings, including St. John’s
Regional Medical Center, according to state and local agencies.  Mike Woolston, mayor of the city of 50,000, declared a
local disaster, according to Joplin’s website.  Missouri  Governor
Jay Nixon declared a state of emergency and sent National Guard
troops to help, according to a statement.  This year’s severe storms are the result of warm moist air
from the  Gulf of Mexico  clashing with cooler air across the
northern U.S., Samuel said.  The Gulf of  Mexico  is 3 degrees Fahrenheit (1.6 Celsius)
warmer than pre-1970 levels, which means it can carry 12 percent
more moisture, said Kevin Trenberth, distinguished senior
scientist at the  National Center for Atmospheric Research  in
Boulder, Colorado.  “Two degrees of that can be attributed to natural
variability while one degree Fahrenheit is associated with
climate change,” Trenberth said. “Some part of it is global
warming- climate change  and some part is natural variability.”  La Nina’s Influence  He said the La Nina phenomenon, a cooling of the  Pacific
Ocean , is also still focusing the storm track across the U.S.
“just the right distance from the Gulf” to enhance tornado and
severe thunderstorm development.  The Gulf moisture has also meant more rain than normal
across the U.S. The  Mississippi  and Ohio rivers have set
flooding records this year from Illinois to Louisiana.  “There has been enough rain in this event that there will
probably be another bubble that will go down the Mississippi as
well,” Trenberth said.  A severe thunderstorm watch, meaning the violent storms are
possible, is in effect for southwestern Missouri and parts of
 Oklahoma  and Kansas through 1 p.m. local time today, according
to the  National Weather Service . A flash flood warning has also
been issued for the area around Joplin.  The area also has a moderate risk of thunderstorms and
tornadoes tomorrow, according to the Storm Prediction Center.  Interstate Closed  Interstate 44 was closed in both directions late yesterday
because of the storms. The eastbound lanes of the highway, which
runs from St. Louis to Texas, are still closed, according to the
 Missouri Department of Transportation  website.  Several cars and trucks were flipped off the highway near
Jasper, Missouri, according to Storm Prediction Center damage
reports. Thirty empty trailers and two tractors were damaged or
destroyed at Con-way Truckload in Joplin, according to a company
statement.  More than 600 tornadoes formed in all of April, compared
with the previous April record of 267 set in 1974, the agency
said in a statement earlier this month. That makes April 2011
the most active month ever, breaking the record of 542 tornadoes
in May 2003.  As of May 17, 1,076 tornado reports have been received by
the Storm Prediction Center, according to its website. Those
storms have yet to be confirmed by U.S. weather experts.  On average, about 1,300 tornadoes hit the U.S. each year,
according to  NOAA .  The deadliest year in the U.S. was 1925, when 794 people
were killed, according to NOAA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  