-- 
Ornellaia’s $24,000 Wine Gives Artists Work, Supports Museums

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-05-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ornellaia-s-24-000-wine-gives-artists-work-aids-museums-john-mariani.html
Mention the term “Super Tuscan” to
winemakers from the Italian region like Axel Heinz and you’ll
get either a wince or, more likely, a shrug.  Heinz has been winemaker since 2005 at Ornellaia, an estate
long in the company of other illustrious single labels like
Sassicaia, Solaia, and Tignanello that inspired the Super Tuscan
label, but also came to include many inferior wines that merely
appropriated the name.  The classification has no standing under Italian wine law,
which by regional tradition dictates which grapes are allowed in
typical Tuscan wines like chianti and brunello di montalcino.  The term Super Tuscan, concocted in the 1980s by the media
and promoted by the industry, refers to wineries that don’t play
by those rules and who, as a result, may only label their
bottles “I.G.T.” (typical regional wine), just a step up from
the lowest appellation “vino da tavola” (table wine).  Thus, over lunch at Lincoln Ristorante at  Lincoln Center ,
Heinz, 39, ignored all the hype and concentrated on the enviable
reputation that Ornellaia’s 26-year old winery has achieved on
its own, using a Bordeaux blend of cabernet sauvignon, cabernet
franc, merlot, and, since 2003, a little petit verdot.  To that end, much like Bordeaux’s Mouton-Rothschild has
done for decades, the winery has commissioned artists to
illustrate its vintages. Under a program called Vendemmia
d’Artista, large format bottles with labels by an artist are
auctioned off to support the arts, as when a salamanzar (12
regular bottles) of the 2006, entitled “L’Esuberanza” with a
design by Luigi Ontani, was sold for 17,000 euros ($24,255) to
fund restoration work at the  Museo Poldi Pezzoli  in Milan.  High Alcohol  At the luncheon, I asked Heinz, who looks like action movie
star  Jason Statham  with wild hair, about his wines’ high, 14.5
percent alcohol level.  “The higher the alcohol level, the harder it is to make a
great wine,” he said, a comment that flies in the face of many
winemakers around the world who deliberately boost alcohol
content. “If you are actively trying to make a blockbuster, you
will not have a good wine.”  Part of the problem, he said, is global warming. “Just in
the last decade, alcohol levels have accelerated 1 to 1.5
percent because of the heat,” he said. “A winemaker has to be
very careful in monitoring how the grapes grow through each
season and figuring out the best time to pick them.”  Ornellaia has always been a big, bold, luscious wine that
shows enormous finesse and an Italian refinement that can be
amiably pleasing even when young. The wines we tasted, 2006
through 2008, including Ornellaia’s second, less expensive wine
from younger vineyards, Le Serre Nuove dell’ Ornellaia, made
since 1997, showed just how different vintages can be yet still
show the unique character of terroir.  Perfect Weather  Of the 2006 L’Esuberenza ($150-$175), Heinz said, “The
wine made itself,” from a harvest that was near perfect, with
uniform ripeness. The wines were aged in barriques for 12
months, when the final blend was made, aged six more months,
then bottled and kept for 12 months before release. I thought it
was a truly magnificent expression of the Ornellaia style with
several levels of complexity and tight but wondrous fruit
qualities.  The 2007 Harmonia ($130-$150), with a label by Ghada Amer
and Reza Farkhondeh, was very tight, even after an hour with
food, with a modest nose, needing a long time to emerge from its
glass cocoon. It was definitely not made from over-ripe grapes,
so its virtues are going to take time to develop.  The 2008 L’Energia ($155-$170), with a design by Rebecca
Horn, lives up to its moniker: it’s got a big nose with a woody,
but not oaky, bouquet, and a remarkable herbaceous content of
violets and mint. The tannins are already loose, and I enjoyed
this youthful wine enormously, knowing it will get better and
better over the next decade.  ‘Brutal Drop’  Heinz said it had the “lushness of the Mediterranean,”
which is an apt description of a vintage that began wet, had a
dry, hot summer, whose temperatures were lowered by the
northerly tramontana winds. At harvest, a “brutal drop in
temperature” turned out to be a blessing to prevent over-
ripening.  The equivalent vintages of Le Serre Nuove showed exactly
the same characteristics but in a lighter, more approachable
style.  Although the 2009 was not available for tasting yet, Heinz
called it a “very difficult vintage to make. The grapes were
picked early and the tannins are soft and the wine will only be
of medium weight.” No name for that one yet, but maybe he’ll
call it “mal di testa,” which is Italian for headache.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 