-- 
Morrissey Topples Old Boys as Money Manager With Nine Children

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r
-- 
2011-05-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/morrissey-topples-old-boys-as-money-manager-with-nine-children.html
Helena Morrissey remembers her worst
moment as a woman in the City,  London ’s financial district. It
was almost 20 years ago, when she was the only female on a team
with 16 male bond fund traders at Schroders Investment
Management. Her young family’s breadwinner, she’d just returned
from her first maternity leave and her boss passed her over for
a promotion, saying he doubted her job commitment.  “I wanted to know if I’d done something wrong or I wasn’t
ready,” says Morrissey, sipping water in a conference room
overlooking the London Eye. “The answer came back, ‘Well, you’ve
just had your first child, and we’re not sure whether you can
make it through.’ The sense was that I was on a different path.”  Morrissey wound up proving him wrong, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its July issue. She quit, joined Newton
Investment Management and, seven years later, became chief
executive officer at age 35 when Mellon Financial Corp., now
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , took over.  Now 45, Morrissey remains one of the City’s few female
CEOs. She oversees 47.2 billion pounds ($76 billion) and almost
400 employees after boosting Newton’s business in the U.K. and
expanding in the U.S.  As to her previous manager’s contention that child rearing
might sap her work commitment, Morrissey has gone on to have
eight more children, for a total of nine. They range from age 2
to 19, and seven of them still live at home. Schroders declined
to comment.  30 Percent Club  For years, Morrissey has quietly supported the drive to
increase female managers in the workplace. These days, she’s
making more noise, and many of Britain’s top bosses are
listening. She says she got tired of hearing about diversity and
never seeing progress, with women in Britain’s top jobs stuck at
about 10 percent.  She decided to focus on the boardroom, where women can
shape corporate decision making, help companies boost profits
and show other women they can compete at the highest levels too.
In November, she formed the  30 Percent Club  to press companies
to employ that many female directors, up from  12 percent in
2010 . She has persuaded more than 20 chairmen, about half from
the FTSE 100, including Win Bischoff at  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
and Douglas Flint at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , to reach for that
target.  Good Timing  Her timing is good. Countries across Europe are adopting
quotas to put women in directors’ seats. Norway started the push
in 2002 and has reached its  40 percent mandate . Spain set a 40
percent goal in 2007 with a target year of 2015. France in
January required 40 percent female boards by 2016. Italian
legislators are drafting a law with a 30 percent female
requirement at listed and state-run companies. Quotas may be
coming in Germany, too, unless companies tap more women, Justice
Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger said in February.  “A year ago, when I started talking about women on boards,
people would either be dismissive or say, ‘Oh, we’ll get there
anyway,’” Morrissey says. “Now there’s a whole groundswell of
focus around it.”  Former U.K. Trade Minister  Mervyn Davies  is spearheading
the campaign on Morrissey’s turf. He led a government-sponsored
review released in February that concluded that women should
make up  25 percent  of FTSE 100 boards by 2015. Davies, a former
chairman of Standard Chartered Plc, said he’ll back legislation
for quotas if things don’t change in two years.  “It’s not just about  gender equality ,” he said. “It’s about
improving the performance and productivity of companies.”  ‘Passionately Against Quotas’  Morrissey’s 30 percent goal may stave off quotas. To make
sure companies don’t find excuses to dawdle, Morrissey has been
meeting with search firms and working with the Professional
Boards Forum to develop a trove of qualified women and match the
candidates with chairmen.  “I personally am passionately against quotas,” she says.
“They undermine women with the sense that you can’t get there on
merit.”  Some veteran women executives say the board battle is
misplaced. The real issue isn’t the dearth of female directors;
it’s the lack of women with the experience it takes to join a
board, says Barbara Judge, a dual U.K.-U.S. citizen.  Judge, 64, is chairman of the U.K. government’s Pension
Protection Fund and sits on four other boards, including that of
Norway’s  Statoil ASA. (STL)  She was the youngest commissioner ever
appointed to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
became the first female director of a British merchant bank when
she joined Samuel Montagu & Co. in Hong Kong in 1983.  ‘Perfect Catch-22’  “If you don’t give a woman a chance to be an executive,
she’ll never get a board seat,” Judge says. “It’s a perfect
Catch-22.”  Morrissey says boards can be a starting point for lifting
women into senior management. The financial meltdown further
convinced her that women have a role as directors.  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which filed the world’s biggest
bankruptcy, had one female director, as did the 18-member board
of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , which took a U.K.
government bailout in 2008. Investors criticized both boards for
failing to challenge management.  “The financial crisis has called into question a lot of the
status quo, including how decisions are made, composition of
company management teams, and boards,” she says.  Norway started the female-director push in 2002 and, at
39.5 percent, has effectively reached its 40 percent mandate.  “Norway put the issue of women on boards on the global
agenda,” says Elin Hurvenes, who founded the  Professional Boards
Forum  in 2003 to help Norwegian companies find qualified women.  Tipping Point  After Norway set the tone, countries began competing to
increase women directors, says Susan Vinnicombe, a professor at
London’s  Cranfield School of Management  and a member of Davies’s
steering board.  “The number of women on corporate boards has become a
measure for how well women are doing in society,” she says.  Western Europe, where women on average hold about  13
percent  of board seats, may soon outpace the U.S., Vinnicombe
says. American boards are about 15 percent female, and quotas
aren’t on the agenda.  “It’s kind of like Malcolm Gladwell’s The Tipping Point,”
she says, explaining the theory that an idea reaches critical
mass and then goes viral. “Norway really captured people’s
attention, so instead of people thinking it was outrageous, it
became accepted.”  Where’s the Progress?  Morrissey says a 2009  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  luncheon
about diversity in London sparked her idea to set up the 30
Percent Club. Everyone was lamenting how women seemed stuck at
 10 percent  of senior levels even as companies said they were
promoting diversity. Morrissey contacted Mary Goudie, a member
of the House of Lords who’d also attended the lunch, to suggest
their own gathering in April 2010.  Worried it would end as another talking shop, Morrissey
sent an e-mail beforehand suggesting the setting of a concrete
goal for board representation as a start for building gender
balance throughout management. She approached Roger Carr,
chairman of U.K. energy supplier Centrica Plc, and tapped Diana Brightmore-Armour, head of corporate banking at Lloyds, to speak
with Bischoff. With two FTSE 100 bigwigs behind her, she
persuaded others to join the campaign.  Morrissey, with her flowery dresses, chunky jewelry and
quick laugh, doesn’t come across as a feminist firebrand. She
says a woman can work reasonable hours and succeed. Active fund
management, which revolves around times when markets are open,
is great for anyone who needs to be judged by results, not hours
spent at a desk, she says.  ‘Military Operation’  She admires Goudie, who led the campaign to ratify the
United Nations Treaty on Human Trafficking. French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  is another inspiration, although
Morrissey says she’s disappointed that Lagarde backed quotas in
France.  Impossibly thin after years of childbearing, Morrissey is
equally happy to talk about how she organizes her kids’
activities with spreadsheets and whiteboards while she jets to
 New York  to win clients for Newton.  “It’s like a military operation,” she says.  Even she says she was surprised that a few board chairmen
told her they were irked that she hadn’t invited them to join
the 30 Percent campaign. So, in April, she sent a letter to each
FTSE 100 chairman asking him to sign on.  Bischoff, who was chairman at Citigroup Inc. for just more
than a year when the U.S. government bailed out the bank, says
every corporate chairman in Britain is talking about female
directors. Citi had two women on its 15-member board in 2008.
These days at Lloyds, Bischoff says he’ll pick a male director
only if he can’t find a qualified woman.  ‘Female-Only List’  “I say, here’s what we’re looking for and now get me a
female list only,” he says.  Morrissey, who excelled in math and physics in high school,
can cite compelling statistics. U.S. firms with three or more
female directors produced an average 45 percent higher return on
equity and sales than did those with the average board from 2001
to 2004, according to a 2007  study  by Catalyst, which promotes
women in business.  McKinsey & Co. found that companies with the greatest share
of women on executive committees have a 41 percent higher return
on equity than do those with all-male groups, based on its
 survey  of 279 companies in Europe, Brazil, Russia,  China  and
India from 2007 to 2009.  One prominent example in London is luxury retailer Burberry
Group Plc, whose board is 37.5 percent female -- the highest
proportion in the FTSE 100. Burberry stock surged 109 percent in
the 12 months through May 23 compared with a 15 percent rise for
the FTSE All-Share Index.  ‘Bottom-Line Guys’  “We now have enough data to show that women on boards make
a difference to performance,” says Gay Huey Evans, vice
chairwoman of the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc. and one of two women on the London Stock
Exchange board. “That appeals to men who are bottom-line guys.”  Don’t tell that to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  chief  Josef Ackermann .
He created an uproar in February when he declared at a press
conference that his 12-member, male-only group executive
committee would be “more colorful and prettier” with female
members.  Germany’s Consumer Minister Ilse Aigner shot back, “If it’s
more color or beauty you want, you should go to a flower garden
or museum.”  For all the outrage he caused, Ackermann also said at the
press conference, “It’s unbelievably important that we succeed
in bringing more women into management positions.”  Fertile Ground  More than three decades after Britain elected its first
female prime minister, Morrissey didn’t have to look far for
fertile ground to reform.  Fourteen FTSE 100 companies have men-only boards, down from
21 when Davies issued his report, the  Professional Boards Forum 
says. They include Associated British Foods Plc, owner of
fashion retailer Primark. More than half of boards on the
smaller FTSE 250 have no women.  One unlikely straggler until recently was Mothercare Plc,
which sells baby gear. It appointed Amanda MacKenzie in January,
more than six months after the only other female director
resigned.  Boards are far from the only laggards. Women haven’t
cracked the top echelons of corporate management, law or
medicine -- even though they make up more than 60 percent of
college graduates in Europe and the U.S. After propitious
beginnings, women stall.  Pay Gap  Fewer than 20 percent of partners at Britain’s biggest law
firms are female although 60 percent of trainees are, according
to “ Legal Week ,” an industry newsletter. Women outnumber men
at U.K. medical schools, yet they’re left behind in prestigious
areas such as surgery and earn 18 percent less than male
doctors, the  British Medical Association  says.  Men dominate from trading floors to the FTSE 100, which
boasts only five female CEOs. A persistent pay gap exacerbates
the inequality: Europe-wide, women earn an average  17.5 percent 
less than men.  Extended maternity leaves  are partly to blame, says
Philippa Rose, founder of headhunting firm Rose Partnership. She
says managers have told her off the record that they’re
reluctant to appoint a woman in her 30s -- unless she’s single -
- if there’s an equally well-equipped man.  “Most businesses simply cannot cope with a yearlong absence
of a key executive,” she says. “It’s one of the reasons why
there is a fundamental shortage of women in senior positions and
on boards. There has to be a big enough pool of candidates to
fish from.”  ‘Nine Months Off’  Simon Murray, chairman of Swiss commodities trader Glencore
International AG, may be one of the few to say publicly what
chiefs think privately.  “Pregnant ladies have nine months off,” Murray told the
Sunday Telegraph on April 24. “Do you think that means when I
rush out, what I’m absolutely desperate to have is young women
who are about to get married?” Murray later apologized, saying
he believes in equality.  Morrissey says strong support at home helps women get back
to work. She has had the same nanny for all of her children and
has taken off as little as six weeks with her younger ones. Her
husband, Richard, a former journalist, is a stay-at-home dad.  “A year’s leave makes it harder for companies to plan,” she
says. “Six months is a better deal all around because it’s much
more a temporary situation.”  ‘Lots of Attention’  Morrissey grew up with two working parents. The daughter of
teachers in Chichester in southeast England, she attended a
state high school. She studied philosophy at  Cambridge
University , where she focused more on logic than existential
theories.  At the annual “milkround,” where merchant banks recruit
talented students, she hit it off with Schroders. The firm hired
her as a graduate trainee and, within a week, offered her a
posting in New York to use her math skills analyzing the U.S.
bond market.  Morrissey returned to Schroders in London about three years
later as a fixed-income fund manager. After having her first
child at age 25, she’d fully expected to pick up where she left
off. Instead, following what she took as an unfair presumption
about her commitment, she found a mentor in Stewart Newton, who
hired her at Newton Investment Management in 1994 as a bond fund
manager.  After a year, Newton let her run the fixed-income funds on
her own when a colleague left to have a baby.  “He gave me lots of attention,” she says. “I would have to
go in at 4 p.m. and talk to him about what I’d done in the
funds. He’s a phenomenal investor and taught me about lateral
thinking.”  ‘Prepared to Be Flexible’  Morrissey repaid Newton’s faith when she made a big call
ahead of the  Labour Party ’s taking power in 1997. She bought
gilts when everyone was panicking about deficits and ran that
position from about 9 percent yields to less than 4 percent. Her
Newton International Bond Fund posted a 17 percent return in
1998.  “She got to where she is because she produced outstanding
results,” says Newton, now a director at Veritas Asset
Management in London. “She was prepared to be flexible, and she
was able to listen to people.”  Newton appointed Morrissey to head fixed income in 1999.
When Mellon took over in 2001, he stepped back and the
management team left.  Ronald O’Hanley, who was running Mellon’s investment
business, chose her as CEO. She was 35 with five children, the
youngest of them ages 1, 2 and 3.  ‘Deep End’  “That was much more challenging than anything else I’ve
done,” she says. “I jumped into the deep end and had to learn
quite quickly what the CEO did.”  O’Hanley says Morrissey was selfless. She handed out almost
the entire year-end bonus pool to staff, leaving nothing for
herself.  “I’d have to go back and redo that so I could pay her,”
says O’Hanley, who now runs Fidelity Investments’ asset
management business.  Morrissey also understood how to motivate people.  “She had a discerning way of understanding the facts and
hard issues, but also the softer ones -- what would it take to
get this group rallied around the new business model,” he says.
“She’s got a lot of drive and ambition but not in an untoward
way.”  Under Morrissey, Newton’s  assets  under management have more
than doubled to 47 billion pounds. She secured 4.5 billion
pounds from U.S. institutional clients, fruits of a five-year
effort. She opened a U.S. outpost in 2006.  Consensus Builder  Morrissey sees her CEO role as being a consensus builder.
She’s on Newton’s investment committee, where she guards the
firm’s  thematic approach  that sets big-picture ideas to guide
managers in picking stocks and bonds. One recent theme, “low-end
spend,” looked at how discount retailers might benefit from the
recession.  Just how Morrissey juggles her 30 Percent campaign, CEO
responsibilities and family is a bit of a mystery, even to her.  She sometimes spends the whole day on Newton issues and
catches up on club-related e-mails at night. The 16 women on the
 club steering committee  are all actively involved. In recent
months, they’ve been organizing a July 4th panel with FTSE 100
chairmen to explore ways to get more women on boards.  ‘Gray Hair’  Even so, squeezing it all in can be challenging. When her
5-year-old son made a speech competition final, her husband
recorded it on his iPhone and she watched later. She usually
leaves Newton at 5 p.m. After a family dinner, Morrissey works
and tries to resist late-night BlackBerry checks.  The kids are used to Dad at home. When she asked one of her
three sons what he wanted to be, he said he wanted to stay home,
like Dad.  “I said, ‘Well, that’s a good option; just find a woman who
wants to work!’” she says, laughing.  Morrissey’s battle now is to persuade chairmen that there
are  qualified women  like her who can take charge. To hit her 30
percent target, she says FTSE 100 companies will have to add
about 200 female directors.  Companies hiring women will have to go beyond the safe bet,
which often has meant tapping an American who’s more likely to
have executive experience or a board seat elsewhere. U.S. and
Canadian citizens hold 28 percent of female director seats at
FTSE 100 firms compared with 13 percent of male directorships,
according to  Cranfield .  “There’s an unfortunate perception that unless you’ve been
a major player with a certain amount of gray hair and been on a
certain number of boards it’s very difficult to get a seat,”
says David Peters, London-based managing partner of the CEO and
board recruitment practice in Europe for  Heidrick & Struggles .  ‘Talk to Women’  As women come on board, hundreds of men may lose their
seats. Already, in France, with its 40 percent mandate, many
headhunters no longer consider men, Peters says.  “They can’t possibly fill the quotas unless they only talk
to women,” he says.  Countries are struggling with cultural obstacles as they
consider quotas. Daniela Weber-Rey, a Frankfurt-based partner at
law firm  Clifford Chance , is one of five women on the 17-member
board of Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  -- making its female
representation 29 percent.  In her native Germany, though, Weber-Rey says quotas are a
nonstarter: There simply aren’t enough women to fill the
positions because of a lack of government-supported child-care
options. Only  2.2 percent  of executive board members at the 30
biggest companies are women, and the companies are run by men.  “France is 40 years ahead of us,” she says. “We cannot
force this change on German society.”  Voluntary Quotas  Instead, she’s nudging German companies to open up the old
boys club. As a member of Germany’s Corporate Governance
Commission overseeing rules for listed companies, Weber-Rey, 53,
argued against quotas in 2009.  After a year of no visible change, she backed the
commission’s decision last summer to require companies to
publicly declare timelines for adding women. Companies in
Germany’s DAX Index in March pledged to set voluntary quotas for
women by the end of the year.  One big company is already taking action.  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  aims to fill  30 percent  of management positions with women by
2015 -- up from about 12 percent in 2010. The Bonn-based
telecommunications giant plans to recruit more female graduates,
reserve 30 percent of executive development spots for women and
expand flexible arrangements.  That hasn’t made a difference at the top yet: The eight-
member management board is all male.  ‘Work to Do’  Morrissey is trying to practice what she preaches at
Newton. She’s chairwoman and the only female on the firm’s five-
member board. Yet women occupy 26 percent of senior professional
roles as analysts, fund managers and salespeople. When Morrissey
looked to hire a global equity fund manager, the shortlist came
back all male. A suitable female candidate was added at her
request. That person didn’t get the job, but she says the
process shifted attitudes.  “There’s still work to do,” she says.  Morrissey says putting women in the boardroom is one step
on a long path toward more equality -- and better profits -- for
businesses. If her club is successful, women may find themselves
better able to navigate roadblocks that have stopped many of
them in their tracks.  “If we change the board makeup and get better gender
representation, then that opens people’s eyes up,” she says.  “Then women can say, ‘Well, maybe I can do it.’”  Editors: Gail Roche, Jonathan Neumann  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Baker in London at 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in New York at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  