-- 
Toyota Advisers Fault Lack of Local Control, Safety Chief for Auto Recalls

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-05-24T06:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/toyota-s-outside-advisory-panel-faults-lack-of-local-control-safety-chief.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s centralized
structure, skepticism of external critics and lack of a global
safety chief are among flaws the carmaker needs to address as it
recovers from record recalls, an outside advisory group said.  Toyota President Akio Toyoda created the North American
Quality Advisory Panel in March 2010 as the company recalled
millions of autos in the U.S. and abroad for flaws linked to
unintended acceleration. The group, led by former Transportation
Secretary Rodney Slater, reviewed Toyota’s operations for more
than a year before  issuing a report  yesterday.  The company “erred too much on the side of global
centralization and needs to shift the balance somewhat toward
greater local authority and control,” the advisers said. The
flaws “hindered information sharing and contributed to
miscommunication” and “delayed response time to quality and
safety issues,” the report said.  Toyota,  Japan ’s largest carmaker, recalled millions of U.S.
autos in 2009 and 2010, mostly for floor mats at risk of jamming
accelerators and sticky gas pedals. The Toyota City, Japan-based
company paid a record $48.8 million in fines for how some of the
recalls were conducted, and officials including Toyoda were
called before Congress to discuss plans to fix the defects.  In  North America , where Toyota’s operations are divided
into units responsible for sales, engineering and manufacturing,
the company would benefit from a more unified structure and
greater local authority to make decisions, the panel said.  “We tried to call it as we’ve seen it,” Slater said on a
conference call. Toyota has already adopted some of its
recommended changes, he said.  ‘Meaningful Steps’  The advisers’ recommendations have resulted in “meaningful
steps” to give Toyota’s North American operations more autonomy
and make the company even more focused on safety, Toyoda said in
a statement.  “The panel has given us further insights into how we can
best achieve our vision of exceeding customer expectations with
the safest and most responsible vehicles,” said Toyoda, the
grandson of the automaker’s founder.  The advisers found Toyota doesn’t take complaints about its
vehicles from outside sources as seriously as it should.  While the carmaker is focused on applying internally
gathered data to improve vehicles, it “does not appear to treat
feedback from external sources, including customers, independent
rating agencies and regulators, the same way,” the panel said.  Toyota Skepticism  As a result, Toyota initially treated consumer complaints
about unintended acceleration “with a degree of skepticism and
defensiveness,” according to the advisers.  “There are sometimes very important signals in all those
noisy data,” said Brian O’Neill, a panel member and former
president of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.  The company also lacked a direct chain of managers
specifically responsible for safety issues, the panel said.  Toyota fell 0.5 percent to 3,245 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
 Tokyo .  The panel didn’t identify any additional causes for
unintended acceleration in Toyota and Lexus vehicles.  The report doesn’t help settle the debate about the causes
of unintended acceleration,  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive
officer of automotive data service Edmunds.com, said in a
statement.  ‘Uniquely Vulnerable’  “The report confirms our view that Toyota’s culture, one
that works well in times of stability, left it uniquely
vulnerable to a fast-moving crisis,” Anwyl said.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  ended
its probe of Toyota models in February after NASA, the U.S.
space agency, said it found no electronic causes of unintended
acceleration during a 10-month review. Safety advocates and some
lawmakers had suggested electrical faults as a reason.  “There’s still a serious debate as to whether these were
serious safety problems,” O’Neill said.  Sean Kane, president of Safety Research & Strategies, a
Rehoboth, Massachusetts-based advocacy group that researches
auto defects and works with attorneys suing carmakers, said
yesterday that  NASA ’s report showed “deficiencies” in Toyota’s
vehicle electronics.  “NASA identified numerous failures in Toyota electronics
that could lead to unwanted acceleration,” Kane said in an e-
mailed statement.  Panel Members  In addition to Slater and O’Neill, the panel includes
Norman Augustine, former CEO of Lockheed Martin Corp.; Patricia Goldman, a former National Transportation Safety Board vice
chairman; Mary Good, the  University of Arkansas  at  Little Rock ’s
dean of engineering and information-technology;  Roger Martin ,
dean of the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management;
and Sheila Widnall, a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology , and former Secretary of the  Air Force .  The advisory group said it didn’t identify any specific
problems related to Toyota’s ability to fully integrate
electronics and software or its methods for ensuring that
changes in software don’t cause unintended consequences.  The advisers will continue studying Toyota’s oversight of
suppliers and other issues for at least one more year, said
Slater, who declined to provide details on the panel members’
compensation.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  