-- 
Toyota’s Prius Wagon to Test Goal of U.S. Top-Seller

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-05-23T20:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/toyota-prius-v-to-test-push-to-make-prius-line-u-s-top-seller.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s goal of turning
the Prius, the world’s best-selling hybrid car, into its top-
selling U.S. model with a line of cars bearing the name gets its
first test with a wagon version arriving late this year.  The 2012 Prius v, a gasoline-electric model with 53 percent
more cargo space than the current “liftback” model, may
account for as much as 20 percent of overall Prius sales,  Bob Carter , group vice president for Toyota’s U.S. sales, said in an
interview last week. The wagon is rated by the U.S. as getting
44 miles per gallon in the city and 42 mpg in combined city and
highway driving, he said.  “We know the hybrid segment will grow faster if we add a
little versatility,” Carter said. “It won’t happen in the next
12 to 24 months, but Prius will outsell Camry. It’s going to be
what defines the Toyota brand in the future.”  Toyota’s hopes of record U.S. Prius sales this year, buoyed
by surging gasoline prices, were thwarted when  Japan ’s record
earthquake and tsunami in March disrupted production. Though
Prius assembly is recovering, the Toyota City, Japan-based
carmaker expects to have only 70 percent of normal supply of the
cars for sale in the U.S.  Toyota will also add a plug-in Prius next year that runs
about 13 miles on lithium-ion battery power before the engine
kicks in, at which point the car will function as a regular
Prius. A smaller, more fuel-efficient Prius c compact, cheaper
than the current model, which has a starting price of  $23,520 ,
is also slated for 2012.  Broader Lineup  “The overall strategy of creating a broader Prius lineup
is sound,” said Ed Kim, an industry analyst at AutoPacific Inc.
in Tustin,  California . “In terms of how Prius becomes the top-
seller, Toyota hasn’t really shared an actionable road map to
get to that point.”  Toyota’s Camry sedan has been the best-selling U.S.
passenger car for nine years in a row, and its Corolla is the
top-selling small car.  Slower production in Japan after the March 11 earthquake
pushed back the start of Prius v sales to the last quarter of
2011 from as early as July, Carter said, without elaborating.
Toyota won’t provide a monthly or annual sales target for now,
he said.  The wagon is 6 inches (15.2 centimeters) longer than a
standard Prius, 1.1 inches wider and 3.3 inches higher, the
company said. Making the vehicle roomier than the current Prius
also added 232 pounds (105 kilograms) of weight, trimming 8 mpg
from the liftback’s 50 mpg rating.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 42 cents to $79.54 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They’ve risen 1.2 percent
this year.  Prius v  The Prius v should appeal to U.S. consumers looking for a
combination of high fuel efficiency and roominess, said  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive of Edmunds.com, which tracks auto
industry pricing and trends.  “Space is remarkably better. That’s really going to be the
selling proposition,” Anwyl said. “There may be some
cannibalization with the current model, but it should expand the
Prius name.”  One challenge for the model is that U.S. consumers don’t
buy many wagons, he said.  “Wagons have become niche vehicles, competitors to compact
SUVs and crossovers,” Anwyl said.  Demand for the Prius grows as fuel prices rise, and Toyota
doesn’t expect the cost of gasoline in the U.S. to consistently
stay below $3.50 a gallon, Carter said.  Gasoline  U.S. gasoline prices rose 26 percent since the start of the
year to an average of $3.886 a gallon on May 19, according to
 AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge  report.  While the Prius v isn’t yet on sale, the car is being
researched by Edmunds.com users.  As of last week, consumers using the  Santa Monica ,
California-based company’s website who were considering the car
also looked at the current Prius, the plug-in Prius due next
year, Honda Motor Co.’s Civic compact, the Lexus CT 200h hybrid
hatchback, Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf electric car and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s Fusion Hybrid sedan.  Toyota expects the Prius v to compete with small sport-
utility vehicles including Ford’s Escape and Nissan’s Rogue, and
Mazda Motor Corp.’s Mazda5 compact minivan and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Jetta wagon, Carter said last week at a briefing in Half Moon
Bay, California.  Pricing hasn’t been set and is likely to be “a little
higher” than for the current Prius, he said.  Warning Sound  In a May 18 test drive, the wagon averaged 42.3 mpg in 120
miles of urban and highway driving. New with the Prius v is a
“pitch and bounce” control feature that uses sensors and
torque from the hybrid system to smooth the ride over uneven
road surfaces.  The car is also Toyota’s first hybrid with an audible
electronic warning sound that engages when the car moves on
battery power at low speed, to alert pedestrians who may not
hear it otherwise.  Toyota has sold more than 1 million Prius cars since the
model went on sale in the U.S. in 2000, accounting for 53
percent of all hybrids sold in the market. Worldwide Prius sales
exceed 2 million units.  “They dominate they hybrid segment,” Anwyl said.
“They’ve created a brand with a lot of value, and they’re quite
right to leverage that.”  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  