-- 
Taliban Intensifies Attacks to Avenge Bin Laden Death With Pakistan Siege

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-24T02:33:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/pakistan-commandos-remove-taliban-guerrillas-from-karachi-naval-air-base.html
The  Pakistan  Taliban carried out its
biggest strike against a government military base since 2009 in
a mission to avenge the killing of  Osama bin Laden  that left 10
government troops dead after a 16-hour battle in Karachi.  Four Taliban were killed in the fight at the navy
installation, Interior Minister Rehman Malik told reporters in
Pakistan’s largest city. The militants "were 20 to 22 years of
age and wore Western clothes with suicide jackets beneath them,"
Malik said. They were armed with rocket launchers and grenades,
he said.  The Pakistani Taliban pledged to attack government and
military installations after U.S. forces killed al-Qaeda leader
bin Laden in a raid in Abbottabad, 30 miles (50 kilometers)
north of Islamabad, on May 2 local time. Tensions between the
two countries rose, as the U.S. questioned whether Pakistani
officials had protected bin Laden and Pakistan protested the
violation of its territory.  The insurgents in Karachi damaged or destroyed U.S.-made
surveillance planes in the biggest strike against a leading
Pakistani military installation since a raid on the army’s
Rawalpindi headquarters in October 2009.  “This attack shows that the Taliban have sympathizers and
insiders in the security establishment,” said  Talat Masood , a
retired army lieutenant general and security analyst in
Islamabad. “It also shows that they have become more powerful
and sophisticated in their planning and attacks.”  Planes Targeted  Two P-3C Orion aircraft were targeted in the attack, navy
spokesman Irfan Ul Haq said. Replacing the two blown-up
surveillance airplanes, made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  with a
total estimated value of $150 million, may be difficult for
Pakistan if the U.S. decides to limit foreign aid.  The aircraft are a four-engine turboprop design used for
sea and ground surveillance. U.S. production for the Navy ended
in 1990 after 650 Orions rolled off the line. About 435 are
still flying -- with about 130 in the U.S. Navy inventory.  Six Americans, working as trainers and technicians, and 11
Chinese nationals were inside the base at the time of the attack
and were rescued early on, Malik said yesterday. He said two
militants may have escaped, putting the total number of
guerrillas who participated at six, fewer than claimed by the
Taliban.  “Fifteen of our fighters entered the naval air base and we
don’t expect them to return,” Ehsanullah Ehsan, a spokesman for
the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, said by telephone from an
undisclosed location. “They are there to kill. Our issue with
Pakistan is its secular policies and friendship with America.”  Explosions, Gunfire  The strike began with several explosions at the Mehran
naval base around 11 p.m. on May 22, followed by gunfire.  None of the six American contractors who help maintain the
aircraft at the base were injured during the attack, Pentagon
spokesman Dave Lapan said in  Washington . The Americans were
employed by Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , and
 SAIC Inc. (SAI) , based in McLean,  Virginia , he said.  The Taliban may have hit the navy station for its role in
helping conduct surveillance against movements by militant
groups along Pakistan’s coast, said Bahukutumbi Raman, an Indian
security analyst and retired counter-terrorism chief of  India ’s
main intelligence agency.  Pakistan’s naval air unit, including the U.S.-supplied
Orion aircraft, has been providing “air surveillance to prevent
any sea-borne intrusions of al-Qaeda and to detect any terrorist
plans for attacks on ships bringing supplies for the NATO forces
in Afghanistan,” Raman wrote in an e-mailed analysis.  U.S.-Pakistan Tensions  Tensions between the U.S. and Pakistan have escalated with
American officials saying they were worried that Pakistan’s
intelligence agency maintains ties to guerrillas fighting
American-led forces in  Afghanistan . The U.S. military says its
war against the Taliban is hindered by Pakistan’s failure to
shut down militant havens.  Also straining relations is Pakistan’s opposition to U.S.
drone attacks on Taliban targets, which have killed civilians,
and American insistence that the strikes continue. American
missiles killed four people near the Afghan border yesterday,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing officials it didn’t name.  Pakistan’s leaders have rejected accusations they aren’t
doing enough to defeat insurgents. The army’s offensives against
the local  Taliban movement  and allied guerrillas have triggered
retaliatory bombings and gun battles in cities nationwide that
the government says have killed thousands of Pakistani citizens
and security personnel.  May 13 Bombings  Twin bombings on May 13 at a Pakistani paramilitary police
academy killed 80 people in what the Pakistan Taliban said was
in part revenge for the killing of  bin Laden  and a precursor to
attacks against the U.S.  The PNS Mehran Base is 10 kilometers from Karachi’s Quaid-
e-Azam International Airport. It provides all the logistic and
administrative support to the aviation unit of the Pakistan
navy, according to the navy’s  website .  On Oct. 10, 2009, the Pakistani military freed 39 hostages
after soldiers stormed a building in the army’s Rawalpindi
headquarters, ending a 22-hour siege by militants.  The Karachi attack comes less than a month after militants
attacked navy buses in the city, killing four people and
injuring 56. Two days later, four navy personnel and one
civilian were killed in a bomb attack on a navy bus in the
financial capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi News at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  