-- 
Paterson Says No Evidence of U.K. Role in Lawyer Nelson Death

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-05-23T16:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/paterson-says-no-evidence-of-u-k-role-in-lawyer-nelson-death.html
The murder of  Northern Ireland 
lawyer,  Rosemary Nelson , wasn’t the result of collusion between
the U.K. state and terrorists, according to an official report
published today.  “The report finds that there is no evidence of any act by
or within any of the state agencies that we have examined which
directly facilitated Rosemary Nelson’s murder,” Owen Paterson,
secretary of state for the region, told parliament in  London 
today. The report took six years to complete.  Nelson was a Northern Ireland lawyer killed in 1999 when a
bomb, planted by terrorists, exploded under her car in Lurgan,
southwest of Belfast. Nelson, who made public complaints that
her life had been threatened by police, had represented
paramilitaries and community groups from mostly Catholic
districts.  “There was some leakage of intelligence which we believe
found its way outside the Royal Ulster Constabulary and that
leakage increased the danger to Rosemary Nelson’s life,”
Paterson said today, relaying the findings of the report, which
was headed by Michael Morland.  “Omissions by the state rendered Rosemary Nelson more at
risk,” Paterson said. “I am profoundly sorry.”  The report also found that the police didn’t properly
evaluate the risk to Nelson, who had been threatened by loyalist
paramilitaries, the report said. The killing was claimed by a
group known as the Red Hand Defenders linked to the Ulster
Volunteer Force, a terrorist group that campaigned to maintain
Northern Ireland’s place in the  United Kingdom .  The police also failed to warn the lawyer of “her
vulnerability and offer her security advice,” Paterson said.  Nelson was the second lawyer to be killed by loyalist
paramilitaries in Northern Ireland during the conflict known as
the  Troubles . Pat Finucane was killed in 1989.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  