-- 
Paulson Wants Goldman Sachs Group to Detail Lehman Holdings

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-05-24T00:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/paulson-calpers-want-goldman-group-to-disclose-lehman-holdings.html
Hedge fund Paulson & Co., which last
month revealed details of its purchases of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. bonds, is asking a court to order  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks and investment funds to make the same
disclosures.  Goldman Sachs and other creditors that have joined to back
a plan to distribute Lehman’s assets should disclose details of
their claims against the failed investment bank, including the
prices they paid in some circumstances, Paulson and other
creditors said in a filing today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  “To promote fundamental fairness and transparency in these
cases, the group respectfully submits that any party seeking to
participate in plan litigation be required to provide
comprehensive disclosure regarding their economic interests,”
the Paulson group said.  Creditors that have joined with Goldman Sachs to propose a
liquidation plan for Lehman include  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and Silver Point Capital LP, according to court papers.
Paulson and other creditors, including the California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, or Calpers, are pushing their own
plan. The groups are fighting over how much different groups of
creditors will recover from the remnants of Lehman.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, didn’t
immediately comment. Deutsche Bank spokeswoman  Renee Calabro ,
Adam Weiner, a Silver Point spokesman, and Mary Claire Delaney,
a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  $19.6 Billion  Paulson, Calpers and other senior bondholders disclosed
details of their Lehman holdings last month, including prices
they paid and dates of purchases. The group holds a total of
$19.6 billion in claims against Lehman units, according to the
court filing.  The Paulson group wants U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in
Manhattan to set disclosure requirements for creditors that are
backing liquidation plans for Lehman and others involved in the
bankruptcy. The group wants creditors to reveal all their
holdings, what kind of claims they have and the prices they paid
if they were acquired after Lehman filed for bankruptcy in
September 2008.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 