-- 
Pinera Urges Unity as Patagonia Power Project Triggers Protests

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/pinera-urges-unity-as-patagonia-power-project-triggers-protests.html
Chile ’s President Sebastian Pinera
called for informed debate and national consensus on supplying
future energy needs, warning that division threatens his goal of
Chile becoming Latin America’s first developed nation.  Pinera delivered the annual state-of-the-union address to
Congress in Valparaiso on May 21 as thousands of people
protested against a Patagonian hydroelectric project approved
earlier this month, some throwing rocks and clashing with
police, television images showed.  Chile can’t just rely on renewable energy sources and needs
hydroelectric and coal-fired projects to satisfy demand that is
doubling every decade, Pinera said, defending the government’s
efforts to reconcile environmental protection and power supply
demands. A committee of experts will help develop a national
energy plan and study connecting the central and northern grids.  “We need a great national consensus to tackle the
challenge of energy,” the billionaire entrepreneur-turned-
politician said. “When countries expend their best efforts on a
fratricidal fight between their own sons, it destroys their
future. That’s why, as Chile’s president, in this critical time
in our history, I am calling for unity among all Chileans.”  Pinera, 61, spoke as people marched through the streets of
Valparaiso in protest against the May 9 approval of HidroAysen,
which would flood Patagonian valleys and become Chile’s biggest
generator. Police arrested 70 protesters in the port city, where
there was an estimated $30 million in damage to public
infrastructure, supermarkets and pharmacies, Santiago-based
newspaper La Tercera  reported .  Tens of thousands marched through downtown Santiago May 20
to oppose the project that Santiago-based Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad SA and  Colbun SA (COLBUN)  plan to build.  Supply Shortfalls  The country will face supply shortfalls toward the end of
the decade if it delays making “hard choices” on new sources
of power,Pinera said in a May 11 speech.  So far this year, authorities have granted Santiago-based
Empresas Copec SA a permit to build a $500 million  coal mine  on
a Patagonian island and approved Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s plans for a $4.4 billion thermoelectric plant.  The president in his speech proposed creating a public
electricity transport system that would allow renewable
generation sources like wind and solar to supply the national
transmission network. Chile also needs to study ways to create a
flexible power distribution system that would allow customers to
choose from different generation sources, he said.  Economic Leadership  Chile, the biggest copper-producing nation, has regained
economic leadership in  Latin America  amid surging investment and
consumption and record exports, Pinera said in the May 21
speech.  Economic output has increased more than 7 percent in the
past 14 months in a “solid and sustainable” growth path as
authorities take measures to contain inflation, he said.  Pinera reiterated his government’s goals of eliminating
extreme poverty, opening up access to education and health care
and achieving developed-nation status by 2018.  “Those who advocate violence will never have the last word
in our country,” he responded to hecklers during the speech.
“They are not going to distract us from our mission for a
second.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  