-- 
Plains May Start Rainbow Link After Fires Curb Alberta Output

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-05-23T20:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/plains-may-restart-portion-of-rainbow-crude-pipeline-today-1-.html
Plains Midstream  Canada  LP may
restart a portion of its Rainbow pipeline in  Alberta  that
transports oil from Nipisi to  Edmonton  today. The line was shut
last week after wildfires cut power to the crude line.  Power was restored to some producers that link to the
220,000-barrel-a-day line near Nipisi yesterday, Stephen Bart,
vice president of oil operations, said in a telephone interview.
Another portion of the line that runs from Zama to Nipisi that
was shut after an April 29 leak that spilled 28,000 barrels of
oil remains offline and will return to operations after
regulatory approval, he said.  Penn West Petroleum Ltd. restored some production lost due
to fires and floods, Jason Fleury, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mail. He declined to say how much production had been
restored.  The Calgary-based company said  May 16  the equivalent of
35,000 to 40,000 barrels of oil production was shut in due to
wildfires in Alberta and flooding in Manitoba and Saskatchewan.  Seven of 44 fires in Alberta are out of control, according
to a  status report  early today from the province’s Sustainable
Resource Development agency. Eleven fires are being held and 22
are under control, the report showed.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  shut its Kearl Lake oil site late
yesterday as a wildfire burned about 9 miles (15 kilometers)
away, Kim Blanchette, a spokeswoman for the Energy Resources
Conservation Board, said in an e-mail.  Initial production is expected to begin in 2012 at about
110,000 barrels a day at the site, which is under construction,
according to the company’s website.  Husky, Cenovus  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  said last week the equivalent of about
17,000 barrels a day of oil production has been affected by the
closure of a pipeline due to fires in northern Alberta.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  shut production of 22,000 barrels a day
at its Pelican Lake oil-sands project, Rhona DelFrari, a
spokeswoman for the Calgary-based company, said in an e-mail May
19. That production remained shut today, she said.  Canadian Natural Resources said May 17 it would have to
shut 40,000 barrels a day of production at its Pelican Lake oil
project by May 18 if the Rainbow pipeline system wasn’t
restarted. A call to the company’s investor relations telephone
number wasn’t immediately returned.  Today is the Victoria Day holiday in Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  