-- 
Portuguese Banks Can Cut Reliance on ECB Lending, Teixeira Dos Santos Says

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-05-23T16:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/portuguese-banks-can-cut-reliance-on-ecb-lending-teixeira-dos-santos-says.html
Portuguese banks will be able to
raise funds in financial markets and reduce their reliance on
European Central Bank lending as an international bailout allows
the country to reduce its debt, the finance minister said.  “Our banks didn’t have any major problems, they were very
resilient,” Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word” with  Andrea Catherwood . “Now they are being in some way victims of the
sovereign crisis, not because of their weaknesses but because of
the overall concern on financing the country.”  Portugal in April became the third euro-area country after
Greece and Ireland to receive a bailout, which will total 78
billion euros ($109 billion). The aid plan earmarks 12 billion
euros for Portugal’s banks, which have been virtually shut out
of markets over concerns about the country’s solvency.  Portuguese lenders' borrowings from an emergency ECB
program jumped 23 percent in April, the Bank of Portugal said on
May 9. ECB funding increased to 48 billion euros from 39 billion
euros in March. That’s still less than August’s 49.1 billion-
euro peak. The government also plans measures to boost bank
capital and liquidity.  Rescue ‘Encouraged’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on April 7 said the ECB
“encouraged” Portugal to seek the rescue, adding that the
country’s banks needed to reduce their reliance on ECB funding.  The three-year aid plan for Portugal set goals for a budget
deficit of 5.9 percent of gross domestic product this year, 4.5
percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013. Portugal’s public debt
swelled to 93 percent of GDP in 2010 from 68 percent in 2007.
The European Commission forecasts Portugal’s debt will increase
to 101.7 percent this year and 107.4 percent in 2012.  A privatization program representing about 3.5 percent of
Portugal’s GDP will help reduce the country’s debt, Teixeira dos
Santos said.  Portugal ’s public debt is “sustainable” and the
EU-led aid package is sufficient to allow the government to
reduce its outstanding borrowing, he said.  Teixeira dos Santos said May 5 the economy will shrink 2
percent this year, twice as much as he previously forecast. The
government is implementing additional austerity measures to
qualify for the international aid package.  Economic Recovery  The aid program will allow the economy to start recovering
in 2013, and the country’s unemployment rate will peak at 13
percent in that year, Teixeira dos Santos said earlier this
month. GDP dropped 0.7 percent in the first quarter from the
fourth quarter, when it fell 0.6 percent, the statistics
institute said on May 13.  The aid package calls for the  Portuguese government  to
implement some austerity measures that parliament rejected in
March, prompting Prime Minister Jose Socrates to resign, leading
to early elections that are set for June 5. Spending reductions
for 2012 and 2013, including cuts to pensions, will amount to
3.4 percent of GDP, while revenue increases will represent 1.7
percent of economic output.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in  New York  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  