-- 
U.K. Pound Weakens Versus Dollar, Yen; Gilts Rise as Stock Markets Decline

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-23T15:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/pound-strengthens-versus-euro-as-policy-maker-dale-calls-for-higher-rates.html
The pound slumped against the dollar
and the yen and gilts rose, as falling stock markets boosted
demand for safer assets.  Britain’s currency reached its strongest level against the
euro in almost two months after Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said policy makers should increase  interest rates 
even if the U.K. recovery remains uncertain. Policy makers voted
6-3 this month to hold interest rates at 0.5 percent as some
members said an increase could hurt  consumer confidence , minutes
of the meeting showed last week.  “There’s widespread  risk aversion  in the markets, which is
pressuring the pound against the dollar,” said  Chris Walker , a
currency strategist at UBS AG in London. “Dale’s slightly more
cautious than what was said in the minutes last week.”  The pound declined as much as 0.9 percent to $1.6096 as of
4:48 p.m. in London, after reach $1.6088, the weakest intraday
level since April 5. It fell 0.7 percent to 131.69 yen. It
appreciated 0.2 percent to 87.04 pence per euro after reaching
86.65 pence, the strongest since March 24.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropped 1.7 percent and the FTSE
100 fell 1.9 percent.  The euro declined against most of its 16 major peers and
touched a record low against the Swiss franc as concern over
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis deepened, reducing the appeal of
the region’s assets. German bunds rose.  Gilts Rise  U.K. 10-year yields slid four basis points to 3.31 percent.
They earlier fell to 3.29 percent, the lowest since Dec. 1. The
two-year gilt yield dropped four basis points, to 0.94 percent.  Bank of England policy makers will raise borrowing costs
once this year, with the key rate ending 2011 at 0.75 percent,
according to the median estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The  European Central Bank  lifted borrowing costs by 25
basis points to 1.25 percent in April and will increase them by
a further 50 basis points by the end of the year, a separate
survey shows.  “I’m not at all confident that the recovery has taken hold
and will definitely power away,” Dale said in an interview with
the Financial Times published May 21 in London. “However, I’m
even more worried about what’s going on in terms of inflation.”  Dale has voted for interest-rate increases since February
and helped compile forecasts this month using investor
expectations that showed the benchmark will rise once this year
and reach 3 percent in 2014.  U.K. Inflation  U.K. consumer-price inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in
April, the fastest since 2008, forcing  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  to explain publicly why officials have yet to raise
borrowing costs from a record low of 0.5 percent. The pound
depreciated for the first week in three against the euro last
week as traders scaled back bets on when the central bank will
raise rates.  “The  currency market  is more worrying about the impact on
real incomes and household spending from higher inflation,
rather than feeding from the likelihood for higher rates,”
 Simon Smith , the London-based chief economist at FXPro Financial
Services Ltd. wrote in a note to investors today. “If this
change in emphasis is sustained, then it could prove to be a
tough rest of the quarter for the pound.”  Money markets price in a 25 basis-point increase in the key
rate in February, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. As recently as
February investors bet the rate would be lifted this month.  U.K. pay growth at manufacturers accelerated in the three
months through April, the Engineering Employers Federation said
today. The average pay settlement increased to 2.5 percent from
a 2.4 percent gain in the quarter through March, London-based
EEF said.  Gilts have handed investors a gain of 1.7 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. That compares
with a loss of 0.5 percent for German bonds and a 2.1 percent
return for  U.S. Treasuries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 