-- 
John Prescott Wins Bid for Court Review of Cell Phone-Hack Investigation

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-23T11:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/prescott-wins-bid-for-court-review-of-phone-hack-investigation.html
Former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott won a legal bid to have a  London  court examine whether
the initial police investigation into phone hacking at  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World newspaper was adequate.  A court in London will allow him, and three others, to seek
a judicial review. Prescott, along with lawmaker Chris Bryant,
former Metropolitan Police Commander Brian Paddick and
journalist Brendan Montague are seeking a declaration that the
investigation was “seriously inadequate.”  Metropolitan Police in January opened a third probe into
allegations of phone-hacking at  Rupert Murdoch ’s News of the
World newspaper after receiving “significant new information”
from its U.K. parent, News International. More than 20
celebrities, athletes and politicians are suing over allegations
their mobile phones messages were accessed for stories.  Justice David Foskett ruled that the case was “arguable”
and should be considered by another judge. He said he wanted to
ensure that the police’s preparation for the case doesn’t
“impede or otherwise adversely affect the ongoing police
investigation.”  Judicial review is a legal mechanism that examines the
decision-making process of public bodies. A spokesman for the
Metropolitan Police declined to comment. Hayley Barlow, a
spokeswoman for News of the World, also declined to comment.  The paper’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and
private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  were jailed in 2007 for
accessing mobile phone voicemail boxes of members of the royal
household. Mulcaire’s notebook, which was seized by police,
contains evidence that he might have hacked into other
celebrities phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Lumley in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  