-- 
Prosecutors Faulted on Failure to Charge ‘Bandits’ in U.S. Market Collapse

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-05-23T20:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/prosecutors-faulted-on-failing-to-catch-credit-crunch-bandits-.html
In November 2009, Attorney General
 Eric Holder  vowed before television cameras to prosecute those
responsible for the market collapse a year earlier, saying the
U.S. would be “relentless” in pursuing corporate criminals.  In the 18 months since, no senior Wall Street executive has
been criminally charged, and some lawmakers are questioning
whether the U.S. Justice Department has been aggressive enough
after declining to bring cases against officials at  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Countrywide Financial Corp.  Prosecutions of three categories of crime that could be
linked to the causes of the crisis -- corporate, securities and
bank fraud -- declined last fiscal year by 39 percent from 2003,
the period after the accounting scandals at Enron Corp. and
WorldCom Inc.,  Justice Department  records show.  “You need a massive prosecutorial effort,” said Solomon Wisenberg, a white-collar defense attorney at Barnes & Thornburg
LLP in  Washington  and a former federal prosecutor. “I don’t see
evidence that it’s happening. If we were talking baseball, it
would be at the AAA level.”  The Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation
dispute that, saying they are continuing to investigate
potential wrongdoing connected to the emergency, and some probes
didn’t find criminal behavior. They say they stepped up
mortgage-fraud prosecutions, which more than doubled in fiscal
2010 from 2009, the first full year for which there is data.  Hard to Prove  To prosecute fraud, the government generally must show
executives knowingly made false statements or omitted the truth
about a company’s financial health. Bankers have argued that
they broke no laws and can’t be blamed for an industry-wide
breakdown in risk controls.  An unsuccessful Justice Department criminal prosecution in
2009 of two Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-fund managers accused of
misleading investors about the health of their funds suggests
that such cases can be difficult to prove.  Using e-mails as evidence, prosecutors alleged the managers
touted their funds while privately saying they were financially
unsound. Jurors acquitted the managers and said in subsequent
interviews the e-mails were inconclusive.  While prosecutors have struggled to bring criminal cases,
there have been civil actions, which require a lower standard of
proof. The Justice Department this month filed a civil suit for
more than $1 billion against  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  for allegedly
lying repeatedly to qualify risky mortgages for a government
insurance program. And as of April, the Securities and Exchange
Commission had brought cases against more than two-dozen senior
corporate officers for misconduct related to the financial
crisis, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said last month.  Blaming the Banks  The seizing up of credit markets led to the collapse of
Bear Stearns and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and sparked the
worst economic slump in the U.S. since the Great Depression.  Much of the blame belongs to banks that profited from
selling products that imploded with the housing market,
according to an April 13 report by the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  sold collateralized debt obligations,
investments backed by pools of bonds and loans, that the banks’
own traders believed would lose value, the report said.  The report found that Goldman Sachs misled clients who
bought the securities without knowing the firm would benefit if
they fell in value. Goldman Sachs denied it misled anyone, and
the Justice Department is reviewing the report. Last year,
Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle SEC claims it misled
investors in CDOs linked to subprime mortgages.  ‘Against the Norm’  “Can that many companies have collapsed -- large financial
firms -- and not one criminal case comes out of it?” said  Peter Henning , a law professor at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit 
who previously was a federal prosecutor and attorney for the
SEC. “That seems to go against the norm of the savings-and-loan
crisis, and the accounting frauds 10 years ago.”  Some of the biggest Wall Street firms rebounded from the
crisis stronger than ever. Goldman Sachs’s 2009 profits were a
record for the firm and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s earnings in 2010
and the first quarter of 2011 have been at an all-time high.
Still, Goldman Sachs’s stock fell 15 percent from April 13, just
before the Senate report’s release. The shares rose 85 cents to
$135.84 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Lawmakers such as Representatives John Conyers of  Michigan ,
the House Judiciary Committee’s top Democrat, and Zoe Lofgren of
California have criticized the Justice Department. At a May 3
hearing, Lofgren said prosecutors were more focused on
immigration offenses than the financial crisis.  ‘Nannies and Busboys’  “The department is spending its resources prosecuting
nannies and busboys who are trying to get back to their
families,” she said. “And yet we have not brought any
prosecutions on the bandits on  Wall Street  who brought the
nation and the world to the brink of financial disaster.”  Holder, 60, told reporters on April 26 his department is
reviewing the conduct of Wall Street firms to determine whether
crimes were committed. “There is certainly a basis for us to
look, as we are, at some actions that were taken by some
institutions and by some individuals,” he said. “Whether those
will result in prosecutable cases, I don’t know.”  In at least two major cases linked to the financial crisis
-- those of former AIG executive  Joseph Cassano  and  Angelo Mozilo , former chief executive officer of mortgage lender
Countrywide -- prosecutors concluded there wasn’t enough
evidence to bring charges, people familiar with the matter have
said. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the
investigations weren’t made public.  The SEC brought a civil case in which Mozilo agreed to pay
$67.5 million over claims he misled investors about the firm’s
exposure to risky loans.  They Looked  “It’s not because we didn’t look” at cases related to the
crisis, said Kevin Perkins, the FBI’s assistant director
overseeing criminal investigations. “If the case is there and
it can be made, we’re going to do that.”  The Justice Department has trumpeted other cases involving
insider trading, stock manipulation and Ponzi schemes.  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., was found guilty on April 19 of what prosecutors
said was a $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage assets that
duped financial institutions and contributed to the failure of
Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Losing Agents  Former prosecutors said one reason for the decline in the
fraud prosecutions since 2003 may be that FBI agents were
reassigned after the Sept. 11 attacks from criminal cases to
national security. In recent years, the FBI has boosted the
number of investigators of white-collar crime, Perkins said. An
average of 106 agents were working on corporate fraud cases last
fiscal year, up from 88 in 2008; 219 worked on securities fraud,
up from 150 in 2008, Perkins said.  Still, the prosecution of 131 defendants for corporate
fraud in the year ended Sept. 30 was down 58 percent from 2003,
the first year the Justice Department tracked the cases. There
were 250 securities fraud prosecutions, down 16 percent from
2003. For bank fraud and embezzlement, prosecutions declined
steadily, with 1,515 last year, down 39 percent from 2003.  In mortgage fraud, the department pursued 1,197
prosecutions last fiscal year, up from 492 the year before.  “The recent financial crisis is different from what
occurred in 2003,” said Robb Adkins, executive director of a
financial fraud task force announced in 2009, when Holder
pledged the crackdown. “The crisis was multifaceted, and the
types of financial crimes that furthered or preyed upon the
crisis are broad.”  ‘Sadistic Sadie’  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
certain prosecutions surged in 2010 from 2008. Those of
securities fraud increased 37 percent, and those of corporate
fraud increased 77 percent, she said in a statement.  The department won’t say which cases it included in its
statistics, citing privacy concerns.  Using government data compiled by Syracuse University’s
 Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse , a nonprofit research
center, Bloomberg News identified cases coded as corporate fraud
by the Justice Department last year. Most involve people accused
of stealing from companies, not wrongdoing by firms themselves.  They included the president of a roller derby team in Ohio,
who skates under the name “ Sadistic Sadie ” and was accused of
manipulating the ticketing system of her employer, United
Airlines, to slash the cost of travel for her friends, family
and teammates. A Maryland case involved a man who embezzled from
his company. In  New Jersey , a spa owner was prosecuted for a
scheme to avoid paying taxes.  ‘Significant Fraud Schemes’  Finelli said there may be “significant fraud schemes”
involving executives that weren’t coded as corporate fraud.  Department officials point to prosecutions such as that of
Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund tycoon and Galleon Group LLC co-
founder, who was found guilty on May 11 by a New York jury in
the largest illegal insider-trading case in a generation.  John Hueston, an attorney with Irell & Manella LLP in  Los
Angeles , said Wall Street’s crunch may not even have been
spurred by criminal activity, citing instead government pressure
to loosen mortgage lending and a lack of regulatory oversight.  “In Enron, it took years to develop criminal cases,” said
Hueston, who represented Mozilo and earlier was a lead Justice
Department prosecutor in the Enron case. “It may be that it’s
still too early to make the call on the Department of Justice’s
initiative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  