-- 
Puerto Rico Tax Changes to Net $500 Million in Revenue

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-05-23T22:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/puerto-rico-tax-changes-to-net-500-million-in-revenue-correct-.html
Puerto Rico ’s tax overhaul will add
more than $500 million of revenue in fiscal 2012, said Juan Carlos Pavia, director of the commonwealth’s budget office.  The increase is “mainly a result of tax-compliance
measures and the special tax to foreign companies,” Pavia said
today in a telephone interview from  San Juan .  Changes passed by the Legislature added a temporary 4
percent excise tax on foreign manufacturers. Lawmakers also
instituted measures to discourage evasion in a U.S. territory
where, according to the Treasury, 48 percent of sales levies go
uncollected. Sales-tax revenue rose 3 percent in April from the
year before, according to documents from the 2012 budget
proposed by Governor Luis Fortuno in  April .  The tax changes will more-than-cover reductions in
corporate and individual income levies passed by the Legislature
in January, Pavia said.  “We approved a  tax reform  which changed the structure of
the revenues,” said Pavia. “How the revenues come in and from
where they’re coming in.”  The Legislature is likely to pass Fortuno’s $9.26 billion
general-fund budget with only minor changes by June 25, the last
day of its session, he said.  Tax collections are projected to rise 6.4 percent to $8.65
billion next year from $8.13 billion this year, the governor’s
budget says. Proposed  spending  will be 1.2 percent more than the
current year, as payroll costs rise 2 percent, according to the
budget.  Borrowing Plans  Pavia said the governor proposed a sale of bonds backed by
sales taxes to make up the $610 million difference between
revenue and spending, 40 percent less than this year.  Sales-tax-backed revenue bonds are sold through the
Government  Development Bank . The territory’s general-obligation
credit rating is lower than that of any state. Moody’s Investors
Service on May 3 put $28 billion of debt rated A3, its fourth-
lowest investment grade, on watch for a possible downgrade.  Puerto Rico’s economy, which has contracted for five years,
is forecast by the government to expand 0.7 percent in fiscal
2012, which begins July 1. An index of economic activity rose
0.3 percent in March from February, the development bank said
 May 11 . The 1.8 percent annual decline was the smallest since
August 2007, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 