-- 
Qatar Says Allegations of Bribery in Soccer World Cup Bid Are ‘Worthless’

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-23T10:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/qatar-says-allegations-of-bribery-in-soccer-world-cup-bid-are-worthless-.html
Qatar’s 2022  World Cup  bid team said
allegations that it paid bribes to secure the  soccer tournament 
are “completely false” and based on “worthless” evidence.  The Gulf state’s reaction comes days after FIFA President
 Sepp Blatter  said soccer’s governing body will meet with a
former employee of Qatar’s bid who told the Sunday Times
newspaper that it paid FIFA Vice President Issa Hayatou and
Ivory Coast official Jacques Anouma $1.5 million for their
votes. Both men deny the claim.  FIFA is also investigating claims made by former chairman
of the Football Association  David Triesman  to U.K. lawmakers
that four other officials sought favors during England’s failed
bid for the 2018 World Cup, which was secured by  Russia .  “They do not state when the alleged bribes were to be
paid, how the negotiations with the individuals concerned had
been conducted or crucially how they came to know of the alleged
bribes,” Qatar’s bid committee said today in a statement. “On
any proper view, their evidence is worthless.”  A story published by the Sunday Times in October led to the
suspension of two of the 24 officials who would have voted on
the 2018 and 2022 World Cups after they told undercover
reporters their votes could be bought. The newspaper didn’t
publish the allegations against Anouma and Hayatou.  Blatter in a meeting with reporters last week refused to
rule out the possibility of a re-vote. He deferred the issue
until the completion of an investigation that must be able to
make a preliminary announcement about whether the allegations
are “true or false” by May 27.  Desert State  Qatari officials said they welcomed a “thorough”
investigation into the allegations.  “However, such an investigation must surely only be
carried out by a properly constituted body with due authority
and independence where our side of the story can be heard,” it
said, adding the former employee “plainly” had an “axe to
grind.”  Some U.K. newspapers raised concerns about the desert
state’s suitability to host the world’s most-watched event since
it was selected in a final run-off ahead of the U.S. The country
is smaller than  Connecticut  and afternoon temperatures seldom
fall below 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit) in June
and July when the tournament is slated to be held. The gas-rich
nation has promised to spend billions on new stadiums that it
says will be air-cooled using solar technology.  “What is concerning and unfair is that there appear to be
those who are unable to accept that a team from a country like
Qatar could perform in this way and are ready -- on the basis of
no evidence -- to assume the worst,” the bid team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  