-- 
Rafael Nadal Starts Quest for Sixth French Open Title Against John Isner

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-23T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/rafael-nadal-starts-quest-for-sixth-french-open-title-against-john-isner.html
Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  starts his
quest for a record-tying sixth French Open title against  John Isner , the American best known for winning the longest match in
tennis history.  Isner, who is ranked 39th on the ATP World Tour, beat
Nicolas Mahut of France in a first-round match at Wimbledon last
year that took more than 11 hours and ended 70-68 in the fifth
set.  Nadal, a Spaniard who has won both of his career meetings
with the 6-foot-9 Isner, will retain his No. 1 ranking only if
he equals the mark of six French Open titles by Sweden’s Bjorn Borg and if second-ranked Novak Djokovic of Serbia loses before
the final in Paris.  “His style of game is dangerous,” Nadal said of Isner at
a pre-tournament news conference. “His serve is unbelievable.”  Former top-ranked woman  Maria Sharapova , who won a clay-
court tournament in Rome on May 15, has her opening match at
Roland Garros today against Croatia’s Mirjana Lucic. Britain’s
 Andy Murray  faces Eric Prodon of France.  Sharapova, from  Russia , said her title at the Rome Masters
doesn’t make her the French Open favorite.  Kim Clijsters  of
Belgium, the reigning Australian Open and U.S. Open winner, is
“the one to beat,” Sharapova said.  Clijsters, who said she has recovered from an ankle injury
sustained while dancing at her cousin’s wedding, plays
Anastasiya Yakimova of Belarus in the last match scheduled today
on Court Suzanne Lenglen.  Djokovic Streak  Djokovic extended his unbeaten run since the start of the
season to 38 straight matches yesterday by defeating Thiemo de
Bakker of the Netherlands 6-2, 6-1, 6-3 -- moving closer to John McEnroe’s 1984 record of 42 straight victories to start a year.
Former French Open champion  Roger Federer  and women’s top seed
 Caroline Wozniacki  also advanced to the second round in straight
sets.  Djokovic has won seven titles this season and is trying to
become the first man to take the Australian and French titles
back-to-back since American Jim Courier in 1992. The 24-year-old
Djokovic will take the ATP World Tour’s top spot from Nadal by
reaching the final at  Roland Garros , even if he loses to Nadal
in the championship match. Djokovic beat Nadal in two clay-court
tournaments leading up to Paris.  The Serb said he’s trying not to think about losing.  “It’s been amazing streak, which, if you asked me in the
beginning of the year, would I expect that? No, I didn’t expect
that, to go this far,” Djokovic said at a news conference after
he beat de Bakker.  No Joke  Players in the locker room no longer tease him about his
streak.  “In the beginning, I’d kind of joke,” 10th-seeded  Mardy Fish , the top American man in Paris, told reporters. “‘Hey, let
someone else win’ kind of thing.’ Now you almost stay away, it’s
almost like a pitcher going for a no-hitter. I don’t want to say
anything about it. I don’t want to be the guy that says, ‘Hey,
by the way, you’re 38-0 or whatever he is. Don’t lose.’”  Fish moved to the second round yesterday with a four-set
win against Ricardo Mello of  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  