-- 
Rand Weakens Against Dollar for Second Day as EU Debt Crisis Curbs Demand

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-23T14:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/rand-weakens-against-dollar-for-second-day-as-eu-debt-crisis-curbs-demand.html
The rand depreciated the most in more
than a week against the dollar as concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis is deepening damped demand for high-risk, emerging-market
assets.  The rand declined as much as 1.9 percent to 7.0443 per
dollar, the biggest intraday decline since May 13, and traded
1.6 percent weaker at 7.0247 at 3:49 p.m. in Johannesburg. It
slipped 0.7 percent to 9.8589 per euro.  The MSCI Emerging-Markets Index of emerging-market stocks
headed for its biggest tumble since June after  Fitch Ratings  cut
Greece’s credit rating by three levels on May 20, citing the
challenge of fiscal and structural reform needed to secure the
state’s solvency.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Italy’s rating
outlook to negative on the same day.  South Africa ’s benchmark
stock index fell to its lowest intraday level since March 23.  “Sentiment has turned sour once more with the fiscal
crisis in  Greece  gaining importance with every bit of news that
points to a greater chance of a debt restructuring,” Tradition
Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note. “Risk aversion remains
elevated.”  The rand’s decline came as the euro weakened to its lowest
since March 17 against the dollar. The rand often tracks the
euro, the currency of most of South Africa’s trade.  “The euro is under pressure again,” John Cairns and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in a research note. “There is a possibility
that euro moves could spiral into sharp rand weakness.”  Bonds Rally  Ten-year bonds gained for a sixth day, driving yields to
the lowest levels since January, before the  Reserve Bank ’s
quarterly Monetary Policy Review and Forum tomorrow, which may
provide information about the central bank’s outlook for
inflation and  interest rates .  “The market will pay keen attention to the tone of the
statements at the forum in light of the hawkish May monetary
policy committee statement and the upward revision to the
Reserve Bank’s inflation forecast,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts
led by Theuns de Wet said in a research note.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 20 cents to
89.21 rand, reducing the yield three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 8.38 percent, the lowest on a closing basis
since Jan. 13. The yield has dropped 23 basis points since May
13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  