-- 
RBS to Expand India Equities Headcount 30 Percent, Menon Says

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-05-23T18:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/rbs-to-expand-india-equities-headcount-30-percent-menon-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
 India ’s top ranked arranger of foreign currency bonds, plans to
hire more employees at its equities unit in the South Asian
nation as it seeks to replicate its success in the  debt market .  “As part of the overall India strategy to grow the
equities business, we plan to increase the number of staff by
around 20 percent to 30 percent this year,” Madan Menon, head
of global banking for  Southeast Asia , said in an interview in
Mumbai on May 19. The Indian equities business, which includes
sales, trading and research, employs about 25 people, he said.  RBS is focusing on trading and investment banking in India
after agreeing last July to sell its commercial and retail
banking business in the country to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The
Edinburgh-based lender was ranked 12th in  stock trading  on
India’s exchanges in the first quarter of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Menon, 46, said India is one of the three “top priority”
markets in the Asia-Pacific region for RBS. The company aims to
be one of the three largest foreign banks in areas including
private banking, he said. RBS appointed Devesh Kumar as head of
its equities business in India, according to an April 26
statement from the lender.  RBS helped  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  sell $1 billion of 5 1/2-year
bonds on May 20, the Indian lender said. The transaction pushed
the U.K. bank to the top spot in international bond sales by
Indian companies this year, from third in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Indian issuers have raised $5.4
billion through foreign-currency bond sales this year, double
the amount of the same period in 2010, the data show.  Underwriter Rank  “What is clear is that you will see a continuing trend of
debt capital market volumes, smart and selective issuances of
equity, convertible bonds, and exchangeable bonds,” Menon said.
“The loan markets will make themselves available for a few high
quality borrowers.”  Indian companies raised 828 billion rupees ($18.3 billion)
through domestic stock sales in the past 12 months, a 31 percent
drop from the previous year, Bloomberg data show. RBS fell to
19th place in arranging local equity offers in the period from
11th in the preceding 12 months, according to the data.  RBS plans to sell its Indian commercial and retail banking
unit to HSBC for $95 million more than tangible net asset value,
HSBC said in July.  “We are engaging with regulators and HSBC to complete the
sale,” Menon said.  Wealth Expansion  RBS expects to triple its private banking assets to $3
billion in India over the next four to five years, Shiv Gupta,
the company’s country head of private banking, said on April 1.  India’s wealthy may almost double their assets to $6.4
trillion over the next five years as the country’s economic
expansion creates new millionaires,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said
in its global wealth report in October.  RBS is ranked 13th this year in advising on mergers
involving Indian companies, up from 17th in 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The bank helped finance Aditya Birla Group’s
acquisition of Columbian Chemicals Co., a U.S. carbon black
manufacturer, for $875 million together with rivals including
Bank of America Corp., HSBC and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
according to a statement on Jan. 31.  “RBS has the strength of a balance sheet to be made
available to clients as they pursue their own growth
aspirations,” said Menon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  