-- 
Treasuries Gain on European Debt Concern, Signs of U.S. Economic Slowing

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-23T21:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/treasuries-advance-on-slowing-u-s-growth-european-debt-crisis-concern.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose on
concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt-crisis is worsening and reports
this week that are forecast to show the U.S. recovery is losing
momentum.  Yields on two-year securities climbed as the market
prepared for the U.S. auction of $35 billion of the debt
tomorrow, the first of three sales totaling $99 billion this
week. U.S. 10-year notes rose as  Greece  struggled to complete a
fifth austerity plan to keep pace with its mounting deficit,
 Italy  faced a possible credit-rating cut and  Spain ’s ruling
party was routed in local voting.  “Supply starts tomorrow,” said Anthony Cronin, a Treasury
trader at  Societe Generale  in New York, one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “At the same time,
the euro currency started to turn around. Some of the fear just
started to dissipate.”  The benchmark 10-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.13 percent at 5:06 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security due in May 2021 gained 4/32, or $1.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 91 31/32. The yield decreased to 3.09 percent on May
18, the lowest level since Dec. 7.  Note pattern  Two-year note yields rose one basis point to 0.52 percent
after touching 0.495 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 7.  The yield on Italian 10-year government debt rose three
basis points to 4.81 percent after rising as high as 4.88
percent today, while 10-year Spanish notes closed at 5.51
percent, down from a high of 5.62 percent.  Treasuries rose earlier, pushing 10-year note yields to
almost the lowest this year, on concern Europe’s sovereign debt-
crisis is worsening and reports this week will show the U.S.
recovery is losing momentum.  “It’s a steady drumbeat of news,” said  Chris Ahrens , head
interest-rate strategist in Greenwich,  Connecticut  at UBS AG, a
primary dealer. “It’s official comments, it’s rating-agency
changes and it’s more press focus on the matter has catalyzed
investor anxieties, and they have moved more into Treasuries.”  Sales of U.S. new homes were unchanged at a 300,000 annual
pace in April after falling to a record low 270,000 in February,
according to the median forecast of 75 economists before
tomorrow’s report from the Commerce Department. Factory orders
for durable goods may have declined 2.5 percent in April,
according to a separate survey before the May 25 report.  European View  The cost to insure Greek debt against default rose to a
record and the yield on its 10-year bonds increased to a euro-
era high as Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government met
today in  Athens  to endorse a new package of spending cuts and
state-asset sales needed to assure the flow of bailout funds.  “The bond market is the only language policy makers will
listen to,”  Axel Merk , chief investment officer for Merk
Investments LLC, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Betty Liu. “Once the bond markets impose austerity
on the country that’s when they follow through, when there is a
backing off, when things are going better, that’s when they
lapse.”  Fitch Ratings  has revised  Belgium ’s rating outlook to
negative from stable and affirmed its long-term foreign and
local currency user default ratings at AA+.  In the U.S., the government will auction two-year debt
tomorrow, $35 billion of five-year securities on the following
day and $29 billion of seven-year notes on May 26. The sizes are
unchanged from the previous offerings.  ‘Supply Is Coming’  “The European story is one that seems to stay with us and
doesn’t seem to have a resolution,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of
U.S. government bond trading at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Capital Markets unit in  New York , a primary dealer. “There has
been a significant move out of peripheries causing a flight-to-
quality bid. Supply is coming, but won’t mean anything until we
get it against this backdrop.”  The Fed  purchased  $6.9 billion of debt due from August 2018
to May 2021 today under the $600 billion program of debt buying
that expires in June.  The gap between yields on longer-maturity U.S. government
bonds and shorter ones is the widest ever during this point of
an economic recovery, a sign the Fed will be in no rush to
reverse record stimulus when it stops buying Treasuries in June.  “The basic setup now is one of sub-par economic growth
and, absent of government support, you should have low bond
yields, very low bond yields,” said  Jeffrey Gundlach , Los
Angeles-based founder of DoubleLine Capital LP, which has $11
billion under management. “The yield curve is clearly grounded
with the Fed at zero percent interest rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  