-- 
Republican Group Accused of Concealing Spending by Watchdog

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-23T17:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/republican-group-accused-of-concealing-spending-by-watchdog.html
A Republican-leaning group violated
federal law by failing to disclose its political spending last
year, a campaign monitoring organization said in complaints
filed with the  Federal Election Commission  and the  Internal
Revenue Service .  Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington , or
CREW, said the  Commission on Hope, Growth and Opportunity  didn’t
file required statements with the FEC. The Republican-leaning
group told the IRS that it wouldn’t spend money on elections,
and it financed ads to support Republicans in 2010, CREW said in
its complaints filed today.  Bloomberg News reported May 19 that five Republican-leaning
organizations, including the Commission on Hope, Growth and
Opportunity, spent at least $4 million in ads targeting
Democratic congressional candidates without informing the FEC.
The group’s targets included 14-term Representative John Spratt,
a South Carolina Democrat who was defeated in 2010.  “CHGO spent millions of dollars on the 2010 elections,
entirely disregarding the law,” said Melanie Sloan, CREW’s
executive director. “While there is nothing wrong with working
to elect Republicans, you can’t violate the law to do it.”  William B. Canfield, the Republican-leaning group’s general
counsel, said in an interview that his organization received an
extension from the IRS for filing its annual report, and the
accusation that it should have disclosed its spending to the FEC
is “completely untrue.”  Similar Complaint  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee filed a
similar complaint last year with “no evidence to support any of
the allegations that they made,” Canfield said. He said his
group received an extension from the FEC until June 1 to respond
to the Democratic group’s complaint.  “This whole dog-and-pony show from CREW, I can tell you,
is definitely going to do nothing but allow them to go back to
their donor base and say, ‘This is what we do with your money:
light it on fire,’” Canfield said.  “If the IRS and the FEC have any interest in seeing
compliance with even the feeble laws still governing political
activity,” Sloan said, “they must take strong action against
the sort of deliberate violations in which CHGO has engaged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  