-- 
Republican Trio May Benefit as Indiana’s Daniels Passes on White House Bid

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-23T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/republican-trio-may-benefit-as-daniels-passes-on-white-house-bid.html
Indiana  Governor Mitch Daniels became
the latest Republican to pass on the chance to challenge
President Barack Obama in 2012, a decision seen as helping a
trio of contenders gearing up for the race.  Daniels, 62, cited family considerations yesterday in his
decision to skip the contest and further narrow the prospective
Republican field.  Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor heading toward
a second White House bid, will be boosted by the development,
strategists said, as will former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty 
and Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah governor and U.S. ambassador
to  China .  “For Mitt Romney, the prospect of another big fundraising
gorilla in the race was daunting and that problem is removed
now,” said  Mike Murphy , a Republican strategist unaffiliated
with any of the potential candidates. “For Pawlenty and
Huntsman, there’s more room for them to break out. So there is
good news for everyone in this.”  Huntsman said the decision by Daniels won’t affect whether
he formally enters the race, while acknowledging it creates
political opportunities for him.  “It probably does free up some fence-sitters who were
waiting for his decision on the funding side, on the organizing
side” Huntsman told Bloomberg News in Franklin, New Hampshire.
“I think that part is very real.”  In Flux  Daniels became the fourth major potential Republican
candidate in recent weeks to decide to forego a presidential
bid, leaving party’s nomination contest still in flux less than
nine months before the first balloting is set to begin.  “I’m surprised by the number of people who, like me, are
uncommitted,” said Ovide Lamontagne, a  New Hampshire  Republican
leader. “The vast majority of activists are undecided.”  The slaying of Osama bin Laden that Obama authorized in a
hideout in Pakistan earlier this month boosted the president’s
political standing in most polls. Still, a  U.S. economy  that
continues to struggle amid a 9 percent unemployment rate last
month leaves him vulnerable to a strong Republican challenge.  Daniels, whose deficit-fighting credentials and folksy
manner caused some Republican officials to tout his chances for
national appeal, could have offered an antidote to Obama: an
unflashy budget-cutter versus a polished campaigner.  ‘Most Important’  “I was able to resolve every competing interest but one,”
Daniels said in a statement on his decision not to run. “The
interest and wishes of my family is the most important
consideration of all.”  Murphy cautioned against placing too much emphasis on the
absence of Daniels, a two-term governor. “Daniels was
hypothetical candidate, so it only changes the hypothetical
world, not the real one,” he said.  Pawlenty and Huntsman yesterday praised Daniels, with an
eye to absorbing some of his supporters.  “He is an intellectual powerhouse and will continue to
play a leading role in the party’s politics and the nation’s
policies,” Pawlenty said in a statement. “Mitch and I agree
that America’s out-of-control national debt is a threat to our
nation’s future.”  Pawlenty is scheduled to formally announce his presidential
campaign today in Iowa, where the caucuses that will kick off
the Republican race are scheduled for Feb. 6.  New Hampshire Visit  Huntsman, who was concluding a five-day swing through New
Hampshire, said Daniels would have added “enormously to whole
discussion about debt.”  Huntsman added: “His voice will probably be missed.”  The announcement by Daniels follows similar decisions to
stay on the sidelines by former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee ,
real estate magnate  Donald Trump , and Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour .  “If I have disappointed you, I will always be sorry,”
wrote Daniels, who was a budget director for President  George W. Bush . “I only hope that you will accept my sincerity in the
judgment I reached.”  He encouraged supporters to “stay in touch” on ways “an
obscure Midwestern governor might make a constructive
contribution to the rebuilding of our economy and our
republic.”  Social Issues  As a presidential candidate, Daniels would have faced
questions about statements he has made that have drawn the ire
of opponents of abortion rights and other issues that motivate
social conservatives. In a 2010 interview, he  told  the Weekly
Standard that the next president “would have to call a truce on
the so-called social issues until the economic crisis is
resolved.”  National polls  of Republican-leaning voters showed Daniels
barely registering as a presidential candidate, typically
receiving 3 or fewer percentage points of support. Still, his
record on fiscal issues attracted the attention of leading
Republican officials.  On his first day as governor in 2005, Daniels issued an
executive order abolishing collective bargaining for state
workers, and he focused on pushing for efficiencies in
government operations.  Daniels’ victory in Indiana’s 2004 gubernatorial race was
his first bid for elected office. While he headed Bush’s Office
of Management and Budget, the president nicknamed him “the
Blade” for his budget-cutting prowess. He also served as a
senior adviser to President  Ronald Reagan  and as a chief of
staff to Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican.  Marital History  Daniels and his wife, Cheri, have four daughters. The
couple divorced in 1994 and Cheri Daniels moved to  California 
where she remarried. After that marriage ended, she returned to
Indiana and the couple remarried in 1997.  Indiana Democrats issued a statement yesterday saying
Daniels’ decision “is a loss for Republicans,” and that
“Daniels would have brought a serious tone to a GOP field
that’s thus far been characterized by silliness and
distraction.”  Among well-known Republicans, former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  of Georgia and U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  have both formally announced their candidacies. Romney,
who has led in some early polls, has filed paperwork with the
Federal Election Commission to raise money for a potential bid,
as has former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania .  Other potential candidates include former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
both favorites of the Tea Party movement.  Herman Cain, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson also have declared their candidacies. And
former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-
Republican, has formed an exploratory committee.  -- Editors: Don Frederick, Ann Hughey  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Washington  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 