-- 
Risk Rally Ending for Currencies Turns Focus to New Least-Ugly Alternative

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-23T17:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/risk-rally-ending-for-currencies-turns-focus-to-new-least-ugly-alternative.html
The best-performing currencies of
2011 are falling out of favor as the  Federal Reserve  plans its
exit from record monetary stimulus just as the global economy
shows signs of slowing, buffeting commodities and stocks.  A basket of nine currencies including Australia’s dollar
and the Norwegian krone has dropped 4.2 percent in May against
the U.S. dollar, after rising 7.3 percent in the first four
months of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Demand
for contracts insuring against a drop in the euro versus the
greenback are trading at about the highest levels of 2011.  The depreciation shows investors are downgrading their
estimates of global economic growth. The Fed is scheduled to
stop purchasing Treasuries in June, reducing its injections of
money into the U.S. financial system.  Japan  entered a recession
in the first quarter, and  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening. A
drop this month wiped out all the gains since mid-March in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities and sent the MSCI
World Index of stocks down 4.3 percent after dividends.  “The market is just getting cognizant of this concern that
a lot of the pricing on equities, commodities and currencies is
dependent on growth being as robust as has been expected,” said
Steven Englander, the head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “There is more of a
question mark surrounding that now than there was last month.”  Lowering Estimates  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest bank, forecasts the
global economy will expand 4.1 percent this year, down from 4.9
percent in 2010, the London-based firm said in a report last
week. Morgan Stanley, one of 20 primary dealers of U.S.
government securities that trade with the Fed, said in a May 18
report growth will slow to 4.2 percent.  One of the biggest beneficiaries of the flight to safety
has been the dollar, which has risen against all 16 of its
most-traded counterparts in May after falling against each one
except the yen in the first four months of the year.  “The chance of a further bounce in the dollar is quite
strong,” said Ken Dickson, investment director of currencies in
Edinburgh at Standard Life Investments, which oversees
$250 billion. “The currencies that appear to be unloved by the
market are also undervalued.”  Relative Value  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries dominate the
list of the most expensive against the dollar, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s
purchasing power gauge. Norway’s krone is 39 percent overvalued
against the dollar, the most after  Switzerland ’s franc.
Australia’s dollar is third at 38 percent, and the euro is 12
percent above fair value.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  U.S. Dollar  Index, which
measures the greenback against six trading partners, slipped 0.4
percent last week to 75.435, and was at 76.163 at 1:25 p.m. in
New York. The dollar fell 0.3 percent against the euro to
$1.4161 and rose 1.1 percent against the yen to 81.70 in the
five-day period, spurred by news that the Japanese economy
slipped into its third recession in a decade. The U.S. currency
strengthened 0.8 percent to $1.4045 per euro today, and fetched
81.80 yen.  The rebound in the dollar may prove short-lived as the Fed
maintains its benchmark interest rate at a record low of zero to
0.25 percent, diminishing the allure of U.S. financial assets.  Treasuries due in one to three years yield 1.02 percentage
points less on average than government debt with similar
maturities in the rest of the world, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. In March 2010, Treasuries yielded 0.03
percent more than debt in the rest of the world.  ‘Awash in Money’  Investors outside the U.S. bought a net $26.8 billion of
 U.S. government debt  in March, the least since October, the
Treasury Department said May 16.  The central bank will continue to invest the proceeds of
maturing securities back into the  bond market , meaning “the
economy and the banking system in particular will remain awash
in money,” said  Axel Merk , president and chief investment
officer of  Palo Alto , California-based Merk Investments LLC,
which manages $700 million in mutual funds that specialize in
currencies.  “There’s a lot of potential stimulus available, and that’s
not going to change,” said Merk. The  Merk Hard Currency Fund (MERKX) 
has returned 4.15 percent this year, beating 91 percent of its
peers, Bloomberg data show.  Minutes from the Fed’s April 27 meeting, released last
week, showed a majority of policy makers preferred to reverse
record stimulus by ending reinvestment of asset proceeds before
raising rates. Talks over the exit strategy don’t mean
tightening “would necessarily begin soon,” the minutes said.  ‘Ducks in Order’  “The minutes showed that while there are no imminent
tightening plans in terms of timing, the officials were
obviously talking about exit strategies,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They’re
starting to get their ducks in order. We are looking for a bit
of a bounce in the dollar.”  Commodity, stock and bond markets are all flagging
increased concern that the global economy will weaken.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials has
fallen 11 percent this month, after surging 20 percent in the
first four months of 2011. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks gained
9.4 percent from the end of December through April.  Government debt yields have fallen to 2.27 percent on
average from this year’s high of 2.51 percent on April 8, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus
Index shows.  Japan Recession  In addition to the end of the Fed’s bond purchases, Japan
said last week that its gross domestic product contracted an
annualized 3.7 percent in the first quarter as the March 11
earthquake and tsunami disrupted production and prompted
consumers to cut back spending.  In Europe, austerity measures enacted by debt-laden nations
from  Greece  to  Portugal  mean the euro-region’s economy will
expand less than 2 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2012,
according to the median estimate of at least 29 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  S&P reduced its outlook on  Italy ’s A+ sovereign debt rating
on May 20 to “negative” from “stable,” saying “potential
political gridlock” means the prospects for reducing the
government debt have diminished.  Demand for contracts insuring against depreciation in the
euro have risen as measured by the so-called risk reversal rate
for one-month options on the euro versus the dollar.  Biggest Loser  The rate rose to a 1.78-percentage-point premium in favor
of puts granting the right to sell the euro over calls giving
the right to buy, the highest level since December. The
comparable dollar-krone rate reached 1.95 last week, a level not
seen since July.  The biggest loser in the foreign-exchange market this month
among the 16 most-traded currency pairs has been the Norwegian
krone, which has depreciated 6.5 percent. The drop follows a
10.9 percent gain in the first four months.  South Africa ’s rand has lost 6.2 percent, following a gain
of 0.9 percent. The euro is down 5.4 percent, after rallying
10.6 percent. Sweden’s krona is 5.1 percent weaker, compared
with an 11.1 percent gain in the January through April period.  The exit from higher-risk assets may best be seen in the
so-called carry trade, where traders borrow in currencies of
nations with low interest rates and use the money to buy
currencies of economies with higher yields, such as  Australia .  Carry Trade Losses  The strategy has lost 2.1 percent in May, after gaining in
the three prior months, as investors reversed bets on signs the
economy is slowing amid the slump in commodity and stock prices,
according to an index compiled by UBS. Australia’s dollar has
weakened 4.1 percent, after appreciating 7.2 percent in the
first four months.  “We are at the end of the road for risk,”  John Taylor ,
chairman of New York-based FX Concepts LLC, which runs the
world’s largest currency-hedge fund, said in a May 12 telephone
interview. “This is the end of the nice slow-moving risk rally
that has lulled us pleasantly to sleep since the first half of
2009.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  