-- 
Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney, Twitter: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-23T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/rolls-royce-pratt-whitney-nespresso-twitter-intellectual-property.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , the world’s
second-largest maker of jet engines, lost the patent-
infringement case it brought against  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Pratt & Whitney over fan technology.  Pratt’s GP7200 Fan Stage doesn’t violate a patent issued in
2000 for a Rolls-Royce Trent engine used on the Airbus SAS A380
airplane, U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria,
Virginia, said in a decision issued May 20.  Rolls-Royce had been seeking as much as $3.7 billion in
damages before Brinkema on May 4 told the London-based company
it was likely overstating the effect of competition on sales.
Brinkema rejected the infringement claims last week after
determining the two competing technologies weren’t the same
because the Rolls-Royce patent covers a fan stage with three
sweep regions, while Pratt fans have four, according to the
opinion.  “Rolls-Royce takes protection of its technology and
intellectual property very seriously,” the company said in a
statement, adding that the company “will carefully consider our
options.”  Rolls-Royce competes against a venture of East Hartford,
Connecticut-based Pratt and  General Electric Co. (GE)  to provide
engines for the A380. GE is the largest maker of jet engines.  “The court’s ruling confirms what we have always
maintained, that our products do not infringe the Rolls
patent,” Pratt said in an e-mailed statement. Pratt in November
filed its own patent-infringement case against Rolls-Royce with
the U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington . A trial
is scheduled for October before the agency, which has the power
to block imports of products found to violate U.S. patents.  The case is Rolls-Royce Plc v. United Technologies Corp.,
10cv457, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Ethical Coffee Swiss Sales to Begin This Autumn, L’Agefi Says  Ethical Coffee Co. will begin selling its coffee capsules,
designed to work in Nespresso machines, in  Switzerland  this
fall, L’Agefi reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard.  The company expects to sell about 500 million coffee
capsules a year in Switzerland, home of Nespresso’s parent
Nestle SA, according to the report. Overall, Ethical Coffee aims
for sales of 750 million capsules this year, including 400
million in France, Gaillard said in an interview in May 20’s
 newspaper . He declined to comment on whether the product would
be sold by supermarket chain Coop in Switzerland.  Nestle’s Nespresso unit has sued rivals including Ethical
Coffee that sell pre-filled capsules compatible with its
machines last year. Ethical Coffee on May 19 said it asked
France’s competition authority to look into its claims Nestle
and Nespresso put up barriers to competition, according to a
separate report in L’Agefi.  Intellectual Ventures Amasses Storehouse of Patents  Intellectual Ventures LLC , the Bellevue, Washington-based
company founded by former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Technology
Officer  Nathan Myhrvold  in 2000, has amassed a storehouse of
thousands of patents. While IV has, according to its website,
more than $5 billion in funds under its management, the company
has not disclosed the names of its investors.  But last week, following a ruling in a patent suit brought
by programmable chipmaker Xilinx Inc. IV has filed a list of
investors. As earlier reported by the blog patentlyo.com, IV
counts among its investors  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , Amazon.com NV
Investment Holdings Inc.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  EBay
Inc. (EBAY)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as well as universities such as Stanford
University, the University of Texas, northwestern University and
Brown University. The May 16 filing came in response to a May 11
ruling by the presiding judge,  Susan Illston , that the list of
investors couldn’t be filed under seal.  Xilinx’s lawyer, Behrooz Shariati of the Palo Alto office
of Jones Day, couldn’t be reached for comment. Neither Brad
Black of  San Francisco ’s Black & Washko nor Ameet Modi of  New
York ’s Desmarais LLP, two of the lawyers representing IV,
responded to requests for comment.  The case is  Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)  v. Invention Investment Fund I
LP, 11-cv-0671, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Indianapolis Law Firm Gets Trademark for ‘Women’s Forum’  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued trademark No.
3959201 to the Indianapolis firm Baker & Daniels for their
“Women’s Forum.” The firm filed for the trademark in February
2010 and it was registered May 10.  The Women’s Forum was created two years ago to help retain
the firm’s female lawyers as well as to assist them with
business development, said Brita Horvath, the diversity and pro
bono manager at the firm. Their client services department
created a logo and partner Amie Peele Carter, a trademark lawyer
at the firm, suggested registering the mark. It’s not the firm’s
first: according to Carter, Baker & Daniels now has 18 trademark
registrations in its portfolio.  Low-Income Law Center Sues Religious Group Over Trademark  The Western Center on Law & Poverty, a Los Angeles-based
group that provides legal representation to low-income
California residents, has filed a trademark suit against the
Western Center for Law & Policy, a non-profit organization based
in Escondido, California, that, among other issues, was vocal in
its opposition to the legalization of gay marriage in
California.  According to a statement by the Los Angeles group’s
spokesperson, “the other organization engages in advocacy and
takes positions that are very different from those of Western
Center on Law & Poverty. The similarity in names has already
resulted in actual confusion among attorneys and others in the
state.” According to the statement, the “Western Center on Law
& Poverty would prefer to resolve this matter amicably.”  Dean Broyles, the president of the Western Center for Law &
Policy, said he hadn’t yet seen the lawsuit and so couldn’t
comment on its allegations. He did say, however, that his
organization, which he described as “pro-family, pro-religious
liberty and pro-life,” is “are a very different type of
organization from the Western Center on Law and Poverty.”  The case is Western Center on Law & Poverty, Inc. v.
Western Center for Law & Policy, 11-04335, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Universal Music Group Sued a Second Time Over Royalties  Rob Zombie, who founded the heavy metal band White Zombie,
sued Vivendi’s Universal Music Group last week over royalties
for digital downloads and ringtones.  His suit follows one in April filed by the estate of the
musician Rick James, known for his hit “Super Freak.” Both
cases seek class-action status. Zombie, whose real name is
Robert Cummings, is represented by San Francisco firms Lieff
Cabraser Heimann & Bernstein as well as Phillips, Erlewine &
Given. Phillips Erlewine represents James’s estate as well.  Both suits stem from the U.S. Supreme court’s decision not
to review a lower court ruling involving Eminem’s production
company. That decision -- from the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, found that downloads and ringtones should be considered
licensed music rather than records sold, entitling musicians to
greater compensation.  A statement from UMG claimed that the suits suffer from
“flaws” and “infirmities” and that neither suit is
“appropriate for class treatment.” The statement says the
company plans to “vigorously defend” against both.  Rob Zombie’s case is Zombie v. UMG Recordings Inc., 11-
cv-02431 U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  The estate of Rick James case is James v. UMG Recordings,
Inc., 11-cv-1613, U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of California (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Privacy  Twitter Inc., Unknown Posters, Sued by ‘CTB’ at U.K. Court  Twitter Inc. and some of its users were sued by an entity
known as “CTB” in  London , according to a court filing.  While the document gave no details, CTB are the initials
used by the court in a separate lawsuit to refer to an athlete
who won an anonymity order banning the media from publishing
stories about his alleged affair with a reality-television star.  The Twitter suit was filed May 18 at the High Court in
London according to court records, and named as defendants the
San Francisco-based company and “persons unknown responsible
for the publication of information on the Twitter accounts”
listed in confidential court documents.  A Twitter user on May 8 posted a series of messages
claiming a number of U.K. celebrities had received so-called
super-injunctions and made claims detailing the activities that
the people had sought to keep out of the public eye.  “We are unable to comment,” Matt Graves, a Twitter
spokesman, said May 20 in an e-mail.  Daniel Ingram-Fletcher, a spokesman for the law firm
representing CTB, didn’t respond to a message seeking comment.  The case is CTB v. Twitter Inc., Persons Unknown, High
Court of Justice (Queens Bench Division), HQ11X01814.  Jude Law Chosen to Bring First  News Corp. (NWSA)  Phone-Hacking Case  Actor Jude Law’s case was chosen to be one of the first
heard over phone-hacking at a News Corp. U.K. newspaper after
his lawyers claimed that a “senior” News of the World
executive might be involved in the practice.  Law’s lawyer, Hugh Tomlinson, said at a hearing on May 20
that disclosures in the case indicated the involvement of the
executive, which he didn’t identify. Sienna Miller, Law’s former
girlfriend, last week reached a tentative agreement to settle
her lawsuit for 100,000 pounds ($162,000).  At least two dozen celebrities and politicians have sued
Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. over allegations that the newspaper
illegally accessed mobile-phone messages for stories. The New
York-based company last month apologized and offered to settle
some of the cases after journalists linked to the paper were
arrested.  Law joins designer Kelly Hoppen, sports agent Sky Andrew,
soccer commentator Andy Gray and lawmaker Chris Bryant who were
also chosen to bring so-called test cases by Judge Geoffrey Vos
at a hearing on May 20.  “Now that we have seen the disclosure we believe it is
entirely false that the named executive is implicated in the
alleged voice mail interception of Jude Law,” News Corp.’s U.K.
unit said in an e-mailed statement.  The scandal started when a former News of the World editor
and a private investigator were sent to jail in 2007 for hacking
into members of the royal household’s mobile phones. Former News
of the World Editor  Andy Coulson  resigned as Prime Minister
David Cameron’s head of communications in January over claims
the practice took place while he was at the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  