-- 
Royal Jordanian Posts First-Quarter Loss on Fuel Prices

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-23T15:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/royal-jordanian-posts-first-quarter-loss-on-fuel-prices-1-.html
Royal Jordanian Airlines (RJAL) , the first
Middle East airline to order  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner, had a
28 million-dinar ($39 million) first-quarter loss because of
high  oil prices , Chief Executive Officer Hussein Dabbas said.  The price of oil is “already too high,” Dabbas told
reporters at a conference in Dubai today. “Our budget is based
on $85 a barrel and that’s why we incurred a first-quarter
loss,” he said.  Fuel accounts for about 40 percent of the carrier’s
operating cost, Dabbas said. Crude oil for July delivery traded
at $97.15 a barrel at 9:21 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are up 39 percent from a year ago.  Royal Jordanian also suffered from the unrest that has
swept the Middle East, the CEO said. The year will be
“challenging,” and the carrier expects to make up for the
losses incurred in the first three months of the year from
increased traffic during the summer season, Dabbas said. He said
he hopes the company will break even this year.  Royal Jordanian will start receiving its first 787 aircraft
in the first quarter of 2014, with Chicago-based Boeing
delivering five Dreamliners that year, two to three in 2015 to
2016, and one in 2017, Dabbas said.  The airline, which operates 32 aircraft, committed to add
11 Boeing 787 Dreamliners, to fly to  New York ,  Chicago , Detroit
and Toronto. The airline’s first plane is the 85th on the
production line of the aircraft manufacturer.  Boeing has postponed 787 deliveries seven times, resulting
in a three-year delay, after grappling with new materials and
production systems required for the world’s first composite
airliner. The first Dreamliner is now due for handover to All
Nippon Airways by September.  “We are talking to Boeing about compensation but it’s not
so easy,” Dabbas said. Asked how much the airline has incurred
in lost revenue as a result of the delay, Dabbas said he
couldn’t provide a figure, and said it was a “huge amount,
definitely in millions of dollars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  