-- 
Rubber Falls Most in a Week as Debt Woes Raises Growth Concern

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-05-23T08:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/rubber-falls-most-in-a-week-as-debt-woes-raises-growth-concern.html
Rubber tumbled the most in more than
a week as a reduction in  Greece ’s credit rating and a selloff in
global equities boosted concern that the economic recovery may
falter, curbing demand for the commodity used in tires.  The October-delivery contract lost as much as 4 percent to
363 yen a kilogram ($4,429 a metric ton) before settling at
367.9 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange. The contract gained
1.8 percent last week, the second weekly advance.  Asian stocks extended a global decline, with the regional
benchmark index heading for a two-month low, as Fitch Ratings
cut Greece’s credit rating three levels and the euro weakened,
reducing the outlook for export earnings. The index of U.S.
leading indicators slipped in April after nine months of
increases, while manufacturing in the Philadelphia area grew in
May at the slowest pace in seven months.  “Concern about U.S. and European economies spurred sales
of industrial commodities,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at
broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said today by phone. “Rubber was
sold in tandem with oil and base metals.”  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece three levels to B+, four steps
below investment grade, from BB+. Fitch said even a “soft”
restructuring of debt being studied by European Union policy
makers would be considered a default. Fitch said Greece could
face a further reduction in its creditworthiness.  “The biggest concern about  Europe  is the risk of contagion
and of credit markets drying up globally,” said Prasad Patkar,
who helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd. in Sydney. “The memory of the global financial crisis is
fresh in everyone’s mind, and everybody’s preference is that we
don’t go there again.”  China Demand  “Supply is outpacing demand and declining inventories in
China reflects that orders from there are still low,” said
Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS
Futures Co.  Natural-rubber stockpiles monitored by the  Shanghai  Futures
Exchange fell 215 tons to 13,946 tons last week, the bourse said
on May 20. Inventories reached 11,851 tons earlier this month,
the lowest level since 2003.  Rubber also declined amid expectation that supply from
Thailand, the world’s largest exporter, will increase as the
low-production period is set to end this month, Saito said.  Natural-rubber output will expand as farmers resume
harvesting after the traditional low-production season, easing
global supplies, the Association of Natural Rubber Producing
Countries said in a monthly report in April.  Production from its member countries, representing 92
percent of global supply, may climb 10.5 percent to 2.3 million
tons in the three months through June, the report said. Output
in the first quarter is estimated to have advanced 6.1 percent
to 2.27 million tons, the group said.  The physical price of Thai rubber declined 0.3 percent to
154.25 baht ($5.08) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber
Research Institute of  Thailand .  In Shanghai, September-delivery rubber lost 2.1 percent to
close at 30,830 yuan ($4,741) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  