-- 
Russia RTS Stock Futures Hold Near Five-Month Low on EU Concern

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-23T21:32:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/russia-rts-stock-futures-hold-near-five-month-low-on-eu-concern.html
Russian RTS stock-index futures held
at the lowest level since December as  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis deepened, fueling concern global economic recovery will
slow.  Futures on the RTS Index expiring in June were little
changed yesterday after earlier falling as much as 0.8 percent.
The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that holds
Russian shares, dropped 3 percent. The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
slipped 1.9 percent to 1,573.14 in Moscow.  Investors are betting demand for Russia’s exports will
decline after Belgium and Italy had their credit outlooks cut,
Spain’s governing party was defeated in local elections and
Greece struggled to complete a fifth austerity plan to keep pace
with its deficit. Data showed  China ’s manufacturing may expand
at a slower pace this month.  “Investor confidence continues to be undermined by erratic
growth signals in major economies and by the threat posed by the
still unresolved euro zone sovereign debt issues,” wrote  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Securities in Moscow, in a
May 22 report. “The main international headlines this week will
come from  Greece ’s efforts to try and reach a new debt deal with
its EU partners and the G8 Summit. Both issues are more likely
to add to the confusion in global markets.”  Fitch Ratings  revised Belgium’s rating outlook to negative
from stable and affirmed its long-term foreign and local
currency user default ratings at AA+. Italy’s credit outlook was
revised to negative from stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services on May 20.  Oil Slides  Global stocks slumped yesterday with the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index dropping 2.4 percent and the  S&P 500  retreating
1.2 percent.  Oil futures slid 2.6 percent as investors bet consumption
will decline. Contracts on Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil
producer, were little changed, while futures on OAO Lukoil,
 Russia ’s second-biggest, rose 0.2 percent. OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest gas producer, increased 0.2 percent. The dollar
rose to a nine-week high versus the euro, curbing the appeal of
commodities.  “It is something of a cliche by now to say that
commodities and emerging markets will continue to trade with the
 U.S. dollar ,” Weafer said. “It is a fact that the dollar is
the main indicator of investor sentiment and a key driver of
oil, the ruble and Russian equities.”  Spain’s Socialist Party suffered a defeat in local
elections as voters punished Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s party for soaring unemployment and spending cuts.  Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government met yesterday
in  Athens  to endorse a new package of spending cuts and state-
asset sales needed to assure the flow of bailout funds.  The Micex trades at 8 times reported earnings, compared
with 12.2 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and 9.5 times for
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  