-- 
Ryanair’s First-Ever Capacity Reduction Marks End of Discount-Airline Boom

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-23T11:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/ryanair-expects-similar-profit-this-year-on-fuel-slower-traffic-growth.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  will cut
capacity for the first time in its history next winter as fuel
costs threaten to render dozens of routes unprofitable, ending
decades of growth that made it Europe’s No. 1 discount airline.  Ryanair fell the most in 20 months in Dublin trading after
Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said he’d ground 80 of
300 jets and lay people off for the low season starting in
October. Even with a 12 percent fare increase he forecasts net
income no higher than last year’s 401 million euros ($563
million) -- or 18 percent less than estimated by analysts.  “It’s the first time ever that we’ll go negative on
traffic,” O’Leary said in an interview. “We take delivery of
50 aircraft this winter so instead of running around trying to
open up new bases and routes in November and December we’ll sit
them on the ground. With higher  oil prices  it makes no sense.”  Ryanair has transformed the European  airline industry  since
O’Leary took over in 1990 after studying the growth of Southwest
Airlines Co. in the U.S., offering flights between cities never
previously served by air and luring passengers from established
carriers with bargain-basement fares and a no-frills service.
More recently, the CEO signaled plans to attract higher-paying
flyers after exhausting opportunities to lift sales by charging
for everything from checked bags to credit-card bookings.  Wiped Out  The winter cuts mean passenger growth for the year that
began on April 1 will be limited to about 4 percent, half last
year’s pace, O’Leary said. Benefits from the service reductions
and a fare hike to be implemented after rivals imposed fuel
surcharges will he wiped out as per-passenger operating costs
jump 13 percent on an anticipated 350 million-euro increase in
the Dublin-based carrier’s kerosene bill, he said.  Some pilot, cabin crew and engineering positions may be cut
to allow for the reduced flying requirement, O’Leary said at a
briefing in  London . The carrier typically offers three months’
unpaid leave when it needs to reduce headcount, and many of the
people who take it don’t actually return, he said.  “They are still going to be growing but at a much slower
rate,” said Brian Devine an analyst at NCB Stockbrokers Ltd. in
London. “They were going to hit a boundary eventually but it’s
happened a bit sooner than people might have expected.”  Analysts had predicted adjusted net income of 490 million
euros for the fiscal year that began on April 1, according to
the mean of 16 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Tumble  Ryanair, founded in 1985 and transformed into a discount
carrier five years later, fell as much as 8.4 percent to 3.25
euros, the biggest drop since July 27, 2009, based on closing
prices, and was trading at 3.36 euros as of 12:45 p.m. in the
Irish capital, taking the stock’s slump this year to 11 percent.  Other European airlines also declined amid concern that a
volcanic eruption in Iceland will ground flights.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) 
dropped as much as 6.3 percent and International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, parent of British Airways, fell 4.1 percent.  Luton, England-based EasyJet, Europe’s second-biggest low-
cost airline, is also moving away from a purely discount model
as CEO Carolyn McCall seeks to attract business travelers by
offering flexible fares and selling tickets to corporate clients
using dedicated sales teams rather than purely via its website.  Ryanair’s sales rose 21 percent to 3.63 billion euros in
the year ended March 31, while passenger numbers reached 72
million. The airline had a charge of 26.1 million euros from
disruption caused by another volcanic eruption last April.  Economy, Austerity  Net income jumped 26 percent excluding the one-time item,
Ryanair said in a statement, beating estimates from analysts,
who predicted earnings would rise 20 percent to 383 million
euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Annual profit this fiscal year will be “similar” to last
year’s level as higher fares serve only to finance the higher
fuel bill and costs from flying longer routes, O’Leary said,
adding that he “remains concerned” about the impact of sluggish
economies, austerity measures and low  consumer confidence .  Capacity and network growth will kick in again for the next
northern summer, according to O’Leary. While Ryanair cuts seats
each winter compared with preceding months as demand for travel
wanes, it has previously always shown year-to-year expansion.  “Wait until March and April,” he said. “There will still
be strong growth next summer but trying to open up new routes
with high oil prices is stupid in the winter.”  Ryanair may still add planes to meet longer-term growth
plans beyond 2016, O’Leary told journalists, and will have
accumulated “a bundle of cash” for the next order. The number of
bases will still increase to about 50 from 44 this fiscal year.  Areas such as Eastern  Europe  and  Turkey  provide scope for
expansion at Ryanair, which will have a fleet of 300 planes by
the end of March 2012, up 28 from last year, though its success
has attracted new airlines to the marketplace and prompted
established carriers to focus more on costs, NCB’s Devine said. 