-- 
Saudi Authorities Re-Arrest Female Activist After Driving, Video

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-23T13:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/saudi-authorities-re-arrest-female-activist-after-driving-video.html
Saudi Arabian security authorities
re-arrested a female activist for driving a car in al-Khobar in
the kingdom’s  Eastern Province  on the  Persian Gulf , according to
another activist.  Manal al-Sharif, 32, was detained early yesterday, Ibrahim
al-Mugaiteeb, president of the Human Rights First Society, said
in a phone interview from al-Khobar today. She was held for six
hours on May 21 before being released, al-Mugaiteeb said.  In Saudi Arabia, which enforces the Wahhabi version of
Sunni Islam, women aren’t allowed to have a Saudi driver’s
permit. They can’t travel or get an education without male
approval or mix with unrelated men in public places and aren’t
permitted to vote in municipal elections scheduled on Sept. 29.  Al-Sharif and other women are organizing a campaign on
Facebook and Twitter urging Saudi women with international
driver’s licenses to get into cars starting on June 17. Al-
Sharif posted a  video on Youtube.com  of herself driving on May
19 in al-Khobar. More than half a million people have viewed the
video.  She has been charged for inciting women, allowing a
journalist to interview her and disturbing the general public,
 Al-Watan  newspaper said, citing the spokesman for the general
prisons department, Colonel Ayoub Naheet. She will be held for
five days during the investigation, the newspaper said.  The last time a group of women publicly defied the driving
ban was on Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops had massed in  Saudi
Arabia  to prepare for the war that would expel  Iraq  from  Kuwait .
The Saudi women were spurred by images of female U.S. soldiers
driving in the desert and stories of Kuwaiti women driving their
children to safety.  -- Editor: Jennifer M. Freedman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 