-- 
Singapore Inflation Rate Slows to Less Than 5% for the First Time in 2011

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-05-23T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/singapore-inflation-rate-slows-to-less-than-5-for-the-first-time-in-2011.html
Singapore ’s inflation slowed to less
than 5 percent for the first time this year in April as a
strengthening currency reduced the cost of imported goods.  Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent last month from a year
earlier, the Department of Statistics said in a statement today.
That was the slowest pace in five months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based on previously released information,
and compares with the 4.4 percent median estimate of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Asian central banks from  China  to Thailand and India have
raised  interest rates  or allowed their currencies to gain to
curb price pressures as oil and food costs rise. Singapore’s
dollar rose to records after the central bank said April 14 it
would allow further appreciation in its third tightening of
monetary policy in a year.  “Singapore’s inflationary pressures remain high,” Pay Shuzhen, a Singapore-based economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., said before the report. “With a tightening
labor market, high commodity prices and housing costs, inflation
will continue to rise.”  Prices rose 0.3 percent last month from March, without
adjusting for seasonal factors, today’s report showed. A core
inflation measure that excludes accommodation and private road
transport showed prices climbed 2.2 percent in April from a year
earlier, the statistics department said.  Singapore raised its growth forecast for 2011 last week
after the island’s economy expanded the most in  Southeast Asia 
in the three months through March. Gross domestic product will
increase 5 percent to 7 percent this year, the trade ministry
said May 19.  Policy Tightening  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which uses the
 exchange rate  as its main tool to manage inflation, said last
month it will re-center the currency’s band higher.  Singapore’s inflation may have peaked and a stronger
currency has helped damp price gains, central bank Managing
Director Ravi Menon said May 18. The monetary authority
forecasts inflation will average 3 percent to 4 percent this
year.  The  Singapore dollar  has gained more than 13 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past year to be the best
performer in  Asia  excluding  Japan . It traded at S$1.2452 a
dollar at 12:54 p.m. local time.  Pressure on consumer prices may increase in the coming
months after Singapore Power Ltd., the island’s main electricity
provider, increased tariffs for the April-to-June quarter by an
average 6.5 percent because of higher oil costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  