-- 
SNB May Have Room to Increase Swiss Rates as Economy Defies Franc Strength

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-24T09:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/snb-may-have-room-to-increase-swiss-rates-as-economy-defies-franc-strength.html
Swiss National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand may soon have room to raise borrowing costs for the
first time in almost four years as the economy defies the
franc’s surge.  Policy makers are weighing the threat of near-zero  interest
rates  stoking property prices against the risk that an increase
in the benchmark will push up the franc. While the currency has
gained about 20 percent against the euro since the SNB cut its
benchmark to 0.25 percent in March 2009, there are few signs
that the exchange rate is undermining the recovery, with exports
increasing and leading indicators signaling quickening growth.  “Does the economy really need interest rates near zero?”
said  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at Julius Baer Group in
 Frankfurt . “No, it doesn’t. Now is exactly the right time to
raise borrowing costs because any increase would only show an
impact on the economy in a year,” he said. The recovery is
strong enough to weather borrowing costs of 1 percent to 1.5
percent, according to Kohl.  While Swiss rates, the lowest among major global economies
after  Japan  and the U.S., have spurred the economy’s recovery
from a 2009 slump, they’re also fueling housing demand. Prices
for single-family homes jumped 4.7 percent in 2010, data
compiled by real-estate consultant Wueest & Partner AG show. The
region of Geneva led the gains, with prices climbing 12 percent.  Mortgage Market  Hildebrand toughened his tone on the mortgage market last
month, saying that “imbalances with serious repercussions” can
emerge if borrowing costs remain at a “very low level for a
long time.” In their  March assessment , policy makers said the
 property market  warrants their “full attention.”  “An increase would be the beginning of a normalization,”
said Caesar Lack, head of economic research at UBS AG’s Wealth
Management Research in Zurich and a former SNB economist. “It
wouldn’t have much of an impact on the franc. But the fact that
they’ve kept rates on hold for so long indicates that they’re
extremely worried about possible implications.”  Five of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast that
the Zurich-based SNB will raise its key rate on June 16,
compared with none in March, marking the biggest division since
the SNB cut its benchmark rate to near-zero more than two years
ago. Among those predicting an increase are analysts at UBS and
Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.  Upside Risks  The  European Central Bank  increased borrowing costs last
month for the first time in almost three years, while central
banks in  Sweden ,  Norway  and  Russia  also have raised their
benchmark rates. Hildebrand has indicated a growing unease about
price pressures, saying April 29 that the economy is expanding
“more vigorously than anticipated” and “certain upside
risks” on inflation “are beginning to emerge.”  The median forecast among economists is for a rate increase
in September. The SNB has four regular meetings a year.  The franc was at 1.2422 per euro at 11:17 a.m. in Zurich,
after reaching a record of 1.2324 yesterday. The currency,
perceived as a so-called safe haven, has risen 6 percent since
April 6 as the euro-area’s debt crisis worsened. It was at 88.23
centimes versus the dollar, down from an all-time high of 85.54
centimes on May 4.  SNB Vice Chairman Thomas Jordan told Swiss state television
in an interview broadcast last night that while policy makers
are “very concerned” about currency developments, exporters
have “coped relatively well” with the franc’s appreciation.  “The currency isn’t having any significant impact on the
economy,” said  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in Frankfurt. The SNB “clearly risks being behind
the curve,” he said.  Overcoming Appreciation  Data suggest the recovery can withstand a policy tightening
just as it has overcome the currency appreciation. Strengthening
global growth has boosted demand for goods ranging from  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  watches to  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  turbochargers, with exports surging
9.8 percent in the first quarter from a year ago when adjusted
for inflation and work days. Unemployment is at 3.1 percent, the
lowest since February 2009, and KOF leading indicators rose to
the highest in almost five years last month.  The Swiss economy may expand 2.4 percent this year and 1.9
percent in 2012, the BAK Basel Economics research institute
said. That’s above the SNB’s forecast of about 2 percent for
2011. In 2010, gross domestic product rose 2.6 percent. In the
euro region, GDP may advance 1.6 percent this year, the European
Commission said.  Foreign sales continued to grow even as the real effective
 exchange rate  rose 10 percent in the past year, according to Jan Amrit Poser, the chief economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. Such
an appreciation usually translates into a 15 percent plunge.  ‘Export Miracle’  This “can only be described as an export miracle,” Poser
said. “It appears that exports are less susceptible to prices
than generally thought. We expect that the SNB will undertake
its first tentative interest-rate hike in June.”  For Alexander Koch, an economist at UniCredit Group in
Munich, the SNB can afford to keep borrowing costs on hold until
its September meeting. Inflation was 0.3 percent in April,
compared with 2.8 percent in the euro area, partly as the
franc’s gain softened the impact of rising oil prices.  “The economic situation has improved further and exports
have resisted the franc’s strength,” Koch said. “Still, as
long as inflation remains subdued, there’s no need for the SNB
to raise rates anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  