-- 
Sony Misses Analysts’ Estimates After Widest Annual Net Loss in 16 Years

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-24T08:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/sony-reports-full-year-net-loss-of-3-billion-missing-estimate-of-profit.html
For Chief Executive Officer Howard Stringer, this was supposed to be  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s year.  The company that invented the Walkman was preparing to
launch the new PlayStation Portable player and its first tablet
computers in time for Christmas, the money-losing games division
finally turned profitable and Stringer had picked the front-
runner to eventually succeed him in Kazuo Hirai. That was less
than three months ago.  Then  Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record hit and hackers
invaded the company’s Internet entertainment services in the
second-largest online data breach in U.S. history. The result:
Sony yesterday posted its widest annual net loss in 16 years and
forecast the earthquake and the attack will erode $2 billion
from operating profit this fiscal year to keep earnings from
meeting analysts’ estimates.  “Sony said it was going to be its year but it looks like
it then got a smack in the eye,” said  Shiro Mikoshiba , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “In terms of earnings,
we’re probably going to have to wait for six months or so before
we can hope to see impressive results.”  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of electronics, rose 2.7
percent to close at 2,270 yen in Tokyo. Disclosing the estimated
financial toll of the earthquake and cyber attacks removes a
“major negative catalyst,” Jay Defibaugh, an analyst at MF
Global FXA Securities Ltd.  Operating income in the 12 months to March 2012 will be
similar to the 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) last fiscal year,
the Tokyo-based company said in a preliminary earnings statement
yesterday. The forecast missed the 254.7 billion-yen average of
nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Earthquake, Hackers  Sony estimated the March 11 earthquake will erode operating
profit by 150 billion yen this fiscal year as the maker of
Bravia televisions struggles to improve earnings even after
restarting the plants that were disrupted by the disaster. Last
month’s unauthorized intrusion into the PlayStation network may
cost the company 14 billion yen, it said.  Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said yesterday the
lowered profit outlook forced Sony to write down the value of
the deferred tax assets by 360 billion yen last quarter,
resulting in a net loss of 260 billion yen. It was also the
first time Sony posted three consecutive full-year losses since
its listing in 1958.  Harsh Environment  “This may be a conservative forecast, but the operating
profit level still looks much lower than expected even if you
take the earthquake impact into account,” said Kazuharu Miura,
a senior analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Sony continues
to face a harsh business environment.”  Still, Sony yesterday forecast its net loss will turn
positive this fiscal year and revenue will likely increase after
a 0.5 percent drop.  Growth was on Stringer’s mind March 10, when he spoke to
reporters in  Tokyo  about the promotion of Hirai, his games chief,
as the frontrunner to carry out the vision to integrate Sony’s
TVs and computers with content from the entertainment businesses.  “It’s a very exciting year,” Stringer said then. “We
have a tablet coming out, we have the PlayStation network for
the video and music services growing in strength,”  The following day, the earthquake hit, crippling scores of
factories including those of Sony. Nine of the company’s
electronics factories in northeastern Japan that had been
disrupted by the disaster had resumed operations as of April 28,
according to the company. Other plants had to curtail production
because of material and component shortages.  About a month later, the maker of PlayStation game consoles
was attacked by hackers who may have gained information on more
than 100 million user accounts of Sony’s online services for
games, music and films.  The PlayStation Network and Qriocity entertainment services
went back online in the U.S. and other regions excluding  Asia  on
May 15, more than three weeks after it suspended services. The
company plans to fully resume the services by the end of this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  