-- 
South African Equities Decline to Two-Month Low on European Debt Concern

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-23T16:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/south-african-stocks-fall-to-more-than-two-week-low-on-metals.html
South African stocks fell to the
lowest since March 23, led by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, as copper retreated and as Greece’s
rating was cut, curbing demand for emerging-market assets.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index dropped 1.4 percent to
31,344.53 at the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg.  BHP
Billiton  dropped for a fourth day, losing 0.9 percent to 261.15
rand, the lowest since March 28.  “There is not too much to smile about this morning,”
 Andrew Todd , a Johannesburg-based derivatives trader at Imara
Holdings Ltd., said by phone. “Our market is falling as a
result of the combination of the nervousness on the European
debt concerns, lower commodity prices as a result of China’s
slower manufacturing production, and markets falling all over
the world.”  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece by three grades and  Standard &
Poor’s  said Italy was at risk of a downgrade. Manufacturing
growth in China, the world’s biggest buyer of industrial metals,
declined for a second consecutive month in May, according to a
preliminary survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
U.S. economic reports this week may show durable goods orders
and consumer spending cooled.  Copper for three-month delivery slipped the most in almost
two weeks as manufacturing in China, the world’s biggest buyer
of industrial metals, declined for a second consecutive month in
May, according to a preliminary survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the diversified mining company that
forms 10 percent of South Africa’s benchmark stocks index,
declined 2 percent to 322.45 rand, the lowest closing level
since Dec. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  