-- 
Speculators Cut Bets Food Prices Will Keep Rising as Supply Concern Eases

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n ,   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-05-23T07:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/speculators-cut-bets-food-prices-will-keep-rising-as-supply-concern-eases.html
Funds cut bets on rising prices for
wheat, cocoa and other food commodities on easing concern about
shortages and on speculation higher costs will curb demand.  Speculators reduced their net-long position in wheat by 54
percent to 11,206 futures and options contracts on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade in the week ended May 17, data from the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The position in cocoa
slumped 39 percent, in lean hogs 33 percent, in coffee 31
percent and in  soybean oil  15 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index rallied 7.7
percent since May 13 as European farmers contend with the driest
growing conditions in more than three decades, drought threatens
crops in  China  and flooding and heat ruin harvests in the U.S.
The gauge of eight commodities is 76 percent higher than a year
ago and the United Nations said May 5 that global food prices
rose to near a record last month, adding pressure to inflation
that is accelerating from Beijing to Brasilia.  “Investors got a bit jittery whether the upside could be
sustained after a good run over the past couple of weeks,” said
 Abah Ofon , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore .
“Fundamentals are supportive of the markets though. There are
supply risks coming from weather in Europe and the U.S.”  The net-long position of funds across 18 U.S. commodity
futures declined 11 percent to 1.09 million contracts, the
lowest since July, CFTC data show. Holdings in sugar, live
cattle, soybean meal, soybeans and corn also retreated.  Output Forecasts Cut  The decline in bullish bets on wheat came before forecasts
for lower-than-expected output in France and Germany on May 18.
Prices have also rallied since then as wet weather delayed U.S.
planting. The next report, with data through May 24, may show a
rebound in the net-long position, said  Tim Hannagan , a grain-
market analyst for PFG Best Inc. in Chicago.  Wheat for July delivery advanced 0.5 percent to $8.1075 a
bushel as of 1:48 a.m. in Chicago.  The decline in the lean-hog position may reflect concern
that higher prices are curbing demand, said  Dan Vaught , the
owner of Vaught Futures Insights in Altus,  Arkansas . Wholesale
pork on May 16 climbed to 98.31 cents a pound, the highest since
at least October 1997, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  “It simply goes back to the current industry mindset that
the recent run-up in prices has done a great deal to strangle
domestic demand,” Vaught said. The jump in fuel costs “doesn’t
leave a lot of room in people’s budgets for a lot of items,
particularly some of your higher-priced meat cuts,” he said.  Gasoline Prices  On May 4, the national average of regular gasoline at the
pump reached $3.985 a gallon, the highest since July 2008,
according to AAA, the leading U.S. motoring organization.  Cocoa futures traded in  New York  declined for three
consecutive weeks as exports resumed from  Ivory Coast , the
world’s biggest producer. Prices will drop to as low as $2,525 a
metric ton by the end of December, down 13 percent from the May
20 close of $2,902, according to the average estimate of seven
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Cocoa has slumped 23 percent
since reaching a 32-year high on March 4.  “Cocoa prices will steadily decline into year-end with the
Ivory Coast supplies being slowly liberated,” said Luis Rangel,
a vice president at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Shipments of  cocoa beans  registered at Ivory Coast’s ports
rose 18 percent to 15,872 tons in the 14 days to May 12 from a
year earlier, according to an industry official with access to
the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  