-- 
Square Introduces IPad Checkout Feature to Help Small Retailers

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-05-23T17:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/square-introduces-ipad-checkout-feature-to-help-small-retailers.html
Square Inc., the payments startup
created by Twitter Inc. co-founder Jack Dorsey, introduced a
checkout product to help merchants track sales, broadcast deals
and help shoppers find nearby stores on their mobile phones.  Retailers can download the Square Register application for
free on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet, the San Francisco-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Square , which makes a  credit-card  reader that plugs into
the audio jack of a smartphone, is adding features to broaden
its appeal to merchants and shoppers. The startup is using
technology to seize on growing interest from businesses and
advertisers to reach consumers on the go. The new product will
also let retailers store customer information so a credit card
isn’t needed for every purchase.  “Cash registers and credit card terminals are relics of an
expensive, complicated, and impersonal commercial transaction
system,” Dorsey said in the statement. “We’re transforming
everyday transactions between buyers and sellers into something
special.”  Square was started in 2009. In the first three months of
the year the company processed about $66 million in payments and
will probably triple that amount in the current quarter, Chief
Operating Officer Keith Rabois said in an interview last month.
PayPal Inc., by comparison, handled $27.4 billion in payments
during the same period, while  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest
payments network, processed $861 billion.  Visa made an undisclosed investment in Square last month.
Payments made via smartphone credit-card readers may rise to $55
billion by 2015, from $11 billion this year, researcher  Aite
Group LLC  estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  