-- 
Stealing Michael Jackson Sets Cuban on Road to Musical Freedom: Interview

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-05-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/stealing-michael-jackson-sets-cuban-on-road-to-musical-freedom-interview.html
Growing up in  Havana , Jorge Gomez and
his friends got around Fidel Castro’s ban on U.S. music by
taking their transistor radios to rooftops to steal  Michael Jackson  or Chaka Khan from the airwaves.  Gomez and some musician friends fled Cuba and in 2001
formed the group  Tiempo Libre , which specializes in timba, a
mixture of salsa, jazz, rock and Cuban music. The last CD,
“Bach in Havana,” featured the composer’s classics with a
Latin beat and earned them a Grammy nomination. Their faces
appeared on  Cafe Bustelo  coffee cans, their music on ABC’s
“Dancing With the Stars.”  The group’s follow-up recording, “My Secret Radio” (Sony
Masterworks), was released this month. It recalls the days of
censored music and pays tribute to one of the group’s idols,
 Earth, Wind & Fire . I spoke with Gomez at Bloomberg News global
headquarters in  New York  a few days before Tiempo Libre
performed at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Cole: With Castro’s censorship of outside music, how did
you get records?  Gomez: You had to wait for someone to come from another
country to bring records into the country. They would come from
 Mexico , for example, and then they would make copies. That’s
when we started listening to music.  Cole: Tell me about your secret radio.  Gomez: My grandfather gave one to my father and my father
gave one to me. We had to make our own antenna to listen to
America radio because in Cuba, the antenna is too short. We had
to wait until 1 a.m., until all the Cuban  radio stations  stopped
broadcasting. We spent from 1 a.m. to 6 a.m. listening to radio,
and we recorded everything.  ‘Smell of Flowers’  Cole: Were you okay with leaving your native land and going
first to Central America and then to Miami?  Gomez: I had to leave Cuba to fulfill my dream, but you pay
a high price. You miss things like the smell of the flowers in
the morning, the people. But you have to try to forget about
those things.  Cole: One of the songs on your latest CD is a remake of an
Earth, Wind & Fire song. Have you met the band?  Gomez: Yes! The other day I was at one of their sound
checks, and I got to play with them! I wanted to cry.  Cole: Will you ever return to Cuba?  Gomez: I would love to do that, but it’s one thing to say
that, and to live there is another. When you travel in the U.S.,
you realize that this is one of the best countries in the world.
When you go to  Italy , you find that the bed is too small or the
elevator isn’t working. I live in  Miami Beach  now.  Tiempo Libre performances this year include: Florence,
Italy (June 5);  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  (June 10-11);
Asheville, North Carolina (June 12); Omaha, Nebraska (July 7);
and  San Francisco  (Oct 9). Information and full tour schedule:
 http://www.tiempolibremusic.com/events   (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 