-- 
Strauss-Kahn New York Case May Curb Libertine Ways of Powerful French Men

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-05-24T15:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/strauss-kahn-new-york-case-may-curb-libertine-ways-of-powerful-french-men.html
The sexual escapades of powerful men
in  France  have always been met with Gallic shrugs. Not anymore.  The arrest in New York of former International Monetary
Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn on charges of attempted rape
is forcing men to watch what they say and emboldening women to
challenge the modern-day version of France’s “droit de
cuissage,” a feudal practice giving masters the right to have
sex with female servants. It’s prompting introspection in the
media over whether its laissez-faire attitude toward private
lives of those in power helps them act with impunity.  “Since power is often thought of as an aphrodisiac, there
was a sort of acceptance of men’s excesses toward women,” said
Rachel Mulot, a member of a feminist  group called “La Barbe ,”
or The Beard, which on May 22 joined protests in Paris against
the  “dominant male.”  The Strauss-Kahn case may serve as a
trigger to help victims of sexual assaults to break the “taboo
of rape” in France, she said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was indicted May 19 on charges of
criminal sex, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful
imprisonment and forcible touching of a 32-year-old maid at the
 Sofitel hotel in Manhattan . The former French finance minister,
who had been a leading contender for next year’s presidential
elections, denies the allegations and will plead not guilty, his
lawyers say. DSK, as he’s known in France, is under house arrest
in  Manhattan .  After DSK  Early reactions from male French commentators to the maid’s
allegations sparked outrage. Jean-Francois Kahn, founder of
weekly magazine  Marianne  and a witness at Strauss-Kahn’s third
marriage in 1991, laughed as he said on state-owned radio
station France Culture, that “there may have been a careless
action, how should I put it… the shagging of a servant.” He
later  apologized .  For France, “there will be a before and an after DSK,”
former Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin was quoted as saying
in Le Figaro newspaper over the weekend. “We are not saints,
but our actions need to be coherent with our thinking. Those in
power need  to be exemplary .”  In a 24-hour online Figaro poll that ended today on whether
the reaction to the DSK case in France has been chauvinistic, 73
percent said “yes,” with one reader, Claude-Noelle Rafaldi,
writing, “We keep hearing that DSK ‘loves women.’ His behavior
and his sleazy pushiness is nothing but contemptuous. That is
not love.”  While sexual assault and attempted rape allegations that
Strauss-Kahn is accused of in  New York  are also crimes in his
home country, the French have been more indulgent when it comes
to the indiscretions of their politicians.  ‘Sexus Politicus’  “Earlier, kings had their droit de cuissage with servants
in palaces; this looked like a powerful person trying it on a
maid in a New York hotel,” Jean Quatremer, a journalist with
newspaper  Liberation , said in an interview.  Unlike in the U.S., where sexual scandals have forced the
resignation of four members of the  House of Representatives  in
the past five years and ruined the careers of a former vice-
presidential nominee and presidential candidate, sex is treated
as private matter in France. No French politician in recent
years has been brought down by a sex scandal.  In a 2006 book called “ Sexus Politicus ,” co-authors
Christophe Deloire and Christophe Dubois show how sex and
politics are inextricable in France, even though there is little
in the press to prove it.  Laissez-Faire  Former President Felix Faure died in 1899 in the arms of
his mistress, the wife of painter Adolphe Steinheil. President
 Jacques Chirac ’s nocturnal adventures were widely known, the
authors said. “Do you know where my husband is tonight?” his
wife is supposed to have asked the chauffeur, the book said.
During Francois Mitterrand’s reign, it was an open secret that
he had fathered a daughter with his mistress.  Just last year, Culture Minister Frederic Mitterrand, who
admitted to having paid for sex with boys during trips to  Asia ,
kept his job after saying the boys were of legal age.  The laissez-faire attitude gives powerful people in France
a sense of impunity, said Claude Katz, an attorney specializing
in sexual harassment cases.  The Strauss-Kahn affair “can move the lines slowly but
surely,” Katz said. “It will empower victims of sexual abuse
in France because if a maid can speak against a powerful man,
others will have a stronger voice.”  ‘Code of Silence’  Laws reinforcing women’s rights and safety are relatively
recent in France. The  law making rape a crime  dates back only to
1980. Earlier decrees were based on 19th century moral codes. A
law on sexual-harassment was approved in 1992 and one on moral
harassment was passed in 2002.  The  last bill to fight violence  against women was passed
last year. Government studies show there are 75,000 rapes a year
in the country. Only about 10 percent of the victims filed
complaints, women’s groups say.  The sufferer is “often seen as a bit guilty,” said
 Chantal Brunel , a lawmaker from President Nicolas Sarkozy’s
Union for a Popular Movement party who submitted the 2010 bill
on violence. “Some people said the maid ‘wanted it,’ which was
stunning and revolting. The reality of a possible rape has
broken the code of silence. ”  Brunel said the mood has begun to change among lawmakers at
the  National Assembly , the lower chamber of Parliament.  “The men’s views and jokes have changed,” she said. “You
can sense that they are and will be much more careful from now
on and we won’t hear as many sexist remarks.”  Soul Searching  The press is doing some soul searching of its own.  “In this country of sleazy men, will we finally dare to
say that macho behavior breeds impunity?”  Christine Lambert , a
reporter for Marianne, wrote in the May 21 issue.  Liberation’s Quatremer called Strauss-Kahn’s relations with
women a “problem” in a  2007 article , before he took the IMF
job, saying “he often skates close to harassment.”  Debates on the media since the DSK case have focused on
whether journalists owe their readers more than what they are
often ready to divulge on politician’s private lives.  The effects of Strauss-Kahn’s case also may be felt in
other walks of French life, said  Catherine Mabileau , who heads
international human resources for Roseland, New-Jersey based ADP
Inc., a payroll-services company.  “We’re not like in the U.S. where work relations are
extremely respectful, codified in ways that sometimes kill
spontaneity,” she said. “But we are changing what is
acceptable and what can no longer be accepted. There is a
cultural leap here to be made.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  