-- 
Sudan Air Strikes on Darfur Villages Leave 10 Dead, UN Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-23T07:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/sudan-air-strikes-on-darfur-villages-leave-10-dead-un-says.html
Air strikes by the Sudanese army on
villages in the western region of  Darfur  last week left 10
people dead, the  United Nations-African Union peacekeeping
mission  said, citing residents in the area.  The attacks took place in the villages of Um Rayi and
Hashaba in North Darfur state on May 18, the mission, known as
Unamid, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Other air
strikes in the area of Baashim village in North Darfur state
didn’t lead to any reported casualties, the mission said.  The strikes came after the government suspended Unamid
flights to some locations in North Darfur state and restricted
all movement of peacekeepers and aid workers in South Darfur
state beyond a 15-kilometer (9-mile) radius from Nyala, the
state capital.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled didn’t answer
calls to his mobile phone seeking comment. Khaled said last week
the Sudanese army was chasing fighters from the  Justice and
Equality Movement , the largest Darfur rebel group, who have been
making “suspicious movements” in South Darfur state.  Insurgents in Darfur took up arms in 2003, accusing the
government of neglecting the region. The conflict has led to the
deaths of as many as 300,000 people, mainly due to illness and
starvation, and forced about 2.7 million to flee their homes,
according to UN estimates. The Sudanese government has put the
death toll at about 10,000.  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest warrants
for Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir, accusing him of
responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur. He denies
the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 