-- 
Swiss Luxury Brands Wait for Michael Schumacher’s Formula One Comeback Win

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-23T00:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/swiss-luxury-brands-wait-for-michael-schumacher-s-formula-one-comeback-win.html
Michael Schumacher ’s record seven
Formula One championships lured Swiss luxury retail brands when
he made a comeback last year. They’re still waiting for him to
get his form back.  The 42-year-old finished sixth for Mercedes in yesterday’s
Spanish Grand Prix at Montmelo near  Barcelona  and hasn’t earned
a top-three finish in the 24 races since his return. Red Bull’s
Sebastian Vettel held off  Lewis Hamilton  of McLaren to win.  Schumacher added fashion brand Jet Set AG, Navyboot AG and
watchmaker  Audemars Piguet  to his endorsement portfolio when he
ended his retirement after three years. Like other top drivers,
he probably commands a fee of about $1 million from personal
sponsors, according to Zak Brown, chief executive officer of
Zionsville, Indiana-based Just Marketing, which has brokered 
several Formula One sponsorships.  “These Swiss brands were buying into heritage and
success” with Schumacher,  Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports
business strategy at Coventry University in the U.K., said.
“With every race he doesn’t finish or score a point, his brand
equity is being progressively eroded.”  Schumacher dominated Formula One with Ferrari, winning five
straight titles through 2004 and becoming the best-paid athlete
after golfer  Tiger Woods  at the time, according to Forbes
magazine. He had endorsement deals with companies including
L’Oreal SA and Vodafone Group Plc before retiring.  Joy is Gone  He finished 12th of 24 drivers at the May 8 race in
Istanbul before telling reporters “the big joy has gone right
now.” After media reports that he may end his comeback early,
Schumacher said at the  Spanish Grand Prix  that he was referring
only to the race in  Turkey  and “has no issues or problems.”  Audemars Piguet , which organized an event for clients to
meet Schumacher in  Shanghai  last month, said in e-mailed
response to questions that it was “first and foremost the man
and his overall career” that prompted it to sponsor him.
Navyboot chief executive Faris Momani said the German is a
“legend” and he has no regrets about its agreement that
includes making a  limited-edition  Schumacher branded boot that
costs 5,000 euros ($7,080) a pair. Jet Set declined to comment.  “We are very sure that he will be back on the winning
track,” Momani said in an e-mail.  Best of Season  Schumacher had his best finish of the season yesterday,
beating teammate  Nico Rosberg , scoring eight points and taking
his overall tally to 14. Vettel leads the standings with 118
points and Hamilton is second with 77. Schumacher, who is in
10th place, said the Mercedes car wasn’t fast enough to move him
further up the field.  “It’s not where we want to be, that’s for sure,”
Schumacher told reporters after the race.  Vettel finished 0.6 seconds ahead of Hamilton at the
Circuit de Catalunya.  Jenson Button  of McLaren was third. Vettel
said his team radioed him with 10 of the 66 laps left to say he
couldn’t use his power boost button because of technical
problems. He fended off Hamilton’s attempts to pass to win his
fourth race in five this season.  Schumacher has “still got the knowledge but he doesn’t
have the mechanical superiority” he used to have in winning
five titles at Ferrari, three-time world champion Jackie Stewart
said. Schumacher also has to contend with the best generation of
young talent since the 1960s, Stewart said, pointing to Vettel,
Hamilton and Rosberg, who are all under 27.  “There’s a galaxy of younger drivers that doesn’t hold him
in the highest esteem and won’t get out of the way for him,”
Stewart said in an interview.  Schumacher is approaching the midway stage in a three-year
contract with Mercedes. He’s still giving sponsors value for
money even if he’s not competing for wins, according to Just
Marketing CEO Brown.  “It’s not like he’s coming 18th in races,” Brown said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the Circuit de Catalunya in Montmelo, Spain, 
at   aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  