-- 
U.A.E. Should Limit Borrowing to Avoid Future Risk, IMF Says

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-23T16:15:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/u-a-e-should-limit-borrowing-to-avoid-future-risk-imf-says.html
The United Arab Emirates government
must limit borrowing to avoid risks to banks and government-
related entities, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The  Central Bank  “should continue to prepare the banking
system for further possible deterioration in asset quality and
future risks,” the Washington-based fund said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Going forward, limiting overall GRE borrowing
by emirate, developing a GRE risk management framework, and
reporting contingent liabilities arising from GREs in the fiscal
accounts will help reduce GRE risks,” it said, referring to
government-related entities.  The U.A.E., a federation of seven emirates along the
 Persian Gulf , has been hurt by the global credit crisis, which
weakened lending and investment banking while provisions for bad
loans increased as the economy slowed. Dubai World, one of the
emirate’s three main state-owned holding companies, reached a
deal with creditors to delay payments on about $25 billion of
loans, while Dubai Holding is also in talks with lenders to
delay payments on about $8.5 billion of debt.  Dubai and its state-owned companies ran up debt of at least
$129.3 billion, according to estimates by Credit Suisse Group
AG, as the emirate developed its property, tourism, trade and
financial-services industries. Dubai and government entities
have about $18 billion of loans coming due in 2011, according to
a Standard Chartered economist estimate in December.  “The authorities should complete the restructuring of GRE
debt, ensure the viability of these entities through writing-off
impaired assets, and communicate their strategy on GRE debt
refinancing,” the IMF said, calling for better disclosure of
financial accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 