-- 
U.S. Credit Swaps Surge Most in Two Months on European Concern

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-23T21:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/u-s-credit-swaps-surge-most-in-two-months-on-european-concern.html
The cost of protecting corporate
bonds from default in the U.S. rose by the most since March 21
on signs  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is worsening.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2 basis points to a
mid-price of 91.8 basis points as of 4:41 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, reached the
highest since April 26 after Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist party suffered its worst defeat
in more than 30 years in local elections amid a backlash over
austerity measures. The gauge has increased from 88.6 basis
points on May 19, the day before  Standard & Poor’s  revised
 Italy ’s credit-rating outlook to negative from stable.  “The market seems to be taking a page right out of last
year’s playbook,” Michael Reiner, a New York-based credit
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said in a note dated today.
“Fears of euro sovereign contagion, combined with ratings
actions on Greece and Italy, are putting substantial pressure on
global equities and commodities, in turn leading to weakness in
U.S. credit.”  Greece’s credit rating was put on watch for possible
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s on
May 9. A Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago economic gauge
unexpectedly dropped below zero, pushing the  S&P 500 Index  to
the lowest level in more than a month.  European Swaps  The cost of insuring euro-region government debt rose,
according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps on  Greece 
soared 54 basis points to a record 1,400.6, according to data
provider CMA. Ireland jumped 13.5 to 654.1,  Portugal  gained 25
to 664.5, while Italy increased 9.9 to 170.6 and  Spain  climbed
10.8 to 272.8, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which falls as investor confidence deteriorates, declined 0.4
percentage point to 101.9 percent of face value.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  