-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall on Concern About Europe as Commodities Tumble

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-23T22:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/u-s-stock-index-futures-sink-united-continental-alcoa-decline-in-europe.html
U.S. stocks retreated, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest drop in two months, as
commodities slumped amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening and the global economic recovery is losing momentum.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  dropped at least 1.9 percent as figures showed
weaker manufacturing growth in China.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  declined more than 1.3 percent, following a slump
in European lenders, as Spain’s ruling party suffered its worst
election defeat in 30 years and S&P warned it may downgrade
Italy’s debt.  Boeing Co. (BA)  decreased 1.6 percent as analysts
predicted risk for further delay of its newest jumbo jets.  The S&P 500 retreated 1.2 percent, the most since March 16,
to 1,317.37 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The benchmark gauge fell to
the lowest level in a month. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
decreased 130.78 points, or 1.1 percent, to 12,381.26.  “We see the markets move towards de-risking as investors
are concerned about the continued sovereign risks in  Europe 
coupled with new fears that global economic growth has peaked,”
said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at Security
Global Investors in Irvington, New York. “These fears are
magnified by the imminent end to QE2 and the prospect of a sharp
reduction in government spending.”  The S&P 500 climbed to an almost three-year high on the
final trading day of April. It has slumped 3.4 percent from then
as economic data missed economists’ estimates and investors
prepared for the  Federal Reserve  to complete its $600 billion
bond-purchase program, known as quantitative easing or “QE,”
at the end of June. Still, the benchmark has rallied 4.8 percent
from the end of 2010 amid government stimulus measures and
higher-than-estimated earnings.  Average Level  Today’s decline dragged the S&P 500 below its average level
from the past 50 days, which may signal more losses to investors
whose decisions are influenced by chart patterns. The index
hadn’t closed below its 50-day moving average, currently at
about 1,325.6, in more than a month.  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago’s gauge of economic
activity unexpectedly dropped below zero in April. The national
index, which draws on 85 economic indicators, was minus 0.45 in
April versus 0.32 in March. A reading below zero indicates
below-trend-growth in the national economy and a sign of easing
pressures on future inflation.  Europe,  China   Global stocks slumped today amid growing concern that
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and the economic rebound is
slowing. Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s
Socialist party suffered its worst defeat in more than 30 years
in local elections amid a backlash over austerity measures.
Italy’s credit-rating outlook was revised to negative from
stable by S&P on May 20. Data today showed China’s manufacturing
may expand at a slower pace this month.  The euro tumbled to a record low against the Swiss franc
and the  U.S. dollar  rallied, reducing the appeal of commodities
as alternative investments.  Freeport, the largest publicly traded copper producer,
declined 2 percent to $47.42. Halliburton, the second-biggest
oilfield services provider, dropped 2.2 percent to $46.16.
Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, lost 2.3 percent to $101.89.  Bank of America declined 1.4 percent to $11.42. Citigroup
retreated 2.1 percent to $40.16.  Boeing dropped 1.6 percent to $76.28. The company’s plan to
ship the first of its newest jumbo jets by mid-2011 as part of
the “Year of the 747” risks another delay that would add to
the 18-month setback for the plane, two analysts said.  Minor Issues  The 747-8 “may miss its ‘near midyear’ delivery target by
6-8 weeks due to minor ‘issues,’” Cai Von Rumohr, a Cowen & Co.
analyst in Boston, wrote in a May 20 note to investors.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Joseph Nadol said the same day he also sees a
possible delay for the plane.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  fell 0.5 percent to $35.81. The biggest
personal-computer maker has dropped nine straight days, the
longest losing streak since at least July 1980, Bloomberg data
show. The company cut its sales forecast and missed quarterly
profit projections on May 17 and has had its rating cut by at
least 11 analysts since then.  Hewlett-Packard also is seeing an exodus of managers. Three
senior vice presidents -- Marius Haas, Tom Iannotti and Gary Budzinski -- are departing, people familiar with the matter said
last week.  Social Media  LinkedIn Corp. declined 5.2 percent to $88.30. The first
major U.S. social-media company to go public more than doubled
following its initial public offering last week. The drop is “a
natural reaction to the surge in the stock price that occurred
last week, especially given the market weakness” today,
according to Clay Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co.  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF)  rose the most in the S&P 500,
climbing 6.3 percent to $147.75. The world’s second-largest
maker of nitrogen fertilizer was boosted to “overweight” from
“neutral” by JPMorgan Chase & Co., which cited “its
valuation, solid cash flow characteristics, strong crop prices
and a favorable outlook for agricultural fundamentals in the
years ahead.”  The advance since the S&P 500’s 2011 bottom on March 16 has
been led by companies whose earnings are least-dependent on
economic growth. Health-care stocks such as Johnson & Johnson
have the biggest increase among 10 industries at 13 percent. The
household-product group including  Procter & Gamble Co . climbed
12 percent, phone companies like  AT&T Inc. (T)  gained 11 percent and
utilities such as Southern Co. rallied 10 percent.  Those groups have the four smallest returns since the bull
market began on March 3, 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Months in which so-called defensive industries lead the
market have been a time to buy stocks in the past, according to
data compiled by Birinyi Associates. The  S&P 500  has returned an
average of 11 percent in the 90 days after drugmakers,
utilities, household-products producers and telephone stocks led
the index by 5 percent or more for two months, data from 13
instances since 1960 show. During those rallies, technology
makers, retailers and banks posted the biggest gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  