-- 
U.S. Commercial Real Estate Prices Decline to Post-Crash Low, Moody’s Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-23T17:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/u-s-commercial-real-estate-prices-decline-to-post-crash-low-moody-s-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices fell
to a post-recession low in March as sales of financially
distressed assets weighed on the market, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index dropped
4.2 percent from February and is now 47 percent below the peak
of October 2007, Moody’s said in a statement today.  The national index has fallen for four straight months as
sales of distressed properties hurt real estate values. Investor
demand is strongest for well-leased buildings in such major
markets as  New York  and  Washington  as vacancy rates decline and
the economy grows.  The index “continues to bounce along the bottom as a large
share of distressed transactions preclude a meaningful recovery
of overall market prices,” Tad Philipp, Moody’s director of
commercial real estate research, said in the statement.
“Indeed, the post-peak low in price has been reached in the
same period as a post-peak high in distressed transactions has
been recorded.”  So-called trophy properties in New York, Washington,
 Boston , Chicago,  Los Angeles  and  San Francisco  are helping those
markets avoid the drag caused by distressed asset sales
nationwide, Moody’s reported. Prices of properties of $10
million or more have risen 23 percent since their July 2009 low,
according to a separate report issued today.  No Recovery Signals  The overall index shows “no sign of recovery,” Moody’s
said.  Almost a third of all March transactions measured by
Moody’s were considered distressed, meaning the properties’
owners faced foreclosure, had difficulty covering their mortgage
payments or experienced other financial problems. It was the
largest proportion of distressed property sales in the history
of the index, Moody’s said.  Price increases for high-profile properties in major
markets “appear to have taken a breather, providing less of a
positive effect on overall market results than it has in recent
months,” according to today’s report. Transactions involving
such assets also fell, meaning that those properties that did
sell were more likely to be troubled, Moody’s said.  CoStar Report  Prices for investment-grade properties in the U.S. fell 4.9
percent in March from the previous month,  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a
real estate data service based in Washington, said May 11.
Values were up 2.2 percent from March 2010 and down 38 percent
from the peak in June 2007,  according  to the company.  CoStar, unlike Moody’s, tracks transactions of less than
$2.5 million.  Green Street Advisors Inc. , a real estate research company
in  Newport Beach ,  California , reported rising prices in April.
Commercial property values increased 2 percent from the previous
month and 18 percent from a year earlier, the company said May
5. Prices are down 13 percent from the August 2007 peak.  Green Street’s index includes deals that are in negotiation
or under contract, and is weighted by asset value. Moody’s
tracks completed sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net 
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  