-- 
Sudan Army Rejects UN Call to Exit Town in Abyei Claimed by North, South

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-05-23T17:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/un-calls-for-immediate-withdrawal-of-sudanese-forces-from-disputed-town.html
Sudan  rejected a UN call to withdraw
from the Abyei region’s main town and said it would keep forces
there until a new accord is signed with Southern Sudan that
guarantees stability and freedom of movement for all citizens.  The north’s troops have become entrenched in several parts
of the disputed border region to protect civilians, reaching
Bahr al-Arab, south of Abyei town, or Kiir River as it is known
in the south, Defense Minister Abdelrahim Mohamed Hussein said.  “The circumstances need, in our opinion, a new agreement
to be signed,” Hussein told lawmakers today in Omdurman, a
suburb of Khartoum, the Sudanese capital. “We are staying in
Abyei until we get an order telling us otherwise, and we will
not let go of one inch of land.”  The capture of Abyei took place May 21, hours after the
arrival of a dozen top  United Nations  diplomats in Khartoum. It
sparked concern that violence may escalate between northern and
Southern Sudan, which fought a two-decade civil war that ended
with a U.S.-brokered peace accord in 2005. The UN Security
Council demanded the “immediate withdrawal” of Sudan’s forces,
while the  African Union  expressed “very grave concern” at the
development.  “This is a very serious violation of the comprehensive
peace agreement and it certainly jeopardizes the process of
negotiation that has been underway,” the U.S. Special Envoy for
Sudan, Princeton Lyman, said in  Washington .  ‘Serious’ Danger  Lyman said Sudan’s actions were an “extremely
disproportionate response” that created a “serious” danger.
U.S. officials, including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
have been speaking with Sudanese leaders to try to diffuse the
situation, Lyman said.  The Sudanese army’s military operation “threatens to
undermine the mutual commitment of the parties to avoid a return
to war,” according to a statement by the UN  Security Council 
read out by  Gerard Araud , French ambassador to the UN, at a news
conference yesterday in Khartoum. “It is very rare for the
Security Council to express itself this way out of  New York .”  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum
said it gained military control over Abyei in self-defense after
accusing Southern Sudan’s army of attacking its troops while
they were withdrawing from the region with a UN convoy. At least
22 members of Sudan’s army were killed in the May 19 attack and
more than 100 are missing, Hussein said today.  Full-Scale War  The Sudan People’s Liberation Army of Southern Sudan denied
its forces were responsible for the initial assault and said the
actions taken by the north’s forces were a step toward “full-
scale” war.  The “SPLA will not just watch and allow the Sudan armed
forces to invade  Southern Sudan ,” Philip Aguer, a spokesman for
the group, told reporters today in Juba, capital of Southern
Sudan.  The independence of oil-rich Southern Sudan, backed in a
Jan. 9 vote, is scheduled for July 9.  Northern and Southern Sudan had agreed to withdraw “all
unauthorized forces” from Abyei by May 17 after clashes on May
1 killed 14 people.  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the Khartoum government. The region
produces less than 2,500 barrels of oil a day, according to
Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  Militia Looting  As many as 30,000 civilians had fled south before Sudan’s
Armed Forces rolled into the town with dozens of tanks, leaving
the town deserted amid reports of looting by militia, according
to UN officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. Mortar
shells hit a UN compound, forcing about 200 staffers to seek
refuge in bunkers.  Armed elements have been burning and looting parts of Abyei
town, the  UN peacekeeping mission  in Sudan said today in an e-
mailed statement. The mission urged the Sudanese government,
which currently controls Abyei, “to urgently ensure that the
Sudan Armed Forces fulfill their responsibility and intervene to
stop these criminal acts,” according to the statement.  Fighting in the area three years ago between the armies of
northern and Southern Sudan killed 89 people and forced more
than 90,000 people to flee their homes, according to the UN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Khartoum at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 