-- 
Hungary Mortgage Plan Offers Temporary Fix, DZ, Nordea Banks Say

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-05-23T12:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/hungary-mortgage-plan-offers-temporary-fix-dz-nordea-banks-say.html
Hungary ’s proposal to relieve
foreign-currency mortgage holders from the pressure of mounting
payments is only a temporary solution and may weaken the forint
in the long term, analysts at DZ Bank and Nordea Bank AB said.  Relief measures include a temporary fix of currency
exchange rates, may offer incentives for banks to resume lending
and a quarterly quota on the auction of mortgaged properties
after a state ban on evictions expires on July 1.  “The plan will in fact only temporarily alleviate the debt
servicing burden of mortgage-ridden households,” Budapest-based
DZ Bank economist Andras Oszlay said in an e-mail today.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is delivering on
a campaign pledge to protect foreign-currency borrowers who are
unable to make payments as a result of the forint’s weakening,
particularly against the Swiss franc. The government is also
seeking to re-ignite lending to bolster the country’s recovery
from its worst recession in 18 years while trying to avoid added
budget spending.  Hungarian household mortgages totaled 4.1 trillion forint
($21.3 billion) at the end of March, of which 63 percent were
denominated in foreign currencies, according to central bank
 data . Swiss franc-denominated mortgages accounted for 53 percent
of the total mortgage stock, according to the  figures .  The government and commercial banks agreed on a plan to
temporarily fix the Swiss franc’s exchange rate on household
mortgages at 180 forint for a maximum of three-and-a-half years,
Janos Muller, the chief adviser of the country’s  Banking
Association , said last week. The rate for euro- and yen-
denominated mortgages will also be fixed, he said, without
giving a rate.  Forint Slump  The forint has weakened 11.3 percent against the Alpine
currency over the past year, reaching a record-low 226.4 forint
per franc in September. Most franc-denominated mortgages were
registered when the forint traded at 160 to 180 per franc.  “A real solution to the problem will be delayed three-four
years ahead,”  Elisabeth Andreew , a strategist at Nordea in
Copenhagen, wrote in a research note today. The measures don’t
eliminate the problem of long-term foreign-currency debt and are
likely to keep the forint under pressure in a six- to 24-month
horizon, she said.  “In a wider context, other Hungarian assets may also
struggle, most notably Eurobonds and CDS may come under
pressure,” Andreew said.  Rate Differential  The forint weakened to the lowest in two months against the
euro and it dropped a combined 2.7 percent versus the Swiss
franc in the past two trading sessions, the steepest decline
since mid-March. OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender,
slumped 3 percent to the lowest in almost seven weeks.  The difference between the fixed-rate payments and the
actual exchange rate may accumulate in a separate account where
the debt will accumulate or disappear if better exchange rates
emerge, the  Economy Ministry  said last month in its euro
convergence report.  For the negative balance, the government will undertake a
guarantee for the period of the fixed exchange rate and 25
percent fallback guarantee for the rest of the term, according
to the ministry.  Even with state guarantees, the relief plan “shifts
considerable burden to banks, most notably in the form of
falling profits,”  DZ Bank ’s Oszlay said. “At a time when
foreign banking groups already reallocate funds from their
Hungarian subsidiaries to other countries in the region as a
response to the outstanding high banking tax, a potential
further deterioration of bank balances is really unwanted.”  Apart from OTP, Hungary’s financial industry is dominated
by foreign-owned banks, including the units of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,
 Bayerische Landesbank ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and UniCredit SpA.  Lenders may be allowed to partly or fully deduct housing
loans and a part of credit to small- and medium-sized companies
from the basis of the 120 billion-forint special tax levied on
financial institutions until at least 2012.  Going forward, a “broader-term agreement, which re-ignites
banking sector lending and encourages foreign banks to maintain
their exposure to Hungary, will be crucial for forint
stability,” analysts at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  said in a report today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edith Balazs at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  