-- 
Turkey Loans Grow Fastest Since September, Defying Central Bank

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-23T13:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/turkey-loans-grow-fastest-since-september-defying-central-bank.html
Turkish banks expanded their loans at
the fastest pace since September, when the central bank started
increasing their lira reserve requirements to cap growth in
lending.  Loans expanded an annual 36.3 percent to 594.3 billion
liras ($369 billion) in the week ending May 16, the banking
industry regulator in Ankara said on its website today. Lending
rose a weekly 1.2 percent, it said.  Loans are growing more quickly even after the central bank
has increased the lira reserves banks are required to set aside
on six occasions in eight months. The bank’s Monetary Policy
Committee, which holds its monthly meeting in two days time,
says the lending poses a risk to financial stability as it
increases demand for imported goods, widening the current
account deficit.  “When we look at this data we believe that the central
bank may increase both lira and foreign currency reserve
requirements” at this week’s meeting, Tufan Comert, a
strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed report to investors today.  More Cautious  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on May 17 it’s becoming more
cautious on investing in  Turkey  because of its widening current
account deficit. The lira has lost 3.9 percent against the
dollar this year, the biggest decline among major emerging
market currencies after the South African rand. It fell 1.2
percent to 1.6047 per dollar at 4:13 p.m. today.  The central bank and government say they want loan growth
to slow to 25 percent annually this year. The government is
ready to respond with fiscal and monetary measures should the
central bank’s measures fail to stem the expansion, Finance
Minister Mehmet Simsek said on May 16.  The cumulative current account deficit for the 12 months
including March was $60.5 billion, or about 7.7 percent of
forecast gross domestic product for 2011. The government’s
economic program estimates a gap of $39.3 billion and a deficit
of 5.4 percent of GDP this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  