-- 
Turkish Lira Falls to 11-Week Low, Yields Rise on Reserve Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-23T15:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/turkish-yields-rise-to-7-week-high-lira-falls-on-reserve-bets.html
The lira declined to an 11-week low
and Turkish bond yields rose after loan growth jumped the most
since September and concern deepened  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening.  The lira slid 1.3 percent to 1.6060 per dollar, weakening
for a third day to its lowest since March 3, at 6:38 p.m. in
Istanbul. Yields on two-year benchmark debt gained as much as 13
basis points, before trading one basis point higher at 8.96
percent, according to the TEB Local Benchmark Bond Index.  Standard & Poor’s  signaled it may cut Italy’s credit-rating
and  Spain ’s ruling party suffered its worst defeat in more than
30 years in local elections amid a backlash over austerity
measures, spurring investors to shun riskier assets. Turkish
loans expanded an annual 36.3 percent in the week ending May 16,
defying attempts by the central bank to contain a lending boom.  “When we look at this data we believe that the central
bank may increase both lira and foreign-currency reserve
requirement,” at this week’s meeting, Tufan Comert, a
strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed report today. “This will be negative for both the  bond
market  and the Turkish lira” as it may spur banks to sell debt
and cuts the amount of foreign currency in the market, he said.  The central bank has raised  reserve requirements  for banks
six times since September to try to slow a domestic boom that’s
drawing in imports and widening the current-account deficit.
Policy makers, who kept their benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 6.25 percent to deter short-term investment inflows,
next meet on May 25.  “‘We foresee that the central bank will hike lira reserve
requirement rate by at least 200 basis points on Wednesday,”
Ozgur Altug, chief economist at BGC Partners in Istanbul, said
in a note to clients.  The  ISE National-100 index (XU100)  fell 0.1 percent to 63,209.88 at
the close of trading, declining for a fourth day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  