-- 
Vietnam Stocks Tumble to Lowest Since 2009 on Inflation Reports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-23T04:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/vietnam-stocks-tumble-to-lowest-since-2009-on-inflation-reports.html
Vietnam’s stocks tumbled, sending the
benchmark index to its lowest level since July 2009, after news
reports said the nation’s inflation may accelerate faster than
previous estimates.  The VN Index on the  Ho Chi Minh City  Stock Exchange slumped
3.5 percent to 417.82 at the 11 a.m. local time close. Bao Viet
Holdings, the biggest insurer, sank 4.5 percent to 74,000 dong,
the lowest close since April 14.  Masan Group Corp. (MSN) , the third-
most valuable company on the bourse, plunged 4.6 percent to
92,500 dong.  The country’s consumer prices index will rise no less than
2 percent this month from April after climbing 2.38 percent in
Ho Chi Minh City and 1.76 percent in Hanoi in May, the state-run
Saigon Tiep Thi online newswire reported, citing unidentified
economists. The Ministry of Finance’s domestic market department
forecast prices will rise by between 1.8 percent and 2 percent
in May from April, state-run Phap Luat Thanh Pho Ho Chi Minh
newspaper reported on April 27.  “With the higher-than-expected prices in the two main
cities, investors are concerned that the picture of inflation
for the whole country is still very gloomy,” said Nguyen Duy Phong, a Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at ACB Securities Inc.
“Pessimistic sentiment is dominating the market now and rumors
that the central bank will continue to tighten monetary policy
are spreading, which will hurt businesses and banks.”  The  State Bank  of Vietnam on May 17 boosted the repurchase
rate to 15 percent from 14 percent, the second increase this
month and its sixth this year to curb inflation, which is at 28-
month high. The central bank has more than doubled the rate
since early November as a widening trade deficit forced four
currency devaluations in 15 months and threatened growth.  ‘Killing’ Companies  Interest-rate payments have become a “major component” of
production costs for Vietnamese companies, VinaCapital
Investment Management Ltd. said in a research note sent today.  “High  interest rates  are killing the smaller companies,”
Alan Pham, chief economist at VinaCapital, said in a telephone
interview today from Ho Chi Minh City. “The squeeze on
liquidity is also starving the market of funding.”  Vietnam ’s consumer prices climbed 17.51 percent in April
from a year earlier, the highest since December 2008. Prices
rose 3.32 percent in April from March.  The General Statistics Office is due to release May’s
consumer price index this week.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  