-- 
U.S. Appeals Court Questions Its Authority in Obama Health-Care Cases

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/virginia-court-questions-its-own-jurisdiction-in-obama-health-care-appeals.html
The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Virginia
questioned whether it has the authority to decide the
constitutionality of the Obama administration’s health-care
overhaul.  The three-judge panel in Richmond said yesterday the
question is whether the Anti-Injunction Act, which generally
bars decisions on tax law before taxes are collected, prevents
the court from ruling on a challenge to the statute’s
requirement that most Americans buy health insurance.  “It’s an interesting twist,” said Kevin Walsh, a law
professor at the  University of Richmond  and a former clerk to
Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia . “This is an apparent
resurrection of an issue the parties once argued about and
seemingly put behind them.”  The judges are reviewing one lower-court ruling that upheld
the health-care law and another that struck down part of it. On
May 10, during back-to-back arguments lasting about two hours,
the issue of the court’s jurisdiction was touched on by one of
the lawyers then dropped without questions from the court.  The  Virginia  appeals stem from a challenge to the law by
the state of Virginia and another by Liberty University, a
Christian school founded in Lynchburg, Virginia, by the late
Reverend Jerry Falwell.  Power to Tax  In court, the government argued that the legislation is an
extension of Congress’s power to tax, as people who fail to buy
coverage starting in 2014 would face a penalty to be included on
an individual’s tax return.  In the lower court,  Justice Department  attempts to win
dismissal of the cases on the Anti-Injunction Act were rejected.
The government didn’t cite the law on appeal.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Brian
Gottstein, a spokesman for Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli, declined to comment.  “We will file our response and see what happens when the
court issues its ruling,” said Mathew Staver, dean of Liberty
University School of Law.  The Virginia court is the first appeals court to review the
health-care law. Two other appeals will be heard next month in
Cincinnati and Atlanta.  Linchpin of Mandate  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming that the
 insurance industry  can’t meet its obligations for coverage under
the law without expanding the pool of younger, healthier
customers. Absent the mandate, the health-insurance market would
wither, the government said in court papers.  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson ruled that the mandate
represented an “unchecked expansion” of congressional power.
No Supreme Court decision authorized Congress to force an
individual to “enter the stream of commerce by purchasing a
commodity in the private market,” he wrote.  Liberty University is appealing the decision by U.S.
District Judge Norman Moon, in Lynchburg, on Nov. 30 upholding
the act. In a 54-page opinion, Moon compared the insurance
mandate to minimum wage laws.  Moon, in his ruling, said the Anti-Injunction Act wouldn’t
apply because Congress specifically chose not to label
violations of the health insurance mandate as taxes when
drafting the law.  “I conclude that the better characterization of the
exactions imposed under the act for violations of the employer
and individual coverage provisions is that of regulatory
penalties, not taxes,” Moon wrote.  The appeals judges set a May 31 deadline for the attorneys
to respond to the court’s request.  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057 and 11-01058,
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  