-- 
VW’s Tennessee Plant Boosts U.S. Prospects

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-23T17:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/vw-s-tennessee-plant-boosts-u-s-prospects.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s $1 billion investment
in a new factory in Tennessee positions the company to boost
sales as U.S. auto demand continues to recover from an almost 
three-decade low.  VW announced it would build the plant in Chattanooga in
July 2008, months before the  U.S. economy  crashed and was smart
to maintain the plan so they could take advantage of the
recovery, said Kim Kill, director of sustainability and economic
development strategies at the Center for Automotive Research in
 Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . The factory is scheduled to open tomorrow.  Automakers have announced more than $17 billion in factory
investments for the U.S. and  Canada  since the beginning of 2010,
including $2 billion by  General Motors Co. (GM)  this month, according
to the center. Total sales of cars and light trucks may rise to
13 million this year, the average of 18 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Light-vehicle sales last year climbed to
11.6 million from a 27-year low in 2009.  “The idea that they’re going to be able to localize a
significant amount of their volume is going to significantly
reduce their costs and dramatically improve their ability to be
positioned on a more competitive basis,”  Mike Jackson , head of
North American vehicle forecasting at IHS Automotive in
Northville, Michigan, said in an interview in  New York .  VW said the United Auto Workers union may try to organize
the German automaker’s workers. UAW President  Bob King  has said
he expects to organize at least one non-union auto plant in the
U.S. this year. King has said he’s begun preliminary discussions
with some of them and has declined to identify which companies
may be targeted.  UAW Organizing  An organizing attempt may be made “at some point of time,
probably,” Frank Fischer, head of the factory, said in an
interview. “This is up to our employees.”  VW is a possible target for the UAW because it’s new, said
 Gary Chaison , a professor of industrial relations at Clark
University in Worcester,  Massachusetts . The Chattanooga site is
Volkswagen’s first assembly plant in the U.S. since 1988.  “All of the established plants the UAW has made efforts at
and has been unsuccessful,” Chaison said in an interview. “A
new plant would be a very tempting target for the UAW.”  Michele Martin, a UAW spokeswoman, declined to comment.  VW Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  plans to boost
the company’s U.S. sales to 1 million vehicles a year, including
Audi and other brands, by 2018. The Chattanooga plant will
assemble the Passat midsize car.  Chattanooga residents dropped off fruit baskets and flowers
at the automaker’s temporary offices, said Guenther Scherelis, a
plant spokesman.  Tennessee  Moonshine  One German executive said his neighbors introduced him to
Tennessee moonshine and another said he was impressed by the
size of crowds at University of Tennessee football games.  “When we came down here, we were rockstars,” said Thomas
Loafman, the plant’s director of purchasing, who was part of the
team that selected the site and set up the operations.  VW picked the city partly for its available workforce, and
people have been excited about the jobs, he said. More than
85,000 applied to work at the plant, with 35,000 seeking hourly
production jobs during a three-week period, said Hans-Herbert
Jagla, the plant’s executive vice president for human resources.  The assembly positions pay $14.50 an hour, rising in three
years to $19.50, plus performance bonuses, he said.  ‘Treat Them Fair’  “We treat them fair, we provide a lot of benefits, like
retirement and health care,” he said. The plant will have a
fitness center, and a health-care clinic for workers is being
built across the street.  While U.S.-based automakers pay UAW workers $28 an hour,
contracts agreed to in 2007 allow some new hires to be paid $14
an hour.  VW already has hired 1,700 people and aims to employ more
than 2,000 as production increases, Jagla said. The average age
of the production workforce is 36, he said. Some of the workers
have manufacturing experience and few have worked in an
automobile plant, Jagla said.  The training center, the first building to open on the
complex, overlooks the plant and includes voluntary German
classes and a snack shop called Das Café.  Each worker spends three weeks in training, including a
week learning about VW and its corporate culture and test-
driving the company’s vehicles, and six to nine weeks in on-the-
job training.  While VW has been in contact with the UAW, it hasn’t
received an “official letter,” Jagla said.  Employees’ Voice  “The UAW has an approach all over the U.S.,” he said.
“We will have a voice for all of our employees here and we will
stick to the law how we treat a possible attempt.”  The UAW has struggled to organize foreign automakers’
operations in the U.S. South, Chaison said.  “There’s no tradition of unionization, and because with a
new plant, there are no grievances that are being brought up,”
he said. “This is their first chance at a well-paying, solid,
industrial manufacturing job.”  Employees doing early work on the assembly line said they
were attracted by the stable jobs and competitive compensation.  “There are good opportunities for advancement,” Bryan
Thomas said of his new job. “I’m only 19, so it’s a good place
to start a career.”  Hamilton Smith, 43, said he was excited to hear that VW was
coming to town. The UAW hasn’t approached him about organizing,
he said.  ‘Fresh Start’  “It’s a fresh start with a new company, a new company that
is going to provide stable jobs for the community,” Smith said
during a break on the line. “I think it’s a company that will
continue to grow here.”  Tonya Higgins, 40, said she left a job at a steel
manufacturer for VW because it seemed like a better opportunity.
The community likes VW, she said, noting that she gets “a
million questions” from people when they learn she works at the
plant.  “This is a clean place to work; where I was working before
wasn’t clean at all,” she said. “I think the pay is good
compared to other places, and it has a chance to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  