-- 
Was the Court Conned in Citizens United?

-- B y   T r e v o r   P o t t e r
-- 
2011-05-23T21:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/was-the-court-conned-in-citizens-united-.html
Supreme Court Justice  Anthony Kennedy 
has been had. "A campaign finance system that pairs corporate
independent expenditures with effective disclosure has not
existed before today," he confidently wrote in his majority
opinion in  Citizens United , the Court’s 2010 decision that freed
corporations, unions and others to spend unlimited sums on
electioneering.  Justice Kennedy appeared blissfully unaware that his
guarantee of disclosure was misplaced. Though his ruling left
contributions subject to the disclosure requirements of the
McCain-Feingold campaign finance law, those requirements were
rendered meaningless by a government agency pursuing a contrary
agenda.  The court’s 5-4 Citizens United decision was bound to
create a furor. So Justice Kennedy took care to emphasize that
the new campaign spending the court had unleashed would be fully
disclosed -- that shareholders would be able to hold executives
accountable for spending corporate funds on politics, and that
voters would know exactly which interests were funding which
television ads. The section of the opinion upholding the
constitutionality of federal disclosure requirements had added
force behind it. All the justices except  Clarence Thomas  signed
on -- providing a resounding 8-1 endorsement.  "The First Amendment protects political speech; and
disclosure permits citizens and shareholders to react to the
speech of corporate entities in a proper way," the opinion
stated. "This transparency enables the electorate to make
informed decisions and give proper weight to different speakers
and messages."  Shadowy Political Groups  The court’s embrace of disclosure could hardly have been
clearer. Yet we now have a system awash in anonymous donations
to shadowy political groups. According to the reform-minded
Center for Responsive Politics, advocacy groups spent
approximately $305 million in the 2010 midterm federal
elections, more than quadrupling the $70 million spent in the
2006 midterms. Few of these groups disclosed their donors; the
"transparency" promised by Justice Kennedy is nonexistent.  What went wrong? The answer lies buried in the graveyard of
election-law enforcement: the  Federal Election Commission . In
2007, prior to Citizens United, the FEC issued a little-noticed
"interpretation of law" that narrowed the scope of the McCain-
Feingold disclosure requirements. The law itself specifies that
disclosure is required of "all contributors" of $1,000 or more
to groups running electioneering communications. The FEC
interpretation changed that, requiring disclosure only of
contributors who gave money "for the purpose of furthering
electioneering communications." Of the commission’s six members,
all three Democrats and one Republican voted for the change --
the result of a compromise that kept another Republican
commissioner from achieving an even more extensive gutting of
disclosure rules.  Lack of Disclosure  In its formal "Explanation and Justification" for the rule,
the FEC said donor disclosure would be required only if the
donation was "specifically designated for electioneering
communications." In other words, if a donor refrains from
designating a specific purpose for a contribution, no disclosure
is required.  It gets worse. In 2010, after the  Supreme Court ’s 8-1
affirmation of disclosure requirements in Citizens United, the
FEC pushed further. It ignored the recommendation of its general
counsel and dismissed a complaint -- without an investigation --
against a group called Freedom Watch, which had spent more than
$125,000 on a political ad without disclosing donors.  Funding Attack Ads  In dismissing the complaint, the three Republican FEC
commissioners, Matthew Petersen, Caroline Hunter and Donald
McGahn II, stated that disclosure would be required "only if
such donations are made for the purpose of furthering the
electioneering communication that is the subject of the report."
Translation: Even if the money is given explicitly for the
purpose of funding attack ads, no disclosure is required if the
donor did not designate the contribution for a specific ad. As
this almost never happens, the rule essentially eliminates the
last vestiges of disclosure requirements.  Thus, the FEC made a monkey of the Supreme Court. The
public disclosure Justice Kennedy had explicitly guaranteed has
been thwarted by a handful of individuals who have interpreted
the law contrary to its clear words and intent. A lawsuit has
been filed by several reform groups (including my organization,
the Campaign Legal Center) challenging the FEC’s interpretation,
but it may not be resolved before the 2012 election. The three
current Democratic commissioners are seeking to undo the damage
from the 2007 rule, but they have been blocked by their
Republican colleagues (it takes four votes on the six-member
commission to take action). So the FEC’s subversion reigns as
the supreme law of the land.  According to the Constitution, Congress makes the law, the
Supreme Court interprets it, and executive branch agencies
execute it. In  Washington , it doesn’t always work that way.  (Trevor Potter is a former commissioner and chairman of the
Federal Election Commission and was general counsel of the 2008
and 2000 presidential campaigns of  John McCain . He is currently
president and general counsel of the Campaign Legal Center in
Washington. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 TPotter@Campaignlegalcenter.org   To contact the editor of this article:
Frank Wilkinson at   fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  