-- 
Wells Fargo Chief Stumpf Says Lender’s Primary Focus Controlling Expenses

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-23T12:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/wells-fargo-s-stumpf-says-lender-focuses-on-controlling-expenses.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, is concentrating on controlling expenses including
the cost of bad mortgages, Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf 
said.  The bank “continued to focus on corporate-wide expense
reductions,” according to a  presentation  by Stumpf today at a
London investor conference sponsored by Barclays Plc. Non-
interest expenses dropped 5 percent in the first quarter from
the final three months of 2010, the presentation said.  The first quarter didn’t yet reflect a new company-wide
effort to identify reductions, and the San Francisco-based bank
expects expenses tied to soured loans will drop if the economy
doesn’t weaken, according to Stumpf’s prepared remarks.  Wells Fargo, as the second-largest U.S. mortgage servicer,
faces scrutiny from federal regulators, state officials and
consumer advocates over its handling of foreclosures. The lender
was one of 14 of the largest servicers to sign consent decrees
compelling them to overhaul procedures for seizing homes and pay
back homeowners for losses on foreclosures that were mishandled.  State and federal officials have been negotiating with the
mortgage servicers, which include Citigroup Inc., Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.,
which handle almost 60 percent of U.S. home loans.  The five banks proposed paying $5 billion to settle the
probe by all 50 states that’s being led by Iowa Attorney General
Tom Miller into the mortgage servicing industry, two people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month. Stumpf
declined today to predict the outcome.  Wachovia Merger  Wells Fargo is in the final year of integrating Wachovia
Corp., and has reported more than $25 billion in profit after
buying the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank in 2008. Stumpf
said today he doesn’t regret doing the deal, which will “pay
dividends for years and years to come.”  While there are signs of increasing demand for loans from
business customers, retail customers are still “cleaning up
their portfolios,” Stumpf said.  On the regulatory front, Stumpf said reform of the
federally backed companies that guarantee home mortgages isn’t
likely before 2013. Resolving the status of  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  may be delayed in part by the 2012 election cycle,
he said.  Wells Fargo closed at $28 last week on the New York Stock
Exchange. The shares are down 9.7 percent this year, making the
stock one of the worst performers in the 24-company KBW Bank
Index, which dropped 4.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 