-- 
Worldwide Biofuels Production Guidelines Set by G8-Led Group of Nations

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-05-23T23:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/worldwide-biofuels-production-guidelines-set-by-g8-led-group-of-nations.html
The U.S. and  China  led 23 nations in
agreeing on the the first guidelines for producing biofuel from
crops such as palm oil, an agricultural commodity used for
cooking and to make detergents as well as fuel.  The Rome-based  Global Bioenergy Partnership  today released
a voluntary policy for producing and using biomass and biofuels
in ways that don’t add to  climate change  or affect food prices.
The partnership, established in 2005 by the Group of Eight
nations and five emerging economies, also includes 13
international organizations and institutions.  In February, palm oil climbed to almost a three-year high
as consumers and companies increased their use of the product in
cooking, detergents, cosmetics and biodiesel. The boom may be
exacerbating global warming as growers destroy rainforests,
needed to store carbon dioxide, to plant  palm-oil  trees, said
Corrado Clini, chairman of the partnership and director general
of Italy’s Ministry for the Environment, Land and Sea.  “Biofuels could cover up to 25 percent of the fuels
portfolio in the next 30 years,” Clini said in an interview.
“The environmental certification of biofuels would be a very
important driver for promoting biofuels in the market.”  Biomass is a renewable energy source, such as wood, crops,
manure or some garbage, that is turned into a biofuel, often by
burning.  The partnership developed 24 indicators to assess the
sustainability of biofuels based on greenhouse-gas emissions,
biological diversity, the price and supply of a national food
basket, access to energy, economic development and  energy
security . The indicators don’t include thresholds or limits and
don’t constitute a standard, according to a statement by the
group.  Full Costs  Governments have rushed to develop bioenergy alternatives
to fossil fuels without understanding the full costs, the United
Nations Food and Agriculture Organization said in a 2010  report .  “Bioenergy potentially offers poor countries many
advantages if properly managed,” according to the report.
“However, bioenergy developments have also been a cause for
deep concern regarding their economic, social and environmental
viability, because of their potential negative impacts on  food
security  through crowding out of staple  food production  and on
the environment due to natural resource scarcity and intensive
agriculture production.”  On Feb. 10, palm oil rose to 3,967 ringgit ($1,304) per
metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the highest
since March 2008.  “Palm oil produced in  Indonesia  was produced through the
destruction of the rainforest,” Clini said. “We said in  Europe 
that it’s not possible to import and use biofuels for reducing
the carbon intensity of our economies when biofuels are produced
in an unsustainable way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  