-- 
Yahoo Faulted by Investors for Delayed Alipay Disclosure

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-23T20:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/yahoo-faulted-for-delay-in-disclosing-alipay-deal.html
Yahoo! Inc. took too long to disclose
an ownership change in its Asian assets that caused a 13 percent
slump in the company’s stock, investors said.  It took Yahoo more than five weeks after learning of the
deal to inform investors that Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., a
company it partly owns, spun off its Alipay online-payment
service. The revelation fueled concern that Yahoo’s stake would
lose value.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. , a
shareholder advisory firm, said it will review whether
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo acted in a timely manner.  “If an asset disappears, that’s a risk,” said Larry Haverty, a portfolio manager at  Gamco Investors Inc. , which has
about $35 billion under management. “This disappearance
apparently took place long before it was announced. That would
indicate to me the corporation’s risk-control procedures, which
are a board responsibility, were not operating in the way that
they should have.”  Yahoo, Alibaba Group’s biggest shareholder, revealed the
ownership change May 10 after talks with the Chinese company
aimed at getting a better understanding of the “complex
situation,” it said in a May 12 statement. Chief Executive
Officer  Carol Bartz  released first-quarter earnings on April 19,
less than a month after learning of the spinoff.  The company’s disclosures were “timely and appropriate,”
Yahoo said in an e-mailed statement.  Yahoo fell 24 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $16.06 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Press Release?  Alibaba Group, which owns e-commerce businesses in  China ,
helps Yahoo investors benefit from growth in the world’s largest
Internet market. The 43 percent holding may account for as much
as three-fourths of Yahoo’s market capitalization, according to
analysts including Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at Caris & Co.
in San Francisco. Alipay, spun off to a company mostly owned by
Alibaba Group Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma, may be worth $5
billion, according to Gabelli & Co.  “A press release when they learned about it would have
been better,” said Walter Price, managing director at RCM
Capital Management in San Francisco, which has more than $100
billion under management, including Yahoo shares. “That would
have been a better way to handle it. I think it was important.”  Alibaba Group and Yahoo said May 15 that they and  Softbank
Corp. (9984) , Alibaba Group’s No. 2 shareholder, are “engaged in and
committed to productive negotiations to resolve outstanding
issues related to Alipay.”  Review Planned  The spinoff helped Alipay comply with People’s Bank of
China’s restrictions on foreign ownership of payment services.  ISS, which advises on corporate governance issues, plans to
review the disclosure as it compiles a report ahead of the
company’s  annual shareholder meeting , scheduled for June 23,
said Ted Allen, a spokesman for Rockville, Maryland-based ISS.  “We’re certainly going to look into the matter,” Allen
said.  “It’s certainly safe to say disclosure is an important
issue for shareholders.”  The disclosure kicked off disputes between Yahoo and
Alibaba Group over when Yahoo learned of the sale and whether
Alibaba Group has been compensated for the loss of Alipay.
Alibaba Group said its board, which includes Yahoo co-Founder
Jerry Yang and Softbank President Masayoshi Son, was informed of
a transfer of Alipay equity almost two years ago.  Yahoo said in a press release that it did not know of the
transfer until March 31, after the spinoff was complete.  ‘It’s a Mess’  “It’s a mess,” said  Charles Elson , director of the John
L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the  University of
Delaware . “They were just as surprised as the rest of us.
You’ve got to give them some slack there.”  Some investors didn’t understand what happened with the
asset after initially reading the disclosure, said Ben Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Capital in New York with a
“neutral” rating on the stock. investors must now wait to find
out what kind of compensation the company receives for Alipay.  “They’re now negotiating the value of the compensation
they’re going to receive for something they no longer own,”
said Schachter, who doesn’t own the stock. “That’s not a
particularly good place to be negotiating from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  