-- 
Yandex Valued at $8 Billion in IPO

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-05-24T12:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/yandex-said-to-raise-1-3-billion-as-u-s-ipo-prices-above-marketed-range.html
Yandex NV, the owner of  Russia ’s most
popular Internet search engine, raised $1.3 billion in a U.S.
initial public offering, pricing its shares above the sale’s
marketed range.  The Moscow-based company sold 52.2 million shares, or a
16.2 percent stake, at $25 each, valuing the company at about $8
billion, Yandex said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s
above the original $20 to $22 range.  Yandex, whose IPO valued the stock at about twice that of
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  relative to earnings, met increased demand as
companies file for U.S. IPOs at the fastest pace in seven years.
The offering also comes less than a week after Mountain View,
California-based LinkedIn Corp. raised $405.7 million in its
IPO, including an overallotment option.  “Yandex has picked a great time for an IPO for a tech
company,” said Anthony Moro, managing director and head of
emerging markets at Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., which has
about $1.1 trillion in assets under management. “For the longer
term, they’re in the right spot. They’re the Google of Russia.”  The company, which sold 15.4 million shares while some of
its shareholders offered 36.8 million shares, granted its
underwriters an overallotment option, Yandex said in the
statement.  Google trades at 13 times expected 2012 earnings, while
Yandex’s shares were to be sold at a price equivalent to at
least 23 times next year’s earnings based on the mid-range of
the initial offer range, two people involved in the sale said
this week.  At least 230 companies have announced plans for U.S. IPOs
so far this year, more than the same period in any other year
since 2004, when 232 companies were on file, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Yandex, whose registered address is in The Hague, will list
its shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol YNDX.
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
led the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 