-- 
Russia’s Yandex Offered at Double Google Value

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-05-25T14:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/yandex-offers-shares-at-twice-google-valuations-on-surging-ads-in-russia.html
(Corrects date of report in 17th paragraph in story
published May 23.)  Yandex NV, the owner of  Russia ’s most
popular Internet search engine, is offering shares at about
twice the price of Google Inc. relative to earnings.  The Moscow-based company, which has almost triple Google’s
market share in Russia, plans to sell shares at a price
equivalent to at least 23 times next year’s earnings, said two
people involved in the sale who declined to be identified until
the deal is announced. Google trades at 13 times expected 2012
earnings.  Underwriters stopped taking investor orders for Yandex
shares on May 20, rather than this week as planned, because of
surging demand for Internet IPOs, said two other people with
knowledge of the matter. The initial public  offering  in the U.S.
may raise more than $1.26 billion, making it the world’s biggest
technology IPO this year, after two people with knowledge of the
transaction said the shares may be priced above the company’s
original range.  “It’s a bit scary to pay such multiples, but if that’s how
the market values it, that’s how much it’s worth,” said Dmitri Kryukov, founder of Moscow-based Verno Capital, which has about
$150 million under management and is seeking to buy Yandex
shares. “This is a good, fast-growing company.”  Yandex is likely to set a price at or above $24 a share,
said the people who declined to be identified before an official
announcement. The Moscow-based company was selling 52.2 million
shares for $20 to $22 apiece. It will list on the Nasdaq Stock
Market under the symbol YNDX. At $24 a share, Yandex would be
valued at $7.71 billion.  LinkedIn Sale  The sale comes less than a week after Mountain View,
California-based LinkedIn Corp. raised $352.8 million, pricing
its IPO at top end of the range proposed to investors.  Yandex’s profit jumped 62 percent to 820 million rubles
($29 million) in the first quarter from a year earlier, as sales
climbed 65 percent to 3.89 billion rubles, according to the
company’s prospectus.  Yandex, co-founded by Chief Executive Officer Arkady Volozh
and registered in  The Hague , makes most of its revenue from
advertising, the company said in the prospectus. Online
advertising in Russia climbed 51 percent from 2008 through 2010,
when it reached 26.65 billion rubles, according to the Moscow-
based Association of Communication Agencies. Spending on print
ads plunged 41 percent in the same period, while the radio and
television segments fell 21 percent and 6 percent, respectively.  “It’s still not clear how social networking sites can
monetize their business, but Yandex has a straightforward
business model,” said Anna Lepetukhina, an analyst at Troika
Dialog in Moscow. “It’s not a start-up.”  Existing Investors  About 70 percent of the stock in the IPO comes from
existing investors, including Baring Vostok Capital Partners and
Tiger Global Management LLC, according to the company’s filing.
Yandex’s spokesman Ochir Mandzhikov declined to comment today
because Securities and Exchange Commission rules require a quiet
period before an IPO.  Proceeds from the sale will be invested in technology,
infrastructure and possibly acquisitions, the company said in
the prospectus.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were hired to manage the sale.  Five Russian companies including Euroset Holding NV, a
mobile-phone retailer, and OAO Russian Helicopters pulled their
offerings in  London  and Moscow this year because of weak demand.  ‘Cheap’ Stocks  Russian stocks are “cheap,” trading at a discount to
other emerging-market equities relative to earnings because
investors view Russia as a riskier market, said Hugo Bain,
senior investment manager at London-based Pictet Asset
Management, which has about $1.5 billion invested in Russia.
Yandex stands out because it “seems to be a very well
established company” in a growth industry, he said.  Companies in the  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of Russian stocks trade at 6.7
times estimated earnings, compared with 10.7 for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of shares from 21  developing countries ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Russian search engine started its website in 1997 when
it only took 4 gigabytes to index the entire Russian Internet.
It now takes about 6 gigabytes to download a high-definition
movie.  About 47 million Russians, or 33 percent of the country’s
143 million people, used the Internet in March, the biggest
number in  Europe  after  Germany , according to research firm
ComScore Inc. The Internet audience has risen 13 percent in the
past year, with 60 percent of teenagers and adults in cities
with populations greater than 100,000 using the Internet,
according to a March poll conducted by researcher  TNS Russia .  Medvedev Blogs  Russia’s Internet industry is experiencing “rapid growth”
and may account for 3.7 percent of gross domestic product by
2015, more than double the industry’s contribution in 2009, the
 Boston Consulting Group  said in a report released May 19.
President  Dmitry Medvedev , who posts to online blogs and visited
the San Francisco offices of Twitter Inc. during a trip to
 California  last June, has made “modernization” a priority of
his administration. About half of state budget revenue comes
from energy sales.  “Everyone wants to buy future growth,” says Victor Klimovich, an analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow. The Internet
industry is expanding, he said.  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , an investor in Facebook Inc. and the
operator of Russian social-networking sites and games, raised
$912 million in an IPO in London in November. Shares were sold
at the top end of the company’s $23.70 to $27.70 range and were
20 times oversubscribed. The stock fell 6.3 percent to $35.05 in
London today, paring gains from the offer price to 27 percent.  ‘Very Mature’  Russia’s Micex Index dropped 1.9 percent to 1,573.14 by the
6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, its lowest level since Nov. 30, after
oil fell and concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the economic
recovery curbed investor appetite for riskier assets.  Yandex “is a very mature, extremely highly regarded tech
company,” said John T. Connor, who helps oversee $50 million as
chief investment officer of Third Millennium Advisors in  New
York . “After the LinkedIn IPO, I think people felt bullish
about the space.”  Investors in LinkedIn, the first IPO of a major U.S.
social-media site, are left with a 107 percent gain after the
shares began trading on May 19. Google rose 18 percent in its
2004 IPO. There’s mounting concern that some technology shares
may be overvalued as investors shake off their apprehension from
the 2007-2009 collapse of the credit markets, former U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  said at a conference May 20
in  Shanghai .  Global Market  Yandex ranks sixth in the world among global  search engines 
by number of requests, and handles 65 percent of Russian
searches, according to UralSib Financial Corp., a Moscow-based
investment bank. That compares with a 22 percent share of the
Russian market for  Mountain View , California-based Google and 7
percent for Mail.ru., UralSib said.  “If the sale goes well it will send a positive signal to
the whole market,” Verno Capital’s Kryukov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  