-- 
Yankees Score Eight Seventh-Inning Runs to Set Up 9-3 Win Against Mets

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-23T04:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/yankees-score-eight-seventh-inning-runs-to-set-up-9-3-win-against-mets.html
The  New York Yankees  beat the New
York Mets 9-3 in the decider of their three-game inter-league
series by scoring eight runs in the seventh inning.  Derek Jeter  sparked the rally with a tying two-run single
at Yankee Stadium yesterday. It was Jeter’s second hit in 24 at-
bats with the bases loaded over the past two seasons.  “We were fortunate,” Jeter told reporters. “We hit a lot
of balls that fell in for us. Sometimes things are contagious.”  The Yankees (25-20) outscored the Mets 16-6 in winning the
final two games of the Major League Baseball series after
dropping the opener 2-1. The Mets fell to 22-24.  The Yankees won for the second time this season when
trailing after six innings, improving to 2-14 in those games.  The Yankees sent 13 batters to the plate in the seventh
inning and went 5-for-7 with runners in scoring position. They’d
been 4-for-33 with runners in scoring position in their previous
five home games.  Alex Rodriguez  put the Yankees up 4-3 with an infield
single that followed an intentional walk to Mark Teixeira.
Robinson Cano added a run-scoring single,  Brett Gardner  drove in
two runs with a double and Chris Dickerson had a single that
scored the final two runs. Gardner’s double was the Yankees’
lone extra-base hit of the inning.  The Tampa Bay Rays remain tied with the Yankees atop the
American League East, beating the Florida Marlins 4-0 to snap a
three-game losing streak. Rays pitcher James Shields tossed a
three-hitter with 13 strikeouts.  The  Boston Red Sox  are a half-game behind the Yankees and
Rays after beating the Chicago Cubs 5-1. Adrian Gonzalez had
four hits and Tim Wakefield allowed one run over 6 2/3 innings
for his first win of the season.  The Cleveland Indians pushed their major league-best record
to 29-15 with a 12-4 rout of the  Cincinnati Reds . Asdrubal Cabrera had five hits, including two home runs, and drove in
five runs as the Indians completed a three-game sweep of their
Ohio rivals.  The  Texas Rangers  shut out the Philadelphia Phillies 2-0 as
Matt Harrison and Neftali Feliz combined for a five-hitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  