-- 
Yemen Security Forces, Tribesmen Clash in Capital

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-23T18:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/yemen-security-forces-tribesmen-clash-in-capital.html
Gunmen from Yemen’s most influential
tribe clashed with security forces loyal to Ali Abdullah Saleh
in the capital, Sana’a, a day after the president refused to
sign an accord requiring him to give up power.  Two tribesmen and one civilian were killed and 27 people
injured, according to the opposition Suhail TV and the official
media. Gun battles took place at an empty school and in the
vicinity of the building that houses the official news agency
Saba, state-run Yemen television said. Two journalists in the
building were injured, the television reported.  “There are heavy clashes,” Farouk al-Kamali, one of the
injured journalists said in a telephone interview. “Close to
200 staffers are trapped in the building.”  Fire broke out at the offices of Yemenia, the national
airline, after gunmen clashed outside, the defense ministry
said.  Tribal leader Sheikh Sadeq al-Ahmar had been an ally of
Saleh. The two fell out after al-Ahmar joined nationwide anti-
government protests that began in January. The opposition said
in a statement that pro-Saleh forces tried to storm al-Ahmar’s
house in an attempt to ignite civil war.  The violence broke out a day after Saleh declined to sign
an accord requiring him to give up power within 30 days. The
six-member Arab Gulf bloc, which had brokered the deal,
abandoned its efforts to bring about an end to the unrest.  Third Failure  It was the third time the GCC-led talks had failed, this
time in dramatic fashion as helicopters were used to evacuate
diplomats, including those from the U.S., E.U. and U.K., from
the United Arab Emirates Embassy that had been surrounded by
machine-gun wielding Saleh supporters.  The E.U. said in a statement after a meeting in Brussels
today that it “condemns President Saleh’s repeated failure to
sign up to the GCC sponsored initiative.” It called on him to
follow through on his commitment to transfer power now.  It also said it “deplores” the failure by Saleh and
Yemen’s security forces to ensure safe passage of the diplomats
at the UAE Embassy.  “We believe President Saleh still has the opportunity to
sign this initiative and break the deadlock,” U.S. State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said in  Washington .  “We’ve seen all sides agree” to the GCC accord, Toner
noted. “President Saleh is the only party who refuses to match
his actions to these words.”  The U.S. embassy in Sana’a said in a travel warning that it
will close the consular section to the public tomorrow and the
next day and will provide emergency American citizen services
only. The statement said the closure was necessary due to “the
fluid security situation in the city.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  