-- 
Zloty ‘Significant’ Gains Unlikely on Euro Sales, HSBC Says

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-23T15:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-23/zloty-significant-gains-unlikely-on-euro-sales-hsbc-says.html
The zloty’s advance following the
Polish government’s sales of euros may be limited due to the
widening current account and budget deficits, HSBC Holdings Plc
said today.  The Polish currency will probably struggle to appreciate
beyond 3.85 per euro,  Murat Toprak , London-based foreign
currency strategist at HSBC, wrote in an e-mailed note to
customers. The zloty has gained 1.9 percent this quarter versus
the euro, the most among 10 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa region. It
traded 0.8 percent weaker at 3.5939 as of 4:44 p.m. in Warsaw.  The zloty has rallied as the  Finance Ministry  said on April
21 that it will convert euros the government receives from the
European Union on the market. The ministry has been selling the
region’s common currency “regularly” since the announcement
and will continue doing so “consistently,” Deputy Finance
Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said last week.  Foreign-exchange “intervention policy will certainly
protect the downside for the zloty but at the moment the upside
potential is more questionable,” Toprak wrote in the note.
“Over the coming three months, we believe that euro-zloty is
likely to remain range-bound although the range might be
tighter.”  The widening of  Poland ’s current-account deficit and
deceleration in foreign-direct investments are “negative” for
the zloty, according to HSBC. The balance of payments’ gap
swelled to 1.38 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in March from 821
million euros a year earlier, central bank data showed last
week.  ‘Fairly Limited’  The  budget deficit  reached 7.9 percent of gross domestic
product last year, the most since at least 1996, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Room to maneuver on the spending
side is “fairly limited” as Poland holds parliamentary
elections in the second half of this year, HSBC said.  The government will this year exchange as much as 14
billion euros for the zloty, acting through state-owned Bank
Gospodarstwa Krajowego SA, Radziwill wrote in a statement on
April 21. The funds “represent a relatively significant
amount” and selling them would have been positive for the zloty
“in a favorable macroeconomic environment,” Toprak wrote.  The zloty has advanced as the central bank raised  interest
rates  three times this year to stem accelerating inflation.
Investors in the  derivatives market  are betting on two more
increases by the end of the year. The spread between six-month
forward-rate agreements and the three-month Warsaw interbank
offered rate currently stands at 55 basis points, or 0.55
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  