-- 
‘FarmVille’ Maker Zynga Sued for Patent Infringement in Facebook Games

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T16:50:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/-farmville-maker-zynga-accused-in-suit-of-infringing-patents-for-games.html
Zynga Inc., the largest developer of
games for Facebook Inc.’s social network, was sued by Agincourt
Gaming LLC for infringing two patents covering features of
online games including “FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars.”  Zynga, which is preparing for an initial public offering,
has a history of copying rather than devising its own games,
Susman Godfrey LLP, the  law firm  representing Agincourt, said
today in a statement. In its lawsuit, filed in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware , Agincourt seeks unspecified damages and a
court order barring the conduct.  The patents cover processes for credit-based online gaming
and a prize-redemption system based on the outcome of game play,
according to Dallas-based Agincourt’s complaint.  “Agincourt’s patents cover the most lucrative aspects of
online social gaming -- including those comprising the bulk of
Zynga’s revenues -- as they contain the crucial ‘link’ that
allows for global, interactive prize redemption over the
Internet,” Bill Carmody, a senior partner at Susman Godfrey,
said in the statement.  “We’re not commenting” on the lawsuit, Adam Isserlis, a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Zynga, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The infringing Zynga games also include FishVille,
CafeWorld, CityVille, Vampire Wars, PetVille, YoVille,
FrontierVille, Treasure Isle, Empires & Allies and Poker,
according to the complaint.  Segan Suit  The suit is at least the second against Zynga in less than
a month. Segan LLC, based in  Long Island City ,  New York , sued
July 29 in Delaware federal court alleging patent infringement.  Founded in 2007, Zynga turned profitable last year with net
income of $90.6 million. The company, which filed July 1 to
raise $1 billion in an IPO, owns four of the most popular
applications on Facebook.  Zynga said in July that it has more than 232 million
monthly active users, making it the biggest developer of social
games.  The case is Agincourt Gaming LLC v. Zynga Inc., 11-00720,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 