-- 
‘Too Early’ to Bet on India Easing Its Monetary Policy, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-08-17T00:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/-too-early-to-bet-on-india-easing-its-monetary-policy-credit-suisse-says.html
Investors should hold off from bets
that  India ’s central bank will cut  interest rates  as global
inflation is unlikely to fall enough to bring down the country’s
wholesale-price index, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “Against market consensus of inflation falling and thus
potentially driving rate cuts, we believe it is too early for
the ‘monetary easing’ trade,” Neelkanth Mishra and Karthik Visvanathan, analysts at Credit Suisse, wrote in today’s report.
Prices are “unlikely to fall much” amid quantitative easing in
developed markets unless the rupee rises against the dollar,
they wrote.  India’s wholesale-price index rose 9.22 percent in July
from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said yesterday, after
a 9.44 percent jump in June. Emerging-market stocks may not have
reached their lows because inflation has yet to slow in the so-
called BRIC nations of  Brazil , Russia, India and  China ,  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s emerging-market strategist, said
yesterday. India’s inflation is the fastest among the four
nations.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Aug.
12 that it’s “too early to say” whether there would be a
change in stance amid threats to expansion posed by Europe’s
debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery.  Credit Suisse expects the central bank to raise interest
rates by 25 basis points at the next meeting, the analysts
wrote. The RBI has increased borrowing costs 11 times since the
start of last year.  Growth Concerns  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has
lost 18 percent this year, the worst performer among the world’s
10 biggest markets, on concern higher borrowing costs will slow
economic growth and erode company earnings. The 30 members of
the Sensex are valued at 13.9 times estimated earnings, compared
with a multiple of 10 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Non-food manufactured prices, or core inflation, remains
“steady” at eight-year highs, aided by both global and local
factors, the Credit Suisse analysts wrote. “The  Reserve Bank  of
India’s concerns are primarily with this core inflation --
policy easing is therefore unlikely any time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  