-- 
Madoff Trustee Amends UBS Case, Says Bank Misled Regulators

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-18T00:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/madoff-trustee-amends-ubs-case-says-bank-misled-regulators.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm amended his lawsuit seeking $2 billion from  UBS
AG (UBSN) , claiming the Swiss bank misled regulators in the U.S. and
Luxembourg to help hide Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  UBS misled the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in
Luxembourg about Madoff, the trustee,  Irving Picard , said today
in a filing in Manhattan federal court, according to a copy of
the complaint posted on his website. The filing couldn’t
immediately be confirmed in court records.  UBS, based in Zurich, hid Madoff’s role as the true
custodian of two so-called feeder funds that attracted investors
to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities before his arrest in
December 2008, according to the complaint. Madoff pleaded guilty
to running a  Ponzi scheme  and is serving 150 years in federal
prison.  “Madoff’s scheme could not have been accomplished unless
the UBS defendants had agreed to look the other way and to
pretend that they were truly ensuring the existence of assets
and trades when in fact they were not and never did,” according
to the amended complaint.  Peter McKillop, a spokesman for UBS, said the bank denies
the trustee’s allegations.  “UBS was not aware of any wrongdoing by Mr. Madoff and
will take all appropriate steps to demonstrate that the
allegations are false and unfounded,” he said in an e-mail.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04212, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York federal court
at   dmclaughlin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in New York federal court at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 