-- 
BNY Mellon, Madoff, Agility, Apple, TCW, Brocade, News Corp. in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-17T12:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/madoff-agility-apple-tcw-brocade-news-corp-galleon-in-court-news.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
targeted by  New York  for allegedly violating state law while
representing mortgage-bond investors, was accused by Knights of
Columbus of damaging its investment in mortgage securities.  Knights of Columbus, a charitable organization that
invested in mortgage-backed securities, seeks to recover losses
and demands punitive damages from the bank, according to an
amended complaint filed yesterday in New York state court in
Manhattan.  Bank of New York, which serves as trustee for trusts
holding loans underlying mortgage securities, mismanaged the
trust assets, Knights of Columbus said in a statement yesterday.
It accused the bank in the complaint of gross negligence and
recklessness and said the bank’s actions caused a
“substantial” loss.  “It is apparent that the defendant knowingly failed in its
obligation to receive, process, maintain, and hold all or part
of the mortgage files,” Knights of Columbus, based in New
Haven, Connecticut, said. As a result, it didn’t acquire
mortgage-backed securities, “but instead acquired securities
backed by nothing at all,” the organization said.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, said the
complaint “is without merit.”  “We are confident we have fulfilled our responsibilities
as trustee,” he said.  The case is Knights of Columbus v. Bank of New York Mellon,
651442-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Dexia Suit Against Deutsche Bank Moved to Federal Court  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s lawsuit against Deutsche Bank AG claiming fraud
in connection with more than $1 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities was moved to federal from state court.  Dexia, the lender to local governments rescued by France
and Belgium in 2008, sued Deutsche Bank in New York State
Supreme Court in July. The case was moved to U.S. District Court
in Manhattan Aug. 15 at Deutsche Bank’s request, according to
court documents filed yesterday.  Germany ’s biggest bank played a “ubiquitous role” in the
mortgage origination and securitization process while betting
against the U.S. housing market as far back as 2005, Dexia said
in its complaint. Deutsche Bank spokeswoman  Renee Calabro  said
last month that the Frankfurt-based company would fight the
lawsuit. The bank hasn’t responded to the complaint.  By the end of 2007, Deutsche Bank had amassed a $10 billion
short position that paid off when the loans backing the
securities failed, Brussels-based Dexia claims.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Deutsche Bank and its MortgageIT unit were sued by the U.S.
in federal court in New York in May and accused of lying to
qualify thousands of risky mortgages for a government insurance
program. The bank has asked a judge to dismiss that complaint,
saying that the alleged conduct occurred before it acquired
MortgageIT.  The case is 11-cv-05672, Dexia SA/NV v.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Picard Wins Ruling on Calculating Losses  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s former firm won
an appeals court ruling that affirmed his method of determining
which investors can recover money lost in the Ponzi scheme.  The federal appeals court in New York said yesterday that
trustee Irving Picard can calculate losses by subtracting the
amount withdrawn from an investor’s account from the total
placed with Madoff, the so-called net investment method.  A group of Madoff victims urged the court to require Picard
to use their final account statements, reflecting fictitious
profits on money Madoff never invested, to determine losses.
Yesterday’s ruling limits the number of victims who can claim
money from the fund Picard oversees and reduces the amount of
many eligible claims.  “Mr. Picard’s selection of the net investment method was
more consistent with the statutory definition of ‘net equity’
than any other method advocated by the parties or perceived by
this court,” Chief U.S. Circuit Judge Dennis Jacobs wrote in
the opinion.  Picard has sued investors, banks and others he claims
profited from Madoff or should have known of his fraud, seeking
a total of about $100 billion. He has raised more than $8.6
billion, or almost half the $17.3 billion in principal he
calculates investors lost in the fraud, including a $1 billion
settlement with hedge-fund firm Tremont Group Holdings Inc.
announced on July 28.  Madoff investors who removed more from their accounts than
they invested, including the owners of the New York Mets
baseball team, stand to lose from yesterday’s ruling. Picard has
claimed $300 million in fictitious profits from a group of
defendants tied to Mets owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz. He is
also seeking $700 million in principal from Wilpon and Katz,
claiming they should have known Madoff was running a fraud.  Karen Wagner, a lawyer for Wilpon and Katz, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Picard’s loss calculation method also reduces the amount of
payouts to Madoff investors by the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which reimburses defrauded investors as much
as $500,000 per account. Picard represents SIPC.  “The Second Circuit’s ruling will destroy investor
confidence in the capital markets because the promise of SIPC
insurance is illusory,” said Helen Chaitman, a lawyer for many
Madoff victims. “The message to every American who invests in
the stock market is clear: Invest at your own risk and assume
that SIPC insurance does not exist.”  Ron Stein, president of the Network for Investor Action and
Protection, said in a statement that the decision is “another
blow to small investors who merely relied on the information
their broker gave them.”  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said in a statement
that the trustee has “maintained all along that our definition
of net equity -- which is supported by longstanding precedents
in bankruptcy and securities laws -- is the fairest approach to
the determination of claims.”  The case is In re Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, 10-2378, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Agility (AGLTY)  Pleads Not Guilty to Government Contract Fraud  Agility, the Kuwaiti storage and logistics provider,
pleaded not guilty to charges it defrauded the U.S. government
on a multibillion-dollar contract to feed troops overseas.  Agility, also known as Public Warehousing Co., denied
yesterday in federal court in Atlanta accusations that it filed
false invoices or conspired to pay premium prices to inflate its
profit. Prosecutors said Agility encouraged companies it did
business with to inflate costs through practices such as putting
hamburgers in unnecessarily expensive packaging.  “Agility welcomes the opportunity to clear its name by
having an impartial jury examine its work,” Agility said in a
statement. “In bringing this case, the U.S. Department of
Justice has criminalized what is, at most, a civil contract
dispute.”  The estimated cost of the U.S. contract with Agility at the
time it was signed was $4.66 billion, according to the November
2009 indictment. The final bill came to $8.6 billion, the
government said. Agility bought food and transported it to U.S.
soldiers in Kuwait and Iraq, prosecutors said.  The investigation into the company and its suppliers is
continuing, federal prosecutors have said. Lawyers for both
sides declined to comment after yesterday’s hearing.  Agility maintains that it was open and transparent with the
government, which approved its prices, suppliers and business
practices for seven years and continued to do so after the
indictment, according to the statement.  “From 2003 to 2010, Agility operated under the most
dangerous conditions to provide American troops with plentiful,
high-quality food,” the company said in its statement. “No
military has ever been as well fed in a time of conflict.”  The case is U.S. v. Public Warehousing Co., 09-cr-490, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Apple Can’t Enforce Samsung Sales Ban Beyond German Borders  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won’t be able to fully enforce a sales ban
against Samsung Electronics Co. over the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet
device after a German court limited its own ruling to within
national borders.  The iPad maker isn’t allowed to enforce its Aug. 9
injunction outside of Germany against the Samsung parent
company, which is based in Korea, the Dusseldorf Regional Court
decided yesterday. The ruling is still fully enforceable against
Samsung’s German arm and the ban on sales in Germany remains
unaltered for both units, court spokesman Peter Schuetz said in
an interview.  “The judges decided to limit the enforceability for now
because there are doubts whether a German court has so a wide a
jurisdiction over a company based in Korea,” Schuetz said.  Apple, which won the German injunction a week ago,
contends Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet computer “slavishly
copy” the iPhone and iPad. Apple, based in Cupertino,
 California , is also seeking a court order to block sales in the
U.S. until a trial can be held on patent-infringement claims
there.  Samsung welcomes the German court’s decision and is “fully
committed” to providing mobile devices to the market without
disruption, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday’s decision is temporary as is the Aug. 9
injunction. The court has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 25 in the
case, after which it may change either ruling.  The German case against Samsung is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O
194/11.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Gundlach Says He, TCW Group Managers Opposed Stern’s Return  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  told a jury he and
other group managers at TCW Group Inc. opposed the appointment
of Marc Stern as chief executive officer in June of 2009, six
months before Gundlach was fired.  Gundlach, testifying for a third day in the trial that pits
him and three other former TCW employees against the asset-
management firm, said he told Stern, who had stepped down as the
company’s president in 2005, and TCW founder Robert Day that
they couldn’t just “breeze” back in, after he and the other
managers had kept TCW going through the financial crisis.  “I expressed my view that it was not a good idea,”
Gundlach told a Los Angeles jury yesterday, referring to a
meeting with Day and Stern in May of 2009 at Day’s house before
the news of Stern’s return to active management was made public.  Mark Attanasio, who co-ran TCW’s leveraged finance group
that separated from the firm last year, was “even more negative
than me” about the appointment, Gundlach said. Five TCW
managers said in a letter to  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, TCW’s parent
company, that bringing an executive back from retirement would
be a “major step backward,” Gundlach testified.  The only concession the managers got was that Stern was
named interim chief executive, Gundlach said.  Los Angeles-based TCW fired Gundlach, 51, in December 2009
and sued him the following month after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375
million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets,
including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  TCW alleges that Gundlach had become increasingly difficult
to work with and was openly hostile to Stern. The company put
Gundlach on leave Dec. 4, 2009, the day it announced that it had
acquired Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to manage the
fixed-income portfolios of Gundlach’s group.      The case is
Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Galleon’s Rajaratnam Loses Post-Trial Motion for Acquittal  Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was found
guilty of all 14 criminal counts against him by a jury in May,
lost a bid to have his convictions thrown out.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan denied
Rajaratnam’s request for a post-trial acquittal, ruling that
prosecutors presented sufficient evidence of conspiracy and
securities fraud for the jury to convict. Holwell’s ruling was
dated Aug. 11 and filed yesterday.  Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ,
calling Rajaratnam “the face of illegal insider trading,” have
asked Holwell to give Rajaratnam as long as 24 years and five
months in prison when he’s sentenced Sept. 27.  The U.S. called Rajaratnam the most “egregious violator”
of insider-trading laws ever to be caught. He engaged in a
seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside information from
corporate executives, bankers, consultants, traders and
directors of public companies including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , prosecutors said.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, declined to comment
on the ruling.  Rajaratnam, 54, gained $63.8 million as a result of the
scheme, according to the government.  Prosecutors told jurors that Rajaratnam used inside
information to trade ahead of public announcements about
earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs involving more than a
dozen companies, according to the evidence presented to jurors
in the eight-week trial. Among the companies were  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel Corp., Google Inc., ATI Technologies Inc.
and Clearwire Corp.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Brocade Chief Reyes Agrees to Pay $845,000 in SEC Case  Former  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  Chief Executive
Officer Greg Reyes, convicted of securities fraud for backdating
employee stock-option grants, agreed to pay $845,251 to resolve
a regulator’s lawsuit.  The settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, if approved by a judge, would resolve the agency’s
case “in its entirety,” SEC Assistant Regional Director Robert
Leach said in a filing Aug. 15 in  San Francisco  federal court.  The amount includes a $550,000 fine and $295,251 in
disgorgement and interest, the filing said. Reyes also agreed
not to violate securities laws, according to a filing signed by
his attorney Neal Stephens.  Reyes was found guilty of securities fraud and other
charges last year at his second trial stemming from stock-
options manipulation at  San Jose , California-based Brocade, the
biggest maker of switches for data-storage networks. He was
sentenced to 18 months in prison.  Stephens and Leach didn’t return voice-mail messages
seeking comment on the settlement.  The case is SEC v. Reyes, 06-4435, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Rupert Murdoch ‘Confused,’ Misled U.K. Parliament, Firm Says  Rupert Murdoch was “confused or misinformed” when he gave
testimony to British lawmakers probing phone hacking by  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid, the company’s former U.K. law
firm said.  The alleged confusion resulted in News Corp.’s chairman
giving “inaccurate and misleading” statements about why the
company’s U.K. unit hired Harbottle & Lewis LLP in 2007 when it
was faced with phone-hacking claims, the firm said in a letter
to parliament made public yesterday. Murdoch had said he relied
on the firm’s 2007 letter that he said gave News Corp. a clean
bill of health.  Murdoch, who testified with his son James last month, may
have confused Harbottle’s “narrow” focus on an employment
lawsuit with that of BCL Burton Copeland, another firm that
performed a nine-month review of potential privacy breaches at
the News International unit, the firm said.  Harbottle & Lewis, based in  London , “was not retained to
provide News International with a ‘good conduct’ certificate
which it could show Parliament, or anyone else, years after the
event and for wholly different purposes,” the firm said in the
letter. “Such use of its advice was expressly prohibited under
its terms of engagement.”  A call to BCL Burton Copeland about its probe wasn’t
immediately returned. News Corp. has declined to comment on the
new letters published yesterday.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On The Docket  Galleon Probe’s Danielle Chiesi Must Surrender Sept. 20  Danielle Chiesi, the former New Castle Funds LLC analyst
sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison after pleading guilty to
passing inside stock tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, must surrender to begin her prison term on Sept. 20,
a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan issued the
order Aug. 15. He sentenced the 45-year-old former beauty queen
last month after calling her crimes “deplorable.”  Holwell also sentenced Chiesi to a $25,000 fine, ordered
her to do 250 hours of community service and imposed two years
of supervised release after her prison term.  Chiesi pleaded guilty Jan. 19 to three counts of
conspiracy, telling Holwell at the time that she was “deeply
ashamed” of what she had done.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 