-- 
Maersk Beats Analysts’ Estimates as Oil Unit Makes Up for Container Loss

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-17T12:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/maersk-beats-estimates-as-oil-unit-s-growth-makes-up-for-container-slide.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S,  Denmark ’s
biggest company, reported profit that beat analyst estimates as
rising earnings at the oil unit outweighed a loss in the
container shipping division.  Maersk rose as much as 2.9 percent after the Copenhagen-
based company said earnings before interest and tax in the first
six months of the year gained 13 percent to 34.6 billion kroner
($6.69 billion). That beat the 25.1 billion-krone average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 3.7
percent to 159 billion kroner.  Freight rates are falling because the container shipping
industry has added too many ships in anticipation of an economic
recovery, spurring overcapacity. Maersk forecast today that the
container unit will have a “modest” profit this year, compared
with a May prediction of a “satisfactory” profit.  “They’re saved by the oil business once again,” said Erik Bergoo, an analyst at DnB Nor Markets in  Singapore  who
recommends buying the stock. “The general outlook on container
is very tough as more boats come into the market.”  Maersk rose as much as 1,000 kroner and was up 820 kroner,
or 2.4 percent, to 35,520 kroner as of 2:04 p.m. in Copenhagen
trading. That pared the stock’s 2011 loss to 30 percent.  Oil Profit  Maersk’s oil and gas unit, the Nordic region’s second-
largest explorer after  Statoil ASA (STL) , said first-half net income
rose 26 percent to 6.45 billion kroner. The division was helped
by  oil prices  that were 44 percent higher on average than in the
same period of 2010, Maersk said.  The unit plans to increase production to about 400,000
barrels of oil per day in 2014 from about 342,000 barrels
currently, Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said
today. The unit may buy additional oil licenses in its five
geographical focus areas of  Angola ,  Brazil , Denmark,  Norway , the
U.K. and U.S., he said.  The company’s container activities, which include the
Maersk Line, generated net income of 2.09 billion kroner in the
first half compared with a profit of 6.88 billion kroner a year
earlier. Maersk transported the equivalent of 3.8 million 40-
foot containers in the period, a 6 percent increase. Rates were
8 percent lower on average, excluding fuel surcharges, it said.  “We are concerned about the current freight rates,”
Andersen said. “It will be difficult for  Maersk Line  to make
money in the second-half of the year if freight rates don’t go
up.”  Freight Losses  In the second quarter, the unit had a loss before interest
and taxes of 218 million kroner compared with a profit of 6.17
billion kroner a year earlier, according to Bloomberg
calculations. Maersk didn’t respond to a telephone call and an
e-mail seeking confirmation of the numbers.  About 45 percent of goods to  Europe  from  Asia  are
transported at a loss and shipping lines need to cut capacity
for the route by as much as 10 percent to balance supply and
demand, Nordea Bank AB said June 29. As more  container ships 
come into the market, the industry may suffer overall losses in
2011, according to a July 5 note by Drewry Maritime Research.  Global vessel capacity expanded 9.5 percent in the first
half of the year compared with demand growth of about 8 percent,
Maersk said. The company repeated its forecast that the global
container market will expand by 6 percent to 8 percent this
year.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., Southeast Asia’s largest
container line, reported its second straight quarterly net loss
on Aug. 12.  Orient Overseas International Ltd. (316) ,  Hong Kong ’s
largest line, said Aug. 8 that market conditions this year will
be “difficult” after it reported an 86 percent plunge in
first-half profit.  “At current freight rates the container industry is
unprofitable,” Andersen said. “We’re doing better than our
competitors but it’s a tough market, also for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  