-- 
Malaysia’s Economic Expansion Slows

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-08-17T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/malaysia-s-economic-expansion-slows.html
Malaysia ’s economy grew at the
slowest pace since 2009 last quarter, adding to evidence of a
faltering global recovery and reducing pressure on the central
bank to increase  interest rates .  Gross domestic product rose 4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, after expanding a revised 4.9
percent in the previous quarter,  Bank Negara  Malaysia said in a
statement in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The median of 16 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.6 percent gain.  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower U.S. growth have damped the
outlook for exports, putting pressure on Asian policy makers to
delay further rate increases even as prices gain. Malaysia’s
central bank refrained from raising borrowing costs last month,
and Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said yesterday economic expansion
may be at the lower end of its forecast for 2011.  “The growth momentum has decelerated considerably,” said
Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin, chief economist at Bank Islam
Malaysia Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The balance of risks has tilted
toward concerns of slower economic growth and I don’t foresee
further monetary tightening moves until well into 2012.”  The Malaysian ringgit has jumped more than 6 percent in the
past year, and reached a 14-year high last month on speculation
policy makers will tolerate a stronger currency to damp
inflation. Bank Negara forecasts consumer prices will climb 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent this year, and Zeti said yesterday
inflation may be closer to the higher end of the range.  Growth Outlook  A report yesterday showed Malaysia’s inflation rate slowed
in July from the highest level in more than two years. Consumer
prices rose 3.4 percent last month from a year earlier.  The Southeast Asian nation’s economy may expand 5 percent
to 6 percent this year, after growing 7.2 percent in 2010,
according to the central bank. The crisis in Europe and a
faltering U.S. economy are affecting global confidence and
Malaysia’s growth in 2011 may be closer to 5 percent, Zeti said
yesterday.  Economic expansion has cooled in Asian nations from  Taiwan 
to  South Korea  and  Singapore  as trade disruption from the Japan
earthquake hurts exports. Singapore reported yesterday that
exports fell the most since 2009 in July as sales of electronics
slumped, adding to concern the city state may experience a
recession.  “The downside risks to external demand have increased
following heightened uncertainties in the external
environment,” Bank Negara said yesterday. “Nevertheless,
domestic demand is expected to remain resilient and support
growth.”  ‘Strong’ Fundamentals  Domestic consumption and private-sector investment are
driving Malaysia’s expansion and there may be “better growth”
in the second half, Zeti said yesterday.  “Our fundamentals are strong,” she said. The central
bank’s overnight policy rate at 3 percent remains supportive of
growth, Zeti said.  Investment as measured by gross fixed capital formation
advanced 3.2 percent last quarter from a year earlier, after a
6.5 percent increase in the previous three months, the central
bank said yesterday. The  construction industry  grew 0.6 percent,
compared with 3.8 percent previously.  Malaysia’s manufacturing industry grew 2.1 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, easing from 5.5 percent in
the previous three months, and services gained 6.3 percent after
rising 6.4 percent previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  