-- 
Aluminum Waiting Times May Lengthen in Malaysia as Orders Jump

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-17T11:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/aluminum-waiting-times-may-lengthen-in-malaysia-as-orders-jump.html
Obtaining aluminum from London Metal
Exchange warehouses in Johor, Malaysia, may take longer after
orders to draw the metal from local stocks jumped to the highest
level in more than seven years.  Orders to draw aluminum from Johor warehouses, known as
canceled warrants, jumped 19,350 metric tons, or 33 percent, to
78,350 tons, the highest level since at least July 2004,
exchange data showed today. That’s the second increase in four
sessions after bookings climbed 32 percent on Aug. 12.  The number of canceled warrants for all metals at the
location is now 103,000 tons. At the minimum daily delivery rate
of 1,500 tons set by the LME, removing any metal from LME
warehouses in Johor may take as much as 14 weeks, according to
Duncan Hobbs, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London.  “People have been waiting for metal in some cases a little
longer than they would have hoped,” Hobbs said. “But clearly,
the queuing situation is not as critical there as in Detroit.”
It takes about seven months to withdraw metal from LME
warehouses in Detroit, home to 25 percent of total aluminum
stockpiles, Harbor Intelligence estimated in July.  Canceled warrants for aluminum in Johor more than
quadrupled in July. Johor is home to 273,700 tons of aluminum
stockpiles. Local inventories have fallen 13 percent since
peaking on June 3.  The bookings at Johor are linked to “repositioning of
metal, not any sudden spike in demand,” according to Hobbs.
Owners of LME warrants may be moving metal from one warehouse
location to another, or placing it in warehouses not approved by
the LME to benefit from lower rent, the analyst said.  Demand Anticipation  Orders may also be placed in anticipation of stronger
demand for aluminum. Metal is being moved to non-LME storage
“so that the parties carrying the metal can more easily sell it
and realize the premiums,” Hobbs said. “Whereas if metal is on
warrant, it could get caught up in a queue.”  A warrant is a document entitling the holder to take
possession of a specified quantity of metal at a particular LME-
approved warehouse. When canceling a warrant, the owner takes
delivery of metal from a specific warehouse location.  Total orders to draw aluminum from LME warehouses surged
13,075 tons, or 4.4 percent, to 312,425 tons. Aluminum
stockpiles declined 7,100 tons to 4.57 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  