-- 
Hamptons Scene: Amis, Cavett, Michael Connelly, Eric Alterman

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-17T15:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/hamptons-scene-martin-amis-dick-cavett-michael-connelly-susan-lucci.html
More than 150 authors sat in
alphabetical order, waiting to sign and sell their books or just
chat. It was a fundraiser Saturday called “Authors Night” for
and at the East Hampton Library.  Dick Cavett left his post early after he ran out of books.
Cookbook author Katie Lee signed copies of her first novel,
“Groundswell,” as she sat near Susan Lucci, whose memoir, “All
My Life,” came out in March. Martin Amis sat next to Eric Alterman.  Ina Caro, author of the recently published “Paris to the
Past: Traveling Through French History by Train” and wife of
Robert Caro, sat next to one of her favorite authors, Michael Connelly.  “Don’t tell him, though,” she said.  Hilary Thayer Hamann, author of the novel “Anthropology of
an American Girl,” said she writes at home in Sag Harbor.  “I live on Main Street, and my office has a big window
that looks out on the village,” Hamann said. “I get my fill of
people without having to go out.”  When she needs a break, she buys coffee at  Sylvester & Co. 
“It’s Colombian, with no pesticides, the best in town,” she
said.  Across the aisle, Christina Haag sat with her March book,
“Come to the Edge,” a memoir of her experiences with  John F. Kennedy , Jr., from their teenage friendship to their work
together as actors to a romantic affair.  Haag said she wrote a lot of the book in Montauk because it
reminded her of the Kennedy outpost in Aquinnah on  Martha’s
Vineyard .  Now that she is looking for new subjects, the rest of the
Hamptons are fair game.  “Just the other day, I was driving on Egypt Lane and I got
an idea for a short story,” she said, referring to a hedge-
lined East Hampton road.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 