-- 
Manchester United Beats Barcelona in European Broadcast, Marketing Revenue

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-17T13:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/manchester-united-beats-barcelona-in-european-broadcast-marketing-revenue.html
Manchester United received about
2 million euros ($2.9 million) more in  Champions League 
broadcasting and marketing revenue than Barcelona, the team that
beat the English club in last season’s final.  United, defeated 3-1 by the Spanish champion in May,
received 53.2 million euros, according to  data released  by
European soccer’s ruling body UEFA. Barcelona received 51
million euros, ahead of English Premier League team Chelsea,
whose 44.5 million-euro payout was the third-highest even though
the Blues were eliminated by United in the quarterfinals.  The data from UEFA don’t include match-day merchandise
revenue or ticket sales, which are not part of the
organization’s central distribution to competing teams.  The Champions League, Europe’s elite club competition,
involves 32 teams who shared 754.1 million euros from UEFA’s
revenue pool. The organization shares a fixed amount of 413
million euros between all the teams based on their performances,
and the remainder is weighted depending on the “value of each
TV market represented by the clubs taking part.”  Chelsea received more than losing semifinalists Schalke and
Real Madrid because of the size of the U.K. component of the
total broadcast revenue. Real and  Germany ’s Schalke got about 40
million euros each.  Inter Milan , the 2010 champion, enjoyed the sixth-highest
payout of 38 million euros. It was beaten in the quarterfinals
by Schalke. First-time Champions League performer Tottenham
Hotspur scooped 31.1 million euros for its run to the last
eight, just 1 million euros more than  London  rival Arsenal,
eliminated in the round of 16.  MSK Zilina, of Slovakia, which got 7.4 million euros, was
the lowest earner among the 32 teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 