-- 
IPhone Users in South Korea Sue Apple for Collecting Data Without Consent

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-17T06:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/apple-s-iphone-users-in-south-korea-claim-data-collection-breached-privacy.html
A group of South Korean users of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone sued the company in a local court, claiming
it invaded their privacy by allowing the smartphone to collect
location data without their consent.  About 27,000 people joined a class-action suit against
Apple’s South Korean unit and headquarters, seeking 1 million
won per person ($930) in damages, according to a notice posted
online by Mirae Law, which represents the plaintiffs. The suit
was filed in Changwon, south of  Seoul , where the  law firm  is
located.  Apple was fined by  South Korea ’s telecommunications
regulator on Aug. 3 and ordered to encrypt location data of
people using iPhones to address privacy concerns. The company
also came under scrutiny of regulators around the world after an
April report by publisher O’Reilly Radar said iPhones record
information about users’ whereabouts, adding to legal disputes
the company is involved in over patent infringements.  Apple was fined 3 million won for collecting such data even
when some users turned off location-recognition features on
their iPhones, the Korea Communications Commission said Aug. 3.
Google Inc., which did not gather data in the same way, was not
fined and only ordered to make the information unreadable, it
said.  Earlier this year, Apple was sued in the U.S. by two iPhone
and iPad users who claimed the devices secretly collected
information on their movements.  “I’m an iPhone user myself, so when I first heard about
this in the media, I reviewed the legality of the matter based
on Korean law,” Kim Hyeong Seok, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said by telephone before the suit was filed. “I
concluded it was clearly illegal.”  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment on the case.  Apple’s iOS 4 operating system for the iPhone and iPad
tracks and stores the movements of people using the devices,
according to a report published in April by O’Reilly Media, a
Sebastopol, California-based publisher that organizes technology
trade conferences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 