-- 
Aquino Invokes Eliot Ness in Philippine Corruption War to Lure Investors

-- B y   P e t e r   H i r s c h b e r g ,   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 
2011-08-18T07:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/aquino-invokes-eliot-ness-in-philippine-corruption-war-to-lure-investors.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
has ordered his guards to protect officials hunting tax evaders
in an anti-corruption drive aimed at drawing investors to his
country, which he says offers a “far greater” return than its
Southeast Asian neighbors.  “We’re going after very entrenched and very vested
interests,” he said in an interview in the presidential palace
in Manila. Al Capone “got caught on  tax evasion , not murder,
not corruption, by not paying his taxes, that amazed me,” said
Aquino, who recalled being inspired by Capone’s nemesis Eliot
Ness as portrayed in the 1959 series  The Untouchables .  Besides pursuing tax cheats, in his first year in office
Aquino has narrowed a record  budget deficit  and been rewarded
with higher credit scores by all three major ratings companies.
Now he needs to lure foreign direct investment to upgrade roads,
railways and ports that are a drag on the economy and meet his
target of 8 percent annual growth in a country where the  World
Bank  says one in four live on less than $1.25 a day.  “In terms of corruption he’s doing a pretty good job,”
said  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage about $7 billion of
emerging-market debt at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  in  London .
When it comes to attracting investment, “the Philippines is
just pretty horrendous in the amount of FDI compared to regional
peers.”  Foreign Investment  From 1970 to 2009, the Philippines lured less foreign
direct investment than its Southeast Asian neighbors, according
to the  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development . It
attracted $32.3 billion, compared with $285.8 billion for
 Singapore  and $104.1 billion for  Thailand . Net foreign direct
investment fell 13 percent to $1.7 billion in 2010 from a year
earlier, the central bank said in a March report.  “The return will be far greater here than, for instance,
Singapore, Thailand,” said Aquino, 51, the son of former
President  Corazon Aquino  who helped oust dictator  Ferdinand Marcos . “There will be a wait-and-see attitude as far as
Thailand is concerned,” he said, referring to the recent
election victory there by Yingluck Shinawatra, the sister of
exiled former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra .  Higher returns will come from the country’s natural
resources “that have been untapped for such a long time,”
Aquino said, citing plans to explore for oil and gas in the
 South China Sea . There are 140 energy companies interested in
blocks the  Philippines  plans to offer, he said on July 25.  Airports, Roads  Aquino is counting on investments in airports and roads to
boost economic growth which slowed to 4.9 percent in the first
quarter, the smallest gain since 2009. The government is
inviting Singapore’s Changi Airport Group to invest in airport
projects, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said on July 1.  Since Aquino’s administration announced plans to find
investors for almost $3 billion of infrastructure projects last
year, it has yet to complete any bids. The bidding process for
“five or six” of the projects will be completed by the fourth
quarter, he said.  When it comes to removing red tape, Aquino said things are
moving too slowly and he has told his advisers “to explain
exactly why we are not as fast as we want to be.”  Building a toll road through north  Manila  took 10 years to
complete -- two years to construct and eight years to wend its
way through “the bureaucratic maze,” Aquino said, seated in
the Music Room in the palace where former First Lady Imelda Marcos received visitors. “That didn’t serve as a lure to
investors. What we’re trying to do is compress the regulatory
requirements to six months.”  Jailed Father  Aquino’s father was jailed by Ferdinand Marcos and
assassinated in 1983 on his return from the U.S., where he had
undergone heart surgery after falling ill in prison. Aquino, an
economics graduate from Ateneo de Manila University, served for
12 years in Congress before he became president in June last
year. Aquino worked as retail supervisor and promotions manager
at  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s Philippine unit before entering politics.  Credit rating upgrades from  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  show the progress the
Philippines has made under Aquino in reducing a budget deficit
that has plagued the nation for 22 of the past 26 years. Fitch
raised the country’s foreign currency debt to one step below
investment grade on June 23, days after Moody’s upgraded the
Philippines to its highest rating since November 2004.  “The administration’s emphasis on good governance has
improved the business climate and should result in more
favorable assessments of institutional strength if that focus
can be sustained,” said Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based
assistant vice president at Moody’s.  Tax Revenue  The peso gained 6.5 percent in the past 12 months, touching
a three-year high on Aug. 1, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.
The Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 25 percent in the
past year and on Aug. 1 closed at a record. Still, it’s lagging
behind benchmarks in Indonesia and Thailand.  Tax revenue has risen to about 14 percent of gross domestic
product, Aquino said. The government’s tax take climbed under
Corazon Aquino and her successor Fidel Ramos, peaking at 17
percent of GDP in 1997, according to  World Bank  data. It has
since averaged 13.5 percent and was 12.8 percent last year, data
from the bank and the government show. Tax revenue averaged 16
percent of GDP in Thailand since 2003, which is the earliest
World Bank  data  available.  Aquino campaigned on the slogan “If There’s No Corruption,
There’s No Poverty.” He has since filed more than 120
complaints against suspected smugglers, corrupt officials and
tax evaders, though he hasn’t secured any convictions yet in a
country that was ranked 134 out of 178 on Berlin-based
Transparency International’s  corruption perception  index in
2010.  “It takes six years to litigate cases, that’s why we have
been trying to get the right people in the various spots in the
judiciary,” he said. “We told the department of justice that
as far as prosecutors are concerned, the measure of your
performance and therefore your promotions are based on the
conviction rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Manila at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  