-- 
Target’s Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates on Cost Reductions; Shares Climb

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-08-17T20:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/target-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-higher-sales-lower-costs.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, posted second-quarter profit that
surpassed analysts’ estimates as cost reductions helped offset
sales of lower-margin goods.  Net income increased to $704 million, or $1.03 a share,
from $679 million, or 92 cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts projected
97 cents, the average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue increased 4.6 percent to $16.2 billion.  Target has slowed store openings and pursued sales growth
by adding grocery sections and offering discounts on items
purchased with rewards cards. Those initiatives helped boost
same-store sales 3.9 percent in the quarter, the most since
2007. Reducing payroll expenses helped compensate for those less
profitable items, Chief Financial Officer Douglas Scovanner said
today on a conference call.  “The positive reaction from the market is mainly on the
retail strength,” said  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones
& Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , who recommends buying Target
shares. Profit margin shrank less than expected amid more
discounts and sales of lower-margin food, Arnold said. “It came
down to how much did you have to give up to get that comp and
the answer is very little.”  Target, led by Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel ,
rose $1.18, or 2.4 percent, to $50.55 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
16 percent this year.  Margins Shrink  Second-quarter gross margin, the difference between
sales and cost of goods sold, narrowed 0.4 percentage point to
31.6 percent. That marked the fifth straight quarter margins
shrank as Target doubled the number of stores that have PFresh
food departments to more than 700 from a year earlier. The
penetration of its rewards program that offers 5 percent off
purchases rose to 8.7 percent of sales from 5.2 percent.  The retailer’s credit card business also drove profit gains
as stricter lending standards made it more lucrative. Income at
the unit, which the company plans to sell as early as this year
to help fund its expansion into  Canada , advanced 15 percent to
$171 million as bad-debt expenses dropped.  The company forecast full-year earnings of $4.15 to $4.30 a
share. Analysts projected $4.13, the average of 22 estimates.  “Target’s merchandise initiatives and all the other things
they are doing to improve the assortment are continuing to win
despite Wal-Mart showing some signs of life in its U.S.
business,”  Brian Sozzi , an analyst for Wall Street Strategies
Inc. in New York, said in an interview.  Wal-Mart Sales  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer,
yesterday posted second-quarter net income that rose 5.7 percent
and boosted its profit forecast for the year after the Sam’s
Club chain and changes in merchandising helped the company halt
a decline in U.S. store sales.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer said same-store
sales in the U.S. were little changed after declining for the
past eight quarters. Revenue by that measure at  Wal-Mart stores 
in the U.S. declined 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  