-- 
Markets Move From Nightmare Into Bad Dream: Vincent R. Reinhart

-- B y   V i n c e n t   R .   R e i n h a r t
-- 
2011-08-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/markets-go-from-nightmare-to-bad-dream-commentary-by-vincent-r-reinhart.html
If you can keep your head when all
about you are losing theirs, then you probably haven’t been
following global financial markets over the past few weeks.  The dizzying price gyrations -- across asset classes and
indifferent to national borders -- might be taken as evidence
that the market has lost its mooring to fundamentals.  In fact, a relatively simple story line runs through recent
events. The problem for policy makers, importantly including Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , is that this narrative is consistent
with two starkly different paths for the global economy going
forward.  The story begins with the sorry spectacle of the debate on
the U.S. debt ceiling. As has been generally understood and
underscored by  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S.’s AAA
credit rating, elected officials were willing to push the
federal government to the brink of default. This was startling
proof of deep dysfunction in the political process.  But the surprise was not just the intransigence of a
splinter sect of the  Republican Party . The Obama administration
convinced everyone that it would not, or could not, take
unprecedented actions to stave off default if Congress failed to
act. Until then, market participants had a touching faith in the
willingness and ability of the president or secretary of the
Treasury to pull some rabbit out of their hat to protect us from
the ill effects of congressional malfeasance, whether possibly
by invoking the 14th Amendment or by monetizing gold. The
realization that there is no rabbit means coming confrontations
on the public debt limit will be more charged and will have a
bigger effect on the stock market.  Attention Diverted  Of more immediate relevance, the brawl on the Washington
Mall diverted the attention of financial-market observers for
about three weeks. The unread news over that period called into
question the underpinnings of sustained expansion in the
advanced economies. European officials remained in their patch-
and-plaster mode even as confidence deteriorated about
sovereign-debt funds and banks on the Continent. U.S. data on
spending, confidence and  job creation  were at best sub-par. And
revisions to output over the past few years portrayed an economy
that had suffered a deeper recession and was now following a
shallower trajectory than previously understood.  Once President  Barack Obama  signed the increase in the debt
ceiling, all these realizations hit at once. Investors
floundered for a time in a rougher sea than they had expected,
so market prices were scarily volatile. On net, equity prices
are now off 11 percent from their July peak on the downward
revision to the outlook and the renewed sense that there is
greater risk in financial markets.  The key to understanding the outlook and the possibilities
for policy lies in analyzing this destruction in wealth to
apportion the relative contributions of a lessened prospect for
growth and a heightened aversion to risk.  The bad news for Bernanke is that if the net driver of
financial market prices has been a downward revision to
fundamentals, then the scope for any monetary policy offset is
limited.  Interest rates  are already at rock-bottom levels.
Promises to keep the policy interest rate lower for longer will
probably not subtract much from them. Indeed, at its last
meeting, the Fed tried to work that fallow field a bit more
intensely by defining its extended period of accommodation to
encompass at least the middle of 2013.  Glum Outlook  Unfortunately, in the process, the statement also signaled
that the Fed’s outlook was sufficiently glum that it could
easily hold its policy rate at zero for that long, reinforcing
investors’ sense of angst. In such an environment, large-scale
asset purchases by the Fed might send Treasury yields even
lower, effectively squeezing pips till they squeak, but whether
private rates would follow is suspect.  If, in contrast, the main meme in markets is avoidance of
risk, then monetary policy might get more traction. Quantitative
easing is all about taking riskless  Treasury securities  off the
hands of investors in the hope that those investors will
reinvest their proceeds into riskier assets. Such a nudge to
risk-taking would move prices significantly, as long as they are
not anchored by firm conviction. But this scenario has little to
do with rates, which are already low and expected to stay so,
and more to do with reducing the quantity of Treasury bonds in
the hands of the public.  The best path would hedge against both the possibilities of
sub-par expansion and the heightened aversion to risk. The Fed
should explain that it will keep policy accommodative as long as
its forecast for economic growth falls short of its objectives.
Both elements of that determination -- its assessment of the
near-term forecast and longer-term trends -- are released four
times a year in the Fed’s summary economic projection.  Importantly, linking the policy stance to the outlook
allows investors to read a path for policy into the future,
filtered through their own economic views. This is better than
investors making an uncertain inference about the Fed’s forecast
based on an unconditional promise to keep rates low.  Accommodation should be read generously to include keeping
the policy rate at zero and buying assets. Purchases of Treasury
securities could nudge investors toward accepting more risk and
so encourage economic growth.  (Vincent R. Reinhart, who directed the  Federal Reserve ’s
Monetary Affairs Division from 2001 to 2007, is a resident
scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Vincent R. Reinhart at  vincent.reinhart@AEI.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 