-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Texas Drought Loss Climbs to Record

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-08-17T22:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/asia-commodity-day-ahead-texas-drought-loss-climbs-to-record.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Texas  Drought Loss Is Record $5.2 Billion, University
Says (1)  Agricultural losses from a drought in Texas have reached a
record $5.2 billion and may worsen without more rain, Texas
AgriLife Extension Service, a unit of  Texas A&M University , said
today in a report on its website.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Debt Funds Dumped as Gold Flows Jump 74% in Crisis:  India  Credit  Investors in India are dumping bonds and pumping record
amounts of money into gold as they seek refuge from inflation
and the financial-market turmoil that was spurred by developed
nations’ debt crises.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises as Concern Eases That Global Economy Is Faltering  Copper rose for the fourth time in five sessions as concern
eased that the U.S. and global economies are faltering.  MINING:  Venezuela’s Chavez to Nationalize Gold Mines Held by ‘Mafia’ (3)  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said he plans to take
control of the country’s gold industry to halt illegal mining
and boost reserves, adding to nationalizations in the oil,
metals and cement businesses.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Futures Rise to Record Settlement on Inflation Concerns  Gold futures rose to a record settlement price for the
second straight day after U.S. wholesale costs rose more than
forecast in July, spurring demand for the precious metal as a
hedge against inflation.  Palladium Rebound to Halt Near $779 an Ounce:  Technical Analysis   Palladium’s rebound from a 12-week low last week may halt
near $779 an ounce, according to technical analysis by
Commerzbank AG.  AGRICULTURE:  Deere Profit Beats Estimates as Farm-Equipment Demand Gains (4)  Deere & Co., the world’s largest farm-equipment maker,
reported fiscal third-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its full-year earnings forecast as global
demand improved. The shares fell after margins on new sales
trailed analysts’ projections.  Soybeans Rise as Dry Weather May Cut U.S. Yields; Corn Drops  Soybeans rose to the highest in almost two weeks on
speculation that hot, dry weather damaged crops in the U.S, the
world’s biggest exporter. Corn fell from a two-month peak as
demand eased before the harvest  Wheat Rises to Two-Month High as Drought May Cut U.S. Planting  Wheat futures rose to a two-month high on speculation that
dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains will cut acreage of winter
crops set to be planted next month.  Sugar Surges as  Brazil  Output May Shrink; Coffee, Cocoa Advance  Sugar surged the most in five weeks on renewed concern that
the crop in Brazil, the world’s largest producer, will be
smaller than forecast. Coffee rose to a one-month high, and
cocoa gained.  Hogs Drop as Consumers Balk at Record Pork Prices; Cattle Plunge  Hog futures fell the most in a week on signs that a rally
in U.S. pork prices to a record is reducing demand. Cattle
dropped the most since May.  SHIPPING:  Capesize Ship Rents May More Than Double, Dahlman Predicts (2)  The cost of hiring capesize ships that haul iron ore and
coal may more than double in the next few weeks,  Omar Nokta , a
New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a report
today.  ECONOMIES:  Wholesale Prices in U.S. Climbed More Than Forecast in July (3)  Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
July, led by higher prices for tobacco, trucks and
pharmaceuticals, showing declines in commodity expenses have yet
to filter to other goods.  No Double-Dip With U.S. Economy Punching Up Growth Figures (1)  Some of the gloom that settled over the U.S. economic
outlook as stocks and sentiment plunged in recent weeks may soon
dissipate as households keep spending and factories keep
producing.  OTHER MARKETS:  Most U.S. Stocks Fall Amid Dell Drop; Commodities, Franc Gain  Most U.S. stocks fell, wiping out an earlier rally, as Dell
Inc. forecast weaker sales and two Federal Reserve officials
warned against applying too much stimulus to the economy.
Treasuries, commodities and the Swiss franc climbed.  Franc Advances as Central Bank Disappoints on Peg; Dollar Drops  The franc rose against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts after the central bank refrained from pegging it to
the euro or adopting a target.  Crude Oil  Advances as Dollar’s Decline Bolsters Commodities  Crude oil advanced as the dollar fell against the euro and
other currencies, increasing the investment appeal of
commodities denominated in the U.S. currency.  SPORTS:  Japanese Golfer Ishikawa Joins U.S.  PGA Tour  for Rest of Season  Ryo Ishikawa of  Japan  has joined the U.S. PGA Tour for the
remainder of the season, getting a chance to earn enough money
to avoid qualifying school for next year.  QPR to Make Announcement Amid Reports Fernandes Will Buy Team  Queens Park Rangers, promoted to English soccer’s Premier
League at the end of last season, said it will make an
announcement tomorrow amid speculation the team will be bought
by  Tony Fernandes , chief executive officer of  Malaysia ’s AirAsia
Bhd.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  