-- 
Asian Stocks Advance, Reversing Earlier Loss, on Profits, Australia Wages

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-08-17T10:49:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/asia-stocks-fall-as-europe-rejects-bigger-bailout-fund-u-s-housing-slows.html
Asian stocks rose as companies
reported improved earnings and a report showed Australian wages
grew at a faster pace, boosting the earnings outlook for the
country’s banks and retailers.  China Coal Energy Co. jumped 6.9 percent in Hong Kong after
reporting higher earnings. Australian banks and retailers gained
after the report showed wages advanced at a faster pace in the
second quarter. Hong Kong brokerage shares rallied after China’s
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  introduced new measures for cross-border
investing and pledged support for the city’s financial industry.
Honda Motor Co. fell 2.5 percent in  Tokyo  as European leaders
failed to provide specific plans to arrest the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “There’s good value in the market,” said Prasad Patkar,
who helps manage the equivalent of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based
Platypus Asset Management Ltd. “With earnings coming in better
than expected, it’s clearly telling you that the bad news has
been well and truly discounted into these share prices. The
European worries will still be there, and that will limit the
upside.”  About the same number of stocks advanced as fell in the
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index, which added 0.3 percent to 125.18 as of
7:47 p.m. in Tokyo, extending a two-day 2.4 percent advance. The
measure earlier fell as much as 0.5 percent.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.6 percent today.
The Hang Seng Index climbed 0.4 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index gained 0.7 percent, while  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index
fell 0.3 percent having swung between gains and losses.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1.3 percent as  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , the nation’s No. 2 oil and natural gas producer,
reported profit that beat estimates.  China Coal Surges  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index climbed 0.3
percent after falling as much as 0.7 percent. The index fell 1
percent in  New York  yesterday as the European leaders also
proposed reviving a financial-transaction tax that was rejected
in 2010. Separately, U.S. housing starts fell 1.5 percent in
July from June, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
Building permits, a proxy for future construction, also dropped.  China Coal jumped 6.9 percent to HK$10.04 in  Hong Kong 
after profit in the six months to June 30 was 7.8 percent higher
than a revised figure for the same period last year. China
Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s first non-state lender,
climbed 1.3 percent to HK$6.37 after saying first-half net
income surged 57 percent from a year earlier.  Dexus, Woodside  Dexus Property Group (DXS)  surged 3.8 percent to 82 Australian
cents in Sydney after Australia’s largest owner and manager of
office properties reported full-year profit that was more than
17 times higher than in the previous year as demand for business
space climbed. The company also said it would seek investor
approval to buy back shares.  Woodside gained 1.2 percent to A$37.76 after posting first-
half profit that beat analysts’ estimates, partly because of a
lower petroleum tax bill.  Brambles Ltd. (BXB) , the world’s biggest
supplier of wooden pallets, jumped 4.4 percent to A$6.93 after
announcing plans to sell its Recall document-storage unit and
forecasting a profit gain of as much as 28 percent.  Financial stocks were the biggest contributor to the Asia-
Pacific gauge’s advance after Australia’s statistics bureau said
the wage price index, which measures hourly pay rates excluding
bonuses, advanced 0.9 percent from the previous three months,
when it gained 0.8 percent.  Financial Stocks  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  climbed 1.3 percent to A$20.51. The
nation’s second-largest lender by market value also rose after
being raised to “neutral” from “underweight” at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Rival  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  advanced 0.7
percent to A$23.36, while David Jones Ltd., the nation’s No. 2
department store chain, increased 3.7 percent to A$2.78.  Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. (1788) , a brokerage
operating in Hong Kong and China, surged 9.9 percent to HK$2.88
and China Everbright Ltd. climbed 8.2 percent to HK$12.20.  China will commit an initial 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion)
quota for Hong Kong companies to invest in the nation’s
securities and allow an exchange-traded fund linked to Hong Kong
stocks, Vice Premier Li said at an economic forum in Hong Kong
today.  “The remarks were a catalyst for these stocks, enabling
them to rebound,” Ivan Li, deputy head of Hong Kong research at
Kim Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd., said by telephone today.
“The market had been expecting Chinese securities firms in Hong
Kong to be among the first overseas brokerages to invest in
China’s domestic equity market.”  Monthly Loss  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 9.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with drops of 5.2 percent by the S&P
500 and 14 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 12.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 12 times for the S&P 500 and 9.8 times
for the Stoxx 600.  The Asia-Pacific gauge completed its third straight weekly
loss last week after Standard & Poor’s cut its rating on U.S.
government debt and concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis may
spread. Ten-day historical volatility on the MSCI index, which
is headed for its biggest monthly decline since May 2010,
climbed last week to the highest level since March.  Honda, a carmaker that gets more than 80 percent of its
sales abroad, dropped 2.5 percent to 2,552 yen in Tokyo today
amid concern Europe’s debt crisis remains unresolved even as the
region’s economic growth trailed estimates. In Seoul,  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , which gets more than a quarter of its sales in
 North America , fell 4.3 percent to 62,200 won.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel rejected selling euro bonds and expanding a 440
billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund after talks between the
two yesterday in Paris.  ‘Exhausted Their Options’  “It’s depressing,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based
 fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees $41
billion. “It’s like they’ve exhausted all their monetary and
fiscal policy options in Europe, and the weakening in the  U.S.
economy  is dangerous for Asian exporters.”  MSCI’s Asian gauge pared gains late yesterday after a
German government report showed economic growth almost stalled
in the second quarter.  Separately, gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro
area expanded 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the
previous three months, when the economy grew 0.8 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
statement yesterday. That’s the weakest growth since the euro
region emerged from a recession in late 2009 and was less that
the 0.3 percent median estimate of 34 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “Europe is that big cloud overhanging all the financial
markets at the moment,” Steve Brice, chief investment
strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in  Singapore , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “We see the negative news flow
likely to come out of Europe rather than anywhere else in the
world these days, so that’s what we’re all fearful about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  