-- 
Atlantic System May Go Ashore in Central America Tomorrow

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-17T21:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/atlantic-system-may-make-landfall-in-central-america-tomorrow.html
An area of disturbed weather with a
40 percent chance of becoming a tropical system will probably go
ashore in Honduras or Nicaragua tomorrow or the next day, said
Cory Mottice, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc.  The system may only strengthen into a tropical depression
before making landfall in Central America, Mottice said today
from his office in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The disturbance
is moving to the west at about 20 miles per hour and won’t have
enough time to get that strong, he said.  “It has the potential to strengthen to a tropical storm
but if it does, it will be a weak storm,” Mottice said.  A system receives a name and becomes a tropical storm when
its sustained winds reach 39 miles per hour. A tropical
depression is a forerunner to a tropical storm that doesn’t have
winds strong enough for that designation.  Seven named storms have formed in the Atlantic so far this
year, none of which has become a hurricane, the first time on
record that has happened.  In the Pacific, Tropical Storm Greg’s maximum winds
increased to 65 miles (105 kilometers) per hour, up from 40 mph
earlier today, according to a  National Hurricane Center  advisory
shortly before 2 p.m. Los Angeles time. The storm is moving
west-northwest at 23 mph about 195 miles southwest of
Manzanillo,  Mexico .  Greg may reach hurricane strength tomorrow but isn’t
expected to threaten land, the center said.  Farther out in the Pacific, Tropical Storm Fernanda
maintained maximum winds of 50 mph and was moving west at 8 mph
about 1,260 miles east-southeast of South Point,  Hawaii , the
center said.  Fernanda isn’t expected to become a hurricane, the center
said, and should weaken before  reaching Hawaii  early next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  