-- 
Australian Wages Grew Faster Last Quarter

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-17T03:04:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/australian-wages-grew-faster-last-quarter.html
Australian wages grew at a faster
pace in the second quarter as pay rose in mining and financial
industries, underscoring the  Reserve Bank ’s concern about
inflation and the need for higher productivity.  The wage price index, which measures hourly pay rates
excluding bonuses, advanced 0.9 percent from the previous three
months, when it gained 0.8 percent, the statistics bureau said
today in Sydney. That matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 17 economists.  Three central bank officials and the RBA board in the past
month have called attention to boosting productivity, which is
typically the federal government’s role, to maintain income
growth. The RBA has held the nation’s benchmark interest rate
for eight meetings at 4.75 percent, a developed-world high, to
gauge the effects of the largest mining boom in more than a
century on prices.  “Falling productivity and faster wage growth increase unit
labor costs that feed into broader inflation pressures and
that’s concerning the Reserve Bank,” said Matthew Circosta, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “Declining
productivity has been highlighted regularly in recent RBA
statements and today’s report will only add to their fears.”  The Australian dollar after the report bought $1.0466 as of
1:02 p.m. in Sydney, from $1.0446 before the data and $1.0486
yesterday in  New York .  Labor productivity growth since 2003-2004 has been about
1.5 percentage points below the rate seen over the preceding
three decades, the RBA said in its quarterly monetary policy
statement released Aug. 5.  ‘Weak’ Productivity  At the central bank board’s meeting Aug. 2, policy makers
noted  Australia ’s “weak” productivity gains and said a record
level of export prices relative to import prices -- called the
terms of trade -- has kept incomes elevated.  “The task facing monetary policy in future would become
more difficult if a continuation of poor productivity growth
were combined with an expectation of growth in nominal wages and
profits at the same sorts of rates seen over the past two
decades,” minutes of the policy meeting said.  In a July 26 speech, RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said
sustaining the growth rate of inflation-adjusted incomes in
Australia will depend on higher rates of productivity.  “The
thing that Australia has perhaps rarely done, but that would, if
we could manage it, really capitalize on our recent good
fortune, would be to lift productivity performance while the
terms of trade are high,” Stevens said.  Annual Growth  Today’s report showed the wage price index advanced 3.8
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, after a
revised 3.9 percent increase in the first quarter. Economists
forecast a 4 percent gain from a year earlier.  Hourly rates of pay in wholesale trade advanced 4.7 percent
from a year earlier, the biggest gain among the 18 industries
surveyed by the statistics bureau, the report showed.  Compensation at financial and insurance companies rose 4.5
percent, while mining and manufacturing gained 4.1 percent. Pay
at hotels and restaurants increased by the least, up 3 percent.  RBA Assistant Governor  Philip Lowe  and Jonathan Kearns,
director of economic research, released a paper this week
cautioning about “complacency bred by good economic times.”  “For Australia to fully capitalize on the new
possibilities, both businesses and government need to be focused
on improving how things are done and addressing inefficiencies
in regulation and business practices,”  Lowe and Kearns wrote
in their paper.  Mining Bonanza  The government forecasts mining investment of A$76 billion
($79 billion) this fiscal year as companies seek to meet demand
from India and  China . Australia’s jobless rate held at 4.9
percent in April, May and June before rising to 5.1 percent last
month.  The RBA raised rates seven times from October 2009 to
November last year to help contain inflation. The local dollar
reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was
freely floated in 1983.  “A key reason why productivity is weak is because both the
mining sector and utilities companies have been hiring more
staff and output hasn’t increased to the same extent,” said
 Craig James , a Sydney-based senior economist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender. “So the Reserve
Bank won’t just accept the latest wage figures and conclude all
is right with the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  