-- 
UAW Chief Said to Aim for Early Agreement With U.S. Automakers

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-08-17T20:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/auto-union-says-contract-talks-with-ford-ahead-of-schedule-.html
United Auto Workers President  Bob King  told union leaders he thinks a deal can be reached with
all three U.S. automakers by the current contracts’ Sept. 14
expiration, according to a person familiar with his remarks.  King told  Ford Motor Co. (F)  union leaders at a meeting in 
Chicago yesterday that talks are progressing well at Ford, 
 General Motors Co. (GM) , and Chrysler Group LLC, said the person, who 
asked not to be identified revealing internal union discussions.
Unlike past negotiations when one company emerged as the first
to settle, King said he’s optimistic a tentative agreement can
be reached with all three around the same time, the person said.  “If things are going swimmingly and they wrap up early,
could they ratify?” asked Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst with
the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “Or
would members wonder what they could have extracted had their
negotiators gone to the deadline? A tentative agreement that
doesn’t ratify is not a contract.”  The union’s contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM, Ford
and Chrysler expire Sept. 14. King has said the union will not
make concessions, while still keeping labor costs competitive
with Asian and European automakers. King has said workers must
be rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they each
gave since 2005 to help the U.S. automakers survive.  “Talks with Ford are progressing and we are ahead of
schedule,” UAW Vice President Jimmy Settles, who leads
negotiations with Ford, said in a statement.  Union locals will conduct “routine” strike-authorization
votes for Ford’s 41,000 hourly workers through Sept. 2, Settles
said. The votes are “a normal part of negotiations,” he said.  Strike Risk  Ford is the only automaker the union can strike because GM
and Chrysler agreed to a ban on walkouts in these negotiations
as part of their U.S.-led bailouts and bankruptcies in 2009.
Ford was the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy.  Marty Mulloy, Ford’s vice president of labor relations,
attended the union’s meeting in  Chicago  and fielded questions
about the compensation of Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ,
the person said. The automaker rewarded Mulally in March with
$56.6 million in stock for leading the company’s turnaround. In
addition, his 2010 compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5
million.  King has called Mulally’s compensation “outrageous” and
“excessive” and said it is an impediment to getting a contract
ratified by Ford workers. Mulloy told union leaders that
Mulally’s pay is linked to company performance and rises and
falls with Ford’s stock price, the person said.  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, confirmed Mulloy’s
attendance at the UAW meeting. She declined to comment on his
remarks or on Settles’ characterization of contract talks being
ahead of schedule.  “We’re confident that we’ll continue to have constructive
dialogue with the UAW,” Evans said. “We’re committed to
reaching an agreement that’s mutually beneficial.”  Ford fell 11 cents or 1 percent to $11.11 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have tumbled
34 percent this year after rising 68 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  