-- 
Bachmann to Benefit From ‘Super PAC’

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-08-17T21:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/bachmann-to-benefit-from-super-pac-.html
Supporters of Representative  Michele Bachmann  have set up a political action committee to take
unlimited corporate, union and individual donations in support
of her presidential campaign.  Bachmann, a Minnesota Republican who won the Iowa Straw
Poll last weekend, became the latest presidential candidate to
benefit from a so-called super PAC, which must report its donors
to the U.S.  Federal Election Commission . The PACs can fund
advertising in support of or opposition to a particular
candidate, though they cannot contribute directly to a campaign
or coordinate their activities with the candidate.  “President Obama’s record makes him vulnerable,” the PAC,
Keep Conservatives United, says on its Website. “But who can
make the case -- a cautious, split the difference politician
with a mixed message like Governors  Rick Perry  or Mitt Romney?
No. Only a gutsy true conservative like Michele Bachmann.”  The Bachmann-linked PAC is run by Bob Harris and Luther
Snyder, former campaign aides to Republican Representative Renee Ellmers of  North Carolina . Harris donated $250 to Bachmann’s
presidential campaign, FEC records show.  The PAC is primarily focusing its fire on Perry, announcing
it will run an online ad attacking him for his spending as
governor of Texas. “As a spoiler, Perry can allow Romney to
beat a divided conservative field,” the group said. So far, the
PACs supporting Romney and Perry aren’t going after their
favored candidates’ Republican rivals.  Obama PAC  Super PACs also have been established by supporters of
President  Barack Obama  and former Republican Governor Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Perry of Texas.  The pro-Romney PAC, Restore Our Future, reported raising
$12.3 million in the first six months of 2011, while Priorities
USA Action, which supports Obama, raised $3.1 million.  Americans for Rick Perry took in $193,000, including
$100,000 from Harold Simmons, chairman of Dallas-based Contran
Corp., who has given more than $1 million to Perry’s
gubernatorial campaigns.  A pro-Republican super PAC, American Crossroads, raised
$3.9 million through June 30. The group is advised by two former
aides to President  George W. Bush ,  Karl Rove  and Ed Gillespie
and has said that it and an affiliated nonprofit that doesn’t
disclose its donors, Crossroads GPS, will spend at least $120
million against Obama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 