-- 
Bahraini Shiites’ Anti-Royal Graffiti Speaks of Unhealed Rift With Sunnis

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-08-17T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/bahraini-shiites-anti-royal-graffiti-speaks-of-unhealed-rift-with-sunnis.html
The defaced walls of the Bahraini
village of Burhama reflect the mounting tension between Muslims
from the Shiite community and the Sunni-led royal family.  Every day, the village’s Shiites spray anti-monarchy
graffiti on the facades of its buildings. And every day, the
offensive language is concealed by police under a strip of white
paint, until it reappears atop another white layer the next day.  The graffiti is just one indication that steps taken by the
Sunni-led government have yet to heal rifts stemming from a
crackdown this year on mostly Shiite pro-democracy protesters.
Shiite villages have held rallies almost every night since the
Muslim fasting month of Ramadan began Aug. 1, while  al-Wefaq ,
the Shiites’ largest party, has announced it won’t participate
in next month’s special elections to fill the parliamentary
seats of its members who resigned to protest the crackdown.  “Those in power should be in harmony with the will of the
people,” said Hadi al-Mousawi, one of 18 al-Wefaq members who
quit the parliament. “But they just turn their backs to what the
opposition wants.”  The grievances that sparked the demonstrations in February
and March have intensified because the government has ignored
core Shiite demands for higher  living standards  and equal
representation, Mousawi said in a telephone interview Aug. 14.  Government measures to try to calm the situation weren’t
enough, he said. The steps included releasing political
detainees, reinstating many employees suspended from work on
suspicion of participation in the protests, and hosting
reconciliation talks.  National Dialogue  A so-called national dialogue, called for by King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, last month brought together 300 pro-government
Bahrainis, activists and representatives of political parties.
Its recommendations will be released after they’ve been reviewed
by the king.  The situation probably will remain tense in the absence of
signs that “the government has the political will to embark on
a serious process of political reform at this time,” Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow for the  Middle East  and
North Africa at the  Chatham House  foreign-policy institute in
London, said Aug. 14 and 15 in response to e-mailed questions.  “The limited steps that have been taken to build local and
international confidence around the national dialogue have
generally involved reversing some steps taken during the
crackdown” rather than structural change, she said.  Economic Damage  The unrest has hurt the economy of the country, which has
promoted itself as a business center to rival nearby Dubai. The
economic cost is $1.5 billion to $2 billion, Esam Fakhro,
chairman of Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said in an
interview with the Asharq al-Awsat newspaper published Aug. 8.
Gross domestic product shrank 1.4 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months. The central bank cut its
economic growth forecast this year by two percentage points to 3
percent, Governor Rasheed al-Maraj said in a June 16 interview.  Al-Maraj said Bahrain’s main economic interests, including
oil, had seen little impact from the unrest, while  service
industries  such as retail, hotels and restaurants suffered what
would only be a “temporary” slowdown and would recover.  “Our major industries remained operational throughout the
period,” he said in the interview. “The biggest part of our
economy has not really been hurt much.”  The unrest has harmed the image Bahrain has been building
for more than 10 years as a liberal hub for business, Kinninmont
said.  “It is harder to see multinational companies picking
Bahrain as their regional business hub today,” she said.  Bank Relocating  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-largest bank by assets,
will relocate its regional headquarters out of Bahrain, two
bankers familiar with the matter said yesterday. They declined
to be identified because the matter is private. A spokeswoman
for  Credit Agricole  in  London  declined to comment on the plans.  The violence left 35 people dead, according to Cherif Bassiouni, a professor emeritus at the DePaul University College
of Law in  Chicago  who now heads an independent commission
ordered by the king to look into allegations of human-rights
abuses during the crackdown.  Bahrain is expected to “experience persistent political
unrest” and “a significant threat” to the ruling family’s
authority, the Economist Intelligence Unit said July 18 in a
forecast for the country through 2015. The king’s response
“will determine Bahrain’s political landscape over the next
five years,” it said.  Political Process  Bahraini officials say the only way out of the deadlock
sparked by the protests is by maintaining open channels of
communication and participation in the political process,
including the Sept. 24 special elections.  Sheikh Khalid  Al Khalifa , the justice minister, said in
several statements this week that shunning the elections was a
mistake. In a news conference on Aug. 16, he said the government
would like to see everyone take part in the polls. “Political
life in Bahrain will continue and it won’t wait for anyone to
participate or boycott,” said the minister.  Ali Salman, secretary-general of al-Wefaq, said building a
“democratic, civil state is the solution.” He called for a
referendum to gauge Bahrainis’ opinions on several issues, such
as whether they prefer an elected Cabinet to one that is
appointed.  Al-Wefaq “will continue working for a peaceful
transformation to democracy,” Salman said at a news conference
yesterday.  Accusing  Iran   Officials in the country of 1.2 million, which became a
monarchy in 2002, have accused Shiite-led Iran of supporting the
protesters, an allegation al-Wefaq denies.  Saudi Arabia , a Sunni
kingdom linked to Bahrain by a causeway, is a rival to Iran for
influence in the region.  Bahrain’s Shiites represent about 70 percent of the
population, according to the U.S. State Department, and have
long demanded rights equal to those of Sunnis, including
appointments to senior government and military posts. In the
1990s, Bahrain was shaken by violence stemming from Shiite
disaffection.  Those feelings linger. The authorities set up checkpoints
on the evening of Aug. 11 within a 2-kilometer (1.25-mile)
radius of a traffic circle that was the center of the protests,
after messages posted on social media websites urged Shiites to
march toward it. The circle, previously known as the Pearl
Roundabout, has been destroyed by the government and replaced
with an intersection. An army checkpoint 500 meters (1,640 feet)
away restricts access to the area to the residents of three
nearby high-rise apartment buildings and their visitors.  On the streets of Burhama, cars drive over large signs
spelling “Hamad down” in white paint on the asphalt.  Calls for Freedom  On Aug. 15, the walls of houses and buildings carried
further demands that appeared a day after previous graffiti was
painted over by the police: “We want our freedom.” “People
want to overthrow the regime.” “Freedom to our prisoners.”  In the evenings, Shiite youths use horns attached to air
canisters to blare tunes that sound like “Hamad down.” Riot
police respond by chasing the noise, firing tear gas and rubber
bullets, while another group toots a similar tune in another
spot, said Mousawi.  “The kids are just taunting them. It’s like a ‘Tom and
Jerry’ game,” said Mousawi.  He said such “peaceful” manifestations of anti-government
protests escalated during Ramadan and will continue after the
holy month ends.  “People have no other choice,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 