-- 
Bankers, Botticelli to Schmooze in Florence Show: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-08-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/bankers-botticelli-to-schmooze-in-florence-art-money-show-martin-gayford.html
The Chapman brothers, when I talked
to them recently, had an intriguing line: “There are no works
of art without money, there’s no money without art,” Jake
declared. “Art is the supreme expression of capital.” Dinos
nodded.  What neither added was that that link was just as close in
1511 as it is in 2011.  To put it another way, the connection between bankers and
artists goes back to the Italian Renaissance. This relationship
will be the theme of an  exhibition  opening next month at the
Palazzo Strozzi in Florence: “Money and Beauty: Bankers,
Botticelli and the Bonfire of Vanities.”  For good or ill -- depending on your point of view -- two
of the major innovations of that period were modern banking and
modern art. The Renaissance marked the beginning of the avant-
garde. At the time it was noted that the work of Leonardo,
Michelangelo and Raphael made what had come before look old-
fashioned. In the early 16th century, those three great masters
were cutting-edge.  Renaissance bankers also were pioneering, not in
perspective or chiaroscuro, but in such financial techniques as
the letter of exchange, predecessor of  paper money . Then as now,
banking posed a dilemma. As Tim Parks, curator of the
exhibition, puts it in the catalog, “How can we keep our cash
and be considered good?”  Cosimo de’Medici (1389-1464), founder of the family power
base, put this problem to the Pope (who happened to be his
client).  Spiritual Capital  Spend 10,000 florins on restoring the Convent of San Marco,
the Pope advised. Thus financial capital was transformed into
the spiritual kind. Cosimo’s largesse to a deserving institution
isn’t far from present-day solutions to the same quandary:
donate to charity, build a museum, endow a university. Art can
be a kind of spiritual capital; Fra Angelico frescoed the walls
of San Marco and we’re still uplifted by what he did.  Of course, there was also a more private market for art.
Agostino Chigi (1466-1520), a super-rich banker-entrepreneur in
Renaissance Rome, employed Raphael to embellish his pleasure
villa beside the Tiber with some of the most stylishly erotic
nudes ever painted.  Posterity is grateful, as we are for so many of the
extravagances of Renaissance financiers. They turned out to be
fundamental to European culture though to be fair, a lot of
great art was funded by other wealthy members of Renaissance
society such as murderous aristocrats and avaricious clergy.  Luxury Bonfires  At the time, not everyone was pleased with either the
bankers or the artists. Girolamo Savonarola (1452-1498), a
Dominican friar and a force for power during the mid-1490s --
after the Medici had temporarily been turfed out -- was opposed
to nudes and banking. Or at any rate, he was opposed to usury.
That is, charging interest.  “Oh merchants abandon your practice of usury!” he
implored from the pulpit of Florence cathedral in 1497. “Oh you
who delight in excess give it to the poor, since it is not
yours.” As for “shameful things,” including paintings and
sculptures of nudes, “bring them to me, to be burned as a
sacrifice to God.”  The items incinerated in Savonarola’s celebrated “Bonfires
of Vanities” were an eclectic mixture of  luxury goods ,
including wigs, harps, chess boards, cosmetics, orange-flower
water and the works of Boccaccio. After awhile, the Florentines
lost faith in Savonarola and burned him too. Bankers and artists
are still with us. Whether either has improved over 500 years is
controversial.  “Money and Beauty: Bankers, Botticelli and the Bonfire of
Vanities,” sponsored by  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s Banca CR Firenze
SpA, will be at Palazzo Strozzi, Florence, from Sept. 17 to Jan.
22, 2012.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 