-- 
BART Officer Data Exposed in Fresh Hacking Against Rail Agency

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-08-17T21:15:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/bart-officer-data-exposed-in-fresh-hacking-against-rail-agency.html
More than 100  San Francisco Bay Area
Rapid Transit  police officers had their personal information
hacked and posted online, marking the second major cyber attack
against the rail agency in the past four days.  The data was released as part of an online operation
against BART called “OpBART,” a movement that has been linked to
the hacker group Anonymous. Names, addresses, e-mails and
passwords of 102 officers were posted. A Twitter feed affiliated
with Anonymous said it  hasn’t claimed credit  for the attack.  The move followed a protest against BART on Aug. 15 that
resulted in the closure of four stations and stranded commuters.
The previous day, a hacker tied to Anonymous obtained the
contact information of at least 2,400 users of the MyBART
website. BART first rankled Anonymous by shutting down mobile-
phone service in its stations on Aug. 11, an effort to ward off
an earlier protest.  “We condemn this latest attack on the working men and
women of BART,” Sherwood Wakeman, the agency’s interim general
manager, said today in  a statement . “We are deeply troubled by
these actions.”  Protesters have been targeting BART since the transit
agency’s police killed a man at one of its stations in July. The
 Electronic Frontier Foundation , an Internet civil liberties
group, called the mobile-phone shutdown “a shameful attack on
free speech.”  ‘Unsafe Conditions’  BART said on Aug. 12 that it limited phone service because
protest organizers threatened to “use mobile devices to
coordinate their disruptive activities and communicate about the
location and number of BART police. A civil disturbance during
commute times at busy downtown  San Francisco  stations could lead
to platform overcrowding and unsafe conditions for BART
customers, employees and demonstrators.”  Anonymous, made up of hundreds of members in several
countries, gained renown in December when it targeted  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit, Visa Inc. and other companies deemed hostile
to WikiLeaks, an organization that posts secret documents on the
Web. A spinoff group called Lulz Security later claimed credit
for breaking into websites at Sony Corp., the  U.S. Senate  and
the Central Intelligence Agency.  Intruders in Sony’s PlayStation Network stole data on more
than 100 million accounts in April, forcing the company to
shutter the service for more than five weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  