-- 
Biggest Yield Swings Post-2009 Fade as RBA to Aid Growth: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-17T03:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/biggest-yield-swings-post-2009-fade-as-rba-to-aid-growth-australia-credit.html
The biggest swings in Australian
interest-rate expectations in more than two years have left bond
investors concluding the central bank will hold borrowing costs
to sustain economic growth amid quickening inflation.  The implied yield on September interbank cash-rate futures
climbed 20 basis points this week to 4.6 percent, the biggest
three-day advance since Sept. 13, 2010, narrowing its discount
to the central bank’s 4.75 percent benchmark. Traders of
interest-rate swaps pared bets on a September reduction in the
policy rate since those wagers peaked Aug. 5.  Australian government bonds, the developed world’s second-
best performers this year, extended their biggest rally since
2008 this month even after policy makers considered increasing
benchmark borrowing costs with underlying inflation poised to
breach the RBA’s 3 percent cap. Governor Glenn Stevens must
weigh price gains against financial turmoil that may deepen the
worst slump in  consumer confidence  since 2009.  “Things are just settling down after the last two weeks
where we’ve seen a pretty big adjustment to expectations
surrounding growth both in Australia and globally,” said Simon Doyle, who oversees the equivalent of $6 billion in assets as
head of fixed income and multi-asset at Schroder Investment
Management Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “We’re still some way away
from the point where the RBA feel they can ease policy.”  Rate Rise Considered  RBA policy makers looked past the strongest annual
inflation in 2 1/2 years to keep the overnight cash rate target
unchanged for an eighth meeting on Aug. 2, according to minutes
of the gathering published yesterday. The central bank decided
against a rate increase as contagion from  Europe ’s sovereign
bond sell-off spread to  Italy  and  Spain  and the U.S.
government’s struggles to avert a default roiled markets.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities is headed for a 6.6
percent drop in August, extending three months of declines,
after tumbling 5.1 percent Aug. 8 in the biggest slide since
December 2008. The yield on the September future for the RBA
cash rate fell to 4.29 percent on Aug. 9.  Following Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating from AAA, traders increased bets the RBA would be
forced to slash rates as it did after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 when the benchmark was cut from
7.25 percent to 3 percent in the space of eight months.  Government yields of all maturities held below the cash
rate today after falling to that relative level this month for
the first time in more than two years. The rate on the 5.5
percent note maturing in April 2023,  Australia ’s longest bond,
fell five basis points to 4.61 percent at 1:22 p.m. in Sydney.  Expectations Fluctuate  Expectations for the next RBA move shifted 204 basis points
in the week ended Aug. 5, the biggest change since the five days
to Feb. 6, 2009, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.
The gauge moved from indicating an 8 percent chance the RBA
would raise rates at its next meeting to a certainty that the
next move would be a reduction of 25 basis points and a better
than 90 percent chance for a 50-basis-point cut.  “The case against tightening at this meeting was that the
downside risks to demand had probably increased, as a result of
the acute uncertainty in global financial markets,” the RBA
minutes showed yesterday. “This in turn could weaken the
outlook for demand relative to the central forecast and, over
the medium term, dampen the inflation outlook.”  Volatility in Australia’s bond market reached record highs
this month as investors tried to reconcile a global equities
slump with the RBA’s talk of higher borrowing costs. The
difference between daily high and low prices on three-year
government bond futures was at least 20 basis points for 10
straight trading days through Aug. 15, the first time that has
happened since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989.  Qantas Job Cuts  Since the RBA meeting, government and private reports have
shown weaker employment and consumer confidence, intensifying
concerns that the Australian dollar’s climb to a record high is
damaging those industries not directly tied to the nation’s
biggest mining boom in 150 years.  Unemployment last month jumped for the first time since
October 2010 to 5.1 percent, a government report showed Aug. 10.
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest airline, yesterday
announced 1,000 job cuts and said it will switch the company’s
focus to  Asia , forming a Japanese budget carrier and an Asia-
based full-service unit.  Australian government bonds have returned 8.8 percent this
year, including reinvested interest, the best performance after
 New Zealand  among 20 developed markets tracked by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Price Pressures  Ten-year bond yields declined five basis points, or 0.04
percentage points, to 4.45 percent. The extra yield over
similar-maturity Treasuries was at 225 basis points, down from
this year’s high of 248 on Aug. 10. The three-year yield fell
five basis points to 3.76 percent after reaching 3.41 percent on
Aug. 9, the lowest level since April 2009.  The difference between three- and 10-year government bond
yields rose as high as 81 basis points on Aug. 5, the most since
Feb. 23, 2010, as investors sought a larger premium to own
longer-dated debt amid concern inflation may accelerate. The
spread widened 0.4 basis point to 70.4 basis points today.  Global uncertainties are being balanced by a record mining
investment boom in Australia and “still work in favor of
stronger growth and inflation at the top of the target range in
the medium term,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at
Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “Our view is that the RBA
could hold rates for several months and that it is likely to be
early 2012 before it changes its policy bias.”  Australian Dollar  Stevens’s decision to leave the developed world’s highest
benchmark rate unchanged this month came after a government
report showed the RBA’s two preferred measures of annual
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter.
Consumer prices rose at an annual pace of 3.6 percent, the most
since 2008, the data showed.  The report pushed the Australian dollar to $1.1081 on July
27, the strongest level since exchange controls were scrapped in
1983. It also prompted the RBA’s board to consider tightening
monetary policy, the minutes showed.  The Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth most-traded currency,
has climbed 16 percent over the past year and recently traded at
$1.0472, compared with an average of 73.84 U.S. cents since
1983.  Australian wages grew at a faster pace in the second
quarter as pay rose in mining and financial industries, the
statistics bureau said today. The wage price index, which
measures hourly pay rates excluding bonuses, advanced 0.9
percent from the previous three months, when it gained 0.8
percent.  Growth, Price Forecasts  The RBA on Aug. 5 forecast growth in 2011 will average 2
percent, down from its May 6 estimate of 3.25 percent, while
gross domestic product in 2012 will accelerate 4.5 percent,
stronger than the prior estimate for a 4.25 percent expansion.  Consumer prices will rise 3.5 percent in the year through
to the final quarter of 2011, from a previous prediction of 3.25
percent, and  core inflation  will quicken to 3.25 percent from 3
percent, it said. The RBA said underlying inflation will remain
“relatively high” in 2012 and 2013.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.62 percent for the next five years, up from
this year’s low of 2.59 percent reached Aug. 5. That is the
highest inflation expectation among eight developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The market pricing generally is very much on the fear
side and I’d expect to see an improvement, albeit it will be
erratic,” said John Honan, Sydney-based head of research and
chief economist at Ausbil Dexia Ltd., which oversees about $14.5
billion. “The rates market has gotten ahead of reality here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  