-- 
BNY Mellon Opposes New York State Move to Intervene in BofA Settlemet Deal

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-17T22:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/bny-mellon-opposes-new-york-move-to-intervene-in-bofa-accord.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  asked
a judge to reject a bid by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman to intervene in a proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-
bond settlement involving  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Schneiderman this month asked the New York state-court
judge overseeing the case to reject the deal, calling it unfair
to investors. Bank of New York, the trustee for the mortgage-
securitization trusts covered by the settlement, violated New
York law, Schneiderman said.  The settlement calls for Bank of America to pay $8.5
billion to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide
Financial Corp. mortgage bonds.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008. Bank of New York,
along with 22 institutional investors, claim Schneiderman has no
standing to intervene in the case.  “The current settlement process allows for all investors --
supporters and objectors -- to make their case before the court,
including those with even the smallest economic interests,”
Kevin Heine, a Bank of  New York  spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The attorney general’s claims about whether Bank of New
York acted in good faith “would hijack what should be an
expedited proceeding,” the bank said. Those claims could take
years to resolve, the bank said.  Investor Support  “No intervenor has demonstrated that the trustee was
presented with -- or could have achieved -- a better outcome
than the settlement the trustee obtained,” the investors said.
“That is precisely why all 22 of institutional investors chose
to support it.”  The bank, and the institutional investors, said the
proposed settlement proceeding isn’t the appropriate forum to
address the attorney general’s claims.  “Given that those who stand to be significantly affected
include New York State investors and pensioners, as well as
distressed homeowners residing throughout the state and country,
the state of New York has a broad and crucial interest in these
proceedings,” Danny Kanner, a Schneiderman spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement responding to the opposition to his motion
to intervene.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 