-- 
BOE Voted Unanimously to Hold Rates as Weale, Dale Ended Push for Increase

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-17T09:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/boe-votes-unanimously-to-hold-rates-as-weale-dale-end-push-for-increase.html
Bank of England policy makers
 Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  ended their push for an interest-
rate increase this month as the euro-area crisis and signs of a
global economic cooling threatened to hurt growth in Britain.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee voted unanimously
to hold the key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent, according to
minutes of the Aug. 3-4 meeting published today in London.  Adam Posen  kept up his vote to expand stimulus by increasing the
bond-purchase program by 50 billion pounds ($81.8 billion).  Some members “considered whether there was a case for
increasing” the bond plan, though they concluded the case “was
not yet strong enough,” the minutes said. Further asset
purchases, which would expand the program from the current 200
billion pounds, might “become warranted were some of the
downside risks to materialize.”  The decision was the first since May 2010 without a vote
for a rate increase and followed a month when jobless claims
rose the most in more than two years as the recovery showed
signs of faltering. While inflation has reached 4.4 percent,
more than double the central bank’s 2 percent goal, Governor
 Mervyn King  said this week that  Europe ’s debt crisis risks
pushing inflation too far below the goal.  “Recent developments had weakened the case for removing
some of the monetary stimulus,” the minutes said. “There
remained substantial risks to inflation in the medium term in
both directions. But overall the news on the month had increased
the downside risks.”  Pound Drops  The MPC said further asset purchases might “become
warranted were some of the downside risks to materialize.”  The pound fell as much as 0.4 percent against the dollar
after the minutes were released. It traded at $1.6377 as of 9:43
a.m. in London, down 0.5 percent from yesterday.  U.K. jobless-benefit claims rose 37,100 from June to 1.56
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said. The median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 20,000. Unemployment measured by International
Labour Organization methods climbed 38,000 to 2.49 million in
the second quarter.  “Now isn’t the time to be raising  interest rates  with so
much uncertainty around,” Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London, said in a telephone interview.
“Probably more important in terms of the outlook for monetary
policy is the reintroduction of the comment that some members
are discussing the case for more” quantitative easing.  ‘Stressed Conditions’  “Evidence of slowing activity, and more particularly,
concerns about fiscal policy in the U.S. and the substantial
challenges faced by the euro area, had resulted in stressed
conditions in financial markets,” the minutes said. “The
greatest risk to the downside stemmed from the euro area.”  The central bank also said “news over the month had
generally reinforced the weak tone of indicators of global
activity growth over the past few months.”  British economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the previous three months. The  Bank
of England  cut its U.K. growth forecasts last week and King has
said headwinds are “becoming stronger by the day.” Stocks have
fallen amid a global selloff sparked by concern Europe will fail
to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  Investors are betting the Bank of England will refrain from
raising interest rates until after July next year, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, show. In June, they were
betting on a February increase.  The bank repeated its projection today that inflation will
rise to about 5 percent in the coming months before easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  