-- 
Boeing 787 Nears FAA Approval as Flight Tests Are Completed

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-08-17T20:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/boeing-787-ends-flight-tests-nears-approval.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner, the
world’s first composite-plastic commercial jet, finished its 20-
month flight-test program in the final hurdle toward approval
for passenger service that could start next month.  A 90-minute trip on Aug. 13 completed the trials as the
ninth Dreamliner built in the program flew to the home of
Boeing’s wide-body jet factory near Seattle from Billings,
 Montana , the planemaker said today.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  now must verify
the paperwork in a review Boeing has said it expects this week
and then certify the jet before its first delivery. The agency,
which has worked with Boeing since the 787’s inception, doesn’t
discuss certification work, said  Alison Duquette , a spokeswoman.  Announcing the completion of the testing program took four
days because Chicago-based Boeing first had to ensure that all
requirements had been met and no further flights were needed,
said  Lori Gunter , a spokeswoman.  The Dreamliner will be more than three years late once
 Japan ’s All Nippon Airways Co. gets the first one, making it
Boeing’s longest commercial development program ever. Boeing
struggled with parts shortages, new materials and the
manufacturing process developed for the 787.  ‘Challenges Ahead’  While that delivery will be “an important positive step,
we see challenges ahead as being as large as the challenges to
date, with the need to rapidly ramp up production and deliver
attractive margins,”  Douglas Harned , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, wrote in a note yesterday.  The Dreamliner program probably won’t be profitable until
the 1,000th delivery, wrote Harned, who rates Boeing as
“market-perform.” The 787 is Boeing’s fastest-selling new jet
ever, with orders for about 830 of the $202 million aircraft
from 52 customers.  The shares fell 5 cents to $62.18 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, extending their decline for
the year to 4.7 percent.  Boeing said the final test flight involved a 14-member crew
and included simulations of takeoff with a failed generator and
failed fuel-flow indication. The plane touched down in Everett,
 Washington , where Boeing builds the 787 and other twin-aisle
jets.  Test Aircraft  Six test jets  have been based at Seattle’s Boeing Field
since the model’s maiden flight in December 2009. The planes
flew  all over the world , testing high-altitude performance in
 Bolivia , noise in Montana and crosswinds in Iceland. During
about 4,800 flight hours, crews dealt with simulated and real
emergencies -- including a fire in 2010 -- and sought out
lightning and icy conditions.  The planes that completed testing last weekend were powered
by engines from Rolls-Royce Holdings, one of two options for
customers and the first that will enter service. Tests on
aircraft using  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s GEnx engine are
continuing.  Boeing says the 250-seat Dreamliner will fly farther and
use 20 percent less fuel than rivals by shedding the
traditional, heavier aluminum fuselage and replacing some
hydraulics and pneumatics with an all-electric system.  The company had expected computer modeling and new,
streamlined processes to cut physical testing to 8 1/2 months,
two months less than usual and the shortest flight trials ever
for Boeing. Engineers and pilots also had extra time to prepare,
since the first flight was 28 months later than planned.  Boeing created a new companywide flight-test unit so the
commercial test jets could share airfields with the military
programs. And more ground testing on the 787 was moved into the
second shift to keep the days free for flying, with engineers
and mechanics working around the clock.  Still, the program was plagued by problems including the
November electrical fire that grounded the fleet for six weeks
and forced a seventh delay to the original May 2008
certification target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  