-- 
British Farmland Values Rise to a Record as Wheat Feed, Meat Prices Climb

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-17T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/british-farmland-values-rise-to-a-record-as-wheat-feed-meat-prices-climb.html
Agricultural land values in Britain
climbed to a record in the first half as higher livestock and
grain prices encouraged farmers to increase production, the
 Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  said.  The average cost of an acre of bare land, terrain without
built structures, rose to 6,115 pounds ($10,100) from 5,846
pounds at the end of 2010, the fourth straight increase for a
six-month period, the London-based group said in a report today.
Prices have more than doubled in the last five years, RICS said.  “Many commercial farmers appear more keen to expand their
businesses than sell their land,” spokeswoman Sue Steer said.
“This can only lead to even higher prices over the next 12
months.”  Prices for British-grown feed wheat traded in  London  have
climbed 11 percent during the past year, while reduced swine and
cattle herds lifted meat prices by 7.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, U.K. National Statistics data show. Higher prices
for food and other commodities will probably continue to bolster
land values, according to Steer.  Arable land appreciated by 4.9 percent and pastures by 4.2
percent an acre since the end of last year, according to RICS.  The report showed both the number of transactions and
acreage sold fell, while brokers said demand for agricultural
land is also being driven by investors seeking a refuge from
turbulence in global financial markets.  ‘Prime Asset Class’  “Land alongside gold remains the prime asset class
identified as a safe haven in the still turbulent market,” said
Richard Liddiard, a partner in the Newbury, England, branch of
real-estate broker  Carter Jonas LLP .  Farmland values have risen threefold in the past decade,
outstripping gains for all other U.K. real estate, according to
a report released last month by Knight Frank LLP. Rising crop
and livestock prices mean that in the years ahead land values
will continue to go up, the real-estate broker said.  Prices of farmland that includes housing rose 5.9 percent
in the six months to 7,479 pounds an acre, according to the RICS
report. While at historic highs, the rate of growth for prices of
bare land and for farmland that includes structures mark a
slowdown compared with the second half of 2010, when values rose
6.8 percent over the prior six months, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 