-- 
Buyer Sought for Daimler’s EADS Shares

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-08-17T15:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/buyer-sought-for-daimler-s-eads-shares.html
The German government is seeking
investors to buy European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. shares
controlled by  Daimler AG (DAI)  as the carmaker pushes to reduce its
holding, three people familiar with the matter said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is looking for a
buyer to maintain the country’s parity with  France  for control
of the Airbus parent. The search for private investors is the
first step before politicians weigh whether to authorize a state
purchase of the shares, one of the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.  Daimler, which controls the  voting rights  of 22.5 percent
of EADS, wants Germany to find investors this year to take at
least a 7.5 percent stake, one of the people said. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker directly owns 15 percent. A
group of public and private financial institutions, including
Deutsche Bank AG and state-owned development bank KfW Group,
holds the remaining 7.5 percent.  Germany  has been discussing options for the stake for
several months, including parking shares with KfW. The issue has
been complicated by a change in leadership in Merkel’s junior
coalition partner, the Free Democratic Party, which has balked
at state ownership. Merkel is also under strain to boost
economic growth while financing bailout funds to counter the
euro debt crisis.  The German government is asking investment banks to help
find a buyer, one person said. The Economy Ministry and Daimler
declined to comment on the stake sale. EADS spokespersons in
Munich couldn’t be reached.  Action Sought  After months of stalemate, Daimler and EADS management have
been pressing for a decision. Daimler Chief Executive Officer
Dieter Zetsche said in June that the discussion can’t go on
“forever.” EADS CEO Louis Gallois said then that investors
would benefit from a higher proportion of freely traded stock.  The maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks was a founder of
EADS by contributing its Dasa aerospace unit to the planemaking
and defense company’s formation in 2000. Daimler Chief Financial
Officer Bodo Uebber, who is also EADS’s chairman, said in
February that Daimler is interested in acting as Germany’s
representative in EADS, even if it sells its shares.  Under the agreement that created EADS, investors from
France and Germany must hold balanced voting rights in the
company. French publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  owns 7.5 percent of EADS
and also has management control over France’s 15 percent stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 