-- 
HTC, Second Sight, GoDaddy, iiNet, Summit, TCW: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-17T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/htc-second-sight-godaddy-iinet-summit-tcw-intellectual-property.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest
maker of smartphones, filed a complaint at the U.S.
International Trade Commission that seeks to block imports of
Apple Inc.’s iPhone, iPad and Mac computers.  The complaint filed yesterday in Washington claims Apple is
infringing three patents related to wireless technology and
follows a case lodged last year at the ITC that made similar
claims. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC also sued Apple yesterday in
federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , over the three patents,
7,765,414, 7,672,219, and 7,417,944.  “Apple needs to stop its infringement of our patented
inventions in its products,” HTC General Counsel Grace Lei said
in a statement.  The two companies are part of a larger battle among
smartphone makers looking to fight copycats and thwart
competition in a market that’s projected to reach $206.6 billion
this year by researcher IHS Inc.  Apple, the world’s biggest smartphone maker, has filed
patent cases against handset makers using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, including Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC.  “Competitors should create their own original technology,
not steal ours,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, said in response to the HTC lawsuit.  Google yesterday moved to protect itself from lawsuits
related to Android with a $12.5 billion agreement to buy
Motorola Mobility. The acquisition would give  Mountain View ,
California-based Google at least 17,000 more patents.  HTC also has used acquisitions to bolster its position,
agreeing in July to buy S3 Graphics Co. after an ITC judge found
that Apple’s Mac OS X computer system violated two S3 patents.  HTC, which said in its latest complaint that it generated
about $5 billion in U.S. sales last year, claims Apple infringes
a patent for portable devices that integrate features of a
personal digital assistant and two patents related to networking
to better combine telephones and video services. The company
targets the iPhone, iPad, iPod, Mac computers, Apple TV and the
AirPort and Time Capsule wireless network equipment.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency that arbitrates trade
disputes and has the power to block imports of products found to
violate U.S. patents. The agency typically takes 15 to 18 months
to complete reviews, and HTC’s lawsuit in Delaware would likely
be put on hold if the commission investigates the complaint.  A judge with the ITC is scheduled to release his findings
in the earlier HTC case against Apple in September.  Last month, a different trade judge found that HTC
infringed two Apple patents. If that decision is upheld, it
could lead to an import ban on certain HTC phones. Apple filed a
separate complaint this month targeting HTC’s phones and new
Flyer tablet computers.  HTC and Apple “have to sit down and figure it out,” HTC
Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in a July 26 telephone
interview. “We’re open to having discussions,” he said.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
with Communication Capabilities, 2841, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington). The civil case is HTC Corp. v.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , 11-cv-715, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Second Sight Gets Eight Millionth U.S. Patent, for ‘Bionic Eye’  Second Sight Medical Products Inc. , a closely held company
in Sylmar,  California , received patent number 8,000,000,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  The patent, one of  5,122 U.S. patents issued yesterday , is
related to the company’s technology aimed at helping the blind
see light and shapes through the use of tiny video cameras.  A video processing unit converts the image to stimulation
patterns that affect a visual prosthesis, in essence, a bionic
eye.  Second Sight applied for the patent in October 2007.  Versant Ventures Management LLC of  Menlo Park , California,
is one of the investors in Second Sight. The company is headed
by inventor  Albert Mann , who is also the chairman of the board
of  MannKind Corp. (MNKD)  of Valencia, California, a biopharmaceutical
company specializing in the treatment of diabetes.  Endo Sues Mylan to Halt Sale of Generic Frova Migraine Drug  Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. sued to stop Mylan Inc.
from marketing a generic copy of Frova before three patents on
the migraine drug expire.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , is seeking
approval to make and sell a version of the drug’s 2.5 milligram
tablets, Endo said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Endo, based in  Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania, asked a judge to
bar Mylan from infringing the patents. Frova, used to treat
acute migraines in adults, was Endo’s fifth-biggest seller last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Endo, which markets Frova in the U.S., received notice from
Mylan of an abbreviated new drug application last month,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The notice refers to five U.S. patents covering
Frova and expiring between 2013 and 2015.  Nina Devlin, a spokeswoman for Mylan, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the suit.  The case is Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Mylan
Pharmaceuticals Inc., U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  GoDaddy Asking Top Dollar for .XXX Internet Domain Names  GoDaddy Group Inc. is charging premium prices for domain
names with the “.xxx” suffix that is aimed at adult content
providers, PC Magazine  reported .  The fee is $209.99 during the period when those with
existing domains or trademarks can apply for the .xxx extension
as opposed to the $11.99 GoDaddy charges for a standard “.com”
extension, according to PC Magazine.  Renewals for the .xxx domain names will cost $99 a year,
while the .com names can be renewed for $11.99 annually, PC
Magazine reported.  Many so-called “porn providers” said they didn’t need the
new .xxx domain names and that buying them would simply add cost
to their operations, according to PC Magazine.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Alleged Online Infringers Sued in the U.S. Exceed 200,000  More than 200,000 people have been sued in the U.S. for
online copyright infringement, the TorrentFreak website
reported.  The TorrentFreak site, which is associated with users of
the BitTorrent peer-to-peer file-sharing protocol, said that
more than 145,000 users haven’t yet settled their cases.  The largest number of defendants are those accused of
downloading and distributing Summit Entertainment LLC’s “Hurt
Locker” film, according to TorrentFreak.  None of the cases has come to trial, TorrentFreak reported.  Film Studios Can Submit Appeal in Australian Copyright Case  Australia ’s  High Court  granted a group of 34 movie studios
the right to submit an appeal in a copyright-infringement case
against iiNet, an Australian Internet Service Provider, ITNews
reported.  The organization, represented by the Australian Federation
Against Copyright Theft, will address in its appeal such
questions as a film studio’s role in anti-piracy actions,
according to ITNews.  The case may be heard in the High Court in Canberra,
Australia, as early as October, ITNews reported.  Afact is in closed discussions with Internet service
providers in Australia about copyright enforcement, according to
ITNews.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets /Industrial Espionage  Gundlach Was ‘Furious’ That Employee Didn’t Return TCW Drive  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  said he was
“furious” that an employee failed to return a device belonging
to TCW Group Inc. after the company fired him.  In his third day of testimony in a trade-secrets case,
Gundlach told a Los Angeles jury yesterday that DoubleLine’s
policy was to return all TCW devices and information.  “I yelled at everybody,” Gundlach said, describing a
meeting with DoubleLine staff after he learned in early 2010
that one of them, Jeffrey Mayberry, had been late returning a
computer drive with TCW files. “I told them this was
unacceptable.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
fired Gundlach, 51, in December 2009 and sued him in January
2010 after more than half of its fixed-income professionals
joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375 million in damages, claiming
Gundlach stole its trade secrets, including client portfolio
data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million. Mayberry is a co-defendant and cross-
complainant in the case.  Cris  Santa Ana , a former managing director of Gundlach’s
mortgage-backed securities group at TCW, testified earlier that
Gundlach instructed him in September 2009 to start backing up
data that “might be useful to have” in case Gundlach was
fired. Santa Ana is a co-defendant and cross-complainant with
Gundlach.  Santa Ana, who was fired together with Gundlach and joined
DoubleLine, said he downloaded or asked others to copy client
contracts, portfolio holdings and contact information, as well
as files of trade orders and TCW’s entire mortgage-backed
securities database. Santa Ana said he downloaded part of the
data to an external hard drive.  A TCW vice president testified that she smuggled a hard
drive out of TCW’s office in her bra the evening of Dec. 4.
Santa Ana said he and other former TCW employees that joined
DoubleLine didn’t use any of the TCW’s proprietary information
at the new firm.  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started within weeks after he was fired if he hadn’t
had access to TCW trade secrets and confidential information.  Gundlach said yesterday that that from when DoubleLine
started on Dec. 14, 2009, the policy had been not to use any TCW
files they still had and to return them to TCW.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  IP Moves  Paul Hastings Snares Finnegan Henderson Litigator for IP Group  Paul Hastings LLP hired Steven Park for its IP practice
group, the Los Angeles-based firm said in a  statement.   Park  a litigator, joins from  Washington ’s Finnegan,
Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP. He has represented
clients whose technologies include wireless telecommunications,
semiconductor devices, and semiconductor manufacturing equipment
and processes. He will practice in the firm’s Atlanta office.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from Georgia Institute of Technology and a law degree from the
 University of Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 