-- 
Canadian Currency Advances as Crude Oil Posts Gains, Stocks End Day Higher

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-17T21:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/canada-s-dollar-climbs-as-positive-tone-bolsters-risk-seeking.html
Canada ’s dollar gained, touching the
strongest level in a week, as stocks ended the day higher and
crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, rose.  The Canadian currency has fallen 2.6 percent in August,
poised for the biggest monthly drop in a year on bets a stalling
global recovery will crimp demand for raw materials, which
account for about half the nation’s export revenue. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
will testify before parliament Aug. 19, the same day the
government issues data that economists predict will show
inflation slowed last month.  “Equities are in lockstep with the Canadian dollar,”
Michael Leavitt, a Montreal-based institutional-derivatives
broker at  MF Global Canada Co ., said via e-mail. “Carney
speaking this Friday along with CPI should put the Canadian
dollar into another volatile mood,” he said, referring to the
 consumer price index , a measure of inflation.  The Canadian currency increased 0.2 percent to 98.07 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier touching
97.75, the highest since Aug. 10. It ended yesterday at 98.24
cents. The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, dropped to a
six-month low on Aug. 9, when the  Federal Reserve  said the U.S.
recovery is “considerably slower” than anticipated. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0201.  The MSCI World Index of stocks rose 0.3 percent, and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day 0.1 percent higher
after dropping earlier as much as 0.7 percent. The loonie’s one-
month correlation coefficient with the benchmark gauge for U.S.
stocks reached 0.89 today, matching the reading on Aug. 11,
which is the highest since July 2010, Bloomberg data show. A
reading of 1 indicates the measures move in lockstep.  International Investors  Foreign investors sold a net C$3.46 billion ($3.53 billion)
of Canadian securities, the first outflow in 15 months, as
maturities topped new purchases,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. About C$11.8 billion of Canadian bonds matured in June
while foreigners bought C$10.3 billion of debt to replace them,
the data show. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast net
purchases of C$10 billion, the median of four responses.  The nation’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose, driving the
yield down seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.4
percent. The yield touched 2.29 percent on Aug. 11, the lowest
in Bloomberg records dating to 1989. The price of the 3.25
percent bonds maturing in June 2021 advanced 60 cents on the
dollar to C$107.50.  Canada auctioned C$3.5 billion of two-year debt today,
drawing an average yield of 1.03 percent. The government
received bids of C$8.75 billion for the 1.5 percent securities
maturing in November 2013, according to a statement on the  Bank
of Canada ’s website.  Parliamentary Committee  Flaherty and Carney will testify at the end of the week at
a parliamentary committee on the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe 
and the  U.S. budget deficit . The same day, Statistics Canada
will release its consumer price index, which economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predict will show inflation slowed to a
2.8 percent annualized pace in July, from 3.1 percent in June,
according to median estimates.  “Any reaction to CPI on Friday is going to be downplayed
because Carney is going to be speaking to the parliamentary
committee, along with Flaherty,” David Watt, senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets , said
by phone from Toronto. “They’re likely to express a more
cautious view than the bank expressed in mid-July.”  The Bank of Canada kept its main  interest rate  unchanged at
1 percent on July 19 and said borrowing costs will increase as
the economy recovers, dropping the word “eventually” to
describe the timing of rate rises, a move perceived by traders
as a hawkish signal. Policy makers next meet to set rates on
Sept. 7.  Crude oil futures rose 0.9 percent to $87.44 a barrel in
 New York . The loonie’s one-month correlation with crude was 0.45
today, down from 0.82 on Aug. 8. Oil is Canada’s largest export.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  