-- 
Canada June International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-17T12:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/canada-june-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for June
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-residents reduced their holdings of Canadian
securities by $3.5 billion in June, all of it in debt
instruments, following several months of investment.
Canadian investment in foreign securities slowed to $343
million in June, as acquisitions of foreign stocks were
partially offset by sales of foreign debt securities.  Foreign holdings of Canadian bonds down as a result of
retirements  Foreign investors divested $4.5 billion of Canadian
bonds in June, following an acquisition of $11.1 billion
in May. On a monthly basis, non-residents have divested
Canadian bonds twice since December 2008, a period during
which their holdings increased by nearly 30%. Overall,
foreign investors' acquisitions of Canadian bonds in the
second quarter matched that of the first quarter.  Activity in June was dominated by net retirements of
$6.4 billion of Canadian  government bonds , mainly federal
bonds. Retirements were moderated by foreign acquisitions
of $3.7 billion of Canadian bonds on the secondary market,
focused on Canadian dollar denominated bonds issued by the
federal government and its enterprises.  Non-resident investors' holdings of Canadian money
market instruments declined by $981 million in June,
mainly from net retirements of paper issued by Canadian
banks. At the same time, foreign investors' holdings of
federal Treasury bills was down slightly after two months
of acquisitions totalling $5.9 billion. Nevertheless,
acquisitions of overall Canadian money market instruments
in both April and May led to the largest quarterly foreign
inflow since the first quarter of 2009.  Foreign purchases of Canadian equities focus on the
secondary market  Non-residents' purchases of Canadian corporate shares
increased to $2.0 billion in June, as Canadian stock
prices continued to decline to their lowest level since
November 2010. Secondary market acquisitions accounted for
most of the activity over the month and targeted Canadian
stocks issued by technology and gold firms.  Canadians further reduce their holdings of foreign bonds  Canadian investors reduced their holdings of foreign
bonds by $3.2 billion in June, a fourth straight monthly
divestment in these instruments. This activity was
concentrated in US government bonds, down $4.0 billion in
June. This was partially offset by acquisitions of bonds
from  Japan  and other Organisation of Economic Co-operation
and Development countries.  Canadian investors' focus remains on US corporate shares  Canadian investors acquired foreign stocks for a sixth
straight month in June, adding a further $3.8 billion to
their holdings. US stocks again accounted for most of this
activity, although down from May. By the end of June,
stock prices in most major world equity markets had
increased except in  North America .  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  