-- 
Carlyle Pitches Wall Street on IPO Valuation to Rival Blackstone

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-08-17T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/carlyle-pitches-wall-street-on-ipo-valuation-to-rival-blackstone.html
Carlyle Group , pressing ahead with
plans for an initial public offering, is meeting privately with
analysts to convince them the buyout firm is worth at least as
much as its most richly valued competitor,  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Carlyle, which manages $153 billion, is arguing that its
steadier earnings should reward shareholders with a more
predictable dividend than those of other private-equity firms,
according to people briefed on the Washington-based company’s
marketing materials. They asked not to be named because the
talks are private.  Founded in 1987 by  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and
 David Rubenstein , Carlyle is planning the largest IPO by a
private-equity manager since Blackstone raised $4.75 billion in
2007. The registration statement for the potential $1 billion
deal, which may be filed as soon as this month, will require
Carlyle to disclose financial information it has kept secret for
24 years -- including the actual returns it has generated for
investors. The firm’s ability to retain talent, create an exit
for its founders and contribute capital to its next flagship
fund hinge on the success of the offering.  “If they’re paying a decent dividend, especially in this
marketplace, that’s going to get an attractive valuation,” said
 Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at Security Global
Investors in Irvington, New York. “I think you’ll see a good
appetite for this company because of the sheer size and name
recognition. This is a premier group.”  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment
on the IPO.  Asset Comparison  Carlyle has never disclosed the returns on its funds,
except to private investors, so one of the only ways to compare
the firm with peers has been by assets under management, which
puts Blackstone first and Carlyle second. With its sights set on
an IPO, Carlyle has made a push for growth, amassing assets
totaling $153 billion. Blackstone said last month that its
assets had surged 43 percent year-over-year to a record $159
billion.  Blackstone’s growth has helped it command the highest
valuation among its peers, trading at about 7.2 times earnings.
That beats both KKR & Co., which listed on the  New York  Stock
Exchange last year, at about 6 times earnings, and Apollo Global
Management LLC, which trades at 4.2 times earnings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Traditional asset managers such as
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. trade for about twice as much.  Flagship Fund  Beyond bragging rights, Carlyle’s success in tapping the
equity markets would bolster its efforts in raising a new
flagship fund, which the firm expects to total at least $10
billion, said a person briefed on the plan. Private investors,
who have so far seen less than 10 percent of the capital
returned from the last flagship fund, are demanding that Carlyle
contribute about 3 percent of the fund’s capital to ensure that
managers’ interests are aligned with their own, the person said.
At that rate, it would have to finance about $300 million in
commitments over several years as the firm deploys capital.  Carlyle, which has deployed $9.4 billion, or about 70
percent of its last pool, may start marketing the fund as soon
as next year, according to a person with knowledge of the plan.  Even before the firm decided to pursue an IPO, Rubenstein
was focused on growth, starting new funds dedicated to
geographic regions where investors said they wanted to put money
to work. Rubenstein has pushed Carlyle’s buyout business into
countries outside the U.S. and emerging markets, opening 35
offices on six continents, two-thirds more than Blackstone’s 21
global offices.  On the Road  The 62-year-old lawyer, a former staffer of ex-President
 Jimmy Carter , serves as the firm’s chief marketer and spends
about two-thirds of the year on the road, according to a person
familiar with his traveling. His sales pitch helped Carlyle
build an investor base that includes governments ranging from
 Abu Dhabi  to  China ’s Shandong Province, many of which have
poured capital into its 89 private funds.  After the IPO, Rubenstein will be co-chief executive
officer with Conway, and D’Aniello will be chairman, according
to a person familiar with the plan.  Now Rubenstein and the firm’s most senior executives are
spending time on  Wall Street , seeking to convince investors that
Carlyle’s model of spreading money into many small funds
generates steadier earnings than competitors who concentrate
larger sums in fewer pools, the people said. Rubenstein is
arguing that Carlyle should be valued more like a traditional
asset-management company.  Carry Value  Carlyle’s pitch is tailored to counter public investors’
perceptions about private-equity incentive fees, or carry.
Stockholders place little value on these earnings, which are
unpredictable especially during times when an economic slowdown
makes it tougher to exit investments.  Investors aren’t paying anything for future carry, said
Bank of America Corp. analysts led by  Guy Moszkowski  in a report
on Blackstone titled “Valuation compelling: Get your free carry
here,” which argued Blackstone’s stock is undervalued.
Blackstone should command 8 times revenue on incentive fees,
according to the report. That’s still less than half the 20
times revenue for management, transaction and advisory fees
Moszkowski’s team factors into its estimates.  Even as Carlyle aims to persuade investors to pay more for
carry, the firm is also trying to convince them its management
fees outside of leveraged buyouts are on the rise, the people
said. The company is seeking to replicate Blackstone’s success
in getting shareholders to pay up for its diversification
efforts. Blackstone’s valuation stems in part from hedge funds,
including a fund-of-funds manager, because inflows and earnings
from that business are less volatile than private equity,
according to Marc Irizarry, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst.  Hedge Funds  Assets at Blackstone’s hedge-fund business grew to $40.6
billion as of June. The firm’s founder,  Stephen Schwarzman , has
said his hedge fund-of-funds unit is the largest in the world.  Blackstone’s total fee-earning assets under management, a
measure of assets that generate management and incentive fees,
rose 27 percent to $129 billion in the second quarter. The
hedge-fund business accounted for the largest portion, at $37.2
billion, or 29 percent more than a year earlier.  Carlyle, which hasn’t disclosed comparable figures publicly
and is still dependent on buyouts for most of its revenue, is
attempting to diversify along similar lines. With its purchase
of Dutch money manager AlpInvest Partners NV, which allocates
money for investors across several buyout funds, Carlyle entered
the private-equity fund-of-funds business. AlpInvest, which
manages about 42 billion euros ($60.4 billion), generated about
105 million euros in 2010 revenue, which included management and
incentive fees, according to its annual report.  Mitch Petrick  Carlyle, which ventured into real estate investing in 1997
and formed a credit fund in 1999, has since made other
acquisitions to increase assets. Its Global Market Strategies
group, led by Mitch Petrick, Morgan Stanley’s former sales and
trading chief, has overseen deals to buy majority stakes in two
hedge funds since he joined Carlyle as a managing director in
2010. Petrick, 49, plans more acquisitions and hires, according
to one of the people.  Carlyle has a network of 1,440 private backers, known as
limited partners, who committed a total of $4.2 billion in
capital in 2010 for six funds and several so-called co-
investments, according to the annual report. During the same
period, New York-based KKR, with 350 private investors, has
raised $5 billion, company officials have said. A person with
knowledge of the figures said Carlyle has raised a total of $26
billion since the beginning of 2008.  Higher Multiple  Blackstone, which has a base of 1,300 private investors,
attracted $5 billion of inflows during the first half of this
year through the hedge-fund unit alone, the firm’s regulatory
filings show. On a conference call with analysts in March,
Schwarzman said the firm attracted $18 billion of capital in
2010, including commitments to its flagship fund.  In making its case for a higher multiple than at least
Apollo and KKR, Carlyle must also overcome concern from
investors pointing to the decline of other private-equity stocks
in the past four years.  Blackstone completed its IPO on June 21, 2007, at $31 a
share. The stock fell below that level a week later and never
rebounded, hobbled by unrealized losses during the credit crisis
and investors’ reluctance to invest in companies that relied on
leverage for profits. Blackstone traded at $13.73 yesterday at
the close on the New York Stock Exchange.  KKR and Apollo, also based in New York, lost value from the
time they sold stakes to investors through a listing in
Amsterdam and a private exchange, respectively. KKR is up about
5 percent since it listed shares on the New York Stock Exchange
last year.  Perfect Timing  “If you look at Blackstone, they timed the market
perfectly and lost a lot afterwards,” said Josef Schuster,
founder of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC, which oversees about
$2.5 billion. “There’s a precedent from the incumbents that
indicates to me that this shouldn’t trade markedly differently.
Investors are not going to step up and pay a substantial
premium.”  Carlyle’s push into new regions and investment strategies
outside of buyouts has paid off in some cases. Raising an Asia
buyout fund more than 10 years ago made Carlyle the first major
U.S.-based manager to start a dedicated pool in the region.
Today, the firm manages nine non-Japan Asia-focused funds.  Still, expansion has driven costs higher than its peers,
people familiar with the firm’s financial statements said.  Its first foray into hedge funds ended when the credit
crisis forced Carlyle three years ago to shut its only hedge
fund, a venture it had started with Deutsche Bank AG executives
Rick Goldsmith and Ralph Reynolds. Assets in that fund had
dropped by a third to $600 million.  Another fund, the publicly traded mortgage-bond fund
Carlyle Capital Corp., was suspended from trading after it
failed to meet more than $400 million of margin calls on
mortgage-backed collateral. The firm had started the fund less
than two years before, hiring John Stomber, a former managing
director of Cerberus Capital Management LP, to head it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 