-- 
Carlsberg Shares Drop Most in Almost Three Years as Brewer Cuts Forecast

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-17T12:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/carlsberg-cuts-forecast-by-half-as-taxes-weather-hurt-russian-beer-market.html
Carlsberg A/S, the world’s fourth-
largest brewer, fell the most ever in Copenhagen trading after
slashing its profit forecast because of weaker sales in  Russia .  The shares dropped as much as 19 percent, wiping 10 billion
kronor ($1.9 billion) off the company’s market value.  Adjusted net income will rise 5 percent to 10 percent
compared with a prior forecast of a 20 percent increase, the
Copenhagen-based company said today as it reported second-
quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  Carlsberg, Russia’s biggest brewer, said the market there
will decline at a “low single-digit” rate, compared with a
previous forecast of 2 percent to 4 percent growth. The company
cited higher taxes on beer as well as bad weather, and said it
no longer expects to increase market share in Russia this year.  “The Russian consumer remains subdued with the market down
2 percent in the second quarter,” Dirk Van Vlaanderen, an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , wrote in a
note to clients. “To make matters worse, the company has also
walked away from its market share target.”  Carlsberg shares fell as much as 85.8 kronor to 365 kronor,
the steepest intraday percentage decline on record. They traded
down 17 percent at 380 kronor as of 2:32 p.m., cutting the
company’s market value to about 58 billion kronor and extending
the drop this year to 33 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen acquired
1,346 shares today for 498,020 kronor, Carlsberg said.  Russian Beer Taxes  Brewers have sold less beer in Russia after taxes on the
drink were increased by 200 percent last year. Consumers have
not yet fully adjusted to higher prices, Rasmussen said on a
conference call with analysts.  Carlsberg, the owner of the Baltika brand, gets about 45
percent of profit from the country, where President Dmitry Medvedev last month approved a  law  that will prohibit beer sales
from kiosks by 2013 and restrict advertising.  The government’s move to tighten restrictions on the sale
of beer may have a “slightly negative” effect on Russian
revenue for the remainder of the year, the brewer said.  Sales in the second quarter were also hurt by wet weather,
especially in June, executives said on the call.  The failure to increase market share in Russia means the
brewer won’t meet previous expectations of market-share growth
in two-thirds of its businesses, Carlsberg said. The company
accounted for 38.4 percent of the market in the second quarter.  Lower Profit  Carlsberg said it plans to focus on “growing sales
channels” in the country and selectively focusing on lower-cost
brands to try to boost market share.  The Russian market will probably resume growth of 3 percent
to 5 percent after 2013, the executives said on the call.  Second-quarter operating profit, excluding some items, fell
to 3.7 billion kroner from 4.2 billion kroner a year earlier,
Carlsberg said. The average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for 4.33 billion kroner. On a so-called
organic basis, which excludes acquisitions or disposals,
operating profit slid 11 percent compared with a median 2.8
percent increase estimated by eight analysts.  Sales in the quarter totalled 18.7 billion kroner, meeting
estimates. Revenue increased 3.9 percent from a year earlier,
with organic growth amounting to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 