-- 
McGraw-Hill Studies Separating Education Unit

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-17T18:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/mcgraw-hill-said-to-hire-evercore-to-advise-on-education-unit.html
McGraw-Hill Cos., the owner of
 Standard & Poor’s , hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to advise on a
possible separation of its education unit, the company’s largest
by revenue, people with knowledge of the move said today.  Evercore was hired in March to review whether a separation
of its education business makes sense, and if so, whether it
should be sold, spun off or offered in an initial share sale,
said one of the people, who declined to be named because the
discussions haven’t been made public.  The 123-year-old publishing and finance company said in
June it would conduct a review of the company and hired Morgan
Stanley to help sell its broadcast business. New York-based
McGraw-Hill also hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for advice on
strategy, people familiar with that arrangement said earlier
this month. Shareholder Jana Partners LLC, a  New York  hedge
fund, met with McGraw-Hill management in July to seek ways to
boost  shareholder value .  Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for McGraw-Hill, declined
to comment, as did as a spokesman for New York-based Evercore.  The education unit accounted for 39 percent of McGraw-
Hill’s 2010 revenue, while contributing only 23 percent of its
profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jana and the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , whose shares
are managed by Jana, together own a 5.2 percent stake in McGraw-
Hill.  McGraw-Hill, based in New York, rose 46 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $39.27 at 2:16 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares had risen 6.6 percent this year
before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  