-- 
Chavez Preparing Government Takeover of Venezuela’s Gold Mining Industry

-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-08-17T22:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/chavez-preparing-government-takeover-of-venezuela-s-gold-mining-industry.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
ordered his government to repatriate $11 billion in gold held in
banks abroad to safeguard the country from the economic crisis
and said he’ll nationalize the local gold industry.  Venezuela has about 211 tons of its 365 tons of gold
reserves held abroad at institutions including the Bank of
 England ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  and the  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , according to a government
document.  “We’ve held 99 tons of gold at the  Bank of England  since
1980. I agree with bringing that home,” Chavez said today on
state television. “It’s a healthy decision.”  Chavez, who has said he wants to eliminate the
“dictatorship” of the  U.S. dollar , has called on Venezuela’s
central bank to diversify its $28.7 billion in reserves away
from U.S. institutions. Some cash reserves, which total $6.3
billion, will be shifted into currencies from emerging markets
including  China , Russia, Brazil and India, central bank
President Nelson Merentes said today at a news conference.  ‘Brutal Place’  Earlier today Chavez said he plans to take control of the
country’s gold industry to halt illegal mining and boost
reserves.  The government is preparing a decree to stop illegal miners
exploiting deposits of gold and coltan, an ore containing
tantalum, used in mobile phones and video-game consoles, he
said.  Venezuela faces international arbitration over nationalized
gold assets from three companies including  Crystallex
International Corp. (KRY) , a Canadian gold producer whose Las
Cristinas mine was taken over by the government in February.
Chavez has increased state control over the economy since 2006
by nationalizing companies in the oil, petrochemicals, cement,
metal, mining and telecommunications industries.  “Venezuela has established its position as a brutal place
to do business,” Tom Winmill, who manages the Midas Fund in  New
York , said today in a telephone interview.  “Whether it’s a small cap like Crystallex or a large cap
like Barrick or Anglo Gold, it doesn’t really make any
difference because no one is going to put another nickel into
that country,” he said.  Relaxed Restrictions  The South American country, in an effort to boost stalled
production and take advantage of rising prices, last year
relaxed restrictions on gold exports to allow some companies and
joint ventures with the government to send as much as 50 percent
of their output abroad.  Venezuela state gold producer Minerven has been shut for 15
days amid a strike, newspaper El Mundo reported today, citing
company President Luis Herrera.  “The area is run by the mafia,” Chavez said of the gold
industry today. “We’re going to nationalize gold. We can’t keep
allowing them to take it away.”  Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML) , the only publicly traded gold miner
still in Venezuela, is in talks with the government to increase
gold exports, Chief Executive Officer Andre Agapov said today in
a telephone interview.  “We can sell gold in the local market, but we want to sell
as much gold as possible at international prices,” Agapov said.
He said he didn’t have any information on a possible
nationalization.  Stock Falls  The company’s stock fell 17 percent to 12.5 Canadian cents
on the Toronto Stock Exchange today. It’s fallen 69 percent this
year.  Venezuela produces 11 metric tons of gold a year, and
illegal miners extract an additional 10 to 11 tons a year,
Chavez said in May.  Venezuela’s National Guard first seized control of the Las
Cristinas mine, which has reserves of about 27 million ounces,
in November 2001 from Canada’s Vanessa Ventures.  Venezuela’s 365.8 metric tons of  gold reserves  makes it the
15th-largest holder of the precious metal in the world,
according to an August report from the World Gold Council.
Venezuela’s gold holdings accounted for about 61 percent of the
nation’s international reserves, according to the report.  Gold futures for December delivery rose $8.80, or 0.5
percent, to $1,793.80 an ounce on the Comex in New York. Prices
touched a record $1,817.60 on Aug. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  