-- 
Chico’s Dyer Says Boston Proper Will Add More Cutting-Edge Style

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-08-17T17:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/chico-s-dyer-says-boston-proper-will-add-more-cutting-edge-style.html
Chico’s FAS Inc. (CHS) ’s purchase of
online retailer Boston Proper will add more cutting-edge
fashions, a change from the women’s clothing chain’s more
conservative lineup, Chief Executive Officer David Dyer said.  While Chico’s and its White House Black Market label
feature tailored suiting and clean lines, Boston Proper sells
red off-the-shoulder tops and fur-embellished sweaters. The
chains both market to affluent, college-educated women 35-years-
old to 55-years-old, Dyer said.  “This is a market niche we needed to get involved in, and
this brand is a tremendous growth opportunity for us,” Dyer
said today in an interview. “We can double their business.”  The $205 million acquisition will be funded from available
cash and will add to earnings in its first year, before taking
into account any possible synergies,  Fort Myers , Florida-based
Chico’s said today in a statement.  Closely held Boston Proper, a direct-to-consumer business
with a catalog and website, focuses on creating junior fashion
trends in “appropriate” cuts to flatter older women, said
Sheryl Clark, the company’s chief executive officer. The  Boca
Raton , Florida-based chain sold $110 million in clothing last
year, and has increased sales every year since 2008.  Chico’s, which also owns Soma Intimates, has 1,250
locations and may expand to 800 more, Dyer said.  Doubling Boston Proper’s sales under Chico’s is
“plausible,” said Adrienne Tennant, an analyst at Janney
Capital Markets in New York. Other direct-mail competitors such
as  Talbots Inc. (TLB)  have comparable sales, she said.  “The nice thing about Boston Proper is that it doesn’t
directly compete with Chico’s current customers,” Tennant said
in a telephone interview. “There is certainly a little more
cutting-edge fashion there.”  Chico’s fell 42 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $12.19 at 1:41
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
had gained 4.8 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  