-- 
China Sells 15 Billion Yuan Dim Sum Bonds in Hong Kong at Record Low Yield

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-17T08:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/china-s-government-sells-dim-sum-bonds-in-hong-kong-at-record-low-yield.html
China sold 15 billion yuan ($2.4
billion) of bonds to institutional investors in  Hong Kong  at the
lowest yields since the Ministry of Finance began issuing debt
in the city in 2009.  The ministry auctioned 6 billion yuan of three-year debt at
0.6 percent, lower than the 1 percent offered on the debt of the
same tenor in November 2010, Hong Kong Financial Secretary John
Tsang said today in the city. The bonds were being offered to
investors to yield about 0.7 percent to 0.9 percent, according
to three people familiar with the matter.  “The three-year yield is much lower than expected,
reflecting investors are confident about the appreciation of the
yuan,” said  Frances Cheung , senior strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  The government’s third issue of yuan-denominated bonds in
Hong Kong, its largest to date, shows global investors are
seeking alternative assets as  Europe , the U.S. and Japan
struggle to curb budget deficits. The yuan has climbed 3.2
percent against the dollar this year as  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded its AAA credit rating for the U.S. to AA+ on Aug. 5.  The ministry also sold 5 billion yuan of five-year dim sum
bonds at 1.4 percent, 3 billion yuan of seven-year bonds at 1.94
percent and 1 billion yuan of 10-year bonds at 2.36 percent,
according to a Hong Kong Monetary Authority statement on its
website. The sale was "popular," attracting 69 billion yuan of
bids, Vice Finance Minister Li Yong said today. Another 5
billion yuan of two-year notes will be offered to individual
investors at a 1.6 percent yield, he said.  More Issuance  “I believe our safe and good-quality treasury will be
welcomed by Hong Kong investors,” Yong said. The government
will gradually expand sales of dim sum bonds in the city and
encourage issuance by companies, he added.  “We will have more mainland-based financial institutions
issuing yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong, and allow mainland
enterprises to do so” on a larger scale, Vice Premier  Li
Keqiang  said.  The Ministry of Finance sold 6 billion yuan of dim sum
bonds in 2009 and 8 billion yuan in 2010. Excluding today’s
sale, dim sum issuance already totaled 99 billion yuan this
year, more than double 2010’s 35.7 billion yuan, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan strengthened beyond 6.4 per dollar for the first
time in 17 years last week, a day after the government reported
its biggest  trade surplus  in two years. The currency rose 0.8
percent last week in  Shanghai , the biggest gain since 2007,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The yuan
fell 0.07 percent to 6.3871 today.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong totaled a record 554 billion
yuan at the end of June, more than six times the level of a year
earlier, official figures show.  Bank of Communications Co. was hired to arrange the bond
sale to institutional investors. Other banks including HSBC
Holdings Plc, Bank of China Ltd. and Standard Chartered Plc were
hired to arrange the debt sale to individuals.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lilian Karunungan in
Singapore at   lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ; Andrea
Wong in Taipei at   awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  