-- 
China Auctions 10-Year Bonds at Lower Yields Than Last Month

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-17T09:18:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/china-auctions-10-year-bonds-at-lower-yields-than-last-month.html
China ’s government sold 10-year
bonds today at a lower yield than at its previous sale,
according to a trader at a  finance company  that participates in
government auctions.  The finance ministry sold 30 billion yuan ($4.7 billion) of
debt at an average yield of 3.93 percent, the trader said. That
compared with an average yield of 4.06 percent at the July sale
of similar-maturity securities.  “The outcome is reasonably good,” said Ju Wang, a fixed-
income strategist for Asian emerging markets at  Barclays Capital 
in  Singapore . “Liquidity conditions remain steady and the
expectation for additional rate hikes continues to drop.”  China’s two-year interest-rate swaps that exchange the
PBOC’s one-year deposit rate for a fixed payment declined five
basis points to 3.57 percent as of 5:15 p.m. in  Shanghai . Buyers
of the swaps receive the deposit rate for one year, after which
the floating payment is reset for the second year at the
prevailing deposit rate.  The People’s Bank of China pumped a net 70 billion yuan
into the economy for the week through Aug. 11, the fourth weekly
injection and the most since June. Central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said the nation will “basically” maintain its existing
monetary policy direction, China Business News reported today.  The government sale came after the central bank raised the
yield on one-year bills for the first time in seven weeks at an
auction yesterday. The increase led some in the market to
speculate that policy makers may lift borrowing costs again.  Cautious Approach  The PBOC is likely to adopt a more cautious approach, given
heightened concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis and global growth,
Hong Kong-based Standard Chartered Plc strategist Delphine Arrighi wrote in a research note today.  “With CPI inflation likely to have peaked in July at 6.5
percent and domestic growth showing signs of a moderate slowdown,
we see little room for further rate hikes,” she said.  Policy makers raised  interest rates  three times this year
and boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios on six occasions,
moves that helped drive the seven-day repurchase rate to 9.20
percent on June 24, the highest level since October 2007. The
monetary authority said Aug. 1 that it was too early to loosen
monetary policy because of the risk that inflation may
accelerate.  The seven-day repurchase rate rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.25 percent in Shanghai, according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  The  finance ministry  in January published a list of 59
underwriters required to bid at its debt sales, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
China Citic Bank Corp., Postal Savings Bank of China, Industrial
Bank Co., Guotai Junan Securities Co. and BOC International
(China) Ltd.  -With reporting from Ronnie Harui in Singapore. Editors: Andrew
Janes, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at +65-6212-1895 or
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  