-- 
China Rail Investment Drops 26% on Crash

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-17T06:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/china-rail-investment-drops-26-on-crash.html
China ’s rail construction investment
slumped 26 percent last month after a deadly high-speed train
collision prompted officials to suspend approvals for new
projects and impose more safety checks.  Rail construction investment in July amounted to 41.2
billion yuan ($6.4 billion), compared with 55.8 billion yuan a
year earlier, based on Ministry of Railways  data  released Aug.
15. It was the biggest drop in eight months.  “The slump in July construction investment started the
downward spiral of China’s rail investment,” said  James Chung ,
a Shanghai-based analyst with Masterlink Securities, “I think
it’s impossible for the ministry to reach this year’s investment
target.”  Rail investment in the second half is expected to plunge by
between 40 percent and 44 percent from a year earlier as new
projects are halted, Chung said. The Chinese government ordered
trains to lower speeds and reduced Beijing-Shanghai bullet-train
services after the July 23 collision, which killed 40 people.  The railway ministry said in May that rail construction
investment this year will total 600 billion yuan, down from an
earlier estimate of 700 billion yuan.  Total rail construction investment in the first seven
months of the year dropped 2.5 percent from a year earlier to
283 billion yuan, according to the ministry data. In the first
half, the figure was 242.2 billion.  Lightning Disaster  The collision occurred near Wenzhou when a high-speed train
lost power after being struck by lightning and was rear-ended by
a second train, according to state-run Xinhua News Agency. A
preliminary probe attributed the crash to a signaling fault.  Railway builders including  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  and
China Railway Construction Corp. will be affected most by the
slowdown in investment, said Jack Xu, a Shanghai-based analyst
with Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd. Equipment providers including
CSR Corp. are less affected because they have big backlogs, he
said.  China Railway Group, which has slumped about 29 percent
since the crash, rose 3.1 percent in Hong Kong as of 2:28 p.m.
The shares were little changed in Shanghai trading.  Public Backlash  The government also ordered trainmaker China CNR Corp. to
recall 54 high-speed locomotives for safety checks.  The railway ministry has decided to dismiss spokesman  Wang
Yongping , Xinhua reported yesterday without elaborating. Wang,
56, was criticized for explanations he gave after the crash as
he “infuriated the public” when he defend rescue efforts
following the accident, including dismissing accusations that a
rail-car had been buried as part of a cover up, the state-run
China Daily newspaper said today.  “The rescuers decided to bury the train’s carriages to
make their work easier,” Wang said at a press conference,
according to newspaper. “Whether you believe (this explanation)
or not, I do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  