-- 
China Expands Yuan Role in Biggest Boost to Hong Kong’s Economy Since 2003

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-08-17T10:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/china-expands-yuan-role-in-biggest-boost-to-hong-kong-s-economy-since-2003.html
Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
unveiled the biggest package of measures supporting  Hong Kong ’s
economy since the 2003 SARS epidemic, allowing more two-way
investment in shares and sparking a rally in brokerage stocks.  China will start an exchange-traded fund based on Hong Kong
equities, Li, the front-runner to replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier
in 2013, said at a forum in the city today. He also pledged a 20
billion yuan ($3.1 billion) quota for qualified companies to
invest in domestic Chinese securities and said sales of yuan
bonds in the city will be expanded.  The plans relax restrictions on investment flows,
bolstering the city’s role as a financial hub and aiding an
economy that shrank in the second quarter for the first time
since 2009.  China Everbright Ltd. (165)  rose 8.2 percent, the most in
19 months, as financial services companies surged on speculation
they may benefit from the quota.  “Today’s announcements should enhance Hong Kong’s exposure
to mainland growth momentum, giving the territory more
cushioning against rising global economic headwinds,” said
Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong.  Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665)  shares closed
8.6 percent higher and  Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. (1788) 
climbed 10 percent.  ‘Piece of Candy’  Today’s measures echo the government’s assistance after the
deadly disease epidemic, when a loosening of visa restrictions
spurred spending by Chinese tourists. At that time, China and
Hong Kong also signed a free-trade agreement, the Closer
Economic Partnership Arrangement.  “It seems to be the biggest piece of candy offered by
Beijing since the one they gave to Hong Kong after SARS,” said
Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Making the announcements in person, with the heads of the
central bank and commerce ministry, was “a symbolic
demonstration of Beijing’s commitment to Hong Kong,” said Kwok.
The quota for qualified foreign institutional investors is a
yuan-settled version of an existing program settled in dollars,
she said.  China will expand its companies’ offshore bond sales and
support the use of yuan for foreign direct investment in the
nation, Li said. The city’s status as a financial center “is
crucial for Hong Kong’s development,” he said.  Financial Center  The pledge for an exchange-traded fund comes after the
government scrapped in January 2010 a plan to allow Chinese
nationals to buy equities directly. The so-called “through-
train” program for direct purchases, unveiled by regulators in
August 2007, had helped push the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  to a record
high in October that year.  “All these moves will help enhance Hong Kong as a leading
financial center,” said Danny Yan, Hong Kong-based portfolio
manager at Haitong International Asset Management, which
oversees $600 million. “The impact on the Hong Kong market will
be more long-term than short-term.”  Qualified foreign institutional investors “will be allowed
to invest in mainland securities markets with an initial size of
20 billion yuan,” Li said. “Pilot projects for foreign banks
to replenish capital with renminbi will be launched and support
will be given to Hong Kong enterprises in making direct
investment on the mainland in renminbi.”  Zhou’s Cooperation  Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan told the same forum
that Hong Kong and  China  would continue to “deepen their
cooperation” to protect the stability of financial markets amid
global volatility.  Hong Kong’s economy is sinking into a recession that is
likely to last for at least a year, according to Daiwa Capital
Markets economist Kevin Lai, who had the closest estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey on second-quarter gross domestic product.  Li swept through Hong Kong’s financial district yesterday
on his arrival, with police blocking footbridges between the
world’s fifth-biggest stock exchange and the Asian headquarters
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. when his cavalcade of more than 18
vehicles passed beneath. A helicopter flew overhead with a
banner by Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. for today’s
20 billion yuan sale of bonds by China’s Ministry of Finance.  Li is one of nine members of the Communist Party’s ruling
Politburo Standing Committee and is mentioned by political
analysts such as  Li Cheng  of  Washington ’s  Brookings Institution 
as being a likely successor to Premier Wen Jiabao.  Badges of Success  While the skyscrapers and fundraising are badges of Hong
Kong’s success, Li also toured a public housing estate in a city
where a growing wealth gap is stoking discontent. Chief
Executive  Donald Tsang  has failed to win backing from a majority
of the public for more than a year, according to the latest
findings in a University of Hong Kong survey tracking his
popularity.  The city lost its place this year as the world’s biggest
center for initial public offerings as the flow of multibillion-
dollar sales by Chinese state-owned companies dried up. Hong
Kong IPOs raised $15 billion this year, while the U.S. had $36
billion worth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In a sign of the rising role of the Chinese currency,  yuan
deposits  in Hong Kong totaled a record 554 billion yuan at the
end of June, more than six times the level of a year earlier,
according to the city’s de facto central bank. The Chinese
finance ministry’s sale of “dim sum bonds” is its third and
largest issue of yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong.  Yields in China  Price differences for securities suggest investors using
the yuan QFII may look to invest in bonds rather than equities.
Yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong yield less than those on the
mainland because offshore investors have fewer options to invest
using China’s currency and seek to profit from appreciation.  Chinese government notes maturing in December 2020 yield
2.48 percent in Hong Kong and 4.05 percent in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan will
strengthen 5.6 percent to 6.05 per dollar by the end of next
year, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  All of the 70 companies that have stock listings in both
China and Hong Kong trade at a premium on the mainland,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Luoyang Glass Co. has
the biggest gap in valuations, with its Shanghai price of 9.93
yuan more than five times the HK$2.29 commanded in Hong Kong.  China is also boosting the currency’s international role to
curb dependence on the dollar, which may weaken as the U.S.
Federal Reserve pledges to keep  interest rates  at record lows
through mid-2013.  “China wants the yuan to be one of the new currency
anchors in the long-run, thus it will be less affected by the
increasingly volatile and weaker U.S. dollar,” said Yao Wei, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale SA. “Hong Kong
will continue to be a test ground for China’s capital account
opening-up and currency internationalization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Marco Lui at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  