-- 
CMBS Loss Forecast Raised by Deutsche Bank as Property Lending ‘Reshaped’

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-17T13:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/cmbs-loss-forecast-raised-by-deutsche-bank-as-lending-climate-reshaped-.html
Losses on securities tied to
commercial-property loans are poised to climb as lenders pull
back, choking off funding to some borrowers with debt coming
due, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Investors may face 9.36 percent in principal losses on
commercial-mortgage bonds sold from 2005 through 2008, Deutsche
Bank analysts said in a report yesterday, up from a forecast of
8.7 percent that the Frankfurt-based lender made in December.  “The environment for commercial real estate financing has
been dramatically reshaped in the last few weeks,” said Harris Trifon, the head of commercial-mortgage debt strategy at
Deutsche Bank in  New York . “Capital is more scarce and
acceptable leverage limits have decreased, which limits proceeds
available to borrowers and restricts real estate values.”  Wall Street is ratcheting back originating new loans to
package for sale as European debt crises and a slowing U.S.
recovery roil markets, making it harder for banks to gauge how
much cash they will recoup in bond sales and boosting rates for
borrowers. When investors demand higher yields to buy the debt,
lenders have to charge more to make deals profitable.  Lenders have raised rates by about 100 basis points amid
the turbulence, according to the Deutsche Bank report. While the
increase has been offset by a rally in Treasuries for high-
quality properties in large cities, financing spreads for lower-
tier building are “significantly wider,” according to the
report.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its 2011 issuance
forecast to between $25 billion and $30 billion, according to an
Aug. 12 report. The bank had been predicting more than $40
billion in new sales. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its forecast
last month to between $30 billion and $35 billion from $45
billion.  ‘Almost Non-Existent’  The pipeline for new deals in the fourth quarter appears to
be “almost non-existent,” the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analysts led by Christopher Flanagan wrote.  The safest commercial-mortgage backed securities are
yielding 284 basis points, or 2.84 percentage points, more than
Treasuries, according to a Barclays Plc index. The spread has
jumped 75 basis points since the end of June, after sinking as
low as 178 in April, the data show.  Prices on a Markit Group Ltd. CMBX index tied to junior AAA
commercial-mortgage bonds plunged as much as 24.9 percent to
55.04 from the start of July through Aug. 8, implying losses of
15.3 percent on the underlying securities, according to Deutsche
Bank.
The index, which falls as the cost to protect against default
rises, closed at 57.98 yesterday.  Loans originated in 2007 and coming due next year pose the
greatest risk to investors in the near-term, according to
Deutsche Bank. About 45 percent of those mortgages, taken out
when property values peaked and underwriting standards bottomed,
may struggle to refinance at maturity.  Wall Street  has arranged more than $23 billion of
commercial-mortgage bond sales in 2011, according to Bloomberg
data. That compares with $11.5 billion in all of 2010. Sales
plummeted in 2008 from a record $234 billion in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  