-- 
Congolese State Miner Sodimico Sells a Stake in Former First Quantum Mines

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-08-17T11:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/congolese-state-miner-sodimico-sells-stake-in-former-first-quantum-mines.html
Sodimico, a Democratic Republic of
Congo state-owned miner, said it sold its share in two copper
projects formerly run by  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  for $30
million, less than a sixteenth of the stake’s estimated value.  The company’s 30 percent stake in Frontier and Lonshi mines
was disposed of in an unannounced sale in March, Sodimico Chief
Executive Officer Laurent Lambert Tshisola Kangoa said. He
declined to name the purchaser of the projects, which have a
combined value of more than $1.6 billion, according to estimates
by Numis Securities Ltd. and Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London .  “Sodimico is a state-owned company and it was a political
decision to resolve certain problems and re-launch production at
Frontier,” Kangoa said in a July 28 interview in Kinshasa,
Congo’s capital. “It was not an economic decision by Sodimico.”  Sodimico repossessed the Lonshi and Frontier projects from
First Quantum after Congo’s  Supreme Court  decided in May 2010
that the Vancouver-based company illegally obtained the rights
to the concessions, which previously belonged to Sodimico. First
Quantum is fighting the cancellation at the International Centre
for Settlement of Investment Disputes in Washington, D.C.  A copy of Sodimico’s contract for the properties on Congo’s
Mines Ministry’s website doesn’t include the March deal. A June
2010 agreement gave 70 percent control of the mines to a Hong
Kong-registered company called Fortune Ahead Ltd. Bloomberg was
unable to locate contact information for the company’s director
named on the contract, a Brazilian passport holder named Saul
Valt with an address in Gibraltar.  Kangoa said Valt wasn’t involved in the most recent sale.  Value ‘Debatable’  Whether the $30 million purchase price was good value for
Sodimico’s stake was “debatable,” Kangoa said. Now that the
Lubumbashi-based company has divested from the projects, it
won’t receive royalties or dividends.  Numis Securities valued Frontier at about $1.6 billion and
Lonshi at $400 million in a research note last year, while Oriel
Securities in September valued Frontier at $1.4 billion and
Lonshi at $250 million. Both brokerages have since removed
Frontier and Lonshi from their valuations of First Quantum.  Frontier, which shipped about 94,000 metric tons of copper
in 2009 and had $439 million in revenue, hasn’t operated in a
year. First Quantum refused to turn over information on how to
run the mine and prevented the new owners from using the
company’s equipment because “they didn’t want us to benefit from
their loss,” Kangoa said.  First Quantum hasn’t been on site since the mine closed and
wasn’t asked for advice on the operation of any equipment, the
company said in an e-mailed response to questions on Aug. 2.  Job Losses  More than 1,200 people lost their jobs when Frontier closed
in August 2010, and the state is losing hundreds of millions of
dollars in revenue, Kangoa said. The operation was Congo’s
largest taxpayer in 2009, generating $55 million for the state
Treasury, according to First Quantum public filings.  First Quantum says it invested more than $300 million in
the low-grade, high-tonnage Frontier mine and was exploring the
possibility of extracting ore from the underground section of
Lonshi’s depleted open-pit mine when its license was revoked.  In a separate court case, Sodimico sued First Quantum for
more than $17 million in lost revenue and $40 million in damages
for using studies of the Frontier and Lonshi site the state-
owned miner carried out before First Quantum took over the
licenses in 2000.  A Lubumbashi-based commercial court ruled in favor of
Sodimico on March 12. First Quantum is appealing the case,
arguing that it discovered the deposits and only used publicly
available information.  Election Financing  In two letters to Congolese Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu 
and central bank Governor Jean-Claude Masangu Mulongo, Kangoa
said Sodimico hasn’t received its full share of a $30 million
signing bonus for the original deal with Fortune and was asked
to make a $10 million payment to the Treasury to help finance
upcoming elections after the recent share sale. Bloomberg News
received a copy of the letters from the National Assembly’s
Economic and Financial Committee and Kangoa confirmed their
content.  Sodimico is in the process of transforming itself into a
commercial company, a proposition made more difficult by the
sale of its properties over the years, Kangoa said.  The company, whose assets mainly consist of minority shares
in joint ventures, is in negotiations with  South Korea ’s Posco
and Taejoo Synthesis Steel Co. about a partnership to exploit a
 copper mine  in the southeastern province of Katanga, Kangoa
said.  Sodimico also has a 23 percent stake in a copper venture
with  Metorex Ltd. (MTX) , the Johannesburg-based company that  China ’s
Jinchuan Group Co. plans to acquire, Kangoa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 