-- 
Consumption Tax Would Make U.S. Deficit Reduction Easier: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/consumption-tax-would-make-it-easier-to-reduce-u-s-budget-deficit-view.html
When lawmakers on the congressional
supercommittee charged with solving the U.S.’s fiscal problems
get to work, they will quickly realize that, without fundamental
 tax reform , their job will be arduous.  They would do well to consider an innovation that every
developed nation except the U.S. has already employed: the
value-added tax.  The government’s structural budget deficit -- the gap that
must be closed to achieve long-term sustainability -- is  now 
between 5 percent and 6 percent of annual economic output, or
more than $800 billion. That’s more than the  defense budget , and
over 10 years would be about four times larger than the $2.1
trillion debt-ceiling deal Congress just passed. U.S. tax
revenue, meanwhile, is running well below the long-term trend --
by about 3 percent of gross domestic product. Just getting taxes
back to the average would cover about half the gap.  The question, then, is what kind of tax increase would be
the least-bad option. Simply raising rates would be politically
difficult, to say the least, and would waste an opportunity to
change the country’s unduly complicated tax system. The deficit
commission led by Republican  Alan Simpson  and Democrat  Erskine Bowles  has rightly  advocated  an income-tax reform that would
eliminate most deductions, lower rates and get more people to
pay what they owe. Along with such reforms, a VAT could generate
a lot of added revenue with minimal cost, and might even provide
a short-term stimulus to the economy.  Sales Tax  First developed in the middle of the 20th century, the  VAT 
is similar to a sales tax. The crucial distinction is that it is
collected in stages along the supply chain, an approach that
spreads the burden among all businesses and ensures that goods
don’t get taxed multiple times before reaching the consumer.  Under a 10 percent VAT, for example, a farmer selling $20
in wheat to a miller would charge $2 in tax, which he would pass
on to the government. If the miller made flour from the wheat
and sold it to a baker for $40, he would collect $4 in VAT. But
he would remit only $2 -- the difference between the $4 he
collected and the $2 he already paid when he bought the wheat.
If the baker used the flour to make cakes and sold them for
$100, he would collect $10 in VAT and remit $6, because he
already paid $4 when he bought the flour. Ultimately, the final
consumer pays the whole tax. Businesses collect it on behalf of
the government.  More Efficient  The system may sound complicated, but it’s actually much
more efficient than other types of tax. All the buyers and
sellers along the chain already keep track of the transactions
for their own books, and the VAT is very difficult to game or
cheat: If you consume something, you pay the tax. Estimates of
administrative costs range from 0.5 percent to 1 percent of the
amount collected, compared with  more than 3 percent  for state
and local sales taxes in the U.S. In one  paper , a group of
economists found that replacing the entire U.S. tax system with
a  consumption tax  like a VAT would increase the economy’s long-
term output by 9.4 percent.  Democratic opponents of the VAT point out one big flaw: The
tax falls more heavily on the poor, who mostly spend rather than
save their income. Many countries try to compensate for this
regressive trait by exempting basic food items and other
necessities -- an imperfect fix that complicates the system,
distorts the economy and doesn’t adequately help the poor.  An income-tax credit, in which all taxpayers receive a cash
payment to offset VAT paid on a fixed, minimal amount of
purchases, would work better. A  study  by the  Urban Institute  and
the  Brookings Institution  found that such a credit could turn a
VAT into a progressive levy, with the bottom fifth of earners
gaining 1.7 percent in after-tax income (see chart). It would
also provide an added incentive for people to come out of the
shadows and into the income-tax system.  Major Concern  Another major concern with the VAT involves state and local
governments, which might consider a federal VAT to be in
competition with their sales taxes. In reality, they are more
likely to gain by converting their sales taxes into VATs. In
doing so, cities and states could share administrative costs
with the federal government and should be able to capture the
sales of more service enterprises and Internet retailers, such
as Amazon.com.  The VAT is also more conducive to investment than a  sales
tax , which tends to fall disproportionately on certain types of
businesses, such as manufacturers. In  Canada , for example, some
provinces converted their sales taxes into VATs after the
national government introduced its VAT in 1991. The converts  saw
a significant boost  in machinery and equipment investment.  Third Objection  A third objection to the VAT, typically leveled by
Republicans, is that the government would become addicted to the
revenue it generates, hindering efforts to control taxes and
spending. The experience of Canada, which ultimately lowered its
federal VAT to 5 percent from 7 percent, suggests this concern
is overblown. In any case, it can easily be addressed by making
the VAT part of a focused deficit-reduction program.  A 10 percent VAT with an income-tax credit  would generate 
revenue equal to about 2 percent of GDP, covering about a third
of the U.S. government’s fiscal gap. If states converted their
sales taxes, the combined rate would be about 15 percent to 17
percent, lower than in most European countries. The time needed
to implement a VAT -- as much as two years -- could even provide
a much-needed economic stimulus. If people knew the tax was
coming, they would probably make big purchases now.  Make no mistake: The VAT would be a new tax. It would raise
the total burden on U.S. taxpayers and, once it takes effect,
would almost certainly take a bite out of  consumer spending . But
done in concert with broader tax reform, it would go a long way
toward solving the country’s fiscal crisis.  If there’s a better way, we’d love to hear about it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 