-- 
Corpbanca Advances After MSCI Increases Index Weightings

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T21:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/corpbanca-advances-after-msci-increases-index-weightings-1-.html
Corpbanca (CORPBANC) ,  Chile ’s sixth-largest
lender by assets, rose to the highest price of the last three
weeks after its weighting increased in the MSCI Chile and Latin
America indexes.  Corpbanca added 1.7 percent in Santiago trading to 6.901
pesos at 4:18 p.m. New York time, the highest level since July
29. About 5.3 billion pesos ($11.4 million) of shares changed
hands, more than five times its average of the past three
months.  “Investors that use the indexes as benchmarks are buying
the stock,” German Guerrero, a partner at Santiago-based
brokerage firm MBI Corredores de Bolsa SA, said today in an e-
mailed response to questions.  The weight for Corpbanca in the  MSCI Chile (MXCL)  index will rise
to 2.2 percent beginning Sept. 1 from 1.7 percent, Reema Dutt,
an official at Abernathy Macgregor, MSCI’s external press
relations office, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  In the MSCI Latin America index, the bank’s weighting will
rise to 0.16 percent, according to an e-mailed note from Banco
Santander SA dated today.  The changes will feed demand for Corpbanca shares, Banco
Santander analyst Stefano Rizzi wrote in a note to clients.  Other stocks with “buying pressure” due to higher
weighting in the index will be Corporacion Financiera Colombiana
SA, a Colombian financial group, Grupo Televisa SA, the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, America Movil SAB, the
Mexican wireless telecommunications company, and  MMX Mineracao e
Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , Rizzi wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  