-- 
Cree Acquires Ruud Lighting in $525 Million Deal to Drive Usage of LEDs

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-08-17T21:50:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/cree-acquires-rudd-in-525-million-deal-to-drive-usage-of-leds.html
Cree Inc. (CREE) , a maker of energy-
efficient lighting products that are used indoors, purchased
Ruud Lighting Inc. for about $525 million in cash and stock to
expand into the market for outdoor illumination.  Cree completed the acquisition today and expects Ruud’s
results to be “slightly” dilutive to its fiscal 2012 net
income, the Durham, North Carolina-based company said today in a
statement. Ruud will continue to be based in Racine,  Wisconsin ,
and operate as a subsidiary of Cree.  The combination will give Cree access to a larger market
for light-emitting diodes, which many cities are starting to use
for streetlights to save money in the $17.3 billion U.S.
lighting industry.  “Ruud is a leader in bringing LEDs outdoors and will help
us expand the market for all LED products and components,” Cree
Chief Executive Officer Chuck Swoboda said in an interview.  Hendi Susanto, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New
York , said the two companies are complementary. “Cree will be
able to expand their product into the outdoor lighting market,”
he said in an interview. Susanto has had a “hold”
recommendation on Cree since Aug. 10.  Closely held Ruud’s results will be combined with Cree’s
for the company’s fiscal first quarter ending in September.
Revenue for the first quarter will be in the range of $265
million to $275 million, up from the company’s Aug. 9 guidance
of $245 million to $255 million.  Cree sank $2.92, or 8.4 percent, to $31.82 as of 5:48 p.m.
in late trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. At the close of
regular trading today, Cree had dropped 55 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  