-- 
CSL Profit Misses Analyst Estimates on Currency Impact

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-08-17T03:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/csl-net-income-misses-analyst-estimates-on-currency-impact-1-.html
(Corrects per-share earnings in second paragraph.)  CSL Ltd. (CSL) , the world’s second-biggest
maker of blood-derived therapies, reported a worse-than-expected
11 percent drop in annual profit after the Australian dollar’s
strength eroded the value of overseas sales.  Net income fell to A$941 million ($984 million), or A$1.74
share, in the 12 months ended June 30, from A$1.05 billion, or
A$1.86, a year earlier, CSL said in a statement today. Earnings
were expected to drop to A$952 million, according to the average
of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue increased 8.6 percent last fiscal year, helped by a
recall of Octapharma AG’s immune therapy in September that
spurred demand for CSL products. The Melbourne-based company
predicted profit this year may jump as much as 10 percent to
A$1.04 billion in constant currency terms, and said current
exchange rates may reduce growth to 1.5 percent to A$955 million
after the dollar fell against Swiss and Australian currencies.  “We have been caught up in a perfect storm of
currencies,” Managing Director  Brian McNamee , 54, told
reporters on a conference call today. “The current weakening of
the  U.S. dollar  is a significant impost on the company.”  CSL is the world’s second-biggest maker of medical
treatments derived from blood, behind Deerfield, Illinois-based
Baxter International Inc. So-called blood plasma products are
used to treat patients with immune deficiency disorders,
hemophilia, wounds and burns.  CSL declined 3.2 percent to A$28.91 on the Australian stock
exchange at 12:58 p.m. in Sydney. The stock, the 13th-biggest
member of the S&P/ASX 200 Index by weighting, has declined 20
percent this year, versus a 9.4 percent slide in the Australian
benchmark.  Octapharma Recall  Octapharma, a closely held company based in Lachen,
 Switzerland , recalled its immune therapy, Octagam 5%, in the U.S.
in September, and European regulators recommended halting sales
after reports of heart attacks and strokes that may be tied to a
manufacturing flaw. Octapharma has resumed Octagam 5% sales in
 Europe , but not in the U.S., McNamee said.  “Clearly we benefited from that last year,” he said. “As
they withdrew from the market, we certainly expanded into some
of their customers.”  The expansion probably added A$60 million to A$80 million
in revenue, contributing 4-5 percentage points to the 25 percent
growth in CSL’s immunoglobulin sales last fiscal year, McNamee
said.  Favorable Dynamics  “CSL will benefit from increasingly favorable industry
dynamics,” David Stanton, a health-care analyst with Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Sydney, said in a report today. A switch to
CSL’s subcutaneously administered immunoglobulin products is
also buoying growth, he said.  Group revenue increased to A$4.58 billion in the 12-month
period, from A$4.46 billion. CSL, which gets 89 percent of sales
outside  Australia , said foreign exchange rate fluctuations wiped
A$175 million from profit last fiscal year and may trim A$85
million from net income in the current year.  CSL recorded A$25 million in expenses related to losses on
receivables in southern European countries, the company said.
Most of the losses arose from the sale of Greek  government bonds 
which were issued to CSL in settlement of debts that hospitals
had racked up over four years not paying for medicines it bought.  Slow Payers  “Over a number of years, we have been selling important,
arguably life-saving medicines to the Greek population through
government-owned hospitals,” McNamee said. “They seem to have
a habit of not paying very rapidly.”  Excluding the writedown, CSL’s earnings would have beaten
the average estimate of analysts, Andrew Goodsall, a health-care
analyst with UBS AG in Sydney, said in a report.  CSL plans to take on new debt of about A$1 billion to
replace maturing loans before the end of the year. After that,
the company may buy back A$900 million of its own stock, it said.  Capital expenditure of about A$250 million over the next
four years is anticipated as CSL starts building a production
plant in the Melbourne suburb of Broadmeadows to make as much as
15 million grams a year of the immune disorder treatment
Privigen, McNamee said.  “There will be many hundreds of jobs, we think, created
through the construction and long term operations of this
plant,” McNamee said. The plant will add to the 35 million to
45 million-gram combined capacity of its two Swiss plants, he
said.  John Shine will take the role as chairman following CSL’s
annual shareholder meeting on Oct. 9, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in  Singapore  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 