-- 
Defaulted Vitro Bond Ruling Signals Higher Corporate Yields: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-08-17T21:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/defaulted-vitro-bond-ruling-signals-higher-corporate-yields-mexico-credit.html
A Mexican court ruling that allows
glassmaker Vitro SAB to take control of the creditor group in
its restructuring is driving the company’s defaulted bonds to a
six-week low and spurring concern the decision may boost
borrowing costs for corporate issuers.  Vitro’s $700 million of notes due in 2017 fell 3.6 cents
yesterday to 73.05 cents on the dollar, the lowest since June
27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Federal Judge
Sandra Lopez, at the Fourth District court of civil and labor
affairs in Monterrey,  Mexico , ruled that $1.9 billion of
intercompany debt can be included in the restructuring, making
Vitro its biggest creditor and allowing it to push through a
settlement that 68 percent of creditors rejected in December.  The court decision will prompt investors to demand Mexican
companies pay higher yields and consent to covenants prohibiting
the use of intercompany debt in the event of a restructuring to
borrow overseas, said Carlos Legaspy, who manages about $300
million of emerging-market debt as president of San Diego-based
Precise Securities. At 6.42 percent, Mexico’s average corporate
dollar bond yields are already above that of peers in  Brazil ,
 Colombia  and  Russia .  “Everybody is going to start putting a discount on bonds
because they can twist the process this way,” Legaspy said in a
telephone interview. “This is wrong. Whether it’s legal or not
does not take away from the ethical considerations.”  Creditors will vote on Vitro’s debt proposal by Nov. 14,
Vitro spokesman Roberto Riva Palacio said in an Aug. 14
interview. Vitro is offering $850 million of new bonds and $100
million of debt convertible to shares in exchange for $1.5
billion of total debt in default.  ‘Dissident Group’  “Vitro has conducted itself in accordance with what’s
established in the law,” Riva Palacio said in a separate e-
mailed response to questions yesterday. “Despite continued
actions taken by a dissident group of bondholders, aimed at
interrupting the process, Vitro has advanced toward the goal of
restructuring its debt with strict attention to the law.”  Bondholders sought to block U.S. recognition of the Mexican
court proceedings, a move that was rejected by Bankruptcy Judge
Harlin D. Hale in  Dallas  on July 21.  Vitro, based in the Monterrey suburb of San Pedro Garza
Garcia, created the intercompany loans almost a year after its
2009 bond default, U.S. Bankruptcy Court records show. Vitro’s
board approved a reorganization of the company’s units that
created the debt during a meeting on Dec. 11, 2009, Chief
Financial Officer Claudio del Valle testified in a June hearing
in Dallas, according to a transcript.  ‘Disappointed’  Donald Cutler, a spokesman for the bondholders, said they
are “disappointed” in the Mexican court’s ruling and plan to
appeal, according to an e-mailed statement on Aug. 14. Allan S. Brilliant, an attorney for the bondholders, criticized the
intercompany debt in July as “manufactured insider votes to
cram down a plan.”  The Mexican court’s ruling “may force bankers to change
covenants in the future,” Robert Schmieder, credit analyst at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview in  New York .
“It sets a bad precedent.” Schmieder said he expects
bondholders to appeal.  The average yield on Mexican corporate bonds rose 38 basis
points this year to 6.42 percent yesterday, according to
JPMorgan.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 15 basis points to 165
at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Mexican bonds against default for
five years fell four basis points to 137, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Stand Well’  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 12.1689 per  U.S. dollar .  Mexican companies that are seeking to restructure debt are
unlikely to follow Vitro’s lead, said Cornel Bruhin, who helps
oversee about $4 billion of emerging-market assets at Zurich-
based Clariden Leu AG, in a telephone interview. Using
intercompany debt to seize control of their creditor groups
would limit their ability to raise financing after they emerge
from default, he said.  “I’m not sure it would set a case that others would
follow,” Bruhin said. “If you want to stand well with
investors, you have to comply with certain rules and
regulations.”  Vitro defaulted on the debt -- including $1.2 billion of
bonds -- in 2009 as the global financial crisis sank Mexico into
its worst recession in 14 years and crimped demand for auto and
construction glass. The Mexican company lost more than $300
million on natural gas and currency derivatives.  ‘Retrogression’  Vitro, Mexico’s biggest glassmaker, is the first company to
test Mexico’s 10-year-old revamped bankruptcy law by trying to
use its intercompany debt to qualify as a creditor, according to
Robert Rauch, who helps manage $2.2 billion of emerging market
assets at Gramercy Advisors LLC.  “This marks a retrogression,” Arturo Porzecanski, a
professor of international economic policy at American
University in  Washington , said in a telephone interview. “There
has been a fundamental questioning of what the workout process
in Mexico is all about. Any corporation can write its own
bankruptcy ticket.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  