-- 
Dell CEO Continues Backing Google, Microsoft Tablet Software

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-17T23:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/dell-ceo-reaffirms-backing-for-google-s-android-microsoft-tablet-software.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  reaffirmed his backing for tablet software made by
Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp., issuing remarks viewed by
analysts as a swipe at rivals such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Google’s Android mobile operating system will get a boost
from the company’s $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., Dell said during a conference call
yesterday. He also said he’s been encouraged by the company’s
early work on a tablet running Microsoft’s Windows 8 software.  “I don’t think beyond those two that there are viable
alternatives that make sense,” Dell said. “So there’s a lot of
other noise out there in the market that I don’t think will
amount to much of anything.”  The remarks were a veiled criticism of Hewlett-Packard,
owner of the competing WebOS mobile software, and Research In
Motion Ltd., maker of the operating system used in BlackBerry
phones and PlayBook tablets, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne,
Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco .  “He’s taking an indirect swipe at Hewlett-Packard’s WebOS
and RIM’s BlackBerry PlayBook,” Wu said.  RIM, which has been losing market share and is threatened
by Google’s purchase of Motorola, could be acquired by companies
including Samsung Electronics Co., HTC Corp. or Dell to shore up
their position in the smartphone and tablet markets, said Wu.
Dell’s remarks didn’t quell speculation about a possible RIM
buyout.  Hedge Bets  Dell may also be trying to hedge its bets between Android
and Windows as the company tries to compete with the success of
Apple Inc.’s iPad, which has been grabbing share from personal
computer makers, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher &
Co. in San Francisco, who has a “neutral” rating on Dell
shares.  “He doesn’t want to get hurt with Android, but is saying
Windows 8 is looking good as well,” Marshall said.  Google’s acquisition of Motorola Mobility and its trove of
17,000 patents could help Google fend off litigation against
Android by companies including Apple, Microsoft and Oracle
Corp., Dell said yesterday.  “Certainly patents play a big role here, and having
Android with a stronger ability to exhaust patent claims against
it probably sets up an interesting competitive dynamic,” Dell
said. “We’re still quite interested in Android. I’ll also tell
that you our early work on Windows 8 on the tablet side looks to
be pretty encouraging.”  Dell is planning new tablet computers that use either
Android or Windows 8, due next year. The company’s current
Streak tablets, which use an older version of Android, didn’t
have broad consumer appeal, Dell executive Stephen J. Felice
said in a June interview. The company has discontinued a version
of the Streak with a 5-inch screen.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to elaborate on
the CEO’s comments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  