-- 
Dim Sum Costs Drop 40% as Li Leads $3 Billion Sale: China Credit

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-18T04:52:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/dim-sum-costs-drop-40-as-li-leads-3-billion-sale-china-credit.html
China ’s debt costs in Hong Kong have
dropped as much as 40 percent since November, reflecting global
funds’ surging demand for yuan-denominated assets as a refuge
from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a weakening dollar.  The Ministry of Finance sold three-year notes yesterday at
a 0.6 percent yield as part of a 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion)
sale spearheaded by Vice Premier Li Keqiang. Debt of the same
tenor was priced to yield 1 percent in November. Five- and 10-
year securities were also priced at lower yields in China’s
third and largest auction of so-called dim sum bonds. The yield
on three-year  U.S. Treasuries  has dropped 66 basis points this
year to 0.33 percent, while the greenback has fallen versus 15
of 16 major currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are satisfied with low yields as a rising
currency helps make up for them,” said Kong Byung Hee, who
oversees about $1.4 billion of global bonds at Hanwha Investment
Trust Management Co. in  Seoul . “China also appeals as a new
safe choice of investment amid debt crises in Europe and a slump
in the dollar.” Kong said he didn’t participate in yesterday’s
sale, though holds dim sum bonds and expects 5 percent annual
yuan gains.  China’s currency strengthened 0.8 percent versus the dollar
last week in Shanghai, the biggest advance since 2007, after the
U.S. lost its top  credit rating  at  Standard & Poor’s  and the
 Federal Reserve  pledged to maintain near-zero  interest rates  for
at least two years. Li, the front-runner to replace Wen Jiabao
as China’s premier in 2013, said yesterday in Hong Kong that the
government will “gradually increase” sales of yuan-denominated
bonds in the city and work to develop and improve the market.  Faster Inflation  Yesterday’s sale raised 15 billion yuan and yields were the
lowest since the  Finance Ministry  first offered yuan-denominated
notes in  Hong Kong  in September 2009. China’s consumer prices
were declining at the time of the first sale, compared with a
6.5 percent increase from a year earlier last month and a 5.1
percent advance in November 2010, official figures show.  The latest issuance included five-year notes yielding 1.4
percent, down from 1.8 percent in November, and seven-year bonds
at 1.94 percent that were the first of that tenor. The yield on
10-year notes declined to 2.36 percent from 2.48 percent in
November, and a 1.6 percent coupon was set for 5 billion yuan of
two-year debt being sold to individual investors this month in
Hong Kong. The finance ministry also sold 30 billion yuan of 10-
year bonds yesterday in its home market to yield 3.93 percent.  Stronger Yuan  Foreign investors, restricted from buying China’s domestic
securities, have limited options to invest their yuan and are
prepared to accept lower returns than their mainland
counterparts on expectations a strengthening currency will
deliver gains.  The yuan rose 0.8 percent this month to 6.3885 per dollar
as of 12:49 p.m. in  Shanghai  and touched a 17-year high of
6.3820 on Aug. 16, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. That’s the best performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-used
currencies excluding the yen. It fell 0.02 percent today.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong totaled a record 553.6 billion
yuan ($86.7 billion) at the end of June, having almost doubled
from 279.6 billion yuan at the time of the finance ministry’s
November debt sale in the city. HSBC Holdings Plc, which is
helping arrange China’s sale of two-year bonds to individuals in
Hong Kong, estimated yesterday that total issuance of dim sum
bonds could reach 230 billion yuan this year.  Fiscal Discipline  Moody’s Investors Service raised China to Aa3, the fourth-
highest investment grade, on Nov. 11, praising the nation’s
efforts to tackle asset bubbles and its “resilient” economic
growth. S&P elevated China to AA- a month later, also their
fourth-highest rating. After the Aug. 5 downgrade, the U.S.
rating is now two levels above China’s at S&P.  “As several global currencies are severely tested, the
process of re-establishing fiscal discipline is attracting many
of the world’s leading investors and issuers towards yuan-
denominated bonds,” HSBC Chairman  Douglas Flint  said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Excluding yesterday’s sale, issuance totaled 99 billion
yuan this year, compared with 35.7 billion yuan in the whole of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday’s
auction of 15 billion yuan of notes was “popular,” attracting
69 billion yuan of bids, said Vice Finance Minister Li Yong, who
along with central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan accompanied  Li
Keqiang  to Hong Kong.  Fitch Local Outlook  The cost of protecting Chinese government debt against
default reached a two-year high last week on concern the banking
system’s bad debts may jump as loans to local governments turn
sour.  Fitch Ratings  lowered its outlook on China’s AA- long-term,
local-currency rating to “negative” from “stable” on April
12 because of the risk banks will need to be bailed out.  Five-year credit-default swaps for China’s debt touched 116
basis points on Aug. 11, the highest level since May 2009,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The swaps have climbed 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage
point, this month and traded at 103 yesterday in  New York . The
derivatives contracts are used to insure debt against default
and traders use them to speculate on credit quality. An increase
suggests deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness.  ‘Safe Bet’  An official audit released in June estimated Chinese
regional authorities’ financing units had 10.7 trillion yuan of
liabilities at the end of last year of which 79 percent was lent
by banks and 8 billion yuan was overdue. As much as 30 percent
of loans to the entities may go bad, S&P said in April.  Dim sum bonds are a safe bet and problems stemming from
local-government loans are “manageable,” said Wee-Ming Ting,
the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed-income at Pictet Asset
Management, which oversees $18.2 billion in emerging-market debt.
“There’s not much of a credit issue,” said Ting, who holds
some of the securities, though did not bid in yesterday’s sale.  China is the world’s second-largest economy and has $3.2
trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, compared with a combined
$1.1 trillion for Brazil, India and  Russia . The yuan will
appreciate 5.6 percent against the dollar by the end of 2012,
according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  QFII Expansion  Dim sum bond yields may catch up with those on the mainland
as China allows more foreigners to buy its securities. Li
Keqiang announced yesterday an expansion of the nation’s
qualified foreign institutional investor program, or QFII, that
will permit 20 billion yuan of overseas yuan to be invested in
domestic securities.  “If the new QFII program allows investments in the
interbank bond market in China, dim sum issuers will be under
pressure to offer better yields,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  For now, yuan appreciation and a premium to offshore
deposit rates that stand at about 0.5 percent to 0.7 percent are
sufficient to entice investors, said Ee Leen Yueh, a Singapore-
based  money manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees
$298 billion globally.  “For those investors who are bullish on the yuan over the
medium-term, the  government bonds  represent a risk-free asset
class to position themselves long,” she said, referring to bets
the currency will appreciate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  