-- 
Dollar Climbs as Growth Outlook, Contagion Concern Fuel Treasuries Demand

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-18T21:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/dollar-holds-drop-versus-franc-before-reports-on-inflation-jobless-claims.html
The dollar gained the most in two
weeks versus a basket of currencies of six major U.S. trade
partners as stocks plunged on concern the global economy is
slowing and speculation European banks lack sufficient capital.  The greenback rose against the majority of its most-traded
peers as global equities tumbled, driving investors into the
refuge of U.S. government securities. Yields on five-, seven-and
10-year Treasuries dropped to record lows and the yen approached
a post-World War II high versus the dollar. The Swiss franc
rallied, while the New Zealand and Australian dollars tumbled.  “It’s a pure risk-off play, and the equity market has lost
its footing today,” said  Brian Taylor , chief currency trader at
Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo, New York. “Money is
flowing into the U.S. to buy U.S. securities because the market
knows that money is safe with the Treasury.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies including the euro,
yen and pound, climbed as much as 1 percent, the biggest
intraday jump since Aug. 4, to 74.438. It traded at 74.212 at 5
p.m. in New York, up 0.7 percent from 73.674 yesterday.  The euro depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.4333, from $1.4426
yesterday, when it rose to as high as $1.4518, the strongest
level since July 27.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 4.5 percent, and
the MSCI World Index dropped 4.4 percent.  ‘Close to Recession’  The U.S. and  Europe  are “dangerously close to recession,”
Morgan Stanley analysts said in a report today. “Recent policy
errors, especially Europe’s slow and insufficient response to
the sovereign crisis and the drama around lifting the U.S. debt
ceiling, have weighed down on financial markets.” The firm cut
its global growth forecast to 3.9 percent this year, from 4.2.  The franc erased earlier losses versus Europe’s shared
currency as investors sought refuge. It rose as much as 1.4
percent to 1.1240 per euro before trading at 1.1380, up 0.2
percent. It fell 0.5 percent to 79.41 centimes per dollar.  Switzerland ’s finance minister, Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf,
said yesterday she’s “concerned” about the franc’s strength
and that the government supports all Swiss National Bank
measures to weaken the currency. The SNB has said it is
assessing various options. It refrained yesterday from a peg or
setting a target.  “The response by the SNB was way less than the market
thought it was going to be, so it’s not surprising to see the
franc strengthen again,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York .  Yen Strengthens  The yen strengthened 0.7 percent against the euro to
109.76, from 110.50 yesterday. It traded at 76.58 versus the
dollar after touching 76.45, approaching the postwar high of
76.25 reached in March. The Japanese currency surged 1.5 percent
against the Australian dollar to 79.57, from 80.82.  The franc and the yen tend to rise in periods of financial
stress because their export-reliant economies don’t need foreign
capital to balance current accounts, the broadest measure of
trade. The dollar benefits as the world’s reserve currency.  Treasuries rose for a third day, putting  U.S. government
debt  on pace for the best monthly returns since December 2008,
as investors seek a refuge in dollar assets. Ten-year note
yields dropped as much as 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage
point, to 1.97 percent. Yields on seven-year debt fell to as low
as 1.31 percent, and five-year yields touched 0.79 percent.  ‘Most Liquid’  “The Treasury market is the deepest and most liquid in the
world, so when managers from all around the world are looking
for funds and look to move from equities to bonds, part of the
pickup there is Treasuries,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  The cost of living in the U.S. climbed 0.5 percent in July,
more than forecast, Labor Department figures showed today. The
so-called core gauge, which excludes volatile food and fuel
costs, rose 0.2 percent.  The franc gained briefly versus the dollar as data showed
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank by the most in
two years. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index plunged this month to negative 30.7, the lowest
since March 2009. Readings less than zero signal contraction.  The  New Zealand dollar  slid 1.9 percent to 82.14 U.S.
cents, and the Australian dollar dropped 1.5 percent to $1.0391.
The two South Pacific countries export commodities.  Pound Ends Rally  The pound ended a five-day rally against the dollar as a
report showed U.K. retail sales rose less than economists
forecast, spurring speculation that more policy makers may
endorse further bond purchases to support the British economy.
Sterling weakened 0.2 percent to $1.6516.  The Wall Street Journal reported U.S. regulators are
stepping up scrutiny of local operations for Europe’s largest
banks on concern the euro-region debt crisis may lead to funding
problems. The New York Fed has been holding talks with the
lenders and sought information about their access to funds, the
newspaper said, citing people it didn’t identify.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said the central
bank always keeps an eye on the performance of U.S. and foreign
banks, not monitoring one group more than the other. The Fed is
“always scrutinizing” domestic and foreign banks in terms of
capital levels, Dudley, 58, said in response to audience
questions after a speech today in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  