-- 
Health Overhaul to Make Insurers Label Plans Like Cereal Boxes

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-17T19:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/health-overhaul-to-make-insurers-label-plans-like-cereal-boxes.html
Health insurers will have to provide
 descriptive labels  similar to those found on food products under
a consumer-information provision in the 2010 health overhaul the
U.S. began rolling out today.  The draft rules will make insurers such as Indianapolis-
based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest U.S. health insurer by
enrollment, detail coverage costs, deductibles and payments for
common services, including delivering a baby. The new plan
descriptions will be in the form of an eight-page summary
available in March 2012, according to the draft rules.  “We’re making it easier for consumers to find the health
plan that’s right for them,” said  Donald Berwick , the head of
the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, on a
conference call with reporters. “This will create a more
competitive market where insurers are motivated to improve their
products.”  Berwick’s agency is implementing the 2010 law that calls
for labeling similar to that used by food companies. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates the law will let 23
million uninsured people buy health coverage from private plans
by 2017.  Consumer protections in the health-care law are designed to
force insurers to compete based on price and service and to not
exclude sicker, more costly patients, Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  has said. The rules were announced
in a  statement  today from the Health and Human Services
Department in  Washington .  Start Date Concern  WellPoint was reviewing the rules and deferred immediate
comment to America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s
Washington-based lobbying group, said Kristin Binns, a
spokeswoman for the company.  The  insurance industry  called the new rules an
administrative headache that would be difficult to implement.
Plans will have to provide the new descriptions by March 23,
2012, a date  Robert Zirkelbach , spokesman for America’s Health
Insurance Plans, said was too soon.  “Some health plans could be required to create tens of
thousands of different versions of this new document, which
would add administrative costs without meaningfully helping
employees,” Zirkelbach said in an e-mail.  The government  estimates  the costs to the industry to be
$73 million a year in 2012, decreasing to $58 million annually
in 2013. The spending will come from updating computer systems
and printing and sending out notices, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 