-- 
Health Care Prognosis Improves With Digital Law: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-08-17T00:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/health-care-prognosis-better-with-digital-law-commentary-by-peter-orszag.html
Even with the all-too-
depressing illustrations of political paralysis we’ve seen
recently, government can still act to improve our lives. A
good case in point: The U.S. health sector is rapidly
digitizing, and federal legislation from early 2009, passed
well before the health-care reform act, is an important
reason why.  Just five years ago, only 12 percent of doctors and 11
percent of hospitals had comprehensive information-
technology systems in place. With no digital records to
measure patient progress and guide doctors on best
practices, it’s not surprising that cost and quality of
care have varied wildly, not only across the U.S. but even
within a single hospital.  The Health  Information Technology  for Economic and
Clinical Health ( HITECH ) Act, a little-noticed component of
the 2009 economic-stimulus bill, is helping to change all
that. As a result, over the next five years we will
experience a substantial expansion in health IT. That
digital revolution, in turn, is central to improving value
in health care.  Consider the experience of Partners HealthCare System
Inc., an early adopter of health IT at  Brigham and Women’s 
Hospital and  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston . In
2006, more than two-thirds of its doctors used electronic
health records and, by 2009, all of them did. The system
includes integrated clinical-decision support, which gives
doctors computerized help in assessing the best tests and
treatments for their patients. (Can you imagine how
difficult it would be for a doctor to keep up with the
increasing complexity of modern medicine without such
tools?)  Partners HealthCare has used its health IT to be more
selective about which patients should have diagnostic
imaging tests, such as MRIs and CT scans. The cost to
Medicare for imaging tests nationwide roughly doubled from
2001 to 2009. And such tests are not only expensive but
potentially dangerous. Frequently imaged patients face an
increased risk of cancer because of exposure to excessive
radiation.  Doctors at Partners now order imaging scans through
the computer system and are automatically queried about the
patients’ characteristics. For each case, the software then
provides an “appropriateness” score, reflecting evidence-
based protocols for the image requested. And in some cases,
the program suggests an alternative to imaging.  Comparing Doctors  The system is also used to compare doctors to one
another, so they know if they use imaging tests more or
less than their peers do.  From 2006 to 2009, imaging rates at Partners
flattened, and in some specialties even started to decline,
sometimes significantly. The number of outpatient images
per patient, for example, fell 25 percent in that period,
even after adjusting for patient characteristics such as
age, ethnicity, gender, medical history and medications.  The Partners HealthCare data suggest that doctors who
use imaging a lot in one year will tend to do the same in
subsequent years. They also indicate that imaging rates
vary by doctor. In 2006, a doctor at the 90th percentile
(meaning he ordered more images per patient than 90 percent
of doctors) ordered about 28 images for every 100 patients,
almost four times as many as a doctor with rates at the
10th percentile. To make a meaningful dent in the use of
imaging tests, the doctors who use them the most need to
change their behavior.  The IT interventions appear to have been effective at
reducing imaging rates across the board, including among
the doctors who ordered the tests most. By 2009, that
doctor at the 90th percentile ordered 20 images per 100
patients, a decline of almost 10. This one doctor’s net
decrease in scans was larger than the total number of scans
ordered by the doctor at the 10th percentile even in 2006.
And the low-use doctor reduced his rate, too, by about two
images per 100 patients.  The experience has likewise been encouraging at other
health-care centers, even some that are much smaller than
Partners HealthCare. Stellaris Health, for example, a four-
hospital network based in Armonk,  New York , has used its IT
system to reduce instances of venous thromboembolism. This
cardiovascular condition is a precursor to pulmonary
embolism -- a blockage of an artery in the lungs -- which
is the most common preventable cause of hospital deaths.  Stellaris coded into its electronic medical-record
system the risk factors for venous thromboembolism, and
taught its doctors evidence-based practices to minimize
those risks. Today, 99 percent of Stellaris doctors follow
the practices, up from about 80 percent in 2007.  Better Health Care  More broadly, health IT is a necessary but not by
itself sufficient step toward improving value in health
care. A review of the health IT studies by the
 Congressional Budget Office , published in 2008, while I was
the director of that agency, concluded that it “has the
potential to significantly increase the efficiency of the
health sector by helping providers manage information.” The
CBO also found, however, that health IT couldn’t realize
this potential without a supportive health-care delivery
system that uses it aggressively. The most auspicious
examples of IT use were in relatively integrated systems,
such as  Veterans Affairs , Partners HealthCare,  Kaiser
Permanente  and  Group Health Cooperative  in  Seattle .  In places where the technology is used to compare
doctors’ practices, bolster adherence to evidence-based
medicine, examine what techniques are working best and
reduce error rates, it can be quite beneficial.  So what has changed to increase the use of health IT?
First, like all computer technology, health IT keeps
advancing, so that it has become somewhat less intrusive to
the practice of medicine. Many doctors find tablet
computers, for example, more convenient than laptops or
desktops in the examination room.  Just as important, and perhaps more so, under the
first stage of the HITECH Act, doctors who adopt electronic
health records can receive incentive payments of as much as
$44,000 from Medicare or $63,750 from Medicaid; hospitals
can qualify for payments of $2 million or more. As of early
August, Medicare providers had received $400 million in
incentive payments for health IT, and much more is in the
pipeline. Surveys suggest that while the first-stage
incentives are available, at least two-thirds of American
hospitals will adopt new systems.  Starting in 2015, the Medicare subsidies for adopting
health IT systems are to be replaced by penalties for not
doing so.  To be sure, investments in information technology are
only part of what’s needed to improve value in U.S. health
care. Still, in this summer of despair over politics in
 Washington , the early success of the HITECH Act is a
refreshing reminder of what sensible policy can accomplish.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  