-- 
ECB Dare Not Blink First as It Stares Down Bond Market Yields: Euro Credit

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-08-18T10:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/ecb-daren-t-blink-first-as-it-stares-down-bond-market-yields-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank  needs to
back up last week’s record purchases of government debt with
further buying to prevent speculators from driving borrowing
costs for  Spain  and Italy back up again.  “The ECB’s bond purchase program has been a very effective
deterrent to panic selling, and as long as they don’t blink now,
they can have this problem of speculative shorting licked in
weeks rather than months,” said  Luca Jellinek , the London-based
head of European rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank.  The ECB snapped a five-month hiatus to buy 22 billion euros
($31.7 billion) of government bonds in the week through Aug. 12,
and has bought more securities since. That helped push 10-year
Spanish and Italian yields below 5 percent after they surged to
euro-era records the previous week amid concern contagion from
the debt crisis had infected both countries.  The success mirrors the initial benefit of the ECB’s first
program of buying Greek bonds in May 2010. Policy makers must
avoid what came after that: a reluctance to extend the program
with further purchases saw Greek 10-year yields reverse declines
and soar by more than 10 percentage points.  Staying in Play  “They don’t need to do massive amounts every week, but
they do need to remain in the market to help stabilize the
situation,” said Olaf Penninga, who helps manage 140 billion
euros at Robeco Group in Rotterdam. “They could probably get
away with a few billion a week if asset markets remain
relatively stable, but they would have to do considerably more
if political tensions arise, like internal disagreement within
the ECB or opposition to the buying from  Germany .”  Ten-year Greek yields initially dropped as much as 468
basis points after the central bank began 16.5 billion euros of
Greek bond purchases last year. Some 14 months later, the yield
had soared as high as 18.39 percent.  The ECB has overcome internal opposition among its board
members to more bond purchases as  bond market  moves suggested
the region’s debt crisis was spreading to economies considered
too big to rescue by investors.  Italy has the euro-region’s largest outstanding debts at
2.1 trillion euros, including principal and interest payments,
according to Bloomberg data. That compares with 838 billion
euros for Spain, the fourth-biggest burden in the region.  Funding Costs  Italy ’s 10-year borrowing cost was at 4.90 percent as of
10:46 a.m. in London, after surging to a euro-era record 6.40
percent on Aug. 5. Similar-maturity Spanish debt yields 4.91
percent, after touching 6.46 percent on Aug. 2, the most since
the introduction of the shared currency in 1999.  European leaders are struggling to find a solution to the
debt crisis, after a July 21 accord to bolster the region’s
rescue fund failed to calm markets. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  rejected an
expansion of the 440 billion-euro rescue fund on Aug. 16 and
rebuffed calls for a common euro-area bond, saying greater
economic integration was needed first.  The two largest euro-area economies will instead push for
tougher fiscal debt limits and the establishment of a “euro
council” as part of a planned “economic government” for the
region, Sarkozy said after the two-hour Aug. 16 meeting with
Merkel in Paris. Germany and  France  still share an “absolute
determination” to defend the euro, said Sarkozy.  ‘Only Viable Stopgap’  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager backed the
opposition to a common euro-area bond, telling his nation’s
parliament that while jointly issued debt was interesting
“conceptually,” it would not solve the region’s debt woes.  “In the absence of a sustainable policy solution, ECB
buying is the only viable stopgap,” said  Padhraic Garvey , the
head of developed-debt market strategy at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “The ECB does not know it yet, but it will find that
it cannot step away from its bond buying.”  Purchases may need to be as big as “something approaching
forthcoming supply,” according to  Credit Agricole ’s Jellinek.  Italy needs to refinance an average of about 7.5 billion
euros per week in maturing principal and interest payments for
the remainder of this year, according to calculations by
Bloomberg News. That’s more than double the weekly average of
3.4 billion euros for Spain.  “They certainly would need to consider being more active
around big supply events,” said Jellinek. “They obviously
can’t participate at the auctions, but they can help stabilize
things by buying bonds before any coming sales.”  Second Round  The ECB may have spent around 12 billion euros in the
second week of bond purchases, according to Harvinder Sian, an
interest-rate strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
London.  Concerns about the creditworthiness of euro-area members
spread to France last week, with speculation it may lose its AAA
debt rating hammering shares in the nation’s banks and sending
the  risk premium  on its  government bonds  to a euro-era record.
France’s top rating was affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings on Aug. 10.  Unprecedented bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal 
have already cost 365 billion euros in emergency funding from
the European Union, the  International Monetary Fund  and ECB.
That comes as growth in the region slows. The EU statistics
office said Aug. 16 that gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent
in the second quarter, the least since the region emerged from
recession in late 2009.  Questions of Safety  “A lot of institutional investors are beginning to
question whether Spanish and Italian bonds are stable enough to
be included in their bond portfolios, which are meant to be
among the safest, most stable investments,” said Robeco’s
Penninga. “New investors need to be attracted to take up the
slack. You are only going to attract them with higher yields.
Either way, the ECB still needs to be in the background to
prevent a return to the recent market turmoil.”  With Merkel and Sarkozy ruling out either an immediate
enlargement of the European Financial Stability Facility or the
sale of Euro bonds, further debt purchases by the ECB may be the
only defense for Italy and Spain.  “They need to convince the market that if you go short,
the guy on the other side is the ECB and they don’t lose money,
you do,” Jellinek said. “If they really want to win this they
can, because there’s no one big enough to take them on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  