-- 
Ecopetrol Missing Sale Target as Orders Total $1.13 Billion on Final Day

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-08-17T18:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/ecopetrol-has-orders-for-2-trillion-pesos-of-shares-correct-.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  has received orders for
80 percent of the stock it is seeking to sell in Colombia’s
largest planned offering in four years on the last day after a
drop in  oil prices  and global equities pared demand.  The Bogota-based crude producer booked orders for 2
trillion pesos ($1.13 billion) from July 27 through yesterday,
according to an e-mail from a company press official who can’t
be identified because of corporate policy. The company seeks to
sell as much as 2.5 trillion pesos of stock.  Ecopetrol “was hit by the volatility in the U.S. last week
and the effect of oil prices,” said Santiago Melo, an analyst
at Alianza Valores, by telephone from Bogota. “It’s not a
positive market and that punishes the placement.”  Oil has dropped about 12 percent in New York since
Ecopetrol began the sale, the largest planned offer by an oil
company in  Latin America  since  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  raised $70
billion in September. Ecopetrol is “very confident” the
company will sell more than 2.5 trillion pesos of stock, Chief
Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  told Caracol Radio today.  The company seeks to sell 676 million shares at 3,700 pesos
each. Investors paying cash can buy the shares for a discounted
price of 3,608 pesos.  The stock rose 5 pesos, or 0.1 percent, to 3,700 pesos at
1:04 p.m. in Bogota. Ecopetrol on Aug. 9 dropped as low as 3,580
pesos. The company has slipped 9.8 percent this year, compared
with a 10 percent drop in Colombia’s benchmark Colcap index.  Last-Minute Purchases  Colombian pension funds may buy the remaining shares before
the sale ends today, Juan Nicolas Pardo, an analyst at Valores
Bancolombia SA, said today in a phone interview from Bogota.  The company seeks to help fund an $80 billion expansion
plan this decade. It is spearheading crude production increases
in  Colombia , where billionaire Carlos Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB and
Eike Batista’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA also plan
investments.  Crude oil for September delivery rose $1.19, or 1.4
percent, to $87.84 a barrel at 1:21 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  President  Juan Manuel Santos  plans to sell as much as 10
percent of the government’s stake in Ecopetrol over four years
in multiple rounds. The sale, which is separate from the current
issuance, will finance infrastructure projects pending approval
of the plan by the nation’s Congress, Santos said Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  