-- 
Melrose Production Rises 23% as Egypt, Bulgaria Output Gains

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-08-17T08:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/melrose-production-rises-23-as-egypt-bulgaria-output-gains-1-.html
Melrose Resources Plc (MRS) , a U.K. oil
and gas company with assets in Europe and the  Middle East , said
production rose 23 percent in the first half to 20,200 barrels a
day on increased output in Egypt and Bulgaria.  Profit after tax rose to $33.2 million from $4.1 million a
year earlier, the company said in a statement in  London . The
company also reduced debt and revenue increased 42 percent.  Melrose has declined 21 percent this year in London trading
on concern that political turmoil in Egypt will affect output
and as investors shun energy explorers. Chief Executive Officer
 David Thomas  said the company hadn’t been affected by unrest
that led to the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.
About half the company’s cash from operations comes from Egypt
and half from Bulgaria, he said.  “We’re starting to see the benefits from our investment in
Egypt and Bulgaria,” Thomas said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had no operational disruptions in Egypt. While we’ve
reduced our production guidance, that relates to a short-term
operational challenge in Egypt, so production will be deferred
into the following three years.”  Melrose said in May that production in 2011 will be about
40.5 million barrels of oil equivalent, down from a previous
estimate of 44 million barrels. Output will decline for the next
two years before rising again in 2014, even if the company
doesn’t find any new oil and gas through exploration, Thomas
said.  The company has acquired new exploration blocks in Egypt,
Turkey and  France . It plans to drill about three wells a year,
which can be financed from operations and cash flow, he said.  The FTSE All-Share oil and gas producers’ index has
declined 8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  