-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise for Third Day as Higher Commodities Lift Producers

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-17T21:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/emerging-market-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-on-europe-earnings.html
Emerging-markets stocks rose for a
third day as higher oil and metals prices lifted commodity
producers, offsetting concern that  Europe  isn’t taking enough
steps to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.6 percent to
1,024.45 at 5:30 p.m. New York time, reversing earlier declines
of as much as 0.4 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa Index climbed to a
two-week high and  Mexico ’s benchmark gained for a third session.
 Russia ’s Micex Index jumped 1.9 percent, leading gainers in
eastern European markets. Equity gauges for  India  and  South
Korea  both rose 0.7 percent.  Oil increased as much as 2.7 percent in New York and base
metals, including copper, aluminum, lead, and nickel also rose.
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday agreed to press for closer euro-area
cooperation, tougher deficit rules and a harmonization of their
corporate tax rates. They rejected expanding a 440 billion-euro
($636 billion) rescue fund and rebuffed calls for joint euro
borrowing.  “Emerging-markets investors still appear to be very much
in defensive mode, weary of developed market tail risks as well
as the evolution of global growth,” analysts at  RBC Capital
Markets , including Robert Beange in  London . wrote in a e-mailed
report. “In many cases they have already de-risked
significantly over recent weeks or months.”  Weaker Outlook  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 10 percent this
month, more than the 8 percent decline in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
of developed countries. Emerging-market shares trade at 10.7
times reported earnings, less than an average 14 times profit in
the past four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The recent market sell-off has been relatively aggressive
and the market is now priced to reflect a weaker growth outlook
globally,” analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. including Ahmet Akarli said in an e-mailed research report. In central and
eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, the weakness “has
probably already gone beyond what the current data and our
generally constructive forecasts suggest,” he said.  The U.S. producer price index rose 0.2 percent in July,
following a 0.4 percent drop in June, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a 0.1
percent increase.  MMX, Hypermarcas  Brazilian stocks rose as commodity gains lifted producers
and speculation mounted that the central bank will cut  interest
rates  after a report showed  Brazil ’s economy shrank more than
forecast. Brazilian iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA,
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , gained 4.4 percent.
Hypermarcas SA, Brazil’s fifth-largest consumer-goods company by
market value, and Banco Santander Brasil SA also rose. Grupo
Mexico SAB, the nation’s largest mining company, advanced to a
two-week high.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, gained 2.4
percent. OAO Mosenergo, the Moscow power generator controlled by
OAO Gazprom, jumped 7.2 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
upgraded the stock to “overweight” from “neutral.”  PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s largest refiner, climbed 2.7
percent, while New World Resources Plc, the biggest Czech
coking-coal producer, added 1.5 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities advanced
1 percent as oil futures for September delivery climbed 1.1
percent to $87.58 a barrel in  New York .  The contract price pared gains after the U.S. energy
Department said supplies rose 4.23 million barrels to 354
million in the week ended Aug. 12. Inventories were forecast to
decline 500,000 barrels, according to the median of 16 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China Coal Energy Co. rallied 6.9 percent in  Hong Kong 
after reporting first-half net income climbed to 5.6 billion
yuan ($876 million) from 5.2 billion yuan a year earlier.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed six basis points to 360, or
3.60 percentage points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  