-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Corporate Profits Counter Debt Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-17T05:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/emerging-market-stocks-advance-as-corporate-profits-counter-debt-concerns.html
Emerging-markets stocks advanced for
a third day as improving corporate profits helped counter
concern that European leaders aren’t taking enough steps to
resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Four stocks climbed for every three that fell on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, which added 0.3 percent to 1,021.80 as
of 1:06 p.m. in Singapore.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index rose 1.3
percent, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies’ H Shares traded in  Hong Kong  rallied 1.2 percent.  China Coal Energy Co. and NCsoft Corp., a South Korean
online-game maker, paced gains among companies reporting higher
profits. Concern that the U.S. and European debt crises will
worsen has dragged MSCI’s emerging-markets measure down 10
percent this month, leaving valuations at near the lowest level
since March 2009, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  “We see the negative newsflow likely to come out of  Europe 
rather than anywhere else in the world these days; but if you
look outside of that, things are starting to get a little
better,” Steve Brice, chief investment strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
 Singapore . “We do prefer  Asia  to the developed world.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel rejected selling euro bonds and expanding a 440
billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund after talks between the
two in Paris yesterday.  China Coal rallied 8.8 percent in Hong Kong, set for the
steepest gain since May 2009, after reporting first-half net
income climbed to 5.6 billion yuan ($876 million) from 5.2
billion yuan a yaer earlier. The nation’s second-largest coal
producer had its recommendation raised to “buy” at Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co., which said the company’s growth will be
“certain” and exceed the industry average.  NCsoft jumped 4 percent in  Seoul  after saying its second-
quarter net income climbed 67 percent.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  