-- 
England Needs Sustained Success to Be Ranked Among Cricket’s Elite Teams

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-17T10:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/england-needs-sustained-success-to-join-cricket-s-dominant-teams.html
After reaching its goal of becoming
cricket’s No. 1 Test team,  England ’s higher challenge is
sustained success across all formats, coaches and players said.  England guaranteed it will move atop the  International
Cricket Council  Test rankings with a third straight win over
 India  last weekend.  Andrew Strauss ’s team will tomorrow start
its bid for a 4-0 series sweep at the Oval in London.  While Strauss and his players said they are targeting a
long stay at the top, only two nations have established periods
of continued dominance over the past 30 years. The West Indies
went almost the entire 1980s without losing a Test, while
 Australia  set the standard in the late 1990s and 2000s.  “Just because a team rises to the top of the world
rankings at a point in time, in terms of whether they should be
regarded as the world’s best team or the No. 1 team, they’ve got
to demonstrate that over a period of time and across all
formats,” John Buchanan, who coached Australia to two World Cup
titles and a record 16 straight Test wins, said in a telephone
interview. “I believe it’s still possible.”  England follows Australia,  South Africa  and India in
heading the  Test rankings  since the current system began in
2003. It officially replaces India as No. 1 after their series.  While it can also lay claim to being the top team in the
sport’s shortest format having won last year’s ICC World
Twenty20, England lags in one-day international cricket, where
its ranked fifth of 13 teams.  Five-Day Focus  England may differ from some other teams in that it appears
to regard five-day Test matches as the most important format,
according to former national team batsman Chris Broad.  Of the 14-man England squad for the fourth Test, only Eoin Morgan featured in this year’s Indian Premier League Twenty20
competition, where players can earn over a million dollars in a
six-week season.  “I don’t think money is the be-all and end-all for this
team,” Broad, whose son Stuart is on England’s roster, said in
a telephone interview. “The rewards will come if they remain
No. 1 in the world, financial rewards, so I don’t think the IPL
or one-day will change their focus.”  England was far from the world’s best when it was skittled
for 51 all out on its way to a 1-0 Test series loss in the West
Indies in March 2009.  Since then, under coach Andy Flower, it’s unbeaten in nine
straight series in the elite format, winning eight including
beating archrival Australia home and away in the Ashes. That’s
led to eight players being named to the ICC’s 17-person list for
the Cricketer of the Year award.  ‘Huge Task’  “Just because the rankings tell us we’re No. 1, that
doesn’t mean our job’s over,” England captain Strauss said on
the England and Wales Cricket Board’s website. “There’s a huge
task ahead of ourselves to stay No. 1, but also to compete every
series we play in and win as many series as possible.”  With six of the top 20 players in the ICC’s Test bowling
 rankings , England has restricted an India lineup featuring
record-breaking batsman  Sachin Tendulkar  to fewer than 300 runs
in six innings so far.  The pool of talent will stand the team in good stead for
future series, said Broad, who’s now a match referee for the
Dubai-based ICC.  “To win Test matches, you’ve got to bowl sides out,” he
said. “Their bowling strength and depth is enormous. They’ve
got a half dozen, seven bowlers they can call on.”  Former West Indies paceman Michael Holding said England
should get a good examination of its standing in world cricket
next year when it visits  Sri Lanka  and India and faces South
Africa at home.  Subcontinental Challenge  “They have an outstanding bowling attack,” Holding, a
commentator for  Sky Sports , said in a telephone interview.
“When they go to the subcontinent they’ll have to prove
themselves. It they do that, they can hold their hands up and
say they’re the best in the world.”  Age is working in England’s favor with just four players
over 30: Strauss,  Kevin Pietersen , Graeme Swann and injured
batsman  Jonathan Trott . Former England all-rounder Ian Botham
said the core of the team could go on for “at least another
six, seven years before it breaks up.”  “These are young players and they’ve got the bit between
their teeth,” Botham said on Sky Sports. “They’re not going to
give it away.”  Shane Warne , who took 608 Test wickets for Australia before
retiring in 2007, said England’s sound foundation gives it a
chance of following the sustained success of the great West
Indies and Australian teams.  “They may have lost the odd series but they dominated most
of the time. That is the model,” Warne wrote in the U.K.’s
Telegraph newspaper on Aug. 13. “England need to be as
consistent over the next two years home and away before they can
be truly compared to some of the great sides, but the basics and
platform are in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  