-- 
ENRC First-Half Profit Rises 29% on Higher Commodity Prices

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-08-17T16:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/enrc-first-half-profit-rises-29-on-higher-commodity-prices-1-.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a
Kazakh metals producer, reported first-half profit climbed 29
percent after commodity prices rose, and said a review of board
governance is “well under way.”  Net income jumped to $1.17 billion from $902 million a year
earlier, ENRC said today in a statement. Sales gained 32 percent
to $4.01 billion, while costs rose 30 percent. ENRC announced a
first-half dividend of 16 cents a share, up from 12.5 cents a
year earlier, maintaining the payout ratio at 18 percent.  Producers of ferroalloys, used in steelmaking, have seen
profits buoyed by rising demand from  Asia ’s car, appliance and
building industries. Benchmark European prices for ferrochrome
averaged $1.30 a pound in the first half, 9.7 percent higher
than a year earlier, according to  Merafe Resources Ltd. (MRF) , which
part-owns the biggest ferrochrome producer with Xstrata Plc.  “We expect the progress in the group’s financial
performance to continue through the second half, although at a
slower rate than in the first,” ENRC’s acting Chief Executive
Officer Felix Vulis said in the statement. “Overall group unit
costs are expected to rise at around 20 percent in 2011 in
addition to some limited volume growth.”  Second-quarter output of ferroalloys rose 0.8 percent to
398,000 metric tons and ferrochrome production gained 3.2
percent, the London-based company said Aug. 3.  Shares Gain  ENRC rose 23.5 pence, or 3.7 percent, to 655 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London .  The company plans to complete a three-month governance
review to restructure the board in the middle of September and
is committed to remaining a U.K.-listed company, Vulis said by
telephone today.  Shareholders voted June 8 against rehiring independent
directors Richard Sykes and Kenneth Olisa as a governance
dispute between independent board members and the main
shareholders escalated.  “We are pretty well under way and on target” with the
review, Vulis said. “We are confident that the outcome of the
review will be a properly constituted board, which will
encompass the interests of all stakeholders.”  Vulis, who resigned on Feb. 4 and remains in the post while
the company seeks a replacement, wouldn’t say whether he would
stay on as CEO after the process.  Strong Buy  “The announcement of a successful board restructuring will
act as a catalyst for a re-rating of the shares,” Gavin Wood, a
London-based analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd., said in a
note today. “We reiterate our ‘strong buy’ rating and maintain
our 1,050-pence target price.”  ENRC is investing in  iron-ore  assets to diversify output
and extend its geographic reach as Chinese demand for the
steelmaking material drives up prices. The company, which is
spending $11 billion to boost output across all its divisions,
is seeking to produce 19.5 million tons of iron ore by 2014 and
45 million tons by 2016, Vulis said.  The iron-ore unit accounted for 43 percent of the company’s
$1.93 billion earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in the first half, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  