-- 
Artistes Keeps Nude Nymphs, Adds Noise, $90 Steak: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/leopard-des-artistes-keeps-nude-nymphs-adds-noise-90-steak-ryan-sutton.html
The Leopard at des Artistes on
Thursday was tolerating a family of four singing “Happy
Birthday” loudly and off-key. It was a painful reminder that the
storied Cafe des Artistes is history, its feline successor a
different animal altogether.  Quiet and cuisine are the holy grails of elite  Manhattan 
dining. That’s why we’re sad that the new owners of this
landmarked space off Central Park West stripped away the
carpeting and the muting that came with it.  At least Howard Chandler Christy’s naked nymphs still
frolic with satyrs on the muraled walls.  The Cafe was a devoutly civilized den: Dark lighting for
flattery, space between tables for discretion, fabric for sound
absorption, schlag on the savarin for postprandial consumption.
It was a place for discreet wooing and Lincoln Center culture
mavens. No more.  The lights have been kicked up a few notches. The menu’s
nods to Vienna and Paris are banished. The Leopard is just
another Italian spot with noisy hardwood floors and tight
seating.  Maneuvering to the restrooms is complicated by a minefield
of tableside service trays. Watch in amusement as a tuxedoed
waiter uses the wrong knife to slice your $90 steak. Still, it’s
a nicely charred cut with mineral tang and a side of sea salt
for seasoning.  Old-Fashioned  This is less the modern approach to  Italy , more the
throwback method, with a few Sicilian and Sardinian twists. Veal
in its “own sauce” packs almost as much flavor as a strip
steak, almost as much tenderness as a filet.  Belly up to the bar for a glass of Taittinger at $22. Does
it seem flat? No worries, the glasses might magically refill
themselves as the night goes on (with a fresher bottle, thanks).
Olives, $5-$6 elsewhere in Manhattan, are a free snack here.  Gianfranco Sorrentino is the capable hand running the front
of the house; he’s also the owner of Il Gattopardo (The
Leopard), a low-key Midtown joint frequented by hedge funders
for quiet client dinners and lavish Dover Sole lunches.  Decent Dover  That fine flatfish is the right call at Des Artistes. It
doesn’t rank with Manhattan’s top-top, but the $45 price is
about ten bucks below the going rate, and the unfussified white
flesh delivers the delicate taste you expect. Precede that
protein with spaghetti alla chitarra. The sweet-tart tomato
sauce is applied judiciously, just enough to coat the noodles.
It gives Scott Conant’s version at Scarpetta a run for the
money.  The pastas are al dente and that’s part of the problem, as
they’re often undercooked to a point that’s not quite crunchy.
Bite into the paccheri -- ring-like pasta that look like squid
bodies. A pith of semolina flour is still visible. Too bad, as
it ruins a lovely dish of salt cod and capers. Same goes for the
super-toothsome rigatoni alla norma. Rabbit pappardelle is only
average; bucatini with sardines lacks enough acid to cut through
the fish’s low-tide musk.  Smart diners will avoid the appetizers altogether. Why
spend $12 on a bowl of bland steamed mussels or $15 on a slimy
pile of octopus. Arancini are undersalted and texture-free.  Close Your Eyes  Fregola is an advertised starter, yet it’s undetectable in
the limp shellfish soup that the kitchen sends out -- Manhattan
clam chowder gone wrong. Eggplant and mozzarella timbale tastes
good if you close your eyes; it has the unfortunate look and
texture of canned dog food.  The salmoriglio seasoning on the swordfish is lovely.
Except the fish is black and blue on the inside, in a gelatinous
state that won’t flake under the weight of a fork. Send it back
for more heat. A $30 shellfish ragout is beyond salvaging, a dry
heap of clams and squid over arid couscous.  Order dessert. Replacing the Cafe’s mobile carts of
pastries are carts of custard. Sorrentino, with a wink and a
nod, subs out the schlag for zabaglione, the Italian dessert
made from Marsala wine and egg yolks. It’s prepared tableside.
Of course it is. Order that and a round of fragrant sheep’s milk
cannoli and call it a night.  Rating: * 1/2 (minus a half star for noise).  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Pastas around $20, entrees $24-$90.  Sound Level: Noisy, around 80 dB when full.  Date Place: More of a power place.  Inside Tip: Great desserts. Try the peach semifreddo.  Special feature: Free bar olives.  Will I be back? For champagne, spaghetti and sole.  The Leopard at des Artistes is at 1 W. 67th St.
Information: +1-212-787-8767;  http://www.theleopardnyc.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 