-- 
Tepco Behind Schedule in Processing Radioactive Water on Equipment Trouble

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-18T08:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/tepco-may-not-clear-radioactive-water-in-2011.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. has fallen
behind schedule to process and remove millions of liters of
highly radioactive water at its crippled Fukushima nuclear plant
because of repeated equipment breakdowns.  Around 119 million liters of the water -- enough to fill
more than 47 Olympic-sized swimming pools -- has accumulated in
building basements, including four reactor facilities. That’s
down 2 percent from 121 million liters on June 28, according to
data released yesterday by the utility known as Tepco.  “It would be disastrous if the accumulated water leaks to
the environment,” Tetsuo Ito, the head of the Atomic Energy
Research Institute at Kinki University, said in a telephone
interview. Rainfall and underground water leakage into the
basements is adding to the volume of radioactive water, he said.  Ito’s assesment of rainfall and underground water leaks
mixing with radiated water is supported by Tepco figures that
show 42 million liters have been treated using equipment
supplied by Areva SA and Kurion Inc., yet the latest data show
the basement water has fallen by about 2 million liters.  It will be “difficult” to process all the water by the
end of the year as planned, Junichi Matsumoto, general manager
at the utility, said in Tokyo yesterday. The treatment system
started in June and had 32 breakdowns as of Aug. 13, the utility
 said  Aug. 16.  Water poured through reactors after standard cooling
systems failed in the March 11 earthquake and tsunami became
highly radioactive and filled up basements at the station.
Removal and decontamination of the water is key to achieving the
so-called cold shutdown of the reactors.  Boost Processing  “We want to boost the processing rate for the
decontamination system,”  Goshi Hosono , the minister in charge
of response to the nuclear crisis, said yesterday at a briefing.
Reducing the amount of basement water will allow injection of
more water into reactors to speed up the cold shutdown.  Tepco has been pouring water to bring reactor temperatures
below 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit), or cold shutdown,
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused three meltdowns
at the station in the worst accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  Tepco today started a backup water treatment system,
developed by Toshiba Corp. and Shaw Group Inc., to help speed up
the decontamination process.  The utility expects the capacity utilization rate to rise
to 90 percent with the help of the new system, from an average
69 percent so far, according to Matsumoto.  Tepco dumped more than 10 million liters of “low level”
radioactive water into the sea in April to make room for storage
of highly toxic fluids. Local fishermen and neighboring
countries including  China  and  South Korea  protested the move.  Japan  has found 77 cases of fish and marine life off the
coast of Fukushima prefecture contaminated with radiation
exceeding the regulatory limit after testing 700 seafood items,
the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare said in an Aug. 14
 report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  