-- 
Erdogan Orders PKK Bombed in Iraq, Vows Payback After Turkish Troops Die

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-18T17:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/erdogan-vows-reprisals-after-pkk-attack.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ,
under pressure to ensure stability two weeks after replacing the
military’s high command, warned that Turkey’s “patience” was
exhausted and ordered airstrikes against the Kurdistan Workers’
Party after the group killed nine soldiers and militiamen.  The attack by the PKK, listed as a terrorist organization
by Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union, was the deadliest
since July 14, when 13 soldiers were killed in an ambush that
coincided with a Kurdish declaration of autonomy. Within hours
of yesterday’s attack, Turkish warplanes crossed the border into
 Iraq  and struck 60 PKK targets, the military said on its
website. It also warned of “similar actions” until the
“separatist terrorist organization is rendered ineffective.”  “We’re at the end of words, our patience due to Ramadan is
over,” Erdogan, 57, said yesterday in televised comments,
referring to the Muslim holy month. “Separatist terrorists”
and those who don’t distance themselves from them will “pay the
price from now on.”  Erdogan, whose  Justice and Development Party , or AKP,
consolidated civilian power over the military after its top
brass resigned last month, risks looking like a weak commander
if he offers concessions to the Kurds, who have already secured
autonomy in neighboring northern Iraq. The premier’s hardening
rhetoric and the PKK’s mounting attacks threaten to undermine
attempts to meet Kurdish demands and work toward ending the
unrest in Turkey that has cost 40,000 lives since 1984.  Cease-Fire  Since the PKK ended a unilateral cease-fire in February, at
least 117 people including its members, police officers and
soldiers have been killed, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News from military and government reports. More than
half have been slain since June, when Erdogan won a third term
with 50 percent of the vote, pledging a new national charter
that embraces all of Turkey’s population.  “In its third term, the hardest issue to resolve for AKP,
even more difficult than a new constitution, is the PKK, and
that is now showing,” said Kaan Nazli, director of emerging
markets at Medley Global Advisors in  New York . “This will
poison the constitutional debates.”  Setback for Constitution  Plans for a consensus constitution suffered a setback when
35 lawmakers from the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, or
BDP, refused to join the 550-member parliament in Ankara. The
party, which Erdogan accuses of ties with the PKK, is meeting
instead in Diyarbakir, in protest over court decisions that
prevent five of its imprisoned members from joining the
legislature. They are also protesting an electoral-board ruling
that stripped one lawmaker of his seat, handing it to the
runner-up from Erdogan’s party.  “The government’s approach isn’t trustworthy,” said Cemal
Coskun, head of the executive council at the Democratic Society
Congress, an umbrella assembly in the majority Kurdish province
of Diyarbakir that includes national lawmakers. Kurds declared
autonomy in mid-July to establish their demands and protect
their rights under the new constitution, he said.  The prime minister removed an obstacle to solving the
Kurdish dispute when he asserted civilian control over the
military, according to BDP co-leader Filiz Kocali. The premier
has also spent billions of dollars building schools, hospitals
and roads in the southeast.  ‘Criminal Gang’  Erdogan has supported investigations into alleged coup
plots that have put more than 40 serving generals behind bars.
Chief of General Staff Isik Kosaner, who quit July 27 along with
three top aides, said the probes cast the army as a “criminal
gang.”  The National Security Council, the gathering of politicians
and generals that debates threats every two months, discussed
new tactics to fight the PKK and pledged “no compromise in
pursuing a more effective and determined fight against
terrorism,” CNN Turk reported, citing a statement. The meeting
was the first gathering of the council to include commanders
appointed to replace officers who quit.  “Complete civilian rule is being exercised for the first
time in  Turkey  by this government,” said Salih Akyurek, a
former army colonel and socio-cultural research specialist at
the Wise Men Center for Strategic Studies in Ankara. “The
government now needs to take responsibility and decide what it
will do. No one knows what’s behind the hard rhetoric.”  PKK Ranks Swell  Intelligence reports show that people are joining the PKK
as if they’re going for their mandatory military service,
Customs and Trade Minister Hayati Yazici said, according to
Aksam newspaper. The “big problem” is the swelling of the PKK
ranks even though the government has introduced services such as
infrastructure, health, transportation and social security,
Yazici was cited as saying.  Murat Karayilan, the PKK’s second in command after jailed
leader  Abdullah Ocalan , said in an interview with the pro-
Kurdish Firat News Agency that Erdogan is to blame for the
latest violence. PKK members will fight and turn the country
“upside down,” according to Firat.  The lira fell 0.94 percent to 1.7865 per dollar at 5:51
p.m. in Istanbul, bringing its decline during the past month to
7.6 percent. Stocks lost 4.2 percent to 51,945.93, taking losses
to 21 percent in the last month, the most among global bourses
after the Ukrainian Equities Index.  The Turkish soldiers’ deaths overshadowed a visit yesterday
by Speaker Cemil Cicek to the two opposition parties in
parliament to discuss work on the new constitution.  The general approach of all parties is to create a
consensus committee, Cicek said, adding that concrete steps will
follow the end of Ramadan celebrations Sept. 1.  “If these events escalate, naturally the constitutional
process will be delayed,” said Ozer Sencar, head of Ankara-
based polling company MetroPOLL Strategic and Social Research.
“The prime minister’s words will turn into action, an
operation, because after all these funerals and a declaration of
autonomy, if the government stays silent it will imply that
Erdogan is helpless. That doesn’t fit his character and
leadership style.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 