-- 
Merkel-Sarkozy Debt-Crisis Proposal Shuns Bolder Steps Sought by Investors

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-17T13:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/merkel-sarkozy-debt-proposal-shuns-steps-investors-sought-to-calm-markets.html
The latest Franco-German strategy to
counter the euro debt crisis stressed ideas already in the
works, shunning bolder steps investors were seeking to calm
markets.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  ruled out steps such as the issuance of euro
bonds or expanding the bailout fund. They backed a plan being
drawn up for national balanced-budget amendments and reheated
one rejected last year for a financial-transactions tax. They
called for the 17 euro leaders to hold two summits a year, the
same number of times they have already met in 2011.  “There remains an ongoing tension between investors who
want a quick fix and the policy makers who are working on the
building blocks for the future,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief
euro-area economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“Everyone can recognize that the building blocks are important,
but stronger leadership with a clearer road map is sorely
missing in this direction.”  Sarkozy and Merkel spoke after a two-hour meeting in Paris
yesterday as investors called for signs that they would do more
to end the debt storm after reports showed an unexpected
slowdown in their economies. Unprecedented bailouts by
governments and the  European Central Bank  have failed to stamp
out concerns that began in  Greece  almost two years ago and 
rattled markets in AAA-rated France last week.  European stocks rose today with the Euro Stoxx 50 gaining
0.2 percent at 3:06 p.m. in Paris. The euro gained against the
dollar.  ‘Pact for the Euro’  Merkel and Sarkozy rummaged through March’s “Pact for the
Euro” -- itself a German-French invention -- to refloat calls
for national debt-limit rules, steps to boost competitiveness
and a tax on stock, bond or currency transactions.  Such a tax failed to win the necessary unanimity within the
27-nation European Union last year. The EU is developing
proposals for the levy before a summit of the Group of 20
countries in November.  “A financial transaction tax would only work if it was
implemented worldwide,” Peter Norman, financial markets
minister of  Sweden , said in an interview in  Stockholm  today. “I
find it difficult to see how a transaction tax in the European
Union would have any positive effects.”  Merkel highlighted the need for tougher enforcement of
budget-deficit rules, including a numerical annual debt-
reduction target for countries with debt over 60 percent of
gross domestic product, the euro zone’s legal limit.  Monitoring Imbalances  European laws to do just that are set to be passed next
month, along with a mechanism to monitor macroeconomic
imbalances such as the current-account deficits run up by Spain
before the crisis.  Merkel and Sarkozy also pledged to harmonize German and
French corporate taxes, a step with minimal implications for the
economic outlook in Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland, now relying on
365 billion euros ($527 billion) in official loans to stave off
default.  “The expectations going into this meeting were pretty low
and I think they maybe even undershot what the expectations
were,”  Jay Bryson , senior global economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC , told Bloomberg Television’s Lisa Murphy.  “You need an outside force here, you need something like a
euro bond coming in here or some sort of fiscal union, to
eventually stabilize the situation,” Bryson said.  Euro-Area Chief  Euro summits would be chaired by  Herman Van Rompuy , the
EU’s first full-time president. Merkel and Sarkozy proposed
giving him the added title of euro-area chief for a 2 1/2-year
term, indicating that they favor his reappointment as EU
president when his term expires in mid-2012.  Merkel and Sarkozy said no to two varieties of fiscal
union. The first would be to boost the size of the 440 billion-
euro  European Financial Stability Facility , the rescue mechanism
created in May 2010.  “If we tripled the fund, then at the next press conference
you would ask us ‘why didn’t you multiply it by four,’” Sarkozy
said. “We’re trying to manage it seriously and reasonably. We
believe the fund is sufficient.”  The second, deeper form of integration would be pooled
borrowing by euro-area governments, a system of “euro bonds”
in which triple A countries such as  Germany  ultimately guarantee
the debt of higher-risk governments.  Common bonds will be the “ultimate solution,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  told Le Monde today.  German Debate  Merkel’s trip to Paris came after a euro bond debate
erupted in Germany, with some figures in her  Christian
Democratic Union  joining opposition parties in endorsing at
least a discussion of the idea. The German leader cut off that
conversation yesterday. She and Sarkozy said joint borrowing can
only come after national economies are better aligned.  The political intransigence leaves a divided ECB as the
main line of defense after it last week began purchasing bonds
of  Spain  and  Italy  for the first time. The ECB said today it
will lend dollars for the first time in six months as one bank
took up its weekly offer.  “The risk is the ECB will look at the political
incompetence and won’t buy any more bonds,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London.  The crisis and mounting signs of economic weakness may
prevent the central bank from raising  interest rates  again this
year, possibly forcing it to reverse this year’s half-point
increases, said  Willem Buiter , chief economist at Citigroup Inc.  The euro-area economy grew just 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, the worst performance since emerging from recession in
2009, data showed yesterday.  “There must be a material risk now of growth completely
stalling or even of recession in the euro area,” Buiter told
Bloomberg Surveillance with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “It will
remind the ECB that it was probably premature in raising rates
and they will probably have to cut rates again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  