-- 
Let Greece, Ireland, Portugal Default So Spain, Italy Won’t, Kashkari Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-17T19:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/let-greece-ireland-portugal-default-so-that-others-don-t-kashkari-says.html
European politicians should let
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  default while taking steps to
ensure Italy and  Spain  won’t, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Neel Kashkari.  “They are delaying and denying as long as possible because
the medicine to actually put out this crisis tastes so bad,”
Kashkari, head of new investment initiatives at Pimco, said in
an interview on “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” on
Bloomberg Television. “They are always behind, always trying to
play catch-up, and the crisis is always getting worse.”  Germany,  France , the  International Monetary Fund  and the
ECB should unveil a “massive” bailout package and announce
it’s available to the entire  euro zone , except for Greece,
Ireland and Portugal, effectively letting them default,
according to Kashkari.  That would create a firewall protecting Italy and Spain,
said Kashkari, who joined Pimco in December 2009 after serving
as head of the U.S. Treasury Department’s bank-rescue program.
Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , operates the world’s
biggest bond fund.  “One, two or three countries may have to take a
sabbatical; this is where we are going,” Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer of Pimco, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “You
cannot converge financial variables without converging economic
variables. The most important compromise is to stabilize the
core.”  Euro Bonds  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday ruled out steps such as the issuance
of euro bonds or expanding the bailout fund in their latest
strategy to counter the euro debt crisis.  Sarkozy and Merkel spoke after a two-hour meeting in Paris
as investors called for signs that they would do more to end the
debt storm after reports showed an unexpected slowdown in their
economies. Unprecedented bailouts by governments and the
 European Central Bank  have failed to stamp out concerns that
began in  Greece  almost two years ago and rattled markets in AAA-
rated France last week.  Greece “has too much debt and is not competitive enough,”
said El-Erian of Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund. “It’s difficult to see Greece overcome these issues
within the euro zone.”  Rescue Fund  According to Kashkari, a system in which AAA-rated
countries such as Germany ultimately guarantee the debt of
higher-risk governments is a solution that is “elegant
conceptually, hard politically.”  Merkel and Sarkozy also rejected an expansion of the 440
billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund yesterday, a decision
Kashkari said was the wrong one.  “If we tripled the fund, then at the next press conference
you would ask us why didn’t you multiply it by four,” Sarkozy
said. “We’re trying to manage it seriously and reasonably. We
believe the fund is sufficient.”  The announcement from the German and French leaders came
after a report showed the euro-area economy grew 0.2 percent in
the second quarter, the worst performance since emerging from
recession in 2009.  “How do you get the German taxpayers to write these
checks?” Kashkari said. “It may be easier politically to have
the Germans bail out the ECB than the Greeks and the Irish, but
that may ultimately be what happens, and the economic effects
may be similar.”  The ECB’s shouldering of the burden of the region’s debt
and being bailed out by  Germany  is a more likely scenario than
the issuance of euro bonds, Kashkari said.  “Some people will say it will never happen,” El-Erian
said in reference to a smaller euro zone. “I suspect it will be
bilateral. We will have an ad hoc way to do it because that’s
going to be what’s in the interest of the euro zone, but
ultimately also in the interest of a country like Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  