-- 
EU Financial-Transactions Tax Risks Distorting Markets, BBA Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-08-17T12:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/eu-financial-transactions-tax-risks-distorting-markets-bba-says.html
European plans for a financial
transactions tax risk distorting markets and may also jeopardize
economic growth, the British Bankers’ Association said.  Lenders would pass on the cost of the tax to customers in
the same way they already transfer the cost of U.K. Stamp Duty
on share purchases to clients,  Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the
London-based lobby group, said by telephone today.  “Such a tax would only be viable if implemented on a
global scale because otherwise it would simply result in
distortions in the global financial markets,” Mairs said. “In
a time we’re seeking to promote growth, not just in the U.K. but
across the EU, what are the likely consequences of imposing a
tax on financial transactions?”  The British government, which oversees  Europe ’s biggest
financial center, is preparing to clash with its French and
German counterparts over the levy, which would be applied to all
27 EU member states. French officials have proposed such a levy
on several occasions in recent years only to run into
international opposition each time. The tax would need to be
applied globally, or transactions would relocate to countries
that don’t apply the tax, the Treasury said in statement today.  The Commission will publish its draft law and an assessment
of its potential economic impact before the G-20 meeting on Nov.
3-4 in  France . The proposed levy is sometimes called a Tobin tax
after  James Tobin , the Nobel Prize-winning economist who first
suggested the idea in 1971.  “Europe now has an historic opportunity to make the
financial sector work in our interests and help millions of
people here and in poor countries who have been hurt by a crisis
they did nothing to cause,” said Max Lawson, spokesman for the
Robin Hood Tax group, a pressure group which campaigns for a
Tobin Tax to alleviate global poverty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  