-- 
Europe-U.S. Gasoline-Tanker Bookings Fall Second Week in a Row

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-08-17T15:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/europe-u-s-gasoline-tanker-bookings-fall-second-week-in-a-row.html
Tanker bookings for shipping
gasoline to the U.S. from northwest  Europe  until Aug. 31 may
fall for the second week in a row as demand declines, while the
number of available tankers stays unchanged, a survey showed.  Charterers will hire 16 medium-range tankers to transport
5.03 million barrels of gasoline across the Atlantic Ocean
through to Aug. 31, according to the median in a Bloomberg
survey of five shipbrokers, one ship owner and a trader today.
The 359,000 barrels a day rate is 59 percent lower than the
878,000 barrels imported by the U.S. last year, the Energy
Department said.  U.S. gasoline demand tends to peak during its so-called
driving season from the end of May to the first week of
September.  “As we pass the peak of the summer driving season in
August, given that we are facing softer year-on-year retail
sales and comfortable stocks in the U.S., you are therefore
likely to see declining demand for European gasoline,”  Harry
Tchilinguirian , the head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in London, said by e-mail today.  Seven vessels were hired to load the auto fuel and nine
more bookings will probably come, data from the survey showed.
That would be a 16 percent drop from last week, when nine
bookings were made and 10 more expected. Twenty-five tankers
were yet to be assigned cargoes and available for hire,
unchanged from the start of August, the survey showed.  Daily rental income for tankers carrying gasoline across
the Atlantic has declined 25 percent since the end of the second
quarter to $6,332, according to data from the  Baltic Exchange  in
London. Returns as calculated by the exchange vary with fuel
costs.  Ship Fuel Rises  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, rose 0.7 percent to
$644.75 a metric ton today, data compiled by Bloomberg from 25
ports worldwide showed. That’s up 27 percent this year.  The survey is based on so-called single-voyage, or spot,
charters and excludes loadings under longer-term contracts. It
assumes shipments to the U.S. East Coast from northwest Europe.
Each tanker would normally haul about 37,000 tons of cargo, or
315,000 barrels.  Charter rates on the route rose 0.6 percent to 147.5
Worldscale points, according to the exchange. The points are a
percentage of a nominal rate, or flat rate, for more than
320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for every voyage, quoted in
U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually by the Worldscale
Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel costs, port
tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  