-- 
Bankers Criticize Franco-German Plans for EU Transaction Tax

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-08-17T22:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/european-bankers-say-franco-german-transaction-tax-would-distort-markets.html
Banks criticized Franco-German plans
for a tax on financial transactions, saying they will jeopardize
economic growth and distort markets, as the British, Dutch and
Swedish governments distanced themselves from the proposals.  “The financial-services industry should not be seen as an
additional source of  tax revenue  but as an essential part of a
stable and sustainable economy,” said the Association for
Financial Markets in Europe, which represents firms including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA. A “tax would be a brake on
economic growth,” it said in a statement.  Lenders would pass on the cost of the levy to customers in
the same way they already transfer the cost of U.K. Stamp Duty
on share purchases to clients,  Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the
British Bankers’ Association, a London-based lobby, said today.
A tax would only work if implemented globally or it would
trigger “distortions” in financial markets, Mairs said.  The British government, which oversees Europe’s biggest
financial center, is preparing to clash with its French and
German counterparts over the levy, which would be applied in all
27 European Union countries. Finance chiefs failed to agree on a
transactions tax in September 2010, amid opposition from nations
including the U.K. The Swedish and Dutch governments also said
today that they oppose the plans. EU taxation proposals require
unanimous support from the bloc’s 27 governments to become law.  ‘Pay a Price’  Josef Ackermann , chief executive officer of Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, said the tax would
crimp banking profits in the European Union and may push
business out of the Euro zone.  “A lot of activities will move out,” Ackermann, 63, said
today in an interview with CNBC. “In the end, beneficiaries
will be in other parts of the world, especially emerging
markets, perhaps the United States or the U.K., and those who
will pay a price for it will primarily be Frankfurt and Paris,
exactly those leaders who are proposing it.”  Implementing a tax on financial transactions would be
difficult,  Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.,
wrote today in a note to clients.  “Without the practical detail on scope and implementation,
this should be treated as political rhetoric for now,” he
wrote. “Implementation is knotty.”  A tax would need to be applied at the Group of 20 level to
be effective, the U.K. and  Netherlands  said today.  ‘Introduced Globally’  “Any financial transaction tax would have to apply
globally -- otherwise the transactions covered would simply
relocate to countries not applying the tax,” the U.K. Treasury
said in a statement.  “The Dutch government has always pointed out that such a
tax could be introduced globally,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in response to questions in parliament in The
Hague today. “If you don’t do that, the distortion will be big.
People can easily shift transactions to another jurisdiction.”  Sweden’s Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said that
imposing the tax is unlikely to help EU efforts to calm market
turmoil and would need to be global to have any effect.  “I find it difficult to see how a transaction tax in the
EU would have any positive effects,” Norman said in an
interview in Stockholm today.  A tax at EU level could generate 200 billion euros ($290
billion), according to economists at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The levy may also “raise questions” about whether
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
three of Britain’s biggest banks, will retain their headquarters
in London, Oriel said.  G-20 Leaders  The European Commission said it will draw up proposals for
the tax and an assessment of its potential economic impact,
before G-20 leaders meet in Cannes,  France  in November, backing
yesterday’s calls by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel for the levy.  “The commission will go ahead with a legislative proposal
for the FTT in autumn,” Cristina Arigho, a spokeswoman for the
EU’s executive body in Brussels, said in a statement. A
financial transactions tax, or FTT, “could be an appropriate
tool to reduce excessive risk-taking.”  In a bid to stem the worst financial crisis in  Europe  since
the creation of the single currency, Merkel and Sarkozy agreed
yesterday to press for closer euro-area cooperation, tougher
deficit rules and a harmonization of their corporate tax rates.
Sarkozy said finance ministers would be charged with developing
a transactions tax, which he called a “priority,” sending
European financial stocks lower today.  Tobin Tax  Deutsche Boerse AG, the operator of the Frankfurt exchange,
led the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 1.1
percent lower as of 4:50 p.m. in London.  The tax could be used to finance the EU’s next multiannual
budget,  Jose Barroso , the commission’s president,  said  in June.
It is sometimes called a Tobin tax after  James Tobin , the Nobel
Prize-winning economist who first suggested the idea in 1971.  The levy would be a “tax on the City of  London  which
Brussels wants to fund its ever-increasing spending,” Martin Callanan, the leader of U.K. Conservative members of the
European Parliament, said in a statement. “London cannot and
must not pay for the errors of other countries that have failed
to make their financial-services sectors competitive and now
want to drag us down with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  