-- 
Most U.S. Stocks Fall Amid Dell Drop

-- B y   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-17T21:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/euro-weakens-asian-stocks-drop-on-europe-as-kiwi-declines-wheat-advances.html
Most U.S. stocks fell, wiping out an
earlier rally, as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  forecast weaker sales and two
Federal Reserve officials warned against applying too much
stimulus to the economy. Treasuries and commodities climbed,
while the dollar slumped.  About 18 stocks retreated for every 17 that advanced on
U.S. exchanges. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
to 1,193.89 at 4 p.m. in New York, after jumping as much as 1.3
percent and falling as much as 0.7 percent. The yield on 30-year
Treasury bonds dropped 11 basis points. The S&P GSCI index of 24
commodities advanced 1 percent as oil jumped 1.1 percent. The
dollar sank to a three-week low, while the franc strengthened
against most of its 16 major peers.  Technology shares fell the most among S&P 500 groups,
losing 0.9 percent as Dell said slower spending on PCs and
consumer technology crimped its sales forecast.  Charles Plosser 
and  Richard Fisher , two Fed officials who dissented from the
central bank’s latest policy statement, spoke out against
unnecessary stimulus measures. The  Swiss National Bank  said it
will expand liquidity, refraining from tougher moves such as
adopting a currency target.  “People started to reevaluate the odds of a QE3,”  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells
Capital Management, which oversees about $340 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “There are a lot of people that have been
saying we’re going to get a QE3,” he said, using a nickname for
a third round of quantitative easing. “The fact that Fisher
came out today with a very explicit comment brought some selling
in. It reduces the odds of a QE3. Dell’s figures are important
because they say something about the consumer.”  Dell, HP  The  S&P 500  dropped 1 percent yesterday after rallying 7.5
percent over the three prior days amid a decline in jobless
claims, an increase in retail sales and better-than-estimated
profits. The index is down 12 percent from April 29 on concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis and an economic slowdown.  Dell, the second-largest personal-computer maker, sank 10
percent. Lackluster demand from consumers and market-share gains
by Apple Inc. weighed on its results, offsetting stronger
corporate orders for server computers. Renewed concerns that the
economy will fall back into recession also may be curbing
spending.  Rival Hewlett-Packard Co. dropped 3.7 percent. The biggest
personal-computer maker was cut to “market perform” from
“outperform” at BMO Capital Markets. Apple fell less than 0.1
percent while Microsoft Corp. lost 0.4 percent.  Target Corp. (TGT)  gained 2.4 percent. The second-largest U.S.
discount retailer said profit jumped 3.7 percent in the second
quarter on higher sales.  Economic Stimulus  Per-share earnings increased 17 percent among the S&P 500
companies that have released quarterly results since July 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About three-quarters of
the companies have topped the average analyst profit forecast,
the data show.  Stocks reversed earlier gains on investor speculation that
the Fed may not consider another economic stimulus program to
avert a recession. The Fed finished its second round of so-
called quantitative easing at the end of June. The program
helped propel a rally of as much as 28 percent in the S&P 500
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  foreshadowed the plan on Aug.
27, 2010.  Bernanke’s pledge last week to keep  interest rates  near
zero percent until mid-2013 was “inappropriate policy at an
inappropriate time,” Plosser, president of the Fed Bank of
Philadelphia, said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. Dallas President
Fisher said the central bank shouldn’t enact policy to protect
stock investors. Both officials dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9
statement.  Producer Prices  Stocks rose earlier after producer prices advanced 0.2
percent in July, following a 0.4 percent drop in June, the Labor
Department said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast
a 0.1 increase. The report showed the cost of crude goods
dropped in July for a third consecutive month, led by declining
petroleum and food prices.  Slowing sales and the drop in raw-materials mean companies
will be less likely to raise prices, which may give Fed policy
makers more room to act to spur growth after the world’s largest
economy almost stalled. Bernanke may announce policy intentions
at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , on Aug. 26.  The extra yield Treasury investors get to hold 30-year
bonds instead of two-year notes shrank to the narrowest in a
week on speculation the U.S. economic recovery is stalling. The
difference between yields on two-year notes and 30-year bonds
shrank to 3.37 percentage points at 4:03 p.m. in  New York , from
3.48 yesterday. The spread was the narrowest since Aug. 10, when
it was the smallest since October 2010.  Oil, Gold, Wheat  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes slipped six basis
points to 2.16 percent after rising four basis points earlier.  Crude rose to the highest level in almost two weeks as the
dollar fell against the euro, increasing the appeal of dollar-
denominated commodities as an investment. Futures climbed as
much as 2.7 percent before trimming their advance to settle 1.1
percent higher, following an unexpected increase in U.S.
inventories.  Gold advanced to a record for the second day, gaining 0.5
percent to settle at $1,793.80. Copper increased. Wheat futures
climbed 0.8 percent to a two-month high on speculation that dry
weather in the U.S. Great Plains will cut acreage of winter
crops set to be planted next month.  Sarkozy, Merkel  In Europe, Carlsberg A/S sank 17 percent as the world’s
fourth-largest brewer cut its profit forecast because of
faltering sales in Russia. Deutsche Boerse AG lost 5.8 percent
and London Stock Exchange Group Plc fell 2.8 percent after
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said France and  Germany  will
propose a financial-transaction tax.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Sarkozy rejected an
expansion of a 440 billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund
yesterday and rebuffed calls for joint euro borrowing.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.6 percent. Russia’s
Micex Index added 1.9 percent, and  India ’s Sensex Index climbed
0.7 percent. Dell suppliers in Taiwan slid, helping to push the
Taiex Index down 0.7 percent. Quanta Computer Inc. sank 4.3
percent and  Compal Electronics Inc. (2324)  dropped 4 percent.  The dollar reached a three-week low versus a basket of
currencies of major U.S. trading partners. The Dollar Index lost
0.4 percent, after touching its lowest level since July 27.  Swiss Franc Gains  The franc rose against most of its major peers. The
currency advanced 0.8 percent against the dollar and 0.6 percent
versus the euro. The Swiss National Bank said it will expand
banks’ sight deposits to 200 billion francs ($253 billion) from
120 billion francs. It will also continue to repurchase
outstanding SNB bills and use foreign-exchange swap
transactions.  The yield on two-year Greek notes rose 55 basis points to
34.98 percent. Portuguese two-year securities yielded 11.85
percent, up eight basis points from yesterday. The cost of
insuring sovereign debt increased, with the Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps linked to 15
governments climbing one basis point to 278 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  