-- 
Euro-Area July Inflation Slowed on Budget Cuts, Debt Crisis

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-08-17T09:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/european-inflation-slowed-in-july-on-budget-cuts-debt-crisis.html
Euro-region inflation slowed in July
as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis and a faltering global economy
damped the growth outlook.  The inflation rate in the 17-nation euro area fell to 2.5
percent, down from 2.7 percent in June, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s in line with
an initial estimate published on July 29 and exceeds the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit for an eighth month.  European governments have curtailed spending in a bid to
plug budget gaps, threatening to undermine the region’s economic
recovery. Growth slowed to a two-year low in the second quarter,
reducing consumer demand.  “We expect price pressures to remain elevated during the
coming months,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “Still, with the euro-area economy slowing
down, the ECB will probably be forced to delay the next rate
hike at least until the end of the year.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4415 at 11:01 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.1 percent.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on July 7  signaled 
concern that price pressures may feed into wage demands and
spark more persistent inflation after increasing borrowing costs
a second time this year. The Frankfurt-based central bank will
hold its next monetary policy assessment on Sept. 8.  In  Germany , annual inflation accelerated to 2.6 percent in
July from 2.4 percent a month earlier, according to today’s
report. French consumer-price growth slowed to 2.1 percent from
2.3 percent in June. Italian inflation slowed to 2.1 percent
from 3 percent, while Spanish prices remained stable.  Energy prices soared 11.8 percent in July, according to
today’s report. The cost of oil rose 4.7 percent in the year to
July 31, according to Bloomberg data.  Euro-area gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in
the second quarter after a 0.8 percent gain in the previous
period. That’s the worst performance since the euro region
emerged from a recession in late 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  