-- 
European Banks Fall as Merkel, Sarkozy Propose Financial Tax

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-08-17T16:28:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/european-banks-fall-after-merkel-sarkozy-propose-financial-tax.html
European banking and exchange shares
tumbled, led by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , after the
leaders of  Germany  and France proposed a tax on financial
transactions.  Deutsche Boerse , the German stock exchange operator that is
buying NYSE Euronext, dropped 5 percent to 41.10 euros in
Frankfurt trading, while Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank
by assets, slid 4.2 percent in  London . The Bloomberg Banks and
Financial Services Index declined 1.1 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy announced yesterday that they plan to resubmit a
financial-transaction tax, which the European Union rejected in
2010. The nations’ finance ministers will meet at the start of
September to discuss the proposal, the French  finance ministry 
said in a statement today.  Such a tax would be “negative for the banks and exchanges
as trading volumes could go down a lot,” said Lex van Dam, a
London-based  fund manager  at Hampstead Capital LLP, which
oversees about $500 million.  European leaders are trying to restore confidence in the
euro region as the sovereign-debt crisis that began in  Greece 
threatens Italy and Spain. A tax on financial transactions
appeals to politicians because it could generate revenue without
hurting individual taxpayers or the economy, and would also
serve to reduce market speculation, said  Olaf Kayser , a banking
analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz, Germany.  Tax Revival  “The financial-transaction tax hits exchange operators
like Deutsche Boerse harder than banks but the lower trading
volumes don’t leave banks unscathed,” said Kayser, who
recommends investors buy shares of Deutsche Bank AG and
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s two largest banks. “Financial market
players are likely to fight the tax, but the question is whether
they’ll be successful.”  Sarkozy and Merkel revived the tax as one element of a
four-part package they proposed to expand economic cooperation.
EU finance chiefs failed to agree in September 2010 on a similar
levy, which Merkel pushed to help repair the damage to national
budgets caused by the banking crisis. French leaders have
proposed a version of the levy, known as a Tobin Tax, since
2001.  The resumed proposal is “a significant disappointment,”
Andrew Lim, a banking analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank,
wrote in a note today. “While we understand the political
ideology of using tax proceeds as a buffer against future
financial crises, our greatest fear is that even a small tax
will result in massive loss of market share in  Europe  versus the
rest of the world.”  Bank Lobbies  Banking associations around Europe challenged the
introduction of a tax on financial transactions in the past and
some expressed opposition today. Europe’s Associations for
Financial Markets said such a levy would jeopardize economic
growth and distort markets.  “The financial-services industry should not be seen as an
additional source of  tax revenue  but as an essential part of a
stable and sustainable economy,” said the group, which
represents firms including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA.  German banks showed diverging opinion. While public banks,
represented by VOeB rejected the proposal, the country’s saving
banks backed it as a “right” measure to increase market
stability. Savings and retail banks would be the less affected
from the tax, according to a today report of Nomura.  Any proposal for cross-border taxes in the EU requires
unanimity among governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  