-- 
Fannie-Freddie, News Corp., China Banks, Samsung: Compliance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-17T12:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/euro-tax-fannie-freddie-news-corp-china-banks-samsung-ban-compliance.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy said they’ll press for closer
euro-area economic integration with tougher deficit rules and
stricter supervision to stamp out the debt crisis.  “It’s very obvious that in order for this to work we need
a stronger convergence in finance and economic policy within the
euro zone and Germany and France are at the vanguard of that
effort,” Merkel said at a joint briefing in Paris after a two-
hour meeting at Sarkozy’s Elysee Palace.  Merkel and Sarkozy rejected euro bonds and expanding the
440 billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund. They plan to
resubmit a financial-transaction tax, which was rejected in
2010. They proposed debt limits be written into national law and
a “euro council” to be headed by European Union President
Herman van Rompuy established as part of a planned “economic
government” for  Europe .  Introducing euro bonds now would put the “most stable
countries of the euro zone in grave danger,” Sarkozy said.  “Euro bonds -- we can imagine having them one day,” he
said. “But it will be at the end of a process of integration,
not the beginning.” Right now, “in their current state,
European institutions,” are not ready for this.  “It’s hugely disappointing and what they say is not going
to work,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London . “They think they have all the
time in the world and they don’t.” He urged an expanded
European Financial Stability Facility or a euro bond.  “People always seem to have the feeling that there is one
method that we’ll spring us out of the crisis and in this
context there seems to be that the last resource we have is euro
bonds,” Merkel said. “I don’t think Europe has come to its
last resource and I don’t think we can solve the problem with a
single big bang.” Rather, “we need to work steadily and step
by step to win back confidence. I don’t think that euro bonds
will help us now with this.”  Compliance Policy  Fannie and Freddie Would Survive in New Form Under Obama Plan  The Obama Administration is working on a proposal to
maintain a large government role in mortgage finance,
effectively preserving most of the functions of  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , according to a person with direct knowledge of the
effort.  The primary goal is to encourage reliable sources of
residential lending by continuing an 80-year-old practice of
government guarantees on most home loans. At the same time, the
administration wants to reduce government’s dominance in the
system by imposing limits on Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or their
successors.  In February, U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan
presented Congress with three options for weaning the almost $11
trillion mortgage market from its dependence on government.  There is no timeline for delivering the new proposal, which
is based on one of the options in the February report, according
to the person, who did not want to be identified because the
work is in an early stage.  The administration also is exploring steps it can take in
the interim without legislation to shrink the companies’ role in
the market, the person said.  White House spokesman Matt Vogel said President Barack
Obama has made no decision to move forward with a particular
plan.  “We remain committed to winding down Fannie and Freddie,
though such significant measures would need to be done gradually
and with care,” Vogel said. “We believe that it is essential
to bring private capital back to the center of a reformed
housing system.”  For more, click here.  Payback May Backfire as U.S. Presses BofA for Mortgage Refunds  Efforts by U.S. regulators and government-controlled firms
to recoup billions of dollars from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  for
faulty mortgages may backfire, hurting the same taxpayers
they’re meant to protect.  After committing more than $30 billion to satisfy claims,
Bank of America faces a new $10 billion lawsuit from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  alleging “massive fraud.” Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac stepped up efforts to extract refunds beyond the
$5.1 billion already expected. The bank is also the biggest
target of a 50-state foreclosure probe seeking $20 billion from
the five largest home lenders and an $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
accord that includes the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York .  Regulators behind these companies and agencies are walking
a thin line between success and renewed crisis, according to
 Neil Barofsky , former special inspector general for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program. While each is pushing for its own
interests, their collective demands could leave the nation’s
biggest lender needing another taxpayer rescue, Barofsky said.  “There is an inherent conflict,” said Barofsky, who’s now
a senior fellow at New York University School of Law. “As a
policy matter, is it really a good idea to permit a government-
controlled entity to potentially provoke a global meltdown by
laying claims against Bank of America?”  New York-based AIG, Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac are each almost 80 percent owned by
U.S. taxpayers after 2008 rescues conducted at the depths of the
financial crisis. The two mortgage firms have already received
more than $170 billion in taxpayer funds, while AIG at its
height received $182 billion.  “BofA is getting hit from all fronts,” said Mark
Williams, a former Federal Reserve bank examiner who is now an
executive-in-residence at Boston University’s School of
Management. “Its too-big-to-fail size and wobbly financial
condition has put it in the middle of a potential regulatory
tug-of-war.”  For more, click here.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Made Aware of Hacking in 2007, Ex-Reporter Says  News Corp.’s editors at the News of the World Sunday
tabloid discussed phone hacking in daily meetings, a former
reporter said, increasing pressure on executives to explain when
they became aware of the practice.  Phone hacking was “widely discussed in the daily editorial
conference” until “explicit reference to it was banned by the
editor,” former royal reporter Clive Goodman said in a March
2007 letter to top News Corp. executives that was  published  by
U.K. lawmakers yesterday. News Corp. deputy Chief Operating
Officer James Murdoch will probably be recalled to Parliament to
answer more questions about the allegations at the now-defunct
tabloid.  Murdoch told lawmakers last month that he hadn’t realized
until late 2010 that phone hacking was widespread at the News of
the World. That’s been contradicted by Tom Crone and  Colin
Myler , two former executives of the tabloid, who said they
informed him in 2008 about an e-mail that suggested more
reporters had been involved.  Crone and Myler, its one-time editor, are likely to be
recalled in September to answer further questions, John
Whittingdale, who chairs the Culture, Media and Sport committee,
said yesterday, adding that James Murdoch would appear after
Crone and Myler. The committee won’t recall James’ father Rupert
Murdoch, the chief executive officer of News Corp.  “What is plain is we are receiving accounts that are
completely different and contradict each other at various points
in a number of areas,” Whittingdale said.  For more, click here.  China Banks Rise as Capital Rule Less Strict Than Expected  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. led Chinese
banks higher in Hong Kong trading after the financial regulator
issued draft capital rules that analysts said were less strict
than investors anticipated.  The  draft rule  on capital requirements, published Aug. 15
by the China Banking Regulatory Commission in response to the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s new global standards,
helps lift regulatory concerns for the industry, according to
UOB Kayhian Investment Co. The proposed changes lower risk
weightings for personal and small-business loans and first-home
mortgages, which would boost banks’ capital levels when adopted.  Chinese commercial banks need to maintain at least 10.5
percent of capital, including an 8 percent minimum requirement
and a 2.5 percent conservation buffer, by the end of 2016,
according to a draft, published on the regulator’s website for
public feedback. Systemically important lenders are subject to
an additional 1 percent buffer and need to meet the requirements
three years earlier.  For more, click here.  U.S. Audit Watchdog Weighs Term Limits for Long-Term Auditors  The U.S. regulator for auditors is formally considering
whether to limit how long a company can work with accounting
firms that oversee financial disclosures.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board voted
yesterday to open a public comment period on the idea of
establishing term limits for auditors. Proponents said term
limits may eliminate inappropriate company influence on long-
term auditors.  “The long association of the largest audit firms with
their major audit clients is an issue that must be addressed in
order to fulfill the mission of the PCAOB,” said Chairman James
R. Doty before the vote. Mandatory rotation of auditors should
be considered because of “the very size, complexity and
systemic risk” found in the present issuer population, Doty
said.  The board will accept public comments on the proposal for
120 days.  The PCAOB, a nonprofit corporation authorized by the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a watchdog for auditors of
U.S.-listed firms, will review public comments before another
meeting in March.  Florida Governor’s Orders Exceeded Authority, Court Rules  Florida Governor Rick Scott overstepped his authority by
suspending state-agency rulemaking and requiring agencies to
seek permission to issue new regulations from an accountability
office he created, the state’s highest court decided.  The Florida Supreme Court said yesterday that the
Republican governor violated the separation of powers and
overstepped his constitutional authority.  The court, ruling 5-2, said that Scott’s executive orders
“infringe upon the very process of rulemaking and encroach upon
the legislature’s delegation of its rulemaking power.” The
majority rejected Scott’s argument that the Florida constitution
gave him the power to suspend rulemaking.  “Governor Scott has a law degree, he has practiced law and
this ruling just doesn’t make sense,” Lane Wright, Scott’s
spokesman, said in a phone interview.  The case is Whiley v. Scott, SC11-592, Florida Supreme
Court, Tallahassee.  AT&T Acquisition of T-Mobile May Mean More Industry Regulation  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s pursuit of U.S. government approval for its
proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. may lead to
more regulation for the telecommunications industry.  If the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice
Department sign off on the transaction, they could require AT&T
and  Verizon Wireless  to keep prices from rising, said  Carl Howe ,
an analyst at Yankee Group, a Boston-based research firm.  Regulators also might create a new mobile service provider
by combining smaller competitors or requiring the combined AT&T-
T-Mobile to sell part of its customer base to a mobile virtual
network operator such as TracFone Wireless Inc. or Tru,
according to a Yankee Group report.  “Once you have a monopoly, you have pricing power, you
need rules,” Howe, the report’s co-author, said in an
interview. Without more regulation, “your choice is
lawlessness.”  “More regulation would be unwarranted, unwise and
unproductive,” and the industry would remain competitive after
the merger, AT&T spokesman Michael Balmoris said in an e-mail.  With the acquisition, AT&T would displace Verizon Wireless,
which is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , as the No. 1 U.S. wireless carrier. Together, AT&T and
Verizon control 80 percent of profits in the market, according
to the FCC’s annual wireless report published June 27.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Solar Millennium Is Facing  Insider-Trading  Investigation  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , the German developer of parabolic
trough solar-power plants, is facing an insider-trading probe by
financial regulator Bafin.  Bafin opened a formal investigation, Dominika Kula, a
spokeswoman for the regulator, said in an interview yesterday.
The probe covers transactions done before a Dec. 15, 2009,
release in which the company announced it would hire Utz
Claassen as chief executive officer, she said.  Solar Millennium currently has no knowledge of any wrongful
insider trading and expects the allegation will turn out to be
unfounded, a spokeswoman for the company supervisory board said
in an e-mailed statement.  Solar Millennium founder and supervisory board member
Hannes Kuhn, who is suspected to have bought 150,000 shares
before the Claassen appointment became public, may be a target,
Sueddeutsche Zeitung said. The newspaper reported the probe
yesterday without saying where it got the information.  The supervisory board spokeswoman who couldn’t be cited by
name, due to company policy, said the shares were purchased
before Claassen became CEO because he requested stock as part of
his salary.  Claassen left the Erlangen, Germany-based company less than
three months after becoming CEO and is now involved in
litigation with the solar company over a 9 million-euro ($13
million) payment.  U.K. FSA Fines Ex-Morrison Chairman $344,000 Over Disclosure  The U.K. market regulator fined the former chairman of
grocery store chain  WM Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  210,000 pounds
($344,000) for failing to report reductions in his shareholding
and voting rights in the company.  After his retirement Ken Morrison “failed to notify” the
company between 2009 and 2010 when his voting rights fell below
6 percent, 5 percent, 4 percent and 3 percent, the U.K.
Financial Services Authority said in a statement. This prevented
the company, the U.K.’s fourth-largest supermarket chain, from
updating the market, meaning investors were “misled.”  “Investors are entitled to know when major and influential
shareholders significantly reduce their interest in a listed
company,” said Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting director of
enforcement and financial crime. “Failure to comply with the
rules risks damaging investor confidence in the financial
markets.”  The size of the penalty shows that the FSA is positioning
itself as a “zero-tolerant regulator of the U.K. financial
markets,” said  Simon Morris , financial services lawyer at CMS
Cameron McKenna.  Morrison’s infraction was “an inadvertent oversight which
caused not a penny loss to anybody,” he said.  Aggregates Companies May Stifle Competition, Regulator Says  The U.K. market for aggregates, cement and ready-mix
concrete used in construction may be distorted and requires a
full investigation by the  Competition Commission , Britain’s
antitrust regulator said.  The provisional decision follows a probe started last year
over concerns the biggest companies were barring smaller
competitors from the market and driving up prices, the U.K.
 Office of Fair Trading  said on its website yesterday. The five
largest companies account for more than 90 percent of cement
sales in Britain, the OFT said.  “We are concerned that competition is not working well in
these markets,” the OFT said. The “problems are rooted in
underlying features of the market that could only be addressed
by the kinds of remedies available to the Competition
Commission.” The regulator said it would consult with affected
companies until Sept. 30 before making a final decision.  The European Commission opened a probe into several cement
makers in December over possible competition breaches.  Mexico Fines UBS Equities Trader, Bank of Nova Scotia, HSBC  Mexico’s National Banking and Securities  Commission  fined
Hans Klingbeil, an equities trader at UBS AG, 1.5 million pesos
($123,000) for using inside information to make stock
recommendations to his clients.  The commission also fined Bank of Nova Scotia’s local unit
10 million pesos for nine violations, including failure to give
clients proper information to make trading decisions, according
to rulings posted on the agency’s  website  and dated Aug. 8.  The fines were the first issued by the commission since
September, according to the website. The commission also fined
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB 48,670 pesos for failing to refuse
a client’s request that violated securities laws and fined HSBC
Holdings Plc 19,468 pesos for failing to notify the agency about
changes in its board of directors. UBS wasn’t fined in
Klingbeil’s case.  Carlos Lopez-Moctezuma, a spokesman for the commission,
said that all the fines have been paid and no appeals are
pending for any of them.  The commission is also investigating six other potential
cases of insider trading at separate public companies.  To read more, click here.  India Probing Foreign Exchange Violations by  Bharti Airtel   India’s Enforcement Directorate is probing “suspected
contraventions” of foreign-exchange rules by  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) , the country’s largest mobile-phone service operator,
according to a government official.  Separately, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the
market regulator, received complaints that Bharti’s founders
raised their stake to 67.15 percent as of September 2008, from
60.91 percent in June 2007 without announcing an open offer for
shares, Junior Finance Minister Namo Narain Meena said yesterday
in a written reply to lawmakers in parliament.  India’s Central Board of Direct Taxes has also received a
complaint regarding “improper accounting” of license fees and
spectrum charges by the company, Meena said.  Bharti said in an e-mailed statement it will provide
requested information and assist with queries.  “Bharti Airtel adheres to the highest standards of
corporate governance and always complies with all the rules and
regulations laid down by various agencies and the licensor,”
according to the statement.  Courts  Apple Can’t Enforce Samsung Sales Ban Beyond German Borders  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won’t be able to fully enforce a sales ban
against Samsung Electronics Co. over the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet
device after a German court limited its own ruling to within
national borders.  The iPad maker can’t enforce the Aug. 9 injunction outside
of Germany against the Samsung parent company which is based in
Korea, the Dusseldorf Regional Court decided yesterday. The
ruling is still fully enforceable against Samsung’s German arm
and the ban on sales in Germany remains unaltered for both
units, court spokesman Peter Schuetz said in an interview.  Apple, which won the German injunction a week ago, contends
Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet computer “slavishly copy”
the iPhone and iPad. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is
also seeking a court order to block sales in the U.S. until a
trial can be held on patent-infringement claims there.  Samsung welcomes the German court’s decision and is “fully
committed” to providing mobile devices to the market without
disruption, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  The decision is temporary, as is the Aug. 9 injunction. The
court has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 25 in the case, after
which it may change either ruling.  The German case against Samsung is LG Dusseldorf, 14c O
194/11.  Agility (AGLTY)  Pleads Not Guilty to Government Contract Fraud  Agility, the Kuwaiti storage and logistics provider,
pleaded not guilty to charges it defrauded the U.S. government
on a multibillion-dollar contract to feed troops overseas.  Agility, also known as Public Warehousing Co., denied
accusations that it filed false invoices or conspired to pay
premium prices to inflate its profit, yesterday in federal court
in Atlanta. Prosecutors said Agility encouraged business
partners to inflate costs through practices such as putting
hamburgers in unnecessarily expensive packaging.  The estimated cost of the U.S. contract with Agility at the
time it was signed was $4.66 billion, according to the November
2009 indictment. The final bill came to $8.6 billion, the
government said. Agility bought food and transported it to U.S.
soldiers in Kuwait and Iraq, prosecutors said.  Agility officials had no immediate comment on the plea
after the hearing. Lawyers for both sides declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Public Warehousing Co., 09-cr-490, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  K&L Gates Former Partner Apologized to Firm for Gambling Habit  A former partner at K&L Gates LLP admitted to taking money
from client accounts to cover his gambling habit and apologized,
according to a lawyer representing the U.S. law firm.  Victor Dawes, who is representing K&L Gates in its lawsuit
against Navin Kumar Aggarwal, said the defendant wrote in a
letter to the firm that he had taken money from the escrow
accounts of clients to pay his gambling debts.  “What we have is an admission about a systematic scheme
that had taken place over a number of years,” Dawes said
yesterday at a hearing in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  Aggarwal sought to have about HK$3.7 million ($475,000)
released from his account yesterday, to pay for his legal fees.
The law firm applied to freeze the accounts after police charged
the 44-year-old corporate lawyer with three counts of theft and
three counts of forgery on June 24.  Aggarwal, in custody at Hong Kong’s Lai Chi Kok Reception
Centre, is scheduled to appear in court on Aug. 22 to face
allegations that he stole HK$16.6 million from the accounts of
RIM China Co. held with K&L Gates and transferred the funds to
Wynn International Marketing Ltd. last year.  Dawes said Aggarwal wrote in the letter to the firm that he
was “sorry” and that “the money was used to cover my gambling
losses accumulated over the years.”  BNY Sued by Knights of Columbus for Mortgage Trustee Role  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , targeted by New York for
allegedly violating state law while representing mortgage-bond
investors, was accused by Knights of Columbus of damaging its
investment in mortgage securities.  Knights of Columbus, a charitable organization that
invested in mortgage-backed securities, seeks to recover losses
and demands punitive damages from the bank, according to an
amended complaint filed yesterday in New York state court in
Manhattan.  Bank of New York, which serves as trustee for trusts
holding loans underlying mortgage securities, mismanaged the
trust assets, Knights of Columbus said in a statement. It
accused the bank in the complaint of gross negligence and
recklessness and said the bank’s actions caused a
“substantial” loss.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, said the
complaint “is without merit.”  The case is Knights of Columbus v. Bank of New York Mellon,
651442-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Lorillard Sues FDA in Bid to Stop New Cigarette Warning Labels  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the maker of Newport cigarettes, said it
joined with three other tobacco companies in a legal bid to stop
the agency from putting new warnings on cigarette packs.  Lorillard, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Commonwealth Brands
Inc. and Liggett Group LLC filed a lawsuit yesterday in U.S.
District Court in Washington, Greensboro, North Carolina-based
Lorillard said in a statement. The filing couldn’t be
immediately confirmed with the court.  Lorillard seeks a preliminary injunction to halt the
effective date of the FDA regulation, which requires cigarette
packs, cartons and advertising to display new graphic warning
labels by Sept. 22, 2012, the company said. The warnings will be
accompanied by pictures of rotting teeth or damaged lungs to
deter smokers.  “The regulations violate the First Amendment,” Floyd
Abrams, a lawyer representing Lorillard, said in the statement.
“The notion that the government can require those who
manufacture a lawful product to emblazon half of its package
with pictures and words admittedly drafted to persuade the
public not to purchase that product cannot withstand
constitutional scrutiny.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 