-- 
Leveraged Loans Have Value Even as Prices Decline, BlackRock’s Hart Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-08-17T16:39:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/leveraged-loans-have-value-even-as-prices-decline-blackrock-s-hart-says.html
Leland Hart,  money manager  at New
York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said leveraged loans still provide
investors value even as prices of the debt dropped by 5.8
percent this month. Hart spoke today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”.  When you think about recent changes to growth expectations
and where spreads have moved to versus their historic levels
you’re being paid for that risk, said Hart in the interview.
From a medium- and long-term perspective you are getting some
great values. Certainly new term volatility should be a
consideration.  Sovereign-debt concerns in  Europe  and a lowered growth
outlook in the U.S. have investors worried about the strength of
the economic recovery. Global markets erased $4.5 trillion in
equity values this month as loan returns are down 5.4 percent
since July 29.  Yields on sovereign debt have increased as the European
debt crisis has spread. The  European Central Bank  started to buy
Spanish and Italian bonds on Aug. 8 to try to stabilize the debt
markets in those countries. The yield on Italian 10-year bonds
slid to 4.9 percent today after reaching a high this month of
6.2 percent Aug. 4. Ten-year Spanish yields declined to 4.9
percent today after hitting 6.3 percent July 18.  Total yearly returns on the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, are down 3.4 percent as
of yesterday, erasing gains of 2 percent at the beginning of the
month.  ’Compressed’ Returns  The  Federal Open Market Committee  pledged in its Aug. 9
statement to keep its key  interest rate  at a record low at least
through mid-2013 in an attempt to boost the troubled economic
recovery. The benchmark interest rate has been at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds have moved in
sympathy with equities, reflecting a slower growth economy,”
said Hart. “In addition the federal government said rates would
be low for an extended period of time so your return from a
duration perspective will be compressed.” BlackRock oversees
more than $20 billion in leveraged-finance assets  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Murphy in New York at 
 lmurphy25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  