-- 
Facebook Says Ceglia Fraud Is Proven by ‘Authentic Contract’ Sent in 2004

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-18T18:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/facebook-says-ceglia-sent-contract-in-2004.html
Paul Ceglia , the western New York
man claiming part-ownership of Facebook Inc., e-mailed the
“authentic contract” disproving his claim to a  law firm  in
2004, a lawyer for the company told a judge.  Orin Snyder told U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in a
four-hour hearing in Buffalo, New York, yesterday that Ceglia
sent the contract, which made no mention of Facebook, to a
lawyer at the firm Sidley Austin LLP the year after Ceglia
claims he signed a contract with Facebook co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  giving him an equal share in the company.  The contract, which is headed “STREET FAX,” was found
both on Ceglia’s computer and Sidley Austin’s e-mail server,
Snyder told Foschio. Snyder said the evidence proves Ceglia
fabricated the contract on which he bases his claim.  “The noose is tightening around the neck of the plaintiff
in this case and he knows it,” Snyder told Foschio.  A court filing by Facebook contains blurry image of the
claimed authentic contract, dated April 28, 2003. It appears to
include the signatures of Zuckerberg and Ceglia and a
handwritten addition to the contract’s terms. The document was
discovered by the computer forensics firm Stroz Friedberg LLC,
Facebook said.  Ceglia’s Contract  Ceglia’s lawyer, Jeffrey Lake, said the contract attached
to Ceglia’s complaint, titled “‘WORK FOR HIRE’ CONTRACT,” is
the genuine one. Ceglia’s version of the contract includes terms
giving him a share of “The Face Book” in exchange for a $1,000
investment, in addition to terms referring to Zuckerberg’s
StreetFax work.  Foschio set yesterday’s hearing to consider disputes
between the two sides over the exchange of evidence in the case.  Foschio said Ceglia must submit an explanation for why he
is unable to find five removable computer data storage devices
that, according to Facebook’s experts, contained documents with
names that include “Zuckerberg Contract page1.tif” and a
folder named “Facebook Files.”  Foschio also said Ceglia must allow Facebook’s experts to
examine his Web-based e-mail accounts, which he said he used to
communicate with Zuckerberg in 2003 and 2004, before Zuckerberg
will be required to turn over 175 e-mails from his Harvard
University account. Ceglia claimed he copied e-mails with
Zuckerberg from his Web-based accounts into word-processing
documents he saved on floppy disks.  Facebook said the Harvard e-mails involve Zuckerberg and
Ceglia and others at StreetFax.com, Ceglia’s former company.  Facebook Code  After the hearing, Lake said he plans to demand computers,
e-mails and instant messages from Zuckerberg, in addition to
early computer code for the site. Ceglia claims Zuckerberg used
code from StreetFax in building Facebook.  Closely held Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , may
be valued at $69.2 billion, according to Sharespost.com, which
tracks investments in non-public companies.  Snyder said Stroz Friedberg recovered information from
Ceglia’s computer showing he e-mailed the “Street Fax”
contract to Chicago-based Sidley Austin in March 2004. Foschio
granted Snyder’s request to subpoena evidence of the e-mail and
contract from Sidley Austin’s computers.  Janet Zagorin, a spokeswoman for Sidley Austin, had no
immediate comment.  Foschio also approved Facebook’s request that Ceglia turn
over three-dimensional images of the “Work for Hire” contract.
Snyder said he believes Ceglia may have altered the document
after his experts made the images.  Ceglia’s Claim  Ceglia, 38, filed the suit in New York state court last
year, claiming 84 percent of Facebook, citing the language of
the “work for hire” contract he claimed he signed with
Zuckerberg in 2003. Facebook transferred the case to federal
court. Ceglia, who lives in Wellsville,  New York , is now in
Ireland. Lake declined to say why Ceglia is in Ireland and how
long he plans to stay.  Lake told Foschio that Facebook has orchestrated an
“extremely prejudicial” campaign to smear Ceglia’s reputation
and unfairly prejudice potential jurors against the case.  Zuckerberg said in a statement filed in the case that when
he was a freshman at Harvard in 2003, he worked for Ceglia.
Zuckerberg said he did computer coding for StreetFax and never
made any agreement with Ceglia concerning Facebook. Ceglia paid
Zuckerberg $9,000 for the work and owed him more, which he never
paid, Snyder told Foschio in a hearing in June.  In April, Ceglia filed an amended complaint in the case,
which quoted alleged e-mails between him and Zuckerberg from
2003 and 2004. The new complaint reduced Ceglia’s demand from 84
percent of Facebook to half of Zuckerberg’s holdings in the
company.  Near the end of the hearing, Lake said the parties should
enter court-supervised mediation to determine whether a
settlement is possible in the case.  “We have no interest in mediating or settling this case,
period,” Snyder said.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Buffalo, New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  