-- 
Fed’s Zero-Rate Pledge Risks Creating Inflationary Surge: Chart of the Day

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-17T22:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/fed-zero-rate-pledge-risks-inflation-surge-chart-of-the-day.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented
pledge to hold  interest rates  at a record low risks creating an
inflationary surge once the economy starts to accelerate,
Treasury bond trading shows.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the difference between yields
on the 30-year Treasury bond and its Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities counterpart and the same comparison for
two-year notes. The lower panel shows that the gap between those
so-called breakeven rates reached the widest since December this
week, as the Fed’s commitment to hold down borrowing costs,
announced after an Aug. 9 meeting, intensified concern inflation
would accelerate.  “Because the Fed maintained fund rates at exceptionally
low levels, that’s causing inflationary expectations to pick
up,” said Hiroki Shimazu, senior market economist in  Tokyo  at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “In the long-term, there are much
bigger problems for the  U.S. economy . This is one of the warning
signs.”  The spread between yields on two-year notes and so-called
TIPS, which gauges trader expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the debt, narrowed to 0.95 percentage point on Aug.
16. When using 30-year bonds and same-maturity TIPS, the figure
jumps to 2.61 percentage points. The difference between the
measures was 1.66 percentage points, the highest this year.  The Federal Open Market Committee, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , took the unprecedented step of saying the target for
the federal funds rate would be kept would kept at almost zero
through the middle of 2013, spurring the most dissent since the
tenure of  Alan Greenspan  in November 1992. Three of the 10
voting members of the committee were against the pledge,
preferring to maintain the existing “extended period”
language.  The U.S. consumer price index rose 1.5 percent last year
and the annual inflation rate reached 3.6 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 