-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says New 2013 Rate Pledge Not a Signal for More Bond Buying

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/fed-s-bullard-says-new-low-interest-rate-pledge-is-not-signal-for-more-qe.html
St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank
President  James Bullard , who was the first Fed policy maker to
urge the round of bond purchases that started last year, said
the central bank isn’t signaling a third stimulus program with
its commitment to keep rates near zero through mid-2013.  “The most likely outcome for the  U.S. economy  is still
that the economy continues to grow at a moderate pace through
the second half of the year,” Bullard said late yesterday in a
telephone interview. “If the economy is substantially weaker
than expected, we could take more action, especially if it was
coupled with a renewed deflation risk.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
said he would have dissented against the Aug. 9 Federal Open
Market Committee statement that for the first time attaches a
date to its pledge to keep borrowing costs in a range of zero to
0.25 percent. Previously, the FOMC promised to keep  interest
rates  low for an “extended period.”  The change increased speculation among some economists that
the Fed will begin a third round of asset purchases, with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Economist Jan Hatzius predicting
a “greater-than-even chance” of more bond buying. The Fed in
June concluded a $600 billion bond-purchase plan, and has
maintained its balance sheet near record levels by reinvesting
proceeds from its securities holdings.  A new round of bond purchases “does not follow naturally”
from the 2013 pledge, “because I think we have to get more
information about how the economy is going to develop in the
second half of the year,” Bullard said. Goldman Sachs’s
forecast stems from the firm’s economists having a “more
pessimistic outlook than most” economists, he said.  ‘Faces of the Peril’  Bullard published a paper in July 2010 entitled “Seven
Faces of the Peril,” which called on the Fed to buy Treasury
notes, a policy known as quantitative easing, as a way to
prevent deflation.  “I think it is a much tougher call to do more QE this time
around than it was last year,” Bullard said. “The inflation
picture is different this year than it was last year and the
risk of deflation is much more remote than it was last year.”  “Moving farther into unchartered territory could be
helpful for the economy but might also generate substantial
inflation,” he said. “So we have to weigh the risks of going
further into unchartered territory.”  Bullard said he opposed setting a date to the rate
commitment because it limits the Fed’s flexibility to adjust to
new economic data. It could also trigger a “political battle”
and create an additional risk of deflation by encouraging public
expectations that prices will head toward a “Japanese-style
outcome,” he said.  ‘In a Box’  “Most importantly, I think it puts the committee in a box
if the economy improves and an inflation problem begins to
develop,” he said. If inflation rises and the Fed is forced to
react before 2013, “that will cost us some in terms of
credibility.”  While seven members of the panel favored the action, Dallas
Fed President  Richard Fisher ,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia
and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of  Minneapolis  voted against it. The
last time three voters dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  “Policy should be set according to the state of the
economy, not according to the calendar,” Bullard said. “I
didn’t like putting calendar dates in.”  The Fed’s second round of asset purchases drew criticism
from Republicans in Congress. Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who is
seeking the Republican presidential nomination for 2012, said it
would be “almost treacherous -- or treasonous” for Bernanke to
increase stimulus spending before the 2012 election.  Policy Debate  Bullard declined to respond directly to Perry’s comments,
saying only that monetary policy is in the “middle of the
debate” on the economy.  “We have thick skin,” he said. “We are used to criticism
from all sides and we get plenty of it. I think that is fine. We
try to make the best decisions we can.”  Asked if the “treasonous” comment went too far, Bullard
said, “I will leave that to others to judge.”  “Colorful language” is “OK” because critics “feel
passionate about it,” he said.  The St. Louis Fed chief said he has reduced his forecast
for economic growth for 2011, while still expecting around 2.5
percent growth in the second half.  Gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation, cooled to a
1.6 percent rate in the second quarter from a year earlier.
About 70 percent of the time when the pace has fallen below 2
percent, a slump has followed within a year, according to data
since World War II in an April study by Jeremy Nalewaik, a Fed
board staff economist.  ‘Recession Risk’  “I wouldn’t take it as definitive on recession risk,”
Bullard said. “These statistical models have some limits. I
think they are interesting, but certainly not definitive.”  Bullard’s views have sometimes foreshadowed shifts in the
FOMC. A year ago, Bullard, who calls himself the “ North Pole  of
inflation hawks,” called for Treasury purchases as a way to
avert what he said was the rising possibility of Japan-style
deflation. Policy makers in November approved the $600 billion
purchase plan.  Bullard, 50, also spoke out on policy in November 2009,
saying history suggested the Fed wouldn’t raise its target
federal funds rate until 2012, two years later than expected by
private economists at the time.  Bullard has rotated this year into an annual non-voting
position. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  