-- 
Fed’s Plosser Says He Hasn’t Cut His 2012 Economic Forecast ‘Very Much’

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-17T17:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/fed-s-plosser-hasn-t-cut-2012-forecast-much-as-short-term-outlook-shifts.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said he hasn’t significantly cut his
forecast for 2012 U.S. economic growth as the impact from
“shocks” like the earthquake in Japan subside.  “I’m inclined not to be marking down my 2012 forecast very
much,” even though my “short-term forecast has moved around,”
Plosser said today in an interview with Bloomberg News editors
and reporters. He declined to specify how much he has cut his
earlier prediction for 3 percent to 3.5 percent growth in 2012,
and also said he has lowered his expectations for 2011.  Plosser dissented from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
decision on Aug. 9 to boost growth by pledging to keep interest
rates near zero until mid-2013. Instead, he urged fellow policy
makers to maintain a pledge to hold rates at a record low for an
unspecified “extended period.’  “I’m worried we painted a picture” that was “more
negative than justified,” and that taking action after stocks
tumbled “signaled that we are in the business of supporting the
stock market,” Plosser said in  New York . He is also concerned
“we box ourselves in” if economic conditions warrant an
 interest rate  increase sooner than two years from now.  Plosser said he’s not opposed to a third round of asset
purchases by the central bank should the U.S. face a broad-based
decline in prices or “a financial meltdown of some kind.”  “Clearly we would have to respond as lender of last
resort” and “that might include more bond purchases,” Plosser
said. He said he doesn’t foresee such a crisis happening.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index fell 0.4 percent to
1,187.51 at 1:35 p.m. in New York, while yields on 10-year
Treasuries declined to 2.17 percent from 2.22 percent yesterday.  Second Round of QE  The Fed’s second round of asset purchases was effective at
raising inflation expectations and rising deflation risk “would
clearly call for additional accommodation,” he said. Deflation
concerns are less now than they were a year ago, as “inflation
clearly has accelerated since last fall.”  Plosser, who in March laid out a strategy for withdrawing
the Fed’s record monetary stimulus, also said he’s not yet
seeing signs of runaway inflation.  “I’m not worried about inflation in the near term,”
Plosser said. “I’m not panicked about inflation.”  Plosser said he is more concerned about inflation in 2012
and 2013. “There could be a price at the other end of this,”
he said.  Perry Comments  In an interview with Bloomberg Television, Plosser shrugged
off a comment made by  Texas  Gov.  Rick Perry , who is campaigning
for the Republican presidential nomination, that it would be
“almost treasonous” for Bernanke to provide more monetary
stimulus before the 2012 election.  “In the heat of political debate, a lot of things get
said,” Plosser said.  Plosser said the Fed’s pledge to keep interest rates low
for two years is unlikely to be effective at accelerating
growth.  “What we did isn’t going to work,” Plosser said. “Our
problems are not problems easily addressed by monetary policy,”
he said. “You’re stuck with a central bank that’s risking
its credibility because it’s doing things that don’t work.”  In speech today in Midland, Texas, Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank shouldn’t
ease monetary policy whenever there is a big drop in U.S. stock
Prices.  “My long-standing belief is that the Federal Reserve
should never enact such asymmetric policies to protect stock
market traders and investors,” Fisher said in the prepared text
of his remarks. “I believe my FOMC colleagues share
this view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  