-- 
Fertilizers Lag Food Costs in Boost to Global Crop Outlook

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-08-17T16:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/fertilizers-lag-food-costs-in-boost-to-global-production-outlook.html
Prices in the $150 billion
fertilizer market are lagging behind gains in food costs,
providing farmers another incentive to boost production as
grains and oilseeds advance.  Urea, the most common nitrogen fertilizer, is down 33
percent from June 2008 when corn rose to a record, according to
data from ICIS, a commodity-pricing company. Potash is 36
percent cheaper. Food prices gained 4.3 percent over the same
period, an index of the United Nations shows. Crops require
nitrogen, phosphorus and potash for growth.  “Slower price increase does mean less potential demand
destruction for all fertilizers,” said Jason Miner, a chemicals
analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “High crop prices and more
modest nitrogen prices mean good applications which support
healthy yields this year. Phosphates and potash applications
typically have a longer term impact on yields.”  Wheat prices have jumped 11 percent in the past year, corn
is 69 percent higher and soybeans have climbed 31 percent,
boosting prospects for production. Global grains output will
advance 3.9 percent in the 2011-12 season that ends June 30, the
International Grains Council said last month. Demand will still
exceed production for soybeans, wheat and corn, Rabobank
International forecast in July.  Fertilizer Purchasing  “Based on the purchasing of fertilizer we are seeing in
 South America , we continue to believe that there will be an
above-trend yield,” Alberto Weisser, chief executive officer of
 Bunge Ltd. (BG) , the  White Plains , New York-based oilseeds processor,
said on a conference call last month. With planting of the
soybean crop in  Brazil  starting next month, “all indications
are that we also should see a strong crop from the Southern
Hemisphere.” Brazil is the second-biggest producer of the
oilseed.  Increased supply and a plunge in demand that followed a
fertilizer price jump in 2007-08 is keeping fertilizer prices in
check even as consumption surges, according to industry
consultant Fertecon Ltd. Potash producers are operating at or
near record levels to keep pace with demand as surging crop
prices spur farmers to use more fertilizer, Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. said in a July 28 report.  Nitrogen is not stored in the soil and must be applied
every year to maintain crop yields. If soil contains enough
phosphorous and potassium, farmers may be able to skip up to
several years of application without hurting yields.  Demand for potash, a potassium nutrient used to shield
crops from dryness and disease, plunged 40 percent in 2009 after
producers raised prices almost threefold the year before,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  ‘Producers Cautious’  “Very rapid increases probably pushed the market too high
too quickly, and producers are being more cautious this time,”
said Barrie Bain, director of Fertecon, a  Tunbridge Wells ,
England-based industry consulting company whose clients have
included ConAgra Foods Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Exxon
Mobil Corp. “It’s true of all fertilizer prices.”  This year, potash prices in  China , Brazil,  Southeast Asia 
and  Europe  have advanced 29 percent, according to an index of
data compiled by Bloomberg. Urea prices in the U.S. have gained
25 percent while phosphates gained 10 percent, according to
ICIS. The fertilizer market is worth $150 billion, according to
Bloomberg Industries estimates.  “Producers are adopting a more cautious stance in price
increases,” said  Mikhail Stiskin , an analyst at Moscow-based
Troika Dialog brokerage. “Gradual increases will ensure
supportive consumer sentiment and avoid the boom/bust sequence
of 2008.”  Share Prices  Potash Corp., the world’s largest fertilizer maker, rose 1
percent to $55.42 by 12:48 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, valuing the company at $47.4 billion.  Mosaic
Co. (MOS) , the biggest producer of phosphates, advanced 1.8 percent to
$66.70, and CF Industries Holdings Ltd. jumped 2 percent to
$171.14.  The UN has said that  food production  must increase by 70
percent by 2050 to feed an estimated world population of more
than 9 billion, up from almost 7 billion last year. Growth in
agricultural output will slow to 1.7 percent a year through
2020, compared with 2.6 percent in the previous decade, the UN’s
 Food and Agriculture Organization  and the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a
report in June.  More Poverty  Higher food prices have sent “tens of millions of people”
into poverty since late 2010, Oxfam International said Aug. 3.
The number of hungry people could soon rise above 1 billion, it
said.  Shortages of potash and phosphate and increasing soil
erosion are “the real long-term problems we face,”  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist and co-founder of Boston-
based Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co., wrote in a report last
month. “Their total or nearly total depletion would make it
impossible to feed the 10 billion people expected 50 years from
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 