-- 
Financial Turmoil Adds to Allure of Europe’s Best Properties

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-18T07:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/financial-turmoil-increases-allure-of-europe-s-most-valuable-real-estate.html
Irish investor Aidan Brooks’s
Tribeca Holdings Ltd. paid 13 percent more than the asking price
for a shop on  London ’s Bond Street that generates slightly more
income than a U.K. government bond. It beat three other offers.  Buyers like Tribeca made the British capital the world’s
top destination for property investment for the past two years
as they sought safe bets amid economic, financial and political
uncertainty. The latest declines in stock prices and bond yields
are likely to spark even greater competition for the best real
estate in London and continental Europe, said Dan Fasulo,
managing director of research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “The real investment momentum is in those countries viewed
as a place of stability,” Fasulo said. “There’s a huge pool of
capital out there just focused on core real-estate markets.”  The euro region’s sovereign debt crisis and prospects for
slower economic growth triggered this month’s slump in global
stock markets and depressed yields for bonds with the best
credit ratings. Economic concerns will hurt confidence and drive
investment toward the least-risky assets and boosting demand for
prime properties in the best markets, CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc. said in an Aug. 16  research report .  Accelerating inflation is eroding the value of record-low
bond yields in the most-favored countries, making real estate
more attractive. Unlike gold, buildings generate a regular
income and offer the prospect of rising values, said Hans Vrensen, global head of research at property adviser  DTZ
Holdings Plc. (DTZ)   ‘More Compelling’  Falling yields “make property more compelling” and
investors have committed $343 billion in capital targeting
commercial real estate in Europe, more than in the Americas or
the Asia-Pacific region.  “There’s a lot of money chasing few available
opportunities, which is why pricing has adjusted so aggressively
for prime properties,” he said.  About $12.3 billion was spent on prime offices, shops and
homes in London in the first half, the most of any city, and
real-estate investors have been flocking to Paris, Germany’s
largest cities,  Switzerland , Stockholm and Oslo, Real Capital
Analytics’s research shows.  Tribeca bought Cartier Ltd.’s store on Bond Street for 18.7
million pounds ($31 million). Annual rent equals 2.74 percent of
the purchase price, or 0.2 of a percentage point more than an
eight-year British government bond. Cartier has eight years left
on its lease.  Shortage of Space  “The story for London gets stronger amidst the turmoil
elsewhere,” Ashley Marrison, property director of London-based
Tribeca, said by telephone. He called the  Bond Street  purchase a
“long-term wealth preservation play” supported by a shortage
of space on the street that’s likely to lift rents and values.  Last week’s disorder and looting in London, for which
police have so far charged 1,010 people, hasn’t diminished the
appeal of investing in the city, according to Jeremy Helsby,
chief executive officer of  Savills Plc. (SVS)   “There’s no evidence of an unwillingness to invest in
London,” Helsby said on a conference call today after the
property broker reported a 52 percent increase in first-half
profit. “I can’t think of any set of circumstances of London
not retaining its status as a destination for international
capital.”  Big Malls  Popular shopping locations such as London’s Bond Street and
dominant regional malls are attracting the second-most
investment in  Europe  after prime offices in the biggest cities.
That’s because they continue to attract shoppers with their big-
name brand tenants even as European economic growth slows.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent from the first quarter, the worst performance since the
region emerged from a recession in late 2009, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said on Aug 16. An index
of executive and consumer sentiment in the single-currency
region fell to 103.2 from a revised 105.4 in June, the European
Commission in Brussels said July 28.  The continent’s largest retail landlords including Unibail-
Rodamco SE and  Klepierre (LI)  SA said their tenants reported retail
sales superior to national averages, helping lift their rents
and the values of their centers.  Largest Deals  Europe’s two largest single property deals in the first
half were  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG) ’s 748 million-pound
acquisition of the Trafford Centre in Manchester and Canadian
Pension Plan Investment Board’s 650 million-euro ($938 million)
purchase of 50 percent of CentrO in Oberhausen, Germany,
Europe’s biggest retail complex.  Retail properties accounted for 37 percent of European
transactions in the first half, according to CB Richard Ellis,
exceeding the average of 28 percent since 2003.  London was one of the first property markets to start
recovering from the financial crisis, rising in the second half
of 2009 after two years of declines erased 50 percent from city-
center office values. The pound’s 22 percent drop since
September 2007 has helped make property more attractive to
foreign buyers.  Malaysian Employees Pension Fund this month paid 147.5
million pounds for an office building on St. James’s Square,
where one of the tenants has one of London’s highest rents.  Higher Risk  While spending in London shows no sign of slowing, some
investors are turning to more affordable markets or riskier
properties because of the shortage of prime real estate for sale
and the high prices it commands.  The 2.74 percent capitalization rate for Tribeca’s Bond
Street purchase contrasts with the 8.75 percent average for
shops in non-prime locations elsewhere in the U.K., according to
data compiled by CB Richard Ellis.  “So much money has been chasing the very prime properties
with good tenants that there’s a sense that they’re
overpriced,” said John Forbes, who oversees the real estate
funds advisory arm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Paris, Europe’s largest office market by space, had a 38
percent increase in total property sales in the first half,
according to RCA. Deka Immobilien Investment GmbH acquired an
office development project in the city center last month for 330
million euros.  Germany , Scandinavia  Germany had the second-highest real-estate investment in
Europe after the U.K. in the first half, with a 45 percent
increase in sales. The Nordic region had a 61 percent jump in
transactions to 8.5 billion euros, RCA data show.  Investors are starting to look at riskier properties or
alternative ways of putting money into real estate, such as
lending or buying stakes in closed-end property funds in the
secondary market, PwC’s Forbes said.  “What do you compromise on if you cannot get a prime asset
in a prime location with a prime tenant?” he said. Managers are
seeking “to launch funds that are higher up the risk profile,”
though investors will be wary about risk and the managers’ track
records, he said.  Sixty-three percent of European investors surveyed by
 Preqin , which monitors alternative investments including
property, said they are “below target” in real estate.  For more patient investors, there’s still money to be made
in prime real estate even if it means paying a top price,
according to RREEF Real Estate, the New York-based unit of
Deutsche Bank AG that oversees 42.6 billion euros of assets.  The Long View  “For investors with a 10 to 15-year horizon, deals still
make sense” because of attractive cash flows and some scope for
higher rents and values, said Pierre Cherki, the global head of
RREEF.  The income from Cartier’s Bond Street store will probably
rise when rents reset in three years, according to Tribeca’s
Marrison. Cartier’s Zone A rent, a measure of the most valuable
storefront space, is about 535 pounds a square foot compared
with current Zone A rents of 750 pounds on Bond Street, he said.  At least the investment is generating an income for its
owner, Savills broker Jonathan O’Regan said. He sold the store
for more than three times what previous owner British Airways’
pension fund paid 12 years ago.  “If you had put 20 million pounds in the stock market when
Tribeca bought it, what would it be worth today?” O’Reagan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 