-- 
Finland Gets Collateral Deal With Greece

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-08-17T08:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/finland-gets-collateral-deal-with-greece.html
Finland  reached an agreement with
Greece on receiving collateral to cover its bailout contribution
as the Nordic nation rejected any form of joint regional
liability such as selling common euro bonds.  The “next weeks are very decisive in that we will see how
other countries will respond to this collateral arrangement,”
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said yesterday at a press
conference in Helsinki. “Finland has been critical of joint
euro bonds and our stance is that every country is liable for
its own debts.”  Finland’s collateral demands were included in a July 21
agreement by euro area leaders after the AAA rated nation fought
for extra assurances it won’t lose money on its bailout
contribution. The 17-member currency bloc is split on how far
members should go to support its most indebted nations. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicholas Sarkozy
rejected euro bonds at a meeting yesterday and said they would
first press for closer economic integration with tougher deficit
rules.  Urpilainen said steps toward joint liability, such as euro
bonds, would undermine the founding principles of the common
currency and risk creating a transfer union.  “Finland’s stance remains that there should be no more
joint liability,” she said. “We want to adhere to the founding
treaties and the principle that every country is liable for its
own debts.”  Second Bailout  Greece won a second bailout after a previous 110 billion-
euro ($158 billion) package failed to solve the euro area’s debt
crisis. The new plan agreed on by European leaders last month
includes 50 billion euros in contributions from private
investors through bond exchanges and buybacks to cut  Europe ’s
biggest debt.  The agreement between Finland and Greece will allow the
southern European nation to deposit cash in a state account that
Finland will invest in AAA rated bonds. The interest generated
will raise the amount to match the required collateral. Finland
will return the money, plus interest, once the bailout loan is
repaid, Urpilainen said.  The difference in yield between Finland’s 10-year bond and
German bunds of a similar maturity was little changed at 39
basis points today. The euro declined 0.2 percent against the
dollar to trade at 1.4375 at 8:32 a.m. in  London .  Collateral Investment  Details on the timing and exact amount are still to be
determined after the extent of private participation in the
bailout has been hammered out on the European level, Urpilainen
said, likening the timeframe to the 15 to 30 years discussed for
the private sector’s role.  “The collateral will be invested to bring the highest
possible return,” she said. “We will have a central role, as
this arrangement will take place under Finnish law. We will
consult  Greece  on deciding which securities the funds will be
invested in.”  Finland’s agreement with Greece allows the Nordic country
to “recycle other euro members’ money to use as collateral as
the funds Greece deposits must come from the bailout loans,”
Reijo Heiskanen, chief economist at OP-Pohjola Group in
Helsinki, said by phone. “Finland is a free-rider, letting
others bear the risk. This isn’t a course available for all euro
countries.”  Lawmakers in the Nordic country will discuss Finland’s
contribution to the European Financial Stability Facility as the
first item after parliament convenes on Sept. 6, she said.
Finland opposes any enlargement of the EFSF, she said.  “In the future, Finland will only participate in any new
bailouts if we get collateral,” she said. “Greece was the
first one and collateral has now been arranged. I hope no new
countries need help, but if new ones ask for aid, the same
principle will apply to them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  