-- 
Fed Shouldn’t Protect Stock Traders: Fisher

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-17T19:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/fisher-says-fed-shouldn-t-relax-bank-monetary-policy-to-protect-investors.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank shouldn’t ease
monetary policy whenever there is a big drop in U.S. stock
prices, an action he said some traders might view as a
“Bernanke put.”  “My long-standing belief is that the Federal Reserve
should never enact such asymmetric policies to protect stock
market traders and investors,” Fisher said today in Midland,
Texas. “I believe my FOMC colleagues share this view.”  Fisher’s comments offered his first explanation of his
dissent from the Federal Open Market Committee decision last
week to specify a date for their commitment to low borrowing
costs. The Fed said the benchmark  interest rate  will stay in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent at least through mid-2013. The new
language replaces a prior promise to keep rates low for an
“extended period.”  While seven members of the panel favored the action,
Fisher,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis  voted no. The last time three voters
dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  “I was also concerned that just by tweaking the language
the way the committee did, our action might be interpreted as
encouraging the view that there is an FOMC so-called ‘Bernanke
put’ that would be too easily activated in response to a
reversal in the financial markets,” Fisher told a group of area
community officials and business leaders today.  Standard & Poor’s   The  Standard & Poor’s 500  fell 18 percent from the end of
April through this year’s low on Aug. 8, when the index closed
at 1,119.46.  Following the speech, Fisher told reporters he hadn’t
decided whether to dissent at future meetings and would consider
his votes individually. He restated his opposition to additional
asset purchases, so-called quantitative easing, which he said
would accomplish little because there is already ample liquidity
available in the economy.  The Dallas Fed official said growth was difficult to judge
following the debt-ceiling talks in  Washington , though it is
still “possible” that the U.S. could expand at a 3 percent
rate in the current quarter. “I am not quite that pessimistic”
as last week’s FOMC statement, he said.  “We saw not terrible retail sales numbers for July and
then the Michigan survey comes out after all this stuff people
had watched and it was very sour,” he said.  Fisher said in his speech that while he has concern “for
the fragility of the  U.S. economy  and weak  job creation ,” there
is little that monetary policy can do to address “uncertainty”
about fiscal and regulatory policies that has held back
employment growth.  “I believe what is restraining our economy is not monetary
policy but fiscal misfeasance in Washington,” Fisher said.
“Pointing fingers at the Fed only diminishes credibility. The
ugly truth is that the problem lies not with monetary policy but
in the need to construct a modern, appropriate set of fiscal and
regulatory levers and pulleys to better incentivize the private
sector to channel money into productive use in expanding our
economy and enriching our people.”  ‘Somewhat Slower Pace’  The FOMC last week lowered its economic assessment, saying
it now “expects a somewhat slower pace of recovery over the
coming quarters.” It left the door open for more action, saying
officials discussed “the range of policy tools available to
promote a stronger economic recovery.”  Fisher also said  Texas ’s economy has produced a net 50
percent of all U.S. jobs created since the recession ended in
June 2009, though a higher percentage of state jobs pay close to
the minimum wage. He credited the state’s tax and regulatory
policies for helping to attract jobs. Texas Governor  Rick Perry 
entered the 2012 presidential race this month.  “People have taken those jobs of their own free will, even
though the jobs may not measure up to the compensation levels
everyone would like,” Fisher said. “I draw the conclusion that
private sector capital and jobs will go to where taxes and
spending and regulatory policy are most conducive to growth.”  Fisher declined to comment directly on Perry’s comments
that additional stimulus from Bernanke could be almost
“treasonous.”  “We don’t get involved in partisan politics,” Fisher
said. “We are indifferent to political criticism. You know my
great admiration for  Ben Bernanke , even if we disagree on
policy. I don’t think there is any more honorable man in public
service in America. I work so closely with him. I never question
his intention.”  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. When he held an FOMC vote in 2008, he dissented five times
in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  