-- 
Floods Force a Million Pakistanis From Homes as More Rain Seen

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 
2011-08-17T09:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/floods-force-a-million-pakistanis-from-homes-as-more-rain-seen.html
Floods have forced more than one
million people from their homes and damaged crops in parts of
southern  Pakistan  still recovering from last year’s worst ever
monsoon inundations that devastated the region.  Towns “have been declared calamity-hit,” Waqar Mehdi, a
special assistant to the chief minister of Sindh province, said
today by phone in Karachi. Most of those affected are sleeping
on roads elevated above the flood waters, with a smaller number
in relief camps, Syed Sajjad Hayder Shah, director of operations
at the  Provincial Disaster Management Authority  for Sindh, said.  “The situation is under control as the number of
internally displaced people is just over 50,000,” Shah said in
an interview in his office. “Anything above that would mean an
SOS call to the non-government organizations for help.”  Floods last year displaced nearly 20 million people across
the country and caused more than $9 billion in damage to roads,
bridges and farms. Pakistan’s Meteorological Office said June 14
rains this year will be 10 percent below the average.  Still, “thousands of acres of agricultural land have been
destroyed because of the latest bout of floods,” Shah said.
“Crops of cotton, sugarcane, rice, melon and red chilies have
been affected.”  Rains may lower output estimates in Sindh to 4 million
cotton bales for this year from an expected 5 million earlier,
said Mian Rashid Mehmood, vice chairman of the  Pakistan Cotton
Ginners Association , in a phone interview today.  Army Rescue  Members of the army and navy are evacuating people from the
Badin, Thatta and Hyderabad districts among others, the Geo
television channel reported yesterday.  “We have sent packaged food and equipment to help local
officials pump out water,” Shah said. “There are fears of a
disease outbreak since a lot of the livestock has also been lost
and their carcasses are flowing in the flood waters.”  Stomach ailments and snake bites have been reported in the
region. “We have reports that between 25 and 28 people have
died because of these floods,” Mehdi said.  Rains will continue for the next two to three days, Shah
said in a  statement  on his department’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  