-- 
Forint Weakens Second Day Against Euro, Drops Versus Swiss Franc

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-17T09:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/forint-weakens-second-day-against-euro-drops-versus-swiss-franc.html
The forint weakened against the euro
for a second day and fell against the  Swiss franc  on speculation
European leaders won’t do enough to stem the euro’s decline
against the franc.  The forint depreciated 0.5 percent to 271.3 per euro by
10:41 a.m. in Budapest, heading for the biggest drop since Aug.
8, and dropped 2 percent against the franc to 240.7.  The franc strengthened against the euro after the Swiss
central bank toughened its fight to counter what it called a
“massively overvalued” franc by boosting liquidity.  “The announcement did not hint at pegging -- the recent
market rumor was about pegging the franc to the euro -- thus the
franc significantly firmed against the euro,” Gergely Tardos,
chief economist at OTP Bank Nyrt., and colleagues wrote in a
research report.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  rejected an expansion of the 440 billion-euro
($633 billion) rescue fund and rebuffed calls for joint euro
borrowing to end the debt crisis.  “The Sarkozy-Merkel press conference somewhat disappointed
investors,” Peter Karsai, a trader at Commerzbank AG in
Budapest, wrote in an e-mailed note. “Then came the Swiss
National Bank announcement, which considerably disappointed
market players.”  Hungary’s benchmark BUX share index fell 0.2 percent to
18,280.1. OTP fell 2 percent, while refiner Mol Nyrt., the only
stock with a bigger BUX weighting than OTP, rose 0.7 percent.  OTP Threatened  OTP is among central European banks most at risk from the
forint’s and zloty’s weakness versus the Swiss currency,
according to ING Groep NV. A doubling of non-performing loans
denominated in the franc could cut OTP’s profit by about 20
percent, the Dutch bank wrote in a report on Aug. 9.  Hungary’s economic growth stalled in the second quarter as
the global recovery faltered, endangering the government’s plans
to cut debt, data released by the statistics office yesterday
showed.  “We now see Hungary’s economic future in much darker
shades,” Tibor Nagy, an economist at UniCredit Spa, wrote in a
research report today.  Gross domestic product, which was unchanged from the first
quarter, was worse than “even the gloomiest forecasts,” said
Nagy, who now expects 2 percent growth for 2011, compared with
2.2 percent seen earlier and 2.5 percent forecast at the start
of the year.  The government’s “conservative” forecast indicates 3.1
percent economic growth this year and 3 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  