-- 
Barney Frank Seeks Longer Federal Reserve Review of Capital One’s ING Deal

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-08-18T18:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/frank-asks-fed-to-extend-review-of-capital-one-s-ing-direct-usa-purchase.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank ,
the senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee,
asked the  Federal Reserve  to extend its examination of  Capital
One Financial Corp. (COF) ’s acquisition of ING Direct USA.  “This proposed purchase would create the fifth-largest
bank in the  United States ,” Frank wrote in the letter dated
yesterday to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . “For this reason
alone, care should be taken to thoroughly examine the impact of
this purchase with respect to the consolidation of banking
assets, the provision of credit by the resulting bank and
compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act.”  Frank, of  Massachusetts , asked the Fed to extend the public
comment period on the purchase for at least 60 days and hold
public hearings on how it will affect consumers and the economy.  Advocates for consumer rights and affordable housing have
pushed to halt the deal. The National Community Reinvestment
Coalition said Capital One’s purchase of ING Direct should be
stopped because it may create another bank whose collapse could
imperil the financial system, the organization said in a
statement earlier this month.  Capital One objects to the claim that the purchase would
make the bank a threat to the financial system, according to a
13-page letter the McLean, Virginia-based lender filed with the
Fed on Aug. 15.  ‘Ample Time’  The acquisition would create benefits for consumers,
shareholders and the economy by providing increased access to
banking services, according to the letter. The combined
institutions, which would total “just over $300 billion in
assets,” would place the bank in line “with other regional
banks in terms of size and simplicity.”  Capital One said the Fed’s comment period had “provided
ample time” for people to submit their views and that groups
pushing for a public hearing had “failed to identify material
issues of fact in dispute or otherwise justify the need” for
one, the firm said in the letter.  Tatiana Stead, a spokeswoman for Capital One, said the
letter provides the firm’s position on the topic. The central
bank received the letter and plans to respond,  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Capital One, which derives more than half its revenue from
credit cards, agreed in June to buy Amsterdam-based ING Groep’s
U.S. online bank for $9 billion to gain deposits and access to 7
million customers.  Capital One said it expects to complete the deal late this
year or early 2012. The bank may have to pay a termination fee
of $270 million if the deal to buy ING Direct falters, the bank
said in a June filing with securities regulators.  Capital One dropped 6.1 percent to $41.75 at 2:12 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. ING declined 8.5
percent to 5.63 euros in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  