-- 
Franc Gains as Central Bank Disappoints on Peg; Dollar Drops to 3-Week Low

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-17T21:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/franc-rises-as-snb-refrains-from-introducing-peg-pound-falls.html
The franc rose against 13 of its 16
most-traded counterparts after the central bank refrained from
pegging it to the euro or adopting a target.  The dollar fell to a three-week low versus a basket of
currencies of major U.S. trading partners. The Swiss currency
briefly erased gains before a government briefing, then rallied
as Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said any decision on
a target for the currency is up to the  Swiss National Bank .
Norway’s krone and  South Africa ’s rand and climbed versus the
dollar as commodities rose.  “The SNB is being viewed as a bust because the market
priced in a peg, and it seems like it’s not going to be their
panacea and they’re going to avoid it if at all possible,” said
 Jessica Hoversen , a New York-based analyst at the futures broker
MF Global Holdings Ltd. “There is no conviction in the market
to buy the dollar today.”  The franc appreciated 0.8 percent to 79.01 centimes per
dollar at 5 p.m. in New York, after briefly erasing gains before
the government press briefing. It touched a record 70.71
centimes on Aug. 9. The Swiss currency advanced 0.6 percent to
1.1398 per euro after falling 0.8 percent earlier. It reached a
record 1.0075 per euro on Aug. 9.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to trade the greenback against currencies including the euro and
yen, fell 0.4 percent to 73.745, from 74.010 yesterday. It
touched 73.452, the lowest level since July 27.  The greenback weakened 0.1 percent to $1.4426 per euro,
from $1.4407. It fell 0.3 percent to 76.60 yen and touched
76.41, approaching its post-World War II low of 76.25 yen
reached on March 17.  ‘Without a Paddle’  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 1.2 percent.  “The markets are now going to force the SNB’s hands to see
what they would do if they take the franc stronger -- the SNB is
rowing upstream without a paddle,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head
of Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in
New York. “Clearly the central bank’s actions were very
disappointing.”  The dollar sell-off came after foreign-exchange traders had
reduced bets against the dollar in the week ended Aug. 9 by the
most on record as global growth concerns sent demand for U.S.
Treasuries soaring.  “The basic position was long risk-correlated currencies,
short dollars, and that position was cut substantially -- and
now they are tentatively getting bought back,” said Steven Englander, head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in New York. Long positions are bets that currencies or
securities will increase in value, while short positions are
wagers that they will weaken.  Record Drop  Aggregate bets the greenback will weaken against the euro,
the yen, the Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars,
pound, franc and Mexican peso had plunged by 154,105 contracts
to 153,216, the biggest drop ever in Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data compiled by Bloomberg beginning in 2003.  The dollar has slumped 6.9 percent this year, the worst
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The franc has
strengthened the most, gaining 12 percent.  Norway’s krone advanced against most of its major
counterparts as crude oil rose to its highest level in almost
two weeks. Crude for September delivery rose as much as 2.7
percent to $89 a barrel in New York.  The krone gained 1 percent against the dollar to 5.391 and
appreciated 0.8 percent to 7.7777 per euro.  Swedish Krona  Sweden’s krona gained 1 percent to 6.3296 per dollar, and
the South African rand strengthened 0.9 percent to 7.0925 to the
greenback.  Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said the
government will use 2 billion francs ($2.5 billion) to boost the
economy in the face of the currency’s strength. He and Widmer-
Schlumpf spoke at the briefing in Bern.  “The SNB today was pretty disappointing, and the press
conference didn’t give the market what it was looking for,”
said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in  London .  The Swiss central bank said earlier it will raise banks’
sight deposits, cash available for immediate withdrawal, to 200
billion francs ($254 billion) from 120 billion francs, continue
to repurchase outstanding SNB bills and use foreign-exchange
swap transactions, it said in an e-mailed statement from Zurich.  Policy makers unexpectedly cut interest rates Aug. 3 to
help curb the franc’s gains, dropping the target for the three-
month Swiss franc London interbank offered rate to “as close to
zero as possible” from 0.25 percent.  Negative Swap Rate  The Swiss two-year swap rate -- the rate to exchange fixed
for floating interest-rate payments denominated in the franc --
turned negative today for the first time as the SNB boosted
liquidity to the money market.  “What the market is doing is making the move to negative
 interest rates  for the SNB,” said Douglas Borthwick, head of
foreign-exchange trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros
Trading. Even with the decline in rates, “people still are
buying Swiss securities out of fear and wealth preservation
anxiety.”  U.S. producer prices rose last month more than forecast.
Labor Department data showed a 0.2 percent advance in the
producer-price index, after a 0.4 percent drop in June.
Economists forecast a 0.1 increase, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News Survey.  Consumer prices increased 0.2 percent last month following
a 0.2 percent decline in June, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists before a Labor Department
report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  