-- 
Franc Rises Versus Dollar on Bets Central Bank Measures Won’t Curb Gains

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-17T17:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/franc-rises-versus-dollar-on-bets-central-bank-measures-won-t-curb-gains.html
The franc gained versus the dollar
after the  Swiss National Bank  refrained from pegging the
currency to the euro, emboldening traders seeking refuge from
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis to resume purchases.  The franc rose versus most of 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg after Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said
the government supports any measure by the SNB to curb the
currency’s advance. The franc snapped five days of declines
against the greenback after the SNB said it decided to expand
liquidity to the money market. Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan
has said policy makers are assessing “a whole range of
options,” including a temporary currency peg to the euro.  “They haven’t done what the markets were looking for, but
what they’ve done was a good compromise,” said Ankita Dudani, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  London . “Whether this is going to be successful or not is
yet to be seen. The SNB has come in so they will try to not let
the currency appreciate further, but the SNB is not that strong
on its own.”  The franc strengthened 0.8 percent to 79 centimes per
dollar at 6:30 p.m. in London. It traded 0.5 percent higher at
1.14039 against the euro.  The central bank will raise banks’ sight deposits, or money
that can be accessed immediately, to 200 billion francs from 120
billion francs, continue to repurchase outstanding SNB bills and
use foreign-exchange swap transactions, it said in an e-mailed
statement from Zurich today.  Not Politicians’ Task  Any decision on whether to introduce a target for the franc
is up to the SNB and not the task of politicians, Widmer-
Schlumpf said at a press briefing in Bern.  “If the SNB decided to adopt a peg against the euro, it
would effectively mean they would have to commit to unlimited
intervention to maintain that peg,” said Steven Saywell, head
of foreign-exchange strategy for  Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “That would be very difficult for the SNB to do -- some
would say impossible -- in the current market conditions.”  Saywell, who forecast the franc will strengthen to 1.10
against the 17-member common currency, spoke in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with  Owen Thomas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  