-- 
Gene-Drug Matchmaker May Find New Uses for Old Medicines, Researchers Say

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-08-18T14:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/gene-drug-matchmaker-may-find-new-uses-for-old-medicines-researchers-say.html
(Corrects spelling of name in eighth paragraph of story
that moved yesterday.)  A computer program that pairs gene
information with drug data may help resurrect old medicines for
new uses, including an over-the-counter ulcer pill that may be
used to  treat   lung cancer , Stanford University scientists said.  By searching through a  National Institutes of Health 
database that catalogs the results of genomic studies,
researchers matched symptoms of diseases with the effects of
drugs, yielding 1,000 potential new treatments, said  Atul Butte ,
the study’s lead researcher. The scientists described their work
in two reports published today in the journal Science
Translational Medicine.  The system, which correctly matched current drugs with the
diseases they treat, also suggested  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s
Tagamet, a nonprescription ulcer medication, may have use in
treating lung cancer, and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Topamax, an
antiseizure medicine sold as generic topiramate, might  treat  a
type of bowel disorder. Finding new uses for old drugs could
become much easier using the approach, Butte said.  “If there are additional uses for drugs coming off
patents, one could be thinking creatively, how do we find the
value in that,” Butte, the chief of divisions of systems
medicine at Stanford’s School of Medicine near  Palo Alto ,
 California , said in an interview.  It takes an average 15 years and about $1 billion to bring
a single new drug to the market, researchers said in one of the
reports. So-called repurposing of old drugs can cut that cost
because drugmakers wouldn’t have to do the toxicity tests
required in early development.  1,000 Potential Treatments  Butte’s team focused on 100 diseases and 164 generic drugs,
which yielded about 1,000 potential treatments, Butte said. The
matchmaking method provided possible therapeutic drug-disease
relationships for 53 of the 100 diseases, he said. Cancers of
the skin and stomach showed the most matches, according to his
study.  Topiramate was tested in rats after the program proposed
its use as a treatment for inflammatory bowel disease. After
administering the drug to the animals with the disease’s
symptoms, topiramate was effective, sometimes even better than
the standard treatment, prednisolone.  That result was compelling, said Pankaj Agarwal, director
of computational biology at London-based Glaxo, in an interview.  “The impact of repurposing drugs would be huge,” said
Agarwal. “If you find a new use for a drug that’s already on
the market and somebody sponsors it, you wouldn’t have to go
through safety and have a new indication within three to five
years.”  Tagamet Test  Cimetidine, the generic form of Tagamet, was targeted by
the system for its potential for lung cancer, and was shown to
slow tumor cell growth in mice, according to one report.  “Unless someone focuses on this, the additional uses are
never going to be captured,” Butte said. “Companies have to
get creative and remarket and rebrand these to tests in clinical
trials.”  Pfizer’s $1.9 billion erectile dysfunction drug, Viagra,
was originally designed for chest pain, Butte said. Topiramate
has been used off-label as a treatment for obesity, researchers
said. The drug is also part of  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s experimental weight-
loss compound Qnexa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  