-- 
German Stocks Decline for Second Day; Deutsche Boerse, Deutsche Bank Fall

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-17T16:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/german-stocks-drop-transaction-tax-plan-drags-deutsche-boerse.html
German stocks dropped for a second
day after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy rejected a broadening of Europe’s rescue fund and calls
for joint euro borrowing.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  led declines, falling 5 percent, as the
leaders resurrected proposals for a financial-transaction tax
rejected by the European Union in 2010.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Germany ’s biggest lender, fell 2.2 percent.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  slid after Morgan Stanley lowered its
recommendation on the industry and Dell Inc. cut its forecasts.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  sank 0.8 percent to 5,948.94 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt after earlier dropping as much as 2.1 percent
and rising as much as 0.4 percent. The gauge has tumbled 21
percent from this year’s high on May 2, entering a so-called
 bear market  on Aug. 8, amid concern that the global economic
recovery is stalling as  Europe  struggles to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis. The broader HDAX Index also fell 0.8
percent today.  Merkel and Sarkozy rejected an expansion of the 440
billion-euro ($635 billion) rescue fund and rebuffed calls for
joint euro borrowing to end the debt crisis, saying greater
economic integration was needed first.  “Most market participants weren’t expecting the meeting to
yield any significant progress on the debt crisis, but they also
weren’t expecting the idea of a financial transaction tax to
resurface either,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at London Capital
Group, wrote. “The punitive measure is only likely further to
hurt the financial sector.”  Harmonized Tax Rates  Merkel and Sarkozy agreed to press for closer euro-area
cooperation, tougher deficit rules and a harmonization of their
corporate tax rates. The leaders of the euro area’s two biggest
economies spoke after a two-hour meeting in Paris late
yesterday.  New shares of  Deutsche Boerse , which is buying NYSE
Euronext to create the world’s largest stock and derivatives
exchange, fell 5 percent to 41.10 euros. Deutsche Bank lost 2.2
percent to 30.07 euros.  Germany’s public banks said they continue to oppose the
implementation of a financial-transaction tax in Europe,
according to a statement from VOeB, an association which
represents the lenders.  “Recent regulation means banks are already at their limits
with regards to their financial, organizational and personnel
abilities,” the group said.  Any proposal for cross-border taxes in the EU requires
unanimity among governments.  Aixtron  Infineon, Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, slid 3.9
percent to 5.82 euros. The European semiconductor industry was
cut to “cautious” at Morgan Stanley, while Dell, the second-
largest personal-computer maker, missed analysts’ sales
estimates and cut its revenue forecast.  Aixtron SE, the maker of equipment used to produce LED
screens, lost 11 percent to 15.45 euros as Deutsche Bank
downgraded the stock to “hold” from “buy.”  Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (HDD)  tumbled 8.9 percent to 1.51
euros after the German maker of printing presses was cut to
“sell” from “neutral” at UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  