-- 
German Police Say 30 Companies Probed in Railway-Steel Case

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-08-17T16:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/german-police-say-30-companies-probed-in-railway-steel-case-1-.html
German police have widened an
investigation of possible antitrust violations in the country’s
railway-steel market to include about 30 companies in a probe
that already included  ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)   Police today raided the homes of two suspects and one
witness in the cities of Bochum, Essen and Dortmund, the Bochum
police said in  statement . The probe concerns about 90 people,
they said. Prosecutors said last month the investigation
concerned about 10 companies and 30 suspects.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker has “parted
company” with two employees since it launched an internal
inquiry in May, said a spokesman for the producer who declined
to be cited by name, in line with company policy. The Essen,
Germany-based steelmaker is helping police with its
investigations, he added.  Voestalpine AG (VOE) ,  Austria ’s biggest steelmaker, was the
whistleblower in the investigation, which is being led by the
Bochum police force in collaboration with the German Federal
Cartel Office and the Bochum prosecutor’s office.  “Over time it has become clear that the allegations
against employees of the company have become more concrete,”
the ThyssenKrupp spokesman said. “A sales manager and a
management board member of an arm of the company are no longer
in our employment.”  Police said the harm caused by the alleged antitrust
infractions was in the three-digit-millions of euros.  A spokesman for Deutsche Bahn AG,  Germany ’s state-owned
railway, said the company was unable to estimate accurately the
damages it incurred.  “We don’t have any access to the relevant companies’
documents,” said the spokesman who also declined to be
identified, in line with company rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 