-- 
German Bunds Rise on Joint Euro-Bond Rebuttal; Italian Securities Advance

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-08-17T16:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/german-bunds-advance-for-third-day-after-merkel-sarkozy-reject-euro-bond.html
German bunds rose after  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  rejected an
increase in the euro area’s rescue fund and rebuffed calls for
joint regional borrowing to stem the debt crisis.  Ten-year German bonds advanced for a third day and 30-year
debt snapped a four-day decline, while Greek notes slid. Italian
securities climbed as two people with knowledge of the
transactions said the  European Central Bank  bought the nation’s
debt. Germany sold 5.62 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of notes
due in September 2013, while Portugal auctioned bills.  “If they had hinted at the introduction of euro bonds,
that would have been a negative” for bunds, said Marius Daheim,
a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in
Munich. “They understand that would not be an appropriate
solution because it would put the ratings of the stronger
countries at risk. The market is taking this as a reason to buy
into the core, particularly bunds.”  Ten-year bund yields fell nine basis points to 2.23 percent
at 4:35 p.m. in London. The 3.25 percent security due July 2021
gained 0.830, or 8.30 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to
108.90. Yields on 30-year bonds also dropped nine basis points,
to 3.11 percent.  The leaders of  Europe ’s two biggest economies agreed
yesterday to press for closer euro-area cooperation, tougher
deficit rules and a harmonization of their corporate tax rates,
while ruling out an expansion of the European Financial
Stability Facility. They also proposed a plan for a financial-
transaction tax.  ‘More Specific’  “Many people were expecting something more specific and
far reaching,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “The initial reaction has
been lower yields in the core. There’s a bit of disappointment
about the outcome.”  The door isn’t closed on eventual issuance of common euro
bonds, though they aren’t the solution for the region’s current
problems, European Commission spokesman Olivier Bailly told
reporters today in Brussels.  Germany  would face extra costs of
47 billion euros a year if euro-region bond sales were
introduced, the Munich-based Ifo economic institute said.  The yield on five-year Greek notes jumped 27 basis points
to 18.56 percent. The five-year yield has climbed from as low as
15.67 percent on July 22, a day after euro-area nations agreed
on a second bailout plan for the beleaguered country. The price
of the securities was at 54.31 percent of face amount.  Investor Losses  The Institute of International Finance estimates investors
would lose 21 percent under a debt-swap plan proposed for
Greece, which aims to include 90 percent of investors.  “Further details on the Greek exchange/rollover plan are
still in the works, it seems, and most recent indications are
that the 90 percent level will be a tough one to pull off,”
 Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-debt market strategy at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote today in an e-mailed note.  Finland  reached an agreement with  Greece  yesterday on
receiving collateral to cover its contribution to the
Mediterranean nation’s bailout and rejected any form of joint-
regional liability such as selling common euro bonds.  “Smaller affluent countries are capable of rocking the
boat just as much as the bigger ones, and Finland has been
especially critical of bailouts,” Garvey wrote.  Italian bonds rose, pushing the two-year note yield to the
lowest since July 7, as the ECB was said to buy the nation’s
securities. It was at 3.27 percent, from 3.40 percent yesterday.
The 10-year yield fell six basis points to 4.93 percent. Rates
on similar-maturity Spanish bonds dropped to 4.94 percent, the
least since Nov. 24.  German Auction  Germany auctioned the 0.75 percent two-year notes for an
average yield of 0.73 percent, after offering as much as 7
billion euros of the securities for sale. The auction attracted
bids for 1.4 times the amount of debt sold.  Germany last offered two-year notes on July 6 for an
average yield of 1.55 percent, raising 3.4 billion euros and
drawing bids for 2.26 times the amount sold. In the seven prior
auctions this year, the nation paid an average 1.56 percent for
two-year notes.  “The subdued demand reflects the stretched valuations at
the short end, which focuses investors to move further and
further out on the curve to generate the required return,”
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in
London, wrote in a report.  Portugal  sold 172 million euros of bills due in February at
an average yield of 4.989 percent, the debt agency said. That
compares with a yield of 4.960 percent at a six-month auction on
July 20. The government also auctioned 985 million euros of
bills maturing in November at an average yield of 4.854 percent,
down from a yield of 4.967 percent on Aug. 3.  German  government bonds  handed investors a 4.4 percent
return this year, compared with 7 percent for U.S. Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have
gained 5.3 percent, while Italian debt earned 0.6 percent.
Portuguese securities lost 16 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  