-- 
Ghosn Setting Infiniti on Track to Gain Audi-Lexus Drivers in China: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-17T00:08:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/ghosn-setting-infiniti-on-track-to-gain-audi-lexus-drivers-in-china-cars.html
Nissan Motor Co. plans to quadruple
Infiniti’s share of the Chinese luxury-auto market within five
years as it rushes to make up a “ridiculous” amount of time
lost to Volkswagen AG’s Audi and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  has set a target of
winning at least 8 percent of the luxury segment in the world’s
largest auto market by 2016. Infiniti has 2 percent now. Market
leader Audi has 34 percent while Lexus has 8 percent, according
to industry researcher  J.D. Power  & Associates.  Nissan’s strategy to boost sales includes doubling the
number of Infiniti dealers this year, adding five product lines
over five years and airing its first TV commercials in a nation
where primetime audiences can exceed 500 million. The Yokohama,
Japan-based company is also considering production in China to
eliminate tariffs of 25 percent on imported cars.  “We entered the China market even later than  Taiwan  and
 South Korea , and that’s very ridiculous to anybody who has a bit
of knowledge about the industry,” Allen Lu, who left Ferrari
SpA to become managing director of Infiniti’s China unit last
year, said in an interview in Beijing. “But, it’s like running
a marathon -- you can’t tell who will win after just 10
kilometers.”  Nissan,  Japan ’s second-largest automaker, aims to more than
triple worldwide Infiniti sales to 500,000 a year by March 2017,
taking about 10 percent of the global luxury-car market. China
became Infiniti’s second-biggest market after the U.S. last
year, according to Lu. The brand isn’t sold in Japan.  ‘Good Momentum’  “We have a good momentum in China and we should
continue,” Ghosn said July 26 in Beijing, where Nissan unveiled
its mid-term China business plan.  Infiniti trails Audi, Munich-based Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz in China. BMW has a 22 percent
share of the luxury-car market and Stuttgart-based Mercedes has
14 percent, according to J.D. Power.  Infiniti’s China sales were 11,513 last year, doubling from
the year before, though still only 5 percent of Audi’s. Lexus
sales rose more than 55 percent to 52,933 units in 2010,
according to Toyota, Japan’s largest automaker.  Audi also ranked first in a new-vehicle sales satisfaction
survey released Aug. 15 by J.D. Power. Nissan’s Chinese venture
Dongfeng Motor Co. came second. The survey was based on
responses from 11,496 owners and covered 57 passenger-vehicle
brands.  ‘Real Challenge’  “The real challenge for Infiniti is to get on the
consideration list for luxury-auto shoppers in China,” said
 Bill Russo , a senior adviser at consulting company Booz & Co. in
Beijing.  China has more than 1.1 million millionaires and an economy
that expanded at 9.5 percent in the second quarter, so “it
should be possible for Infiniti to carve out a piece of this
expanding pie,” he said.  Toyota declined to comment on the challenge posed by
Infiniti, saying in an e-mail that “we respect all
competitors.”  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest automaker, is
preparing several new Acura luxury models for the U.S. and
Chinese markets, Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike said in
June.  Late Start  Infiniti got a late start in China, entering the market in
2007, about three years after  Lexus  opened its first dealerships
there and more than a decade after Audi began local production.
The two Japanese luxury units don’t have plants in China, which
means customers pay  import duties  that boost prices.  The Infiniti M25 sedan starts at 498,000 yuan ($78,000) and
a Lexus ES350 costs from 545,000 yuan, according to pricing data
compiled by Sina.com. That compares with 355,000 yuan for an
Audi A6 and 418,600 yuan for a BMW 5-series, both of which are
assembled in China.  “Brand loyalty in China is not strong,” Lu said.
“Everyone in China made their wealth in the past 20 or 30
years, and when people have all this money and don’t know where
to spend it, that’s a great opportunity.”  The success of Infiniti may hinge on manufacturing vehicles
in  China , said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based managing director for
Greater China at Synovate Motoresearch.  Local Production  Ghosn said in June that Nissan plans to make Infiniti cars
in either the U.S. or China. Ghosn and Lu declined during
separate interviews last month to comment on whether Infinitis
will be made in China.  “The visibility of Infiniti-branded cars has to be
increased,” Paur said. “This requires higher volumes that can
only be achieved with local production.”  Ghosn is counting on growth in China to help make Nissan
Japan’s most profitable automaker for the first time since at
least 1992. The carmaker’s Dongfeng venture, which makes Nissan-
brand cars, has announced plans to invest 50 billion yuan by
2015 with the aim of raising annual auto sales to more than 2.3
million from 1.3 million.  Infiniti has stepped up its marketing in China, airing its
first TV commercial last September and participating in more
than 50 local auto shows, Lu said. Sebastian Vettel, the Formula
One champion, drove a 5.0-liter V8 Infiniti FX50 and a 3.7-liter
V6 Infiniti G37 around a test track in  Shanghai  in April as part
of Infiniti’s sponsorship deal with the Red Bull team.  The number of Infiniti dealers will double to 50 this year,
with a five-year target of 150 covering all major cities,
according to the company. Five new product lines will augment
the current QX, FX, EX, M and G-series vehicles, and department
heads drive Infiniti cars to meetings instead of other brands.  “You eat your rice mouthful by mouthful,” Lu said.
“We’re going to take it step by step.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  