-- 
Gilt Yields Decline to Record as BOE Policy Makers Scrap Tightening Call

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-17T16:06:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/gilt-yields-decline-to-record-as-boe-policy-makers-scrap-tightening-call.html
Gilts rallied, sending the 10-year
yield to a record low, after minutes from the  Bank of England ’s
most recent meeting showed dissident policy makers abandoned
their calls for monetary-policy tightening.  The pound rose for a fifth day against the dollar and
advanced versus the euro. Minutes of the central bank’s Aug. 3-4
meeting revealed all nine members of the Monetary Policy
Committee voted to leave the key  interest rate  at an all-time
low.  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  ended their push for higher
borrowing costs, while Adam Posen again called for more bond
purchases to boost the economy. Jobless-benefit claims rose the
most in more than two years, according to a separate report.  “We expected at least one of the two voting for no rate
hike, and the market got both,” said Achilleas Georgolopoulos,
a London-based fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets. “It’s a truly unanimous decision, plus they discussed
QE more than they had in July. That’s what’s supporting gilts.”  Yields on 10-year  government securities  fell 13 basis
points to 2.43 percent at 5:02 p.m. in  London , the least since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989. Two-year yields
dropped seven basis points to 0.6 percent.  The pound advanced 0.8 percent to $1.6580, erasing an
earlier 0.7 percent decline, and strengthened 0.3 percent to
126.81 yen. Sterling strengthened 0.6 percent to 87.05 pence per
euro after declining 0.6 percent.  Inflation Accelerates  The Bank of England is holding rates at record lows even as
inflation surpasses economists’ estimates. Data released
yesterday showed inflation quickened to an annual 4.4 percent in
July from 4.2 percent the previous month, above the 4.3 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  While the euro region’s debt crisis and signs of a global
economic slowdown “weakened the case” for removing monetary
stimulus, the argument for increasing the bank’s bond-purchase
program “was not yet strong enough,” today’s minutes showed.  Dale and Weale scrapped their hawkish stance as Britain’s
recovery shows signs of faltering.  Adam Posen  continued to vote
for a 50-billion-pound increase in the bond-purchase program to
stimulate the economy.  “The headline-grabbing change was in the Bank of England
vote,” said Tom Levinson, a currency strategist at ING Groep NV
in London. “Tightening is such a distant prospect it’s not
worth worrying about.”  U.K. unemployment claims rose 37,100 to 1.56 million in
July from the previous month, the biggest increase since May
2009, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in London.
The median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for an increase of 20,000.  Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods rose 38,000 to 2.49 million in the second quarter.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that
the risk posed to the U.K. economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis
could push inflation too far below its 2 percent target, even as
the current rate of price growth persists at more than twice
that level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  