-- 
GM Cutting Truck Output in Indiana While Adding Shifts at Michigan Plant

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-08-17T20:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/gm-cutting-truck-output-in-indiana-while-adding-shifts-at-michigan-plant.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest U.S.
automaker, will extend a temporary shutdown at its full-size
truck plant in  Indiana  and add shifts to a pickup factory in
 Michigan  to improve the balance of inventory on dealer lots.  Fort Wayne Assembly, which makes Chevrolet Silverado and
GMC Sierra pickups in Roanoke, Indiana, will close the first
week of January in addition to the last week of December, Rich
LeTourneau, shop chairman at United Auto Workers Local 2209,
said in a phone interview. Saturday shifts at the plant have
been canceled for the rest of the year, he said.  “We got a lot of trucks on hand,” LeTourneau, whose local
represents hourly workers at  Fort Wayne , said today in a phone
interview. “The yard is full of trucks, and the market is
fluctuating, which is controlling a lot of the buying power.”  The automaker is adjusting its mix of trucks as it reduces
inventory of the vehicles. GM is targeting 90 days’ supply of
Silverado and Sierra full-size trucks by the end of the year,
from 115 days at the end of July,  Don Johnson , GM’s vice
president of U.S. sales, said on an Aug. 2 conference call.  GM will add shifts on two Saturdays in September and three
in October at Flint Assembly, which builds bigger, four-door
crew cab Silverado and Sierra pickups that aren’t made in Fort
Wayne, according to UAW Local 598’s website.  The automaker is trimming truck inventory “through
production adjustments rather than through incentives,”  Jim Cain , a spokesman for Detroit-based GM, said in a phone
interview.  Truck Market  “We expect there’s going to be a stronger market for full-
size pickups between now and the end of the year,” Cain said.
“If consumer behavior changes, we don’t want to have an
overstock situation. We set an objective of 90 days that we
intend to meet.”  Earnings in the second half may be lower than the first six
months because GM is reducing pickup production, Chief Financial
Officer Dan Ammann said on an Aug. 4 conference call. The
automaker reported a second-quarter profit of $2.52 billion and
increasing truck inventory added about $350 million to the
bottom line, he said.  GM planned to build a “buffer” of higher truck supply
throughout 2011 to offset shutdowns next year, Ammann said on
the call. The automaker is updating its pickup plants to
assemble next-generation versions of the trucks.  Slow Sales  Slower selling rates in April and May pushed inventory
higher than anticipated, and Ammann said Aug. 4 GM would adjust
second-half production schedules without giving details.  The extended shutdown at Fort Wayne is in addition to down
time to update the factory for next-generation trucks,
LeTourneau said.  GM has a third full-size truck plant in Silao,  Mexico .
Normal capacity in Silao, Fort Wayne and Flint is about 780,000
pickups annually, Ammann said on Aug. 4. Those plants will be
able to make about 640,000 vehicles next year.  The current lineup of GM full-size trucks haven’t been
updated since the 2006 model year.  GM fell 89 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $24.94 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
declined 24 percent from their $33 initial public offering price
in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  