-- 
GM Plans to Build Plug-In Cadillac ELR That’s Similar to Chevrolet Volt

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-08-17T22:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/gm-plans-to-build-plug-in-cadillac-elr-that-s-similar-to-chevrolet-volt.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it will make
a plug-in hybrid Cadillac ELR that uses technology similar to
its  Chevrolet  Volt that went on sale last year.  GM plans to price the ELR less than the $57,400 Model S by 
Tesla Motor Inc.’s, said a person familiar with the plans. It 
will be at least as fast as the Volt and will probably drive 
farther on battery power alone, said the person, who asked not 
to be identified because the details are private.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in January that he
wants a car using the Chevrolet’s Voltec electric-drive
technology for each of GM’s four U.S. brands. GM said today the
ELR is based on its Cadillac Converj concept car, which the
Detroit-based automaker stopped work on last year, two people
familiar with the move said at the time.  “This is premium technology, Cadillac is a premium brand,
and buyers of Cadillacs will expect to pay premium prices, said
 Eric Noble , president of The Car Lab, an automotive consulting
firm in Orange,  California . ‘‘That resolves one of the problems
that General Motors has had with Volt, which is that it’s a
$40,000 small Chevrolet sedan.’’  The ‘‘one big negative’’ for GM will be selling buyers on a
smaller Cadillac and making sure components like suspension and
interior parts are superior to Volt, Noble said in a phone
interview.  ‘‘That’s always the problem when you have an architecture
that originates in a mainstream brand that you try to take up
market,’’ he said.  ELR Size  GM is still developing the ELR coupe and didn’t give
details on price or when the car will be sold while announcing
production of the vehicle today on its  website .  The ELR will be about the same size as the Volt, said the
person familiar with the ELR plans. The new model will be built
in the same Detroit plant as the Volt, the person said.  About 16,000 Volts will be built this year and 60,000 in
2012, GM said in a May 18 statement. The automaker previously
targeted output of 15,000 this year and 45,000 in 2012.  GM’s Volt goes 25 to 50 miles using power from a T-shaped
lithium-ion battery. A gas engine extends the range to more than
340 miles when battery power is depleted.  Tesla’s base-level Model S, which goes 160 miles per
charge, is about $57,400, and a version able to go about 230
miles will be about $67,400, the company said. The prices for
all the Tesla models are before a $7,500 federal tax credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  