-- 
Governor Christie Says Rutgers University Athletic Spending ‘Not Waste’

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-08-17T17:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/governor-christie-says-rutgers-university-athletic-spending-not-waste-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said the next president of  Rutgers University  should decide
whether the price of competing in top-ranked college sports is
too high.  Christie told reporters today that he won’t second-guess
decisions made by outgoing Rutgers President Richard McCormick,
and that the money spent on athletics by the New Brunswick state
school is “not waste and abuse.” McCormick is retiring in
June, and a selection committee is searching for replacements,
Christie said.  Rutgers spent more money on athletics than any other public
institution in the six biggest football conferences during the
2009-2010 fiscal year, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. More
than 40 percent of sports revenue came from student fees and the
university’s general fund.  “This is a policy judgment that the university has made,”
Christie said in Princeton. “A new president may come in and
make a new policy judgment. At the time the new president comes
in, I’m certain I’ll have the opportunity to have input with the
new president on what that policy should be.”  Christie said he won’t “micromanage” Rutgers. The
athletic subsidies may be the subject of legislative hearings
next year when university officials appear before lawmakers
during budget hearings, Christie said.  Schiano, Stringer  Rutgers spent $11.2 million on coaches’ salaries and
benefits in fiscal 2010, third among Big East state schools
behind  Connecticut ’s $12.5 million and the University of
Louisville’s $12.1 million, the Bloomberg data show.  Football coach Greg Schiano earned $2.03 million including
bonuses for the fiscal year that ended in June. The 45-year-old
Schiano won 59 games and lost 63 in 10 seasons, including a 4-1
record in postseason bowl games.  Vivian Stringer, the women’s basketball coach, got the
second-highest pay among Rutgers coaches in fiscal 2011 at $1.3
million including bonuses, according to the school. She also
gets monthly allowances of $1,000 for a car and as much as $500
for golf. Stringer, 63, has coached the Rutgers women for 16
seasons, one of which ended in the national semifinal and one in
the final.  Christie said he doesn’t believe the coaches’ pay is
excessive.  “They don’t seem out of line with what’s being paid at
other major state universities,” Christie said. “The market
sets the price for these folks and I don’t think those salaries
are out of market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  