-- 
Grassley Questions SEC Over Claims That Records Were Purged

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-18T16:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/grassley-asks-sec-to-answer-claims-staff-destroyed-probe-records.html
U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  asked
the Securities and Exchange Commission to answer allegations
that the agency destroyed files from initial investigations of
firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , SAC Capital Advisors
LP and Bernard Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  Grassley, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, made the request in a letter to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  dated yesterday, citing claims by an agency employee
that more than 9,000 such files have been purged. The Iowa
lawmaker asked Schapiro to explain whether the SEC routinely
destroys documents related to so-called matters under
investigation that don’t progress beyond the initial phase.  “It doesn’t make sense that an agency responsible for
investigations would want to get rid of potential evidence,”
Grassley said in a statement. “If these charges are true, the
agency needs to explain why it destroyed documents, how many
documents it destroyed over what timeframe, and to what extent
its actions were consistent with the law.”  Grassley said his request was prompted by a letter from
Darcy Flynn, a 13-year SEC employee who claimed the agency
destroyed documents including materials related to Goldman
Sachs’ trades of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  credit-
default swaps in 2009, insider-trading probes of  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and SAC Capital Advisors LP,
and investigations of possible financial fraud at  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in 2007 and 2008.  SEC Records  “As a general matter, not every document that comes into
an agency’s possession in the course of its work must be
retained,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a statement
yesterday, declining to respond specifically to Grassley’s
letter. “We do keep records of our MUI’s and they’re available
to our investigators to learn about previous work on matters
that have been reviewed.”  The SEC amended its case-closing guidelines last year after
being questioned by the  National Archives  and Records
Administration, Nester said. The changes clarify that SEC
documents should be kept or disposed of in accordance with the
agency’s records management policies, he said.  MUI’s typically include documents such as newspaper
clippings, brokerage account statements with personal
information and notes from internal interviews, Nester said.  Privacy Concerns  Such documents may not need to be catalogued since they are
available electronically, and others may be inappropriate for
the agency to retain because of privacy concerns for individuals
not under formal investigation, according to  Peter Henning , a
former SEC attorney who is now a securities law professor at
Wayne State University Law School in  Detroit .  “It would only really be of concern if there were no
record of an investigation having taken place,” Henning said.
“Investigations don’t necessarily start with a voluminous file
-- it may come from a newspaper story. The SEC drills a lot of
dry holes.”  Some of the firms Grassley named have been the subject of
SEC sanctions resulting from other investigations. Goldman Sachs
paid $550 million last year over claims that it misled investors
in a mortgage-linked security. Bank of America paid $150 million
to resolve allegations that it failed to tell investors about
bonuses slated for Merrill Lynch & Co. executives before
acquiring the Wall Street brokerage in 2009. Madoff is serving a
150-year federal prison term after pleading guilty to running a
 Ponzi scheme .  Spokesmen Michael DuVally of Goldman Sachs,  John Gallagher 
of Deutsche Bank, Lawrence Grayson of Bank of America and
Jonathan Gasthalter for SAC Capital declined to comment. Teri Schrettenbrunner of Wells Fargo declined immediate comment. A
phone call to the National Archives and Records Administration
public affairs office wasn’t returned.  Inspector General  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz said he is looking into
whether the agency followed federal guidelines and plans to
issue a report on the matter by the end of September.  Flynn is being represented by Gary Aguirre, a former SEC
attorney who works with whistleblowers. Aguirre was awarded
$755,000 last year over claims the SEC unjustly fired him in
2005 after he tried to investigate insider-trading allegations
involving former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer  John Mack . Aguirre claimed that supervisors blocked his investigation
because of Mack’s stature in the financial industry.  In a July 15 letter to Grassley, Aguirre claimed that the
SEC had illegally destroyed documents and that some officials
“concocted a false and misleading story” to cover it up.  Aguirre cited guidance from the SEC enforcement division
that staff should dispose of any documents obtained in
connection with an MUI if no formal investigation is opened.
Destruction of such documents harms Congress’s ability to
oversee the SEC and understand why certain cases weren’t
pursued, Aguirre said.  In his letter, Grassley asked Schapiro to disclose whether
Flynn’s allegations were true and to explain the SEC’s
understanding of its legal obligations to maintain and archive
records. Grassley is seeking a response by Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  