-- 
GreenDriver Uses Traffic Data to Help Cars Steer Clear of Jams

-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 
2011-08-17T13:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/greendriver-uses-traffic-data-to-help-cars-steer-clear-of-jams.html
At 2:30 a.m. on July 14, when audiences
for the midnight screening of “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly
Hallows: Part 2” left movie theaters in Portland, Ore., streets
jammed with cars. To unclog the snarls, a smartphone app maker
called GreenDriver was crunching real-time data from the city’s
800 traffic lights, giving turn-by-turn spoken directions to
drivers to help them avoid red lights and traffic jams. “We saw
a spike in green light activity ... and it was gone by 3 a.m.,”
says GreenDriver’s chief executive officer, Matt Ginsberg, in
describing the two-year-old app’s success that night at
rerouting drivers to unclogged roads.  With phones mounted on their dashboards, some 20,000 drivers in
Portland and Eugene who have downloaded the app can glance at
suggested routes and listen to audio directions in order to save
time and fuel that ordinarily would be wasted idling on busy
streets.  Portland , which in April became the first major city to
share its traffic-signal data with GreenDriver, wants to know
where people are driving, where they get stuck in traffic, and
how to make their trips as convenient as possible, says Portland
Bureau of Transportation spokesman Dan Anderson. “We want to
know how to keep Portland moving.”  The nation’s traffic problems have been getting worse for
decades, according to the Texas Transportation Institute of
 Texas A&M University , which publishes an annual urban mobility
report. According to its 2010 review, the cost of congestion has
risen from $24 billion in 1982 to $115 billion in 2009. Over the
same period of time, the annual cost to the average commuter
rose to $808 and 34 hours stuck in traffic in 2009, compared to
an inflation-adjusted $351 and 14 hours in 1982.  Unlike established technologies from Garmin, Magellan, and
TomTom, which rely on traffic data from GPS satellites,
GreenDriver also knows when lights are changing because it gets
data directly from municipalities. It’s generally not enough to
know how traffic along a route is flowing if you don’t know the
state of the lights, Ginsberg says; deciding to avoid a traffic
jam by switching streets depends on the behavior of both the
traffic and the lights on those streets, for example. Still, Tim
Lomax, a research engineer with the Texas Transportation
Institute, cautions that data from municipalities isn’t always
reliable because of communications problems among traffic
lights. Another newcomer, app maker Waze Mobile, which has
secured some $37 million in  venture capital , relies on GPS and
its users, who feed traffic updates to one another through the
app’s social network.  SALES TO MUNICIPALITIES AND DEVELOPERS  Ginsberg isn’t planning to make money from the GreenDriver app
itself. He wants to sell the data back to municipalities with
analyses of driving patterns baked in. He also sees property
developers as potential clients. A developer that is considering
building a strip mall in a city, he explains, would likely be
very interested in the city’s traffic patterns.  A computer science professor on extended leave from the
University of  Oregon , Ginsberg can afford to be patient as he
negotiates deals. He projects $2.9 million in revenue this year
for his first company, 13-year-old On Time Systems in Eugene,
Ore., which he is using to finance and staff GreenDriver. On
Time makes software that finds efficient routes for noncombat
flights for the U.S. Air Force. The paths he suggests reduce
fuel consumption by up to 2 percent, or some 20 million gallons
annually, Ginsberg says. “We find acceptable solutions to
complicated problems,” Ginsberg explains. “Solutions a shade
better are worth it because of the volume.”  Most city traffic engineers had been reluctant to try
GreenDriver on their turf. Ginsberg was unable to get
cooperation in Eugene until 2009, when he happened to be
listening to a call-in radio talk show with the mayor as a
guest. Ginsberg called and proposed his idea on the air. That
opened the gates. Drivers in Eugene have been testing the app
for more than a year and report reductions in commute times and
improvements in fuel economy of about 5 percent each, according
to Ginsberg. He says GreenDriver will be available to every
driver in  Utah  by the end of August. “The light data can give us
a potentially permanent advantage,” Ginsberg says, “and if we
can leverage that into people using GreenDriver over our
competitors, we’ll win the social battle as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel at
 kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  