-- 
Guardian Loses Readers Even After Ousting Murdoch Tabloid

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-18T16:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/guardian-loses-readers-even-after-bringing-down-murdoch-tabloid.html
The U.K.’s Guardian took down
Britain’s best-selling Sunday newspaper by exposing that the
Rupert Murdoch-owned tabloid hacked a murder victim’s voicemail.
It may still lose an intensifying battle for British readers.  The Guardian’s U.K. Web traffic fell 2.5 percent in July
from the previous month, according to figures provided to
Bloomberg by Comscore Inc., whose data is used by companies
including Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp. That’s even as
Guardian reporters’ coverage of phone hacking at the News of the
World forced News Corp. to shutter the title. Visits to the
Daily Mail, U.K.’s most popular newspaper site, rose 5.2
percent. The Sun, another News Corp. title, was up 15 percent.  For the 190-year-old Guardian, whose parent company posted
a 58.6 million-pound ($97 million)  operating loss  last year, the
figures are a fresh source of doubt over the financial viability
of a respected combination of analysis, exclusive reporting and
nimble digital operations. Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Miller 
said in June that the newspaper, which also led coverage of the
WikiLeaks disclosure of classified U.S. diplomatic cables, may
run out of cash in three to five years without a reorganization.  “These investigative stories are very expensive and really
don’t have much impact on the trajectory of the business,” said
Douglas McCabe, a media analyst at Enders Analysis in London.
“All this may do is slow the decline temporarily.”  Circulation Falls  July figures from media researcher ABC show a 10 percent
year-on-year decline in print circulation for the Guardian,
versus an average of 8.8 percent for U.K. broadsheets. The
Guardian said the decline reflects a decision to stop counting
international editions, which will be discontinued later this
year. Excluding international sales and bulk distribution,
circulation fell 2.2 percent, and rose 5.1 percent on a month-
to-month basis, it said.  Hayley Dunlop, a Guardian spokeswoman in  London , said that
annual decline still made the newspaper the strongest year-on-
year performer among U.K. broadsheets. She added that by early
internal measures the newspaper’s average daily U.K. Web traffic
rose 3.1 percent in July from the previous month.  Advertisers, meanwhile, are shifting more spending to the
cheaper, thinner tabloids as circulation declines across the
industry, said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London. “The rate of decline is a lot lower in mass-market
tabloids versus broadsheets.”  Sunday Mirror  Those tabloids’ appeal to advertisers will grow as they
benefit from the demise of the News of the World, with almost
2.7 million readers a week before its final edition on July 10.  The Mail on Sunday, the  Daily Mail ’s sister paper, recorded
a 17 percent surge in circulation in July, making it the most
popular U.K. Sunday newspaper with 2.26 million readers
according to ABC.  The Sunday Mirror climbed 64 percent to almost 1.79 million
readers while the Observer, the Guardian’s Sunday title, saw
overall circulation little changed along with other Sunday
broadsheets, though Dunlop said the paper’s preferred measure of
circulation showed a 6.6 percent increase. Improved advertising
revenues are likely to follow for both the Mail and Mirror,
credit agency Fitch Ratings said Aug. 16.  So far the Guardian has been insulated from the worst of
newspapers’ woes by an old-fashioned source of support:
classified advertising. Guardian Media Group co-owns Trader
Media Group, which publishes ads under the AutoTrader brand,
with private-equity firm Apax Partners LLP.  “The stake in AutoTrader is providing the cash to keep the
paper afloat,” said Dominic Buch, a media analyst at Numis
Securities Ltd. in London.  Liquidity  Earlier this year Guardian CEO Miller said an initial
public offering of Trader Media, which brought in 120 million
pounds in operating profit before one-time items in year ended
April 3, was a possibility. Guardian Media Group had 14.8
million pounds in cash and short-term  bank deposits  at year-end.
Including an investment fund that the company can draw on when
needed, liquidity reached 197.4 million pounds, down from 260.8
million pounds a year earlier.  After more than two years following how News of the World
journalists hacked into the voicemails of celebrities and
politicians, the Guardian on July 4 broke the story that the
paper had targeted the phone of murder victim Milly Dowler.  The revelation, and subsequent scoops on police corruption
and other hacking victims, led to the resignation and arrest of
 News Corp. (NWSA)  executives including Rebekah Brooks, CEO of the News
International U.K. newspapers unit.  Digital Push  The long-term investigation that let the Guardian break the
hacking story was typical for the paper, which was founded as
 the Manchester Guardian  in 1821 in the aftermath of Peterloo
Massacre of workers protesting the government amid famine and
unemployment. After surviving a bruising 1980s and ‘90s
circulation battle with the Independent, it’s now Britain’s
fourth most popular daily broadsheet. Guardian Media Group is
owned by the London-based Scott Trust, which reinvests its
earnings in the Guardian and Observer’s journalism.  The Guardian has consistently supported left-of-center
political parties in Britain, endorsing the Liberal Democrats in
the 2010 general election after backing either Labour or a
combination of Labour and the Liberal Democrats in 1997, 2001,
and 2005. It last endorsed the Conservatives in 1955.  The Guardian has pursued an aggressive digital strategy,
going further than any other British paper in establishing its
website as a global hub for commentary and analysis. In addition
to applications for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad as well as for
Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle e-reader, the Guardian’s Comment is
Free website has become a Huffington Post-style hub for
commentary and analysis with hundreds of contributors and a U.S.
sub-site.  Paywall Supporters  The newspaper has shied away from following rivals like the
New York Times and News Corp.’s London-based Times in erecting a
paywall to charge online readers for access. The  New York Times
Co. (NYT)  last month posted earnings that beat analysts’ estimates,
helped by its online barrier set up March 28, which asks readers
to sign up for a subscription after 20 free articles in a month.  Those two newspapers’ continuing commitment to paywalls is
inspiring other providers of free content to reconsider their
own business models. In June, London’s Independent, owned by
Russian billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , said it may begin
charging for online access, and Huffington Post owner  AOL Inc. (AOL) 
may also do so for some services in the medium term, CEO  Tim Armstrong  said in the same month.  While the Guardian “has an open mind about the principle”
of charging for content, it isn’t yet convinced doing so is the
right strategy, Miller wrote this month.  The scale of the newspaper’s losses may nonetheless force
its hand, Numis’s Buch said, making it essential to find “some
way of more effectively monetizing its digital readership.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  