-- 
Gundlach Says He, TCW Managers Opposed Stern’s 2009 Return

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T16:13:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/gundlach-testifies-tcw-group-managers-opposed-stern-s-2009-return-as-ceo.html
DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  told a jury he and other group managers at TCW Group
Inc. opposed the appointment of Marc Stern as chief executive
officer in June of 2009, six months before Gundlach was fired.  Gundlach, testifying for a third day in the trial that pits
him and three other former TCW employees against the asset-
management firm, said he told Stern, who had stepped down as the
company’s president in 2005, and TCW founder  Robert Day  that
they couldn’t just “breeze” back in, after he and the other
managers had kept TCW going through the financial crisis.  “I expressed my view that it was not a good idea,”
Gundlach told a  Los Angeles  jury yesterday, referring to a
meeting with Day and Stern in May of 2009 at Day’s house before
the news of Stern’s return to active management was made public.  Mark Attanasio, who co-ran TCW’s leveraged finance group
that separated from the firm last year, was “even more negative
than me” about the appointment, Gundlach said. Five TCW
managers said in a letter to Societe Generale SA, TCW’s parent
company, that bringing an executive back from retirement would
be a “major step backward,” Gundlach testified.  The only concession the managers got was that Stern was
named interim chief executive, Gundlach said.  Los Angeles-based TCW fired Gundlach, 51, in December 2009
and sued him the following month after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375
million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its  trade secrets ,
including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  ‘Through the Roof’  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  TCW alleges that Gundlach had become increasingly difficult
to work with and was openly hostile to Stern. The company says
it put Gundlach on leave Dec. 4, 2009, the day it announced that
it had acquired Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to manage
the fixed-income portfolios of Gundlach’s group. DoubleLine
contends Gundlach was fired Dec. 4, not just put on leave.  DoubleLine’s lawyers have said that TCW executives started
looking at ways to force Gundlach out as early as June of 2009.  Gundlach testified yesterday that when Jacques Ripoll,
 Societe Generale (GLE) ’s head of Global Investment Management
Services, came to Los Angeles in September of 2009 to meet with
TCW executives, he had showed no interest in what Gundlach had
to say about the direction of the firm.  ‘Piece of Cardboard’  “It was like talking to a piece of cardboard,” Gundlach
said, adding that it made him think TCW was pushing him out.  Gundlach said under cross-examination from DoubleLine
lawyer Mark Helm that at the time of a Sept. 3, 2009, meeting
with Stern, when he thought he was about to get fired, he told
members of his mortgage-backed securities group, to make copies
of files that might be useful if he were fired, including client
holdings and contact information.  Gundlach, whose group managed more than half of TCW’s $110
billion assets under management, testified that he immediately
reversed himself as he realized that they could get the
information from the clients directly.  The reversal of his instruction was “kind of a stage
aside,” Gundlach said.  ‘Furious’  The  money manager , whose new firm has about $14 billion
under management, testified earlier yesterday that he was
“furious” when he learned an employee had failed to
immediately turn over a device belonging to TCW in violation of
DoubleLine’s policy to return all TCW devices and information.  “I yelled at everybody,” Gundlach said, describing a
meeting with DoubleLine staff after he found out in early 2010
that one of them, Jeffrey Mayberry, had been late returning a
computer drive with TCW files. “I told them this was
unacceptable.”  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started within weeks after he was fired if he hadn’t
had access to TCW trade secrets and confidential information.  Gundlach said yesterday that from when DoubleLine started
on Dec. 14, 2009, the policy had been not to use any TCW files
they still had and to return them to TCW.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  