-- 
Gundlach Denies Doubleline Fund is ‘Turbo-Charged’ With Risky Securities

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T00:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/gundlach-denies-doubleline-fund-is-turbo-charged-with-risky-securities.html
DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  denied that his total-return fund is “turbo-charged”
with risky securities, saying his management strategy is similar
to what he used at TCW Group Inc. before he was fired in 2009.  Under questioning by TCW’s lawyer in his fourth day of
testimony at a  jury trial  in Los Angeles, the  money manager  said
today that the way the different kinds of mortgage securities
are put together in the bond fund determines what risk there is
rather than the type of security by itself.  “With respect sir, you don’t know what you’re talking
about,” Gundlach told lawyer John Quinn.  Gundlach’s $9.6 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund
has climbed 7.7 percent this year through Aug. 16, beating TCW
Total Return Fund’s 4.5 percent return over the same period. The
DoubleLine fund is beating 98 percent of peers, while TCW’s fund
is trailing 77 percent of rivals, Bloomberg data show.  Los Angeles-based TCW fired Gundlach, 51, in December 2009
and sued him the following month after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined his new firm. TCW, a unit of
Paris-based Societe Generale SA, seeks $375 million in damages,
claiming Gundlach stole its  trade secrets , including client
portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  Gundlach Finished Testimony  Gundlach finished his testimony today. He has told jurors
that he didn’t plan to leave TCW “in the lurch,” as the
company claims. He only took steps for setting up his own
business, including having people in his group look for  office
space  and register a shell company in  Delaware , as back-up
should he get fired, Gundlach testified.  Phil Barach, the No. 2 man at Gundlach’s mortgage-backed
securities group who also joined DoubleLine, testified today
that on Dec. 4, 2009, he was told by TCW Chairman  Robert Day 
that Gundlach was getting fired because he was making too much
money, failed to call the bottom of the stock market in 2009,
and didn’t attend Day’s parties.  Gundlach made more than $40 million in 2009, Quinn said in
his July 28 opening statement.  Video-Taped Testimony  The jury today also saw video-taped testimony from Greg Ward, a former TCW executive in New York, who became
DoubleLine’s chief financial officer and chief compliance
officer. Ward said he left DoubleLine in March 2010 because he
was overwhelmed by the job responsibilities and because he was
uncomfortable with TCW’s allegations in the lawsuit.  “I had no stomach, frankly, for what was going on between
DoubleLine and TCW,” Ward said.  Ward said in his deposition that he was present at November
2009 meetings Gundlach had with people at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley in  New York  to discuss alternatives to
his situation at TCW, which Ward said Gundlach described as
“frustrating.”  If Gundlach was to leave TCW at that time, Ward said he
believed it would be through a negotiated agreement.  Ward also testified that he formed a Delaware company, Able
Grape LLC, in October 2009 that was owned by Gundlach. Ward said
Gundlach told him at the meeting where they discussed
registering a company that “this conversation doesn’t leave
this room.”  Revision Control  In addition, the jury was shown video-taped testimony from
a TCW programmer who joined DoubleLine. The programmer, Casey Moore, said DoubleLine didn’t start using a program called
Revision Control that keeps track of changes when they were
creating computer code for DoubleLine’s analytical systems until
the company was sued in January 2010.  TCW claims this is evidence that DoubleLine’s code was
based on the code for its analytical programs. Moore said in his
deposition that he was overwhelmed with all the work they had to
do at DoubleLine to get its computer programs up and running
that he hadn’t had time to get Version Control.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  