-- 
Li Pledges Yuan Quota for HK to Invest in China

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-08-17T05:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/li-pledges-yuan-quota-for-h-k-to-invest-in-china.html
China  will let  Hong Kong  companies
buy $3.1 billion of yuan-denominated securities and open a
channel for Chinese investors to buy stocks in the city, to
bolster the territory’s economy and promote use of the yuan.  China will expand its companies’ offshore bond sales and
support the use of yuan for foreign direct investment in the
nation, Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said at a televised seminar in
the city today. The nation will also offer investors an
exchange-traded fund based on Hong Kong equities, he said.  Expanding the yuan trade aids an economy that shrank in
the second quarter, echoing China’s assistance to Hong Kong
after the deadly SARS epidemic of 2003, when a loosening of
restrictions on tourist visas spurred spending. China is also
boosting the currency’s international role to curb dependence on
the dollar, which may weaken as the U.S. Federal Reserve pledges
to keep  interest rates  at record lows through mid-2013.  “China wants the yuan to be one of the new currency anchors
in the long-run, thus it will be less affected by the
increasingly volatile and weaker U.S. dollar,” said Yao Wei, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale SA. “Hong Kong
will continue to be a test ground for China’s capital account
opening-up and currency internationalization.”  The pledge for an exchange-traded fund comes after the
government scrapped in January 2010 a plan to allow Chinese
nationals to buy equities directly. The so-called “through-train”
program for direct purchases, unveiled by regulators in August
2007, had helped push the  Hang Seng Index  to a record high in
October that year.  Haitong, Guotai  Shares of Hong Kong-based financial services companies
 Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665) ,  Guotai Junan
International Holdings Ltd. (1788)  and  China Everbright Ltd. (165)  jumped.
Haitong rose 16 percent, the most in more than 19 months, to
HK$4.19 as of 11:28 a.m. in Hong Kong. Guotai Junan climbed 12.6
percent, heading for its biggest one-day gain, to HK$2.95, while
Everbright rose 9.2 percent, the most since Jan. 11, 2010, to
HK$12.32.  Ivan Li, deputy head of Hong Kong research at Kim Eng
Securities Hong Kong Ltd., said the gains related to the roles
those firms may play under the investment quota.  “Its status as a financial center in  Asia  and globally is
crucial for Hong Kong’s development,” Li Keqiang said. “The ETF
constituted by Hong Kong-listed stocks will be launched.”  Shrinking Economy  Qualified foreign institutional investors “will be allowed
to invest in mainland securities markets with an initial size of
20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion),” Li said. “Pilot projects for
foreign banks to replenish capital with renminbi will be
launched and support will be given to Hong Kong enterprises in
making direct investment on the mainland in renminbi.”  Hong Kong’s economy shrank 0.5 percent in the second
quarter as export growth cooled. The city lost its place this
year as the world’s biggest center for initial public offerings
as the flow of multibillion-dollar sales by Chinese state-owned
companies dried up. Hong Kong IPOs raised $15 billion this year,
while the U.S. had $36 billion worth, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  At the same time, the Chinese Ministry of Finance’s sale
of 20 billion yuan of “dim sum bonds” starting today will be its
third and largest issue of yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong.
In another sign of the currency’s growing importance,  yuan
deposits  in Hong Kong totaled a record 554 billion yuan at the
end of June, more than six times the level of a year earlier,
according to the city’s de facto central bank.  Helping Hong Kong  “All these moves will help enhance Hong Kong as a leading
financial center,” said Danny Yan, Hong Kong-based portfolio
manager at Haitong International Asset Management, which
oversees $600 million. “The impact on the Hong Kong market will
be more long-term than short-term.”  Price differences for securities suggest investors using
Hong Kong’s yuan QFII may look to invest in bonds rather than
equities.  Yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong, known as dim sum debt,
yield less than those on the mainland because offshore investors
have fewer options to invest using China’s currency and seek to
profit from appreciation. Chinese government notes maturing in
December 2020 yield 2.48 percent in Hong Kong and 4.05 percent
in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan
will strengthen 5.6 percent to 6.05 per dollar by the end of
next year, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  All of the 70 companies that have stock listings in both
China and Hong Kong trade at a premium on the mainland,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Luoyang Glass Co. has
the biggest gap in valuations, with its Shanghai price of 9.93
yuan more than five times the HK$2.29 commanded in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Marco Lui at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  