-- 
Li Pledges $3.1 Billion Quota for Hong Kong to Invest in Chinese Markets

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-08-17T02:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/li-pledges-3-1-billion-quota-for-hong-kong-to-invest-in-chinese-markets.html
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged an
initial 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) quota for Hong Kong
companies to invest in securities in China to support the city’s
bid to become a global hub for finance in the currency.  Li’s commitment for qualified foreign institutional
investors was at a government seminar in the city today. He also
said that China will expand the size of offshore bond sales by
Chinese companies, support the use of yuan for foreign direct
investment in the nation and allow global banks to replenish
renminbi capital.  Hong Kong wants expanded yuan trade to bolster the
financial services industry and support growth after the city’s
economy shrank in the second quarter.  China  is expanding the
currency’s global role as a U.S. Federal Reserve pledge to keep
 interest rates  at record lows through mid-2013 threatens more
weakness in the dollar.  “Pilot projects for foreign banks to replenish capital with
renminbi will be launched and support will be given to Hong Kong
enterprises in making direct investment on the mainland in
renminbi,” Li said.  Qualified foreign institutional investors
“will be allowed to invest in mainland securities markets with
an initial size of 20 billion yuan.”  The Chinese Ministry of Finance’s sale of 20 billion yuan
of “dim sum bonds” starting today will be its third and largest
issue of yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong.  Yuan deposits  in
Hong Kong totaled a record 554 billion yuan at the end of June,
more than six times the level of a year earlier, according to
the city’s de facto central bank.  “China is speeding up its pace of internationalizing the
currency,” said Raymond So, dean of the business school at Hang
Seng Management College in Hong Kong.  Growth Challenges  Hong Kong’s economy shrank 0.5 percent in the second
quarter as export growth cooled. The city lost its place this
year as the world’s biggest center for initial public offerings
as the flow of multibillion-dollar sales by Chinese state-owned
companies dried up. Hong Kong IPOs raised $15 billion this year,
while the U.S. had $36 billion worth, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Marco Lui at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  