-- 
Icahn May Dust Off Biogen Battle Plan for Forest Labs Fight

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-08-17T20:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/icahn-may-dust-off-biogen-battle-plan-for-forest-labs-fight.html
Carl Icahn ’s effort to shake up
drugmaker  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  may look a lot like his
three-year fight at  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s biggest maker
of multiple sclerosis medicines.  The billionaire investor installed three directors at
Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen, oversaw the appointment of
Chief Executive Officer George Scangos and helped narrow the
company’s research focus. Biogen’s stock is up 76 percent since
Icahn gained representation in June 2009.  That’s a precedent for the investor’s plans for  New York- 
based Forest, should his proxy fight succeed, said  David Maris ,
an analyst with CLSA. Forest is developing new products to
overcome the loss of patent protection next year to its best-
seller, the antidepressant Lexapro. Last year, the company
pleaded guilty to illegal drug-marketing charges, paying $313
million to resolve civil and criminal claims.  “Icahn’s approach is to find companies that might be
undervalued but clearly have some governance issues,” Maris,
who recommends selling Forest stock, said in a telephone
interview. “They believe that, like a mechanic, after they look
under the hood they’ll find lots of other things they can fix.”  Icahn has targeted at least six drug companies including
Biogen in the last four years, shuffling management teams,
driving restructurings and pushing for company sales. His task
at Forest may be more difficult,  Corey Davis , an analyst for
Jefferies & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Share Gain  Forest’s stock is up 23 percent over the last 12 months,
compared with a 9.3 percent return for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The company won U.S. approval in October to sell an
antibiotic to fight drug-resistant infections that may generate
revenue of as much as $274 million by 2016, the average estimate
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder Services, or ISS,
owned by MSCI Inc., last week recommended investors vote for
Forest’s slate, writing in a report that Icahn’s case wasn’t
compelling enough for change at the board level.  “The ISS recommendation definitely tips the balance in
favor of Forest,” Davis said. “I don’t know what Icahn’s
motives are but he sees this as a good stock, and regardless of
whether he gets these guys on the board, it’s a stock that
should probably work.”  Icahn will take his effort to the company’s annual
shareholder  meeting  tomorrow in  New York . The investor is
Forest’s second-biggest shareholder, with 9.2 percent of the
company’s stock, and has nominated four directors to the 10-
member board.  Poor Performance  Icahn has  told  shareholders during the proxy fight that
Forest’s average board tenure of 23 years is too long and cites
a stock decline of more than 50 percent from the drugmaker’s
2004 high of $77.59. Chief Executive Officer Howard Solomon, at
the helm since 1977, was targeted for exclusion from doing
business with U.S. health-care programs because of the company’s
improper drug marketing until regulators dropped their efforts
this month.  Drug research at Forest is unfocused and may not produce
medicines that make up for revenue losses from patent
expirations on Lexapro, with $2.3 billion in fiscal 2011
revenue, and the Alzheimer’s medicine Namenda, with $1.3
billion, Icahn has argued in regulatory filings. He also cites a
lack of independence among directors before he mounted his
campaign. Forest proposed a slate with three new nominees after
Icahn announced his challenge.  ‘Operational Failures’  “There were operational failures at Biogen and there are
at Forest that are specific to the companies,” Alex Denner,
senior managing director at  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  and one of
Icahn’s nominees for Forest’s board, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “But there’s a general issue of a company
sort of stuck in the past.”  Denner pointed to a reduction of $300 million in annual
spending at Biogen during Icahn’s involvement.  “You can probably do similar things with Forest,” he
said. “Improve  cash flow , and probably at the same time it will
become a more efficient company.”  Forest has countered in letters to shareholders over the
last month, saying the company has outperformed the  S&P 500 ,
developed a diversified set of experimental medicines and has
leadership “focused on continuing to build sustainable momentum
and value for all shareholders.”  The company’s shares fell 86 cents, or 2.4 percent, to
$34.45 at 4:01 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  Forest Chief Financial Officer Frank Perier said yesterday
that Icahn’s nominees aren’t qualified for the board and present
conflicts of interest.  No Comparison  “If you compare the skills, capabilities and experiences
of our 10 members versus the four that were proposed, they don’t
have the same level,” Perier said in a telephone interview.
“And two of them, Alex Denner and Richard Mulligan, are
conflicted” because of their board seats at Biogen and  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)   Icahn’s group has challenged the assertion, saying in a
filing this month that “throughout the health-care industry,
directors serve on multiple boards.”  Denner cited his time running ImClone Systems Inc. as
evidence of his industry experience and challenged Forest’s
nominees to a public debate with Icahn’s four.  Icahn is likely to push for a restructuring rather than a
sale if he gains representation on Forest’s board, said Ian Sanderson, a Boston-based analyst with Cowen & Co.  ‘Very Knowledgeable’  “The folks he’s proposing to put on the board are very
knowledgeable about Forest and the environment,” Sanderson said
in an interview. “He probably sees a lot of opportunity to
deploy the cash, maybe take on a bit more debt to either
accelerate the share repurchase or make some more significant
acquisition, or pare back the spending a little bit.”  Forest had $2.3 billion in cash and short-term investments
as of June 30, according to Bloomberg data. The company said in
June it would buy back $500 million in shares under a program
authorized in May 2010, and this week said it would buy back an
additional $350 million under an accelerated repurchase program.  “There’s a need to change the culture,” said Maris of
CLSA, drawing a similarity to Biogen before Icahn placed Denner
and Mulligan on the board in 2009. Icahn added a third
representative, Eric Rowinsky, to Biogen’s board in March 2010,
and pushed splitting the company into two business units of
neurology and cancer.  Biogen started a reorganization in November that cut 13
percent of its workforce and honed its focus on neurology drugs
instead of cancer and heart medicines, after appointing its
current CEO in July 2010. Scangos replaced James Mullen, who had
led the company for 10 years.  Biogen Data  In April, Biogen reported positive data on an experimental
pill for multiple sclerosis, sending the shares up 15 percent,
the most in three years.  “Without Icahn, none of the activity and pressure on the
company would have been brought to bear,” Maris said.  Icahn wasn’t immediately successful at Biogen. He expressed
interest in buying the company in 2007 for $23 billion and
staged proxy battles in 2008 and 2009. Biogen put itself up for
sale in October 2007 and Icahn subsequently withdrew the bid
before the company said in December 2007 it would remain
independent. In a regulatory filing this week, Icahn didn’t
report any Biogen holdings, after owning more than 3 million
shares as of March 31, when the shares were trading at $73.47.  Drugmaker Sales  The investor has succeeded in selling other drugmakers. He
and his team pushed the sales of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme Corp. to Paris’ Sanofi in February for $20.1 billion;
ImClone, based in New York, to Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY)  in 2008 for $6.5 billion; and MedImmune Inc., based in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , to  London ’s AstraZeneca Plc in 2007 for
$15 billion. He has gained board representation at Amylin in  San
Diego  and  Enzon Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ENZN)  in Piscataway,  New Jersey .  “Looking back on Icahn’s recent history is probably a good
judge on what he might do going forward,”  Les Funtleyder , a
health-care strategist and portfolio manager at Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “In the case of
Biogen, they brought in new management and refocused a bit;
Genzyme was an outright acquisition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 