-- 
Iceland Central Bank Raises Rates for First Time Since Banking Meltdown

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T13:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/iceland-raises-interest-rate-for-first-time-since-bank-meltdown.html
Iceland ’s  central bank  raised its
benchmark interest rate for the first time since its banks
collapsed in October 2008 and warned more increases may be
needed after krona losses sent inflation to a 13-month high.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was raised a quarter
of a percentage point to 4.50 percent, the Reykjavik-based bank
said today. It had kept rates unchanged since March, when it
ended a cycle of 15 cuts that started after Iceland obtained a
$4.6 billion loan from an  International Monetary Fund -led group.  The increase “reflects the fact that the inflation outlook
for the coming two years has deteriorated still further since
the committee’s last meeting,” policy makers said in a
 statement . Data and the latest forecast also “indicate that
domestic demand and employment will grow more strongly in 2011
than was assumed in the last forecast,” they said.  The krona has lost more than 6 percent against the euro
this year as the central bank considers how fast to scale back
 capital controls  in place since the end of 2008. The bank has
said it will take any policy steps needed to ensure a stable
currency and avoid accelerating inflation. Consumer prices rose
an annual 5 percent in July, the most since June 2010.  Policy makers said today that the effects of the “unrest”
in financial markets and slowing growth in “major industrial
countries” was “extremely difficult to estimate” and that a
“modest” rate increase was unlikely to halt a recovery.  ‘Abysmal Impact’  Today’s rate increase won’t prevent import prices from
rising and may hurt any recovery, according to Valdimar Armann,
an economist at Reykjavik-based asset manager Gamma.  “They are combating this inflation with  interest rate 
increase, which is a tool which doesn’t work in this fight,”
Armann said by phone. “This will have an abysmal impact on
households, as many  car loans  and mortgages now track the
central bank’s rate.”  The bank raised its forecast for economic growth this year
to 2.8 percent from 2.3 percent, while lowering next year’s
estimate to 1.6 percent from 2.9 percent. It expects inflation
to average 4.4 percent this year and 4.9 percent next year, up
from previous forecasts of 2.8 percent and 2.7 percent,
respectively. The bank targets an inflation rate of 2.5 percent.  “It’s necessary to act now to contain inflation and reduce
potential pressure on the krona,” they said. “This may call
for further interest rate hikes.”  Krona Moves  The krona jumped 0.5 percent against the dollar to trade at
113.21 at 12:56 p.m. in Reykjavik. It strengthened 0.1 percent
to 163.85 per euro.  Policy makers from Oslo to  Washington  have postponed
monetary tightening or committed to extended periods of low
borrowing costs as stock markets plunge,  Europe ’s debt crisis
deepens and a U.S. economic recovery falters.  Capital controls, which the central bank estimates are
stopping investors from selling about $3.6 billion in krona
assets, may need to stay in place until 2015, Economy Minister
Arni Pall Arnason said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 