-- 
Mideast Bonds Rise as Investors Seek Haven From Europe Crisis: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-08-18T12:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/middle-east-bonds-rise-become-safe-haven-in-global-slowdown-arab-credit.html
Middle Eastern sovereign bonds are
rallying for a second month as economic growth and cash-rich
banks lure investors seeking shelter from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and the U.S. economic slowdown.  Schroder Investment Management Ltd., Abu Dhabi Commercial
Bank PJSC and Fideuram Asset Management Ireland Ltd. predict the
rise, fueled by Persian Gulf borrowers and Lebanon, may
continue. The average yield on the region’s notes declined 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, this month to 4.67
percent, the lowest since November, the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle
East Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index shows. Rates on
emerging-market government debt fell three basis points to 5.64
percent on Aug. 17, data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. show.  Persian Gulf countries “do not represent any sovereign
risk given the massive surpluses they have accumulated in the
past 5 years as a result of high  oil prices ,” Rami Sidani, the
Dubai-based head of Middle East and North Africa investments at
Schroder, which oversees about $230 billion worldwide, said in
an e-mail on Aug. 16. “We don’t expect yields to pick up before
we see a general pick up in risk appetite.”  Bonds of Qatar and Abu Dhabi have outperformed notes from
other emerging economies after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.
debt rating Aug. 5. The Qatari economy may expand 20 percent
this year, according to the  International Monetary Fund , while
the  United Arab Emirates , a federation of which Abu Dhabi is the
capital, may grow 3.3 percent. In Lebanon, higher yields and
domestic demand for government debt is luring investors,
according to Fideuram.  Default Risk  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent in the three months ended in June, the worst performance
since the euro region emerged from recession in 2009, European
Union data show. In the U.S., the housing market still faces
foreclosures, declining construction and falling sales, two
years into an economic recovery.  The default risk of Qatar and  Abu Dhabi , both rated AA at
S&P, climbed less than eight basis points to 98 and 100,
respectively, since the U.S. lost its AAA rating for the first
time in history, according to data provider CMA. Credit default
swaps for Slovenia, also rated AA at S&P, the third-highest,
rose 20 basis points to 170, according to CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The yield on Qatar’s 4 percent bond maturing in January
2015, the security with the highest weighting on the HSBC/Nasdaq
Dubai Index, fell 19 basis points this month to 1.97 percent
today. The rate on Abu Dhabi’s 6.75 percent bond maturing April
2019 declined 47 basis points to 3.24 percent.  Popular Revolts  The six-member Gulf Cooperation Council holds about one-
fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves. Crude prices jumped
more than 30 percent over the past five years. They have tumbled
9.9 percent this quarter to $85.98 in  New York  today.  Further declines in prices could prompt governments in the
region to curtail planned public spending, aimed at keeping
popular revolts that toppled the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia 
this year at bay, according to a Nomura Holdings Inc. Aug. 12
report.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, announced
plans to spend about $129 billion, or about 30 percent of
economic output, over the next several years to “appease any
possibility of unrest in the region,” Nomura analysts Ann Wyman
and Icaro Rebolledo, wrote in the Aug. 12 note. Oil was trading
above $120 a barrel when the plan was announced, they wrote.  Lebanese Opportunities  Crude prices may recover in the fourth quarter to $98.75 a
barrel, according to the median forecast of 32 analysts on
Bloomberg.  “I’d be a buyer in Mideast bonds in Abu Dhabi and Qatar,”
Adnan Haider, head of fixed income and equity at Abu Dhabi
Commercial Bank, said in an e-mailed answer to questions Aug.
16. “It’s safe here for the next few weeks.”  Some investors have also found buying opportunities in
Lebanon, where domestic demand and cash-flush banks help offset
a debt-to-GDP ratio at 134 percent -- the highest in the Arab
world -- according to Fideuram. The average ratio of loans to
deposits at Lebanese banks is 35 percent, according to Credit
Libanais SAL, compared with about 50 percent in Egypt and more
than 90 percent in the U.A.E.  ‘Park’ Money  “Domestic liquidity is abundant and locals are invested a
lot in the sovereign debt,” said Emanuele Del Monte, who helps
manage about $1.5 billion in emerging-market debt as portfolio
manager at Fideuram, who holds the security according to data on
Bloomberg. “That’s why in times like these, Lebanon bonds turn
out to be perversely very stable compared to other illiquid”
bonds on the JPMorgan & Chase Co.’s EMBI Global Index, he said
in an e-mailed answer to questions.  The yield on Lebanon’s 4 percent bond maturing in December
2017 has fallen three basis points this month to 4.59 percent
today, reaching the lowest level in seven months on Aug. 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global economic woes may continue to make sovereign  Middle
East  bonds, especially those in the GCC, a refuge for risk-
averse investors, according to Sidani of Schroder.  “Today investors are just happy to park their money
somewhere safe, even if it’s not paying much,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  