-- 
Highfields Doubles Stake in Genworth, Opts for Passive Role

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-17T20:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/highfields-doubles-genworth-stake-after-share-drop-opts-for-passive-role.html
Highfields Capital Management LP,
whose co-founder Jonathon Jacobson said last month he was
“fatigued” with management at  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , doubled
its stake in the insurer and isn’t pushing for changes.  Highfields has accumulated 27.5 million shares of the life
insurer, a 5.6 percent stake, it said today in a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing indicating it intends to be a passive
investor. That compares with 13 million shares on June 30.
Highfields began buying shares in the first quarter.  Genworth, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer,
has dropped more than 80 percent since its 2007 peak on the  New
York  Stock Exchange after the U.S. housing slump caused losses
in its mortgage-insurance unit. The Richmond, Virginia-based
insurer, once a division of  General Electric Co. (GE) , was divested
through a 2004 initial public offering.  “A savvy management team could create a lot of value. Stay
tuned,” Jacobson said in a July 22 letter to his investors,
according to a person who reviewed it. He also said he was
“fatigued by management’s lack of urgency.”  A week later, Genworth shares jumped 6.4 percent when
Fraizer said on a conference call that he was considering
separating the mortgage division from the rest of the firm.
Mortgage insurers reimburse lenders when homeowners default and
foreclosure fails to recoup costs.  “Management has a sense of urgency,” Fraizer said on the
July 29 call.  ‘For Free’  Genworth’s retirement and protection businesses alone may
be worth the market value of the whole company, said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “You’d be getting the international operations and the
U.S. mortgage insurance for free” if the company were split in
two, said Schwartz, who has a “market perform” rating on
Genworth shares. “Maybe the U.S. MI business is worthless.
Maybe all of the MI businesses are worthless, I don’t think so.
But you would be getting those for free.”  The fund bought some of its stake at $13 a share, Jacobson
said in the letter. The shares gained 23 cents, or 3.6 percent
today, to $6.68 in composite trading.  Highfields manages more than $11 billion, according to its
website. Jacobson is a former  fund manager  at  Harvard
University ’s endowment.  Highfields has publicly pushed for changes in companies in
the past. In 2005, it urged Mellon Financial Corp. to split in
two; instead, the bank agreed the next year to sell itself to
Bank of New York Co. Highfields pushed Clear Channel
Communications Inc. in 2007 to demand more money from the
private-equity firms that had agreed to buy it.  Investor Pressure  Fraizer, who has run Genworth since its IPO, has been under
pressure from investors as the sale of a stake in a Canadian
operation and the retreat from the variable annuity business
failed to reverse a share slide.  Steven Eisman , then a fund manager at FrontPoint Partners
LLC, threatened last year to mount a campaign to remove Fraizer
from the company if he made acquisitions.  “This management team has overseen a massive destruction
of  shareholder value ,” Eisman said Oct. 29 on a Genworth
conference call. “I don’t get any sense of urgency from this
management team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 