-- 
Highfields Says ‘Stay Tuned’ on Genworth After Stock Plunge

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-17T17:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/highfields-capital-says-stay-tuned-on-genworth-stake-after-insurer-falls.html
Highfields Capital Management LP’s
Jonathon Jacobson told his investors to “stay tuned” on the
hedge fund’s stake in  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  after shares of
the life insurer and mortgage guarantor plunged.  “A savvy management team could create a lot of value,”
Jacobson said in a July 22 letter, according to a person who
reviewed it.  Genworth, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer,
has dropped more than 80 percent since its 2007 peak on the  New
York  Stock Exchange after the U.S. housing slump caused losses
in its mortgage-insurance unit. The Richmond, Virginia-based
insurer, once a division of  General Electric Co. (GE) , was divested
through a 2004 initial public offering.  Jacobson was “fatigued by management’s lack of urgency,”
he said in the letter. A week later, Genworth shares jumped 6.4
percent when Fraizer said on a conference call that he was
considering separating the mortgage division from the rest of
the firm. Mortgage insurers reimburse lenders when homeowners
default and foreclosure fails to recoup costs.  “Management has a sense of urgency,” Fraizer said on the
July 29 call. Spokespeople for Highfields and Genworth declined
to comment.  Highfields had 13 million Genworth shares, or about 2.7
percent of the insurer, as of June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Most of the stake was acquired in the
first quarter, according to regulatory filings.  Share Slump  The fund bought some of its stake at $13 a share, Jacobson
said in the letter. The shares fell 3 cents today at $6.42 at
1:32 p.m. in composite trading.  Highfields, the Boston  fund manager  co-founded by Jacobson
in 1998, manages more than $11 billion, according to its
website. Jacobson is a former fund manager at  Harvard
University ’s endowment.  Highfields has publicly pushed for changes in companies in
the past. In 2005, it urged Mellon Financial Corp. to split in
two; instead, the bank agreed the next year to sell itself to
Bank of New York Co. Highfields pushed Clear Channel
Communications Inc. in 2007 to demand more money from the
private-equity firms that had agreed to buy it.  Fraizer, who has run Genworth since its IPO, has been under
pressure from investors as the sale of a stake in a Canadian
operation and the retreat from the variable annuity business
failed to reverse a share slide.  Steven Eisman , then a fund manager at FrontPoint Partners
LLC, threatened last year to mount a campaign to remove Fraizer
from the company if he made acquisitions.  “This management team has overseen a massive destruction
of  shareholder value ,” Eisman said Oct. 29 on a Genworth
conference call. “I don’t get any sense of urgency from this
management team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 