-- 
Hilfiger Foundation Backs $120 Million Martin L. King Memorial

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/hilfiger-foundation-helps-launch-120-million-martin-luther-king-memorial.html
Growing up as one of nine children
in Elmira, New York, clothing maker  Tommy Hilfiger  got an early
lesson in wardrobes and sharing.  “My clothes were never my clothes,” Hilfiger said during
an interview in his Manhattan office overlooking the  Hudson
River . “Whichever of my brothers got to a shirt fastest got to
wear it. We shared everything.”  Now he shares the wealth gained from the success of his
preppy-with-a-twist clothing, which generated $4.6 billion in
global retail sales last year (Hilfiger sold the company in
2006). One beneficiary is a memorial for  Martin Luther King Jr .  The Tommy Hilfiger Corporate Foundation gave $6.25 million
to the King Memorial project. Foundation President Guy Vickers,
who serves as vice chairman of the memorial’s board, helped
recruit donors to the $120 million undertaking. He and Hilfiger
organized a 2007 benefit concert headlined by  Aretha Franklin 
and  Stevie Wonder  that raised $2 million. Hilfiger’s charity
will serve as co-chairman at the Aug. 28 dedication of the
Washington D.C.  Martin Luther King Jr. National Memorial .  The memorial on the Washington Mall features a 28.5-foot
granite sculpture of the civil-rights leader slain in 1968. It
is surrounded by a wall inscribed with 14 of his most notable
quotes.  The King project represents the largest philanthropic act
from the designer, who launched his empire with a $150
investment and a line of bell-bottomed jeans in 1969. Hilfiger’s
foundation was started in 1995 and has funded causes ranging
from children’s issues to multiple sclerosis and cancer.  Boosting Village  In 2009, Hilfiger and Vickers pledged $2 million to
 Millennium Promise , an international campaign to aid  Africa  and
cut extreme poverty in half by the year 2015. The Hilfiger
Foundation supports a community in  Ruhiira, Uganda , by aiding
its  food production , schools, health care and economic-
development programs.  “We went to this village, and the people didn’t have
running water or electricity,” Hilfiger said. “They don’t have
wood to burn to cook the food.”  The son of a watchmaker, Hilfiger opened his first clothing
shop, People’s Place, at age 18. He soon began donating slightly
defective clothing to the needy.  After reconnecting in 1999 with Vickers, a former high-
school classmate at the  Elmira Free Academy , Hilfiger tapped him
to lead the foundation.  “When I reconnected with Tommy and asked him what it was
like being successful, I thought he was going to give me the
juice about the private jets and the women,” Vickers said. “He
looked at me and said, ‘The best thing about it is that I can
help people.’ That’s when we started talking about building a
legacy.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 