-- 
In Rick Perry’s World Without Fed, He Can Barter for Votes: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-17T00:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/in-rick-perry-s-world-without-a-fed-he-can-barter-for-u-s-votes-view.html
Texas  Governor Rick Perry introduced
himself to the U.S. electorate Monday night by offering the
country a little monetary advice.  Asked about the  Federal Reserve  at a campaign event in
 Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , Perry said of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke :
“If this guy prints more money between now and the election, I
don’t know what you all would do to him in Iowa, but we would
treat him pretty ugly down in Texas.”  And what would move amiable Texans to such ugliness?
“Printing more money to play politics at this particular time
in American history is almost treacherous -- or treasonous -- in
my opinion.”  Let’s give him the benefit of the doubt, and ascribe the
violent rhetoric to the passions of a new campaign. Does the
underlying sentiment reveal anything important about the
governor’s grasp of monetary policy? Or his political strategy?
Unfortunately, yes -- and the two are related.  If Perry intended to say that a third round of quantitative
easing -- the Fed’s program for purchasing Treasury bonds to
encourage lending -- was unwise, he may have had an argument.  But he didn’t. He said “printing more money” is close to
treason. If he believes this, he either doesn’t understand the
Fed’s function, or is a peculiar kind of monetary extremist. As
economies grow -- and jobs are created, and demand for goods and
services increases, and people have children -- the demand for
dollars also grows. To meet this demand, the Fed prints money
electronically in good times and bad, under Democratic and
Republican presidents. In times of stress, like the last few
years, it can add significantly more money to the economy
through quantitative easing and other methods.  If the Fed didn’t print any more money at all, we’d soon be
relying on a cumbersome and rather inexact form of exchange
known as the barter system. Perry surely understands all this.  He also said that printing more money would be “devaluing
the dollar in your pocket, and we cannot afford that. We have to
learn the lessons of the past three years, that they’ve been
devastating.” This would be a more compelling argument if
inflation weren’t low by historical standards and unemployment
above 9 percent. The Fed’s response to the recession has
certainly been aggressive, and not always adequately
transparent. But blaming the Fed’s monetary policy for the
“devastating” effects of the financial crisis is like blaming
the doctor for aggressively treating a smoker’s lung cancer.  So what exactly was Perry trying to express? Most telling
was his conflation of Bernanke -- who acts independently of the
White House and was first appointed by President  George W. Bush 
-- with President Barack Obama’s political operation. If Perry
thinks printing more money would be truly deleterious, how on
earth would doing so redound to Obama’s benefit? And if he
thinks that printing more money would instead help Obama by
improving the economy, is he really prepared to argue that
Bernanke shouldn’t do it? Or does he think the Fed is
sufficiently nimble to ensure the economy booms just through
November 2012, before allowing it to fall prey to inflation once
Obama is safely back in office?  It’s clear that Perry has learned that Fed-bashing, however
illogical, never fails to draw populist cheers.  We can and should argue about how much the central bank
should tinker with the  money supply , and whether another round
of quantitative easing passes the cost-benefit test, remembering
that the Fed’s mission is both to encourage growth and to
stabilize prices. But calling such an effort treasonous, or
politically motivated, shows either a puzzling lack of judgment
or -- more likely, we fear -- a deep and worrisome cynicism.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 