-- 
Indian Anti-Graft Campaigner to Leave Jail

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-08-18T06:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/india-s-singh-denounces-anti-graft-fast-amid-jail-standoff-1-.html
Indian anti-corruption campaigner
Anna Hazare will leave jail today after police conceded to his
demand for a two-week long hunger strike, as supporters said
their battle with the government may escalate.  Hazare, who was taken into custody Aug. 16 as he prepared
to break police restrictions and begin an indefinite fast to
demand tougher laws to prosecute corrupt officials, will now
stage a 15-day protest at  New Delhi ’s Ramlila grounds, Kiran
Bedi, a former senior police officer and leading figure in
nationwide protests against corruption, said in a posting on her
Twitter Inc. account.  The hunger strike at a site capable of holding 20,000
people marks the protesters’ “entry to the battlefield,”
Arvind Kejriwal, a close aide of Hazare and a freedom of
information campaigner, said in comments broadcast on television
channels. The real “fight is yet to start,” Kejriwal said.
“The government has to bow down to the wishes of the people.”  The latest standoff between Hazare and the government --
fueled by social media websites, 24-hour TV coverage and
widespread public anger over official malpractice -- deepens the
damage to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration, which
has been embroiled in graft charges since October. His
legislative agenda has stalled amid the allegations, the biggest
of which involves the 2008 sale of permits to run mobile-phone
services that the country’s auditor says may have cost the
exchequer $31 billion.  Freedom Fight  The arrest of Hazare, a 74-year-old follower of  Mahatma
Gandhi  who dresses in the white tunic and cap of the country’s
independence struggle that he compares his fight to, yesterday
sparked peaceful demonstrations and candle-lit vigils attended
by thousands of people in New Delhi and other cities including
Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Patna in eastern Bihar state.  “It’s a rebellion against the corruption and extortion
that takes place in  India ,” said Prem Shankar Jha, a political
analyst. There’s a “lack of trust in the government.”  India ranked 87th out of 178 countries in the 2010
Corruption Perceptions Index conducted by  Transparency
International , sharing that spot with Albania, Liberia and
 Jamaica . Singh’s second-biggest ally in the federal coalition
was routed in state elections in May after the party’s leading
family was embroiled in the phone-license charges.  ‘Totally Misconceived’  Amid the growing demonstrations and charges of arrogance
from political opponents, Singh yesterday defended the police
decision to arrest Hazare, saying the protest leader’s attempt
to impose his ideas on legislators through popular protest “is
totally misconceived and fraught with grave consequences for our
parliamentary democracy.”  Singh’s rivals, many of which have reservations over
Hazare’s demands, have rounded on a prime minister who has twice
this year had to publicly deny he’d become a lame-duck leader as
the graft allegations derailed forced ministers to resign.  “Any citizen or a group in the country has a right to
campaign for or crusade for his views,” Arun Jaitley, a leader
from main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party , said yesterday.
“It is this right that the government is trying to crush.”  Corruption poses a risk to sustaining economic growth near
9 percent and winning overseas investment, auditing and
consulting company  KPMG  said in March. India first introduced
anti-corruption legislation in parliament four decades ago.  Independence Day Call  Singh used his Independence Day address on Aug. 15 to urge
Hazare to take his grievances to parliament not the street and
in his statement in parliament yesterday warned lawmakers of the
potential damage to the country’s economy from a prolonged
period of “internal dissention.”  A hunger strike by Hazare in April first tapped nationwide
anger over graft cases, including alleged irregularities in
completing contracts for last year’s Commonwealth Games in  New
Delhi , and forced the government to invite social activists for
talks on framing new regulations to fight corruption.  After those consultations, Singh’s cabinet this month
presented to parliament a bill that excludes oversight of a
serving prime minister, judges, parliament and most bureaucrats.  The legislation has been referred to a panel of lawmakers
for scrutiny. Critics, including Hazare, say the proposals in
the so-called Lokpal, or Ombudsman Bill, lack teeth.  While the demands of Hazare and his supporters to include
possible prosecution of the prime minister and the higher
judiciary in the ombudsman bill aren’t “justified, the
government has to find a way” to appease the activists, Jha
said by phone in New Delhi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  