-- 
Indiana Sewer Bond Leads Utility Debt Sales as Yields Plummet: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/indiana-sewer-bond-leads-utility-debt-sales-as-yields-plummet-muni-credit.html
The Indiana Finance Authority is
leading five utility issuers selling about $2.5 billion this
week as yields on such bonds backed by customer payments are at
their lowest in almost a year.  Ten-year top-rated utility bonds yielded 2.63 percent
yesterday, the least since Sept. 10, following a decline in
yields in both the Treasury and municipal markets, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on 10-year top-rated tax-
exempt municipal bonds plummeted to a new low for the year.  The issue is to facilitate the sale of Indianapolis’s sewer
system, which has been in the works since 2009, and officials
are eager to take advantage of current low borrowing costs, said
 Aaron Johnson , vice president of integration at  Citizens Energy
Group , a charitable trust that oversees the city’s gas and
heating-oil supply.  “Given the indications that we’re seeing, it’s a much
stronger market than the scenarios we were looking at,” Johnson
said in a telephone interview in New York. “So I think we’re in
great shape. We couldn’t ask for better timing here.”  The finance authority, which issues debt for business
development in the state, is pricing $1.06 billion of tax-exempt
revenue bonds today on behalf of CWA Authority Inc., a nonprofit
public benefit corporation created by Citizens Energy last year.
The transaction will finance the CWA Authority’s acquisition of
Indianapolis’s sewer and water systems.  Officials are still considering whether to enhance a
portion of the deal with bond insurance, Johnson said. The
Series 2011A first-lien revenue bonds are rated AA,  Standard &
Poor’s  third-highest rating. The Series 2011B and Series 2011C
second-lien revenue bonds are rated AA-, S&P’s fourth-highest
rating.  Yields Plummet  Yields on 10-year top-rated tax-exempts were 2.27 percent
yesterday, compared with 3.48 percent on Jan. 18, the highest
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasury yields have fallen faster than muni yields. Muni
yields represented 102.16 percent of Treasuries, compared with
an average of 91.4 percent in 2011, Bloomberg data show. Munis
and Treasuries became more expensive as investors dropped stocks
after a U.S. credit-rating downgrade and economic data showing a
slow recovery.  The CWA Authority bonds are backed by sewer and water
payments, which provide an essential service to 820,445
Indianapolis residents, according to the city’s  website.  Since
the CWA Authority is borrowing in the municipal market for the
first time, the transaction will require additional yield to
help attract investors, Tom Boylen, a trader at Performance
Trust Capital Partners in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview.  Extra Yield  “It’s an essential-service revenue and that should carry
it through the market in terms of clearing the deal,” Boylen
said. “And right now it’s tough to find yield. So if you can go
down the credit spectrum a little bit and pick up some yield
with an essential-service revenue, I think people are going to
look at it.”  The deal is concentrated in longer maturities, with about
$497 million offered in 2041 bonds, according to sale documents.
Yields on top-rated 30-year tax-exempts were at 3.89 percent
yesterday, down from the year’s high of 5.09 percent Jan. 17.  Dedicated revenue streams such as electricity, water and
sewerage payments are less prone to contractions in the economy
compared with property, sales and income-tax revenue.  ‘Great Reception’  “Last week, investors changed their appetite for risk on a
dime,” said John Mousseau, a Vineland, New Jersey-based
portfolio manager at Cumberland Advisors, which oversees $1.1
billion in municipal securities. “This deal will get a great
reception. It’s the right deal at the right time.”  The California State Department of Water Resources sold
$970.5 million of electric power debt yesterday. The deal priced
with $213.7 million of 10-year debt yielding 2.66 percent, three
basis points more than an index of top-rated 10-year utility
debt. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The bonds are
rated AA-, or fourth-highest by S&P.  A similar bond issued by the water department last year and
maturing in May 2021 traded with an average yield of 2.5 percent
Aug. 15, the last trade, 13 basis points below an index of top-
rated 10-year utility revenue bonds. That compares with 65 basis
points above the index in a trade on Jan. 18, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Louisville and Jefferson County Metropolitan Sewer District
in  Kentucky  is set to issue $266.9 million of sewer bonds as
soon as today. The bonds are rated AA-, the fourth-highest
rating by  Fitch Ratings .  Top-rated tax-exempt municipal bonds have outperformed
corporates and Treasuries this year, returning 7.5 percent
through yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch masters indexes
show. That compares with corporate bond returns of 5.8 percent
and Treasury returns of 6.5 percent.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  THE  UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA  REGENTS, which borrows for the
University of California system’s 10 campuses, is selling at
least $400 million of taxable and tax-exempt revenue bonds as
soon as tomorrow. Proceeds will help finance capital projects
and refund debt, according to sale documents. The bonds are
rated AA, the third-highest, by S&P and Aa1, the second highest,
by Moody’s Investors Service. Barclays Capital Inc. will lead
underwriters in the sale. (Added Aug. 17)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  