-- 
Ineos Oxide, Wacker Win EU Duties on Vinyl Acetate From U.S.

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-08-17T09:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/ineos-oxide-wacker-win-eu-duties-on-vinyl-acetate-from-u-s-.html
The European Union imposed tariffs
against the U.S. on a chemical used in paints and paper coatings
to curb competition for Ineos Oxide Ltd. and  Wacker Chemie AG. (WCH)   The duties as high as 13.8 percent punish U.S. exporters
including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  for allegedly selling vinyl acetate
in the EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping . Vinyl acetate
is also used in such goods as safety glass and glues for
furniture and floors.  The U.K.’s Ineos Oxide and Munich-based Wacker suffered
“material injury” as a result of dumped imports from the U.S.,
the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s trade authority in
Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal . The levies, due to
take effect tomorrow, are for six months and may be prolonged
for five years.  U.S. exporters including Dow Chemical,  LyondellBasell
Acetyls LLC  and Celanese Ltd. expanded their combined share of
the EU market for vinyl acetate by 49 percent in the 12 months
through September 2010 compared with 2007, according to the
commission. EU imports from the U.S. grew to 152,445 metric tons
from 103,192 tons over the period, said the commission, which
indexed the numbers on total European consumption of vinyl
acetate to protect confidential business data.  The anti-dumping duties amount to 12.1 percent against
Celanese, 13 percent against LyondellBasell Acetyls and 13.8
percent against Dow Chemical and any other U.S. vinyl-acetate
exporters.  The levies are the preliminary outcome of an inquiry that
the commission opened in December after a dumping complaint by
Ineos Oxide, which accounts for more than a quarter of the EU’s
production of vinyl acetate. Wacker supported the case, the
commission said today.  EU governments, acting on a proposal from the commission,
must decide within six months whether to turn the provisional
anti-dumping duties into “definitive” levies lasting for five
years. The rates for definitive duties can change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  