-- 
Swedish Banks Told to Gird for Second European Credit Crisis, Frisell Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-08-18T09:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/interbank-market-vulnerable-to-collapse-sweden-s-frisell-says.html
Swedish banks must do more to
prepare for a deterioration in  Europe ’s debt crisis that could
freeze interbank markets and cut off funding, said  Lars Frisell ,
chief economist at the country’s financial regulator.  “It won’t take much for the interbank market to
collapse,” Frisell, who is also a member of the Basel Committee
for Banking Supervision, said yesterday in an interview in
 Stockholm . “It’s not that serious at the moment but it feels
like it could very easily become that way and that everything
will freeze.”  Swedish policy makers have been pressing for the nation’s
lenders to seek more permanent, longer-term funding after the
financial crisis in 2008. Following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.,  Sweden ’s central bank provided liquidity
peaking at $30 billion because the country’s banks weren’t able
to borrow in the U.S. currency to repay short-term loans.  While Swedish banks’ liquidity situation has improved since
2008, they still need to “do more” to raise the maturity of
their financing, primarily the dollar funding, Frisell said. The
banks have also said that their funding has become shorter in
maturity because of reluctance from U.S. investors to lend long-
term, he said.  The three-month Stockholm interbank lending rate reached
2.59 percent yesterday, the highest since December 2008. The
rate rose to more than 5 percent in 2008 as the market froze
following the Lehman collapse.  Banking Drop  European bank stocks, including Swedish lenders such as
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest in the Nordic region, have tumbled
this month on concern over potential losses from the sovereign
debt crisis. Sweden’s biggest lenders, which also include SEB
AB, Svenska Handelsbanken AB and Swedbank AB, passed European
Union stress test released earlier this year.  Nordea fell 3.5 percent at 11:13 a.m. local time, while SEB
tumbled 5 percent, Swedbank retreated 4.3 percent and
Handelsbanken, the country’s second-largest lender, slipped 3.3
percent, all underperforming the Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index, which was down 3 percent.  The leaders of France and  Germany  on Aug. 16 also renewed
calls for a tax on financial transactions. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  also rejected
selling euro bonds and expanding the region’s bailout fund,
while backing a plan being drawn up for national balanced-budget
amendments and more economic integration in the region.  Nordea is down 19 percent this year, SEB has lost 29
percent, Handelsbanken 17 percent and Swedbank 2 percent.  Balance Sheets  Finance Minister Anders Borg has also pushed for more
stringent capital requirements than those recommended by the
Basel Committee. Policy makers argue Sweden needs tighter rules
because its banking industry is about four times the size of the
country’s gross domestic product.  The four biggest banks had combined balance sheets of 11.3
trillion kronor last year and profit before tax of 70 billion
kronor, Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg said in a speech on
May 17. Their foreign currency borrowing has risen to about 1.5
trillion kronor from 200 billion kronor in 1998, making them
vulnerable to a liquidity crisis,  One solution would be to “tax what we think imposes costs
on society,” Frisell said. “We have the  capital requirements 
for the banks so we can also charge an extra tax on short
debts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  