-- 
Israel Chemicals Profit Climbs 44% on Rising Prices

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-17T15:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/israel-chemicals-2nd-quarter-profit-up-44-on-rising-prices-1-.html
(Corrects to remove reference to company’s market value.)  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , which
harvests minerals from the  Dead Sea  to make fertilizer, said
second-quarter profit jumped 44 percent on higher potash and
phosphate prices.  Net income rose to $426 million from $298 million a year
earlier, ICL said in a PR Newswire statement today. Sales
climbed 27 percent to $1.9 billion, beating analyst estimates,
after the company consolidated results of two businesses it
acquired in the first quarter, ICL said. The median sales
estimate for the three-month period of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was $1.7 billion.  “They beat our expectations across the board,” said
Joseph Wolf, equity analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Tel Aviv.
Wolf said he expected the company to show strong results in the
second half of the year on Indian and Chinese contracts and “in
the absence of any real global macroeconomic issues.” Wolf, who
spoke by phone, rates ICL “overweight.”  Potash producers are operating at or near record levels to
keep pace with demand as surging crop prices spur farmers to use
more fertilizer, Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. said in a
July 28 report. ICL trades at 12 times estimated 2011 earnings,
compared with a peer average of 13 times for 12 companies listed
by Bloomberg.  ICL shares rose 1.5 percent to 50.70 shekels at the 4:30
p.m. close in  Tel Aviv .  Recommendations  Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. upgraded ICL to “buy”
from “neutral.” Yuval Ben-Zeev, head of research at Clal
Finance Brokerage Ltd., said in an e-mailed report he was
maintaining his “market perform” recommendation.  “Due to concerns about another economic slowdown, we don’t
believe the risk/reward profile in the potash sector is any more
attractive than alternative market sectors,” Ben-Zeev said.  ICL this month said it signed two contracts in  India  and in
July said it agreed to supply 500,000 tons of potash in the
second half of the year to Chinese customers.  The Tel Aviv, Israel-based company said it will pay a
dividend of $298 million on Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  