-- 
Japan Exports Fall More Than Expected as Yen Gains Cloud Economic Outlook

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-18T01:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/japan-s-july-exports-fall-more-than-expected-3-3-on-yen-global-slowdown.html
Japan’s exports fell more than
expected in July as a global slowdown and a strengthening
currency weigh on the outlook for the nation’s sales overseas.  Exports decreased 3.3 percent in July from a year earlier,
the  Finance Ministry  said today in Tokyo. The median estimate of
24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.6 percent
decline, after a 1.6 percent decrease in June. Shipments rose
0.8 percent in July from June on a seasonally adjusted basis.  The world’s third-largest economy is counting on an export
revival to aid its rebound from the record earthquake in March.
The yen’s 6 percent advance against the dollar in the past three
months may weigh on overseas sales at a time when demand from
major markets such as  China  and the U.S. is faltering.  “I had thought exports would keep recovering for some
time, but the strengthening yen and the slowing  U.S. economy  add
to the downside risks,” said Noriaki Matsuoka, a Tokyo-based
economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co. “The economy will be
facing considerable headwinds this winter,” because the full
effects of a yen appreciation take about half a year to emerge,
he said.  The yen traded at 76.67 per dollar at 9:46 a.m. in Tokyo
from 76.60 before the report was published. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average fell 0.5 percent on concern the rising currency would
hurt exporters’ earnings.  Honda’s Forecasts  Honda Motor Co. is among exporters considering cutting
profit forecasts because of stalling growth abroad. The
automaker, which earns more than 80 percent of its revenue
overseas, said Aug. 9 it may revise its full-year profit outlook
depending on how long the global market turmoil lasts. Chief
Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike also told reporters that he’s
concerned the yen may appreciate to the low-70s against the
dollar, further damping earnings.  Shares have plunged globally on concern that the U.S.
economy is slowing and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will
deepen. The market volatility has increased the yen’s appeal to
investors as a safe haven.  A strong yen is threatening to erode exporters’ repatriated
earnings and make Japanese products less competitive abroad.
Authorities sold the yen on Aug. 4 as the currency approached
its postwar high of 76.25 per dollar. The government may include
measures to help companies deal with the advancing currency in
the third earthquake relief package, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said earlier this month.  Exports to China  Exports to China, Japan’s largest overseas market, dropped
1 percent in July, according to the  report . Shipments to the
U.S. plunged 8.2 percent, the fifth straight decline, while
those to the European Union increased 6 percent, it said.  Japan ’s gross domestic product shrank at an annual 1.3
percent pace in the three months ended June 30, the third
consecutive quarter of decline, after the earthquake disrupted
manufacturers’ supply chains.  “I’m expecting significant growth in the third quarter,
but there’s a lot of uncertainty surrounding the outlook,”
Akira Maekawa, senior economist in Tokyo at Global Futures &
Forex Ltd., a currency trading company, said before the report.  Even so, companies including Toyota Motor Corp. are
rebounding from the March 11 disaster at a faster pace than
expected as constraints to production and shipping ease. Toyota
expects to begin making up for lost output from the earthquake
in September, one month earlier than previously announced, it
said on Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  