-- 
JetBlue Offers More Flight Passes After One-Week Sellout

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 
2011-08-17T20:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/jetblue-offers-more-boston-flight-passes-after-one-week-sellout.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  is offering
more three-month passes for unlimited flights to and from  Boston 
after the discount package geared to business travelers sold out
in a week.  Unlimited travel through Boston via any of 32 nonstop
routes was one of three options on the so-called BluePass that
New York-based JetBlue announced in late July. The carrier has
about 100 daily flights at Boston Logan International Airport
and plans to expand to 150 by 2015, Chief Executive Officer
David Barger has said.  U.S. leisure travel usually declines after the Labor Day
holiday in September, and domestic airlines have offered similar
promotions in the past on flights attractive to leisure
travelers, said  Robert Mann , a former executive at AMR Corp.’s
 American Airlines  who runs consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port
Washington, New York.  “That’s why business customers may be interested in this
pass because they typically don’t book far enough in advance to
secure those sorts of fare deals,” he said in an interview
today.  Pass holders may book flights up to 90 minutes before
departure, JetBlue said. The passes, which include an option for
travel to and from  Long Beach , California, are on sale through
Aug. 18 and cost from $1,299 to $1,999. The pass covers travel
from Aug. 22 through Nov. 22.  In 2009, JetBlue sold a $599, one-month unlimited-flight
pass for travel across its entire network from early September
through early October.  Mann said most of the pass customers are from small
businesses and typically fly on many different airlines.  Securing those customers in a three-month “subscription”
to JetBlue is “attractive to a carrier that operates in
contested markets,” he said. “They can get a much bigger share
of the wallet for that particular period.”  JetBlue slipped 1 cent to $4.40 at 4:30 p.m.  New York  time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have fallen 33
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  