-- 
Jive Software Said to Hire Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs for IPO

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-17T18:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/jive-software-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-goldman-sachs-for-ipo.html
Jive Software Inc. , a maker of
social-networking software for businesses, picked Morgan Stanley
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to lead an initial public offering,
said three people familiar with the matter.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will also work on the IPO, which
may occur this year if market conditions permit, said the
people, who declined to be named because the process is private.
Jive may be valued at more than $1 billion, and the company may
sell a 10 to 20 percent stake, one person said.  Jive is planning to capitalize on a resurgent IPO market,
following the share sales of professional-networking site
LinkedIn Corp., music-streaming service Pandora Media Inc. and
vacation-rental company HomeAway Inc. Gartner Inc. estimates
that Jive’s revenue more than doubled last year to $70 million.
As of late 2010, Jive had more than 15 million people from over
3,000 companies using its software.  Jive spokeswoman Ana Andreescu declined to comment.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  spokesman Pen Pendleton, Goldman Sachs spokeswoman
Andrea Rachman and Citigroup spokesman Mark Costiglio also 
declined to comment, as did UBS spokeswoman Torie Von Alt.  Morgan Stanley has won the lead spot on share sales for
many of year’s hottest Web IPOs. The New York-based firm was
listed as the first underwriter for LinkedIn, Pandora and
HomeAway, as well as Groupon Inc. and Zynga Inc., which have yet
to start trading. Goldman Sachs, also based in  New York , is co-
leading the Groupon and Zynga offerings.  IPOs Canceled  Until last week, this year was on course to be the biggest
for IPOs since 2007. That was before  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5, leading to a surge in market
volatility, with the Nasdaq Composite Index moving more than 4
percent on four consecutive days. At least 13 U.S. IPOs were
postponed or withdrawn last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Founded a decade ago by Bill Lynch and Matt Tucker, Jive
has raised $57 million in venture funding from  Sequoia Capital 
and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the two firms that backed
Google Inc. Chief Executive Officer Tony Zingale joined the
company’s board in 2008 and became CEO last year.  In March, Jive added executives from Google, Facebook and
McAfee Inc. to its board, as it prepared for an IPO. Google’s
Sundar Pichai, Facebook’s Jonathan Heiliger and McAfee’s Dave DeWalt brought the total number of directors to nine. DeWalt has
since resigned from McAfee.  “We’re here to build the next great enterprise software
company,” Zingale said in an interview when the board
appointments were announced on March 30. “The time was right to
expand the board and bring on this kind of expertise.”  Zingale said then that becoming a public company would
improve access to capital for mergers and acquisitions and make
Jive a more visible competitor to Microsoft Corp., International
Business Machines Corp. and Salesforce.com Inc.  Jive’s customers include  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company;  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest maker of
computer-networking equipment; and VMware Inc., the top seller
of virtualization software.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  