-- 
Junk Bonds Diverging From High Grade by Most Since ‘09 on Economy Concerns

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-08-17T18:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/junk-bonds-diverging-from-high-grade-by-most-since-09-on-economy-concerns.html
High-yield debt is diverging from
investment grade at about the most since December 2009 on signs
the  U.S. economy  is slowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening.  The gap between relative yields on junk bonds and
investment grade reached 502 basis points yesterday and was as
wide as 530 basis points on Aug. 11, the most since Dec. 1,
2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
difference has soared from this year’s low of 301 basis points.  Investors are wagering that the riskiest companies may
struggle to obtain capital as unemployment in the U.S. persists
above 9 percent in all but two months since May 2009 and as
France and  Germany  seek to contain the euro debt crisis by
backing a plan for national balanced-budget amendments.  Junk
bonds  have lost 3.77 percent this month, the biggest monthly
decline since November 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  “We’re dancing on the head of a pin on whether we’re going
to stay in a growth mode or whether we slip back into a
recession,” said Tim Donahue, head of high-yield bond and
leveraged-loan capital markets at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York . “There was a loss of confidence in  Washington  to be able
to solve any of these problems.”  Funds that invest in high-yield bonds, rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s , reported outflows of $3.4 billion last week, according
to a JPMorgan report.  Sales Tumble  Speculative-grade companies are on track to sell the lowest
monthly volume of bonds since December 2008, having issued about
$1 billion of the notes this month, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold junk bonds rather
than government debt reached a high this year of 739 basis
points on Aug. 11 before declining to 711 as of yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield
Master II index. Spreads on investment-grade bonds climbed as
high as 209 basis points on Aug. 11 and were at the same level
yesterday, according to the lender’s U.S. Corporate Master
index.  Slowing job growth and a weakening economy were among
reasons cited by Federal Reserve policy makers last week in
their decision to keep the benchmark lending rate near zero “at
least” through mid-2013.  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the April-June
period, the Commerce Department reported last month, and
 consumer spending  rose 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the
second quarter of 2009. Unemployment was at 9.1 percent in July,
according to the Labor Department.  “High-yield is sensitive to macro-economic growth,” said
Eric Gross, a credit strategist for  Barclays Capital . “Until we
see unemployment meaningfully tick down and the economy get back
its footing, we are likely to see continued volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  