-- 
Kenya’s Biggest Investor Expects Rebound

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-18T05:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/kenya-s-biggest-investor-expects-stocks-rebound-in-second-half.html
Kenyan stocks, sub-Saharan Africa’s
worst performers this year, may rise in the second half as a
drought eases and the nation meets constitutional deadlines,
according to the  National Social Security Fund , the biggest
domestic investor.  The  Nairobi Stock Exchange  All-Share Index has declined 19
percent in local-currency terms this year, paring 2010’s 34
percent increase. Inflation that’s more than triple the central
bank’s target has driven investors to protect capital through
buying  government bonds , with yields at a nine-year high. The
shilling sunk to a record low to the dollar this month as the
country was forced to raise food imports amid drought.  “It’s only going to be a marginal recovery, maybe 2 percent
above what the measure was at the start of the year,” Alex Kazongo, managing trustee of the state-run company, said in an
interview yesterday in the capital, Nairobi. “The country is
getting on top of the drought situation and there is a sense of
stability in the passing of bills and appointments that had been
pending under the new constitution.”  The government projects economic growth will slow in 2011
for the first time in three years to 5.3 percent, because of dry
weather that cut agricultural yields in the world’s largest
exporter of black tea.  Delays in filling key government posts, which had
threatened to derail implementation of a constitution enacted a
year ago appear to be letting up, giving investors a greater
sense of “certainty,” Kazongo said.  Shilling Decline  The shilling closed unchanged yesterday at 93.23 against
the dollar, bringing its losses so far this year to 13 percent.
On Aug. 9, the currency fell to 95.10, its weakest level since
March 1994 when currency controls were eliminated.  NSSF aims to raise the assets under its management by at
least 10 percent annually as it increases enrolment to 5 million
people, from about 1.2 active members now, over the next four
years by signing up workers from companies that have five or
fewer employees, he said.  The fund’s investments comprise 40 billion shillings in
equity, representing about 4 percent of the Nairobi Stock
Exchange’s total value, 26 billion in fixed-income securities,
and the balance in property, Kazongo said.  Bank Investments  The company will probably try to retain its status as the
biggest shareholder in some financial and industrial companies
that include  National Bank of Kenya Ltd. (NBKL)  at 34.32 percent and
East African Portland Cement Ltd. at 27 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  It may also buy stakes in agricultural companies such as
 Sasini Ltd. (STCL) , a Kenyan coffee grower, and Williamson Tea Kenya
Ltd., a producer of the leaves, as commodity prices rise, he
said.  The fund, which has 110 billion shillings in assets, said
on Aug. 11 it had hired six companies including Old Mutual Plc
and Co-op Trust Investment Services to boost returns on
investments as part of efforts to improve its image as one of
the country’s most corrupt institutions, Kazongo said.  The NSSF was last year removed from  Transparency
International’s  East  Africa  Bribery Index, a measure of
perceived public sector corruption.  “The public now perceives us as serious people who are
mandated to invest their savings,” Kazongo said.  The company is seeking state approval to increase the
annual rate of return to 7.5 percent from 5 percent now, he
said. Upon retirement, members receive a lump-sum payment, which
has averaged about 80,000 shillings over the last few years,
“far too little a cushion,” Kazongo said.  The contribution by each member is 400 shillings a month,
of which the employer must pay half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 