-- 
Kerzner Said to Be in Talks for Extension of $2.78 Billion of Mortgages

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/kerzner-said-to-be-in-talks-for-extension-of-2-78-billion-of-mortgages.html
Kerzner International Holdings Ltd.,
the company that built the Atlantis resorts in Dubai and the
 Bahamas , is negotiating with creditors to extend maturities on
$2.78 billion of mortgages due next month, according to three
people familiar with the talks.  Holders of commercial mortgage-backed securities may
receive more than $100 million of principal in exchange for the
two-year extension, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. Kerzner may default on the debt,
due Sept. 9, unless a deal is reached, the people said. It
received a waiver on its operating company debt earlier this
year, one of the people said.  The company, which also runs seven  One&Only resorts , has
struggled with debt since the 2008 financial crisis reduced
hotel values and room rates. Kerzner’s owners include  Dubai
World ’s Istithmar,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall Funds,
Colony Capital LLC and Sol Kerzner, the company’s founder.  Blackstone Group LP and Kirkland & Ellis LLP are advising
the company on its ongoing restructuring talks while Centerview
Partners LLP is advising Sol Kerzner and Moelis & Co. is
advising Dubai World, one of the people said.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. is among the holders of
Kerzner International’s mortgage debt, the people said. More
than $1.4 billion of the debt was sliced up and sold as bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Representatives of Blackstone, Kirkland and Moelis declined
to comment on the talks. Representatives of Kerzner and
Centerview weren’t immediately available to return messages.  Kerzner, famous for Atlantis’s Mayan-themed water slides
and up-close encounters with dolphins, sharks and rays, was
taken private in 2006 for $3.6 billion by a group led by its
namesake founder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  