-- 
Kodak Worth More in Breakup With $3 Billion Patents: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-17T20:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/kodak-worth-five-times-more-in-breakup-with-3-billion-patents-real-m-a.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  may hold patents
worth five times more than the business itself, making the 131-
year-old camera company a target in the billion-dollar hunt for
inventions used in mobile phones.  Kodak, which once had a market value of more than $30
billion, slid 98 percent from its 1990s peak through yesterday
as demand for film photography withered and smartphones equipped
to take pictures siphoned off demand for its digital cameras.
The Rochester, New York-based company has reported losses in
five of the past six years and has less than $600 million in
equity value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The digital-imaging patents owned by Kodak may now be worth
$3 billion in a sale, MDB Capital Group said, after  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
paid a dot-com era premium to acquire Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. and obtain its more than 17,000 patents to combat  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. While Kodak has a $1.2 billion pension shortfall,
potential buyers such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. stand to profit from its technologies that are used in 85
percent of digital cameras and smartphones, according to
Rafferty Capital Markets LLC.  “Kodak is the lowest hanging fruit out there,” Chris Marlett, chief executive officer at MDB Capital, a  Santa Monica ,
California-based investment bank specializing in intellectual
property, said in a telephone interview. Kodak’s patents “could
go for a huge number and nobody’s talking about it,” he said.  Kodak’s Founding  Christopher Veronda, a spokesman for Kodak, referred to its
July 20 announcement, which said the company was exploring
options for its digital-imaging patents, “a move reflecting the
current heightened market demand for intellectual property.”  Kodak’s shares surged 26 percent to $2.69 today, the
biggest advance since March 2009.  The company was founded by George Eastman, a high school
dropout. Kodak, which received a  U.S. patent  for photographic
film in 1884, went on to invent the Instamatic camera as well as
the world’s first digital camera in 1975.  After reaching $94.25 in February 1997, the world’s largest
photography company has lost almost all its value as Canon Inc.
and Nikon Corp. began making digital cameras that replaced those
using film and Apple and Samsung started selling phones capable
of taking pictures. The stock ended at $2.14 yesterday.  Since Antonio Perez became Kodak’s chief executive officer
in 2005, sales have declined every year as the company reported
a total of $2.5 billion in losses, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Now, Perez is turning to Kodak’s patents to help
shareholders recoup some of their money.  ‘Missed the Boat’  The company said in a statement last month it’s exploring
“strategic alternatives” for the more than 1,100 digital-
imaging patents it owns, including those for processing, editing
and storing digital images. The patents represent 10 percent of
Kodak’s U.S. total, it said.  Kodak “missed the boat with the transition to digital, but
they do have some valuable assets” with the patents,  Walter Todd , who helps manage $950 million at  Greenwood Capital  in
Greenwood,  South Carolina , said in a telephone interview. “This
whole patent area has become really hot.”  With wireless technologies becoming more complex and
smartphone sales forecast to double by 2015, patents have gotten
increasingly valuable as handset makers try to gain leverage to
protect themselves against allegations of infringement.  Google agreed to buy Motorola Mobility for $40 a share, or
73 percent more than the Libertyville, Illinois-based company’s
20-day trading average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
the highest premium for a wireless-equipment takeover greater
than $500 million since 1999, the data show.  Competitive Advantage  The company sought out Motorola Mobility after getting
outbid for Nortel Networks’ patents in June. Six companies led
by Cupertino, California-based Apple paid $4.5 billion.  The auction ended after 19 rounds with a final price that
was five times more than the $900 million that  Mountain View ,
California-based Google agreed to pay before the process began.  Google makes the Android mobile-phone platform, which was
the best-selling smartphone operating system last quarter with a
more than 40 percent share, according to Gartner Inc., the
Stamford, Connecticut-based research firm.  “You cannot go to market today with a mobile device that
doesn’t have the ability to capture an image and transport it”
and Kodak has the patents,  Mark Kaufman , an analyst at Rafferty
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “If you were to be
an acquirer of this, think about what your leverage may be
against those other manufacturers out there using the Android.”  Patent Value  Kodak’s digital-imaging patents would command as much as $3
billion, or more than $10 a share, according to MDB Capital’s
Marlett. Kodak had a market capitalization of $576 million
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The patents may include one that protects image-preview
technology used in cameras, he said. Kodak has claimed Apple and
Waterloo, Ontario-based  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  infringed its
intellectual property, or so-called IP, and is trying to extract
$1 billion in licensing fees.  Apple and RIM denied the claim. The dispute will be decided
by the U.S. International Trade Commission this month.  Kodak also adopted a shareholder-rights plan Aug. 1 to
protect against unwanted takeovers. The move shows Kodak is
concerned an acquirer could buy the company for “much cheaper
than you could buy the patents,” said MDB Capital’s Marlett.  “There are some pretty crucial patents here, and there are
a lot of people who should be very interested in buying these,”
he said. “The auction for the sale of these patents is going to
underscore that there’s a big disconnect between the value of
the IP and the value of the stock.”  ‘Dead Man Walking’  At least four Wall Street analysts disagree and recommend
selling Kodak, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three
say the company is worth no more than $2 a share.  Kodak’s analysts also project revenue this year will
decrease to $6.3 billion, almost 40 percent less than the
company generated three decades ago, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It will lose money this year and next, they estimate.  Any buyer would inherit Kodak’s U.S. and international
pension plans, which were underfunded by a combined $1.21
billion at the end of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Kodak, which failed to boost its share in digital cameras,
may also struggle to compete with Hewlett-Packard Co. in
printing as it tries to attract customers with lower ink prices,
said James Kelleher, an analyst at Argus Research in  New York .  “That business is in flux and turmoil,” Kelleher said in
a telephone interview. “It’s kind of a dead-man-walking stock.
There’s not a good prognosis for it.”  Credit Default Swaps  Derivatives traders are betting there is a more than 90
percent chance that Kodak is headed toward default, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The credit-default swaps have climbed from levels that
implied a five-year default probability is up from 50 percent in
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kelleher says Kodak’s patents may not be as valuable as
Nortel’s or Motorola Mobility’s because they don’t help improve
the performance of mobile phones or their networks.  If Kodak’s patents can command $3 billion, acquiring the
company would outweigh the liabilities, Ken Luskin, chief
executive officer of Intrinsic Value Asset Management, which
owns 1.7 million Kodak shares, said in a telephone interview. An
acquirer would also be able to sell Kodak’s commercial and
consumer printing businesses and the digital camera unit for at
least $2.5 billion, he said.  Kodak Buyers  Buyers may include Microsoft, the world’s largest software
maker, Samsung, the Suwon, South Korea-based maker of Galaxy
phones and tablet computers, and Google, according to Luskin.  Kevin Kutz , a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to comment
on whether the Redmond, Washington-based company would consider
acquiring Kodak. Samsung’s Kim Titus and Aaron Zamost at Google
didn’t respond to e-mails or telephone calls seeking comment.  Kodak’s “viability on a go-forward basis may be not only
challenged but hard to defend,”  Keith Wirtz , Cincinnati-based
chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management, which
oversees $16.7 billion, said in a telephone interview. “They do
have values embedded in patents and other technologies. Someone
is going to buy the company and tear it apart.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 