-- 
Korea May Be Forced to Abandon Woori Sale After Attracting Solitary Offer

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-18T00:14:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/korea-may-have-to-abandon-woori-sale.html
South Korea  may be forced to abandon
a second attempt to sell its $5.2 billion Woori Finance Holdings
Co. stake after limits on local rivals, public ire and the
global equity rout left it with one bid.  A group led by Seoul-based MBK Partners Ltd. and  Korean
Federation of Community Credit Cooperatives  submitted the
solitary offer for the nation’s largest financial company,
state-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. said yesterday after a
bid deadline lapsed. A committee overseeing the sale will meet
tomorrow to consider proceeding to the final stage.  President  Lee Myung Bak , who aims to privatize companies
bailed out more than a decade ago, failed to attract more
investors even after Woori slumped 21 percent this year.
Lawmakers rejected a plan in June that would have eased rules
for rival financial holding companies seeking the stake, while
interest from buyout firms has drawn public opposition.  “Woori’s too big to sell now,” said Jun Sung In, a
professor of economics at Hongik University in  Seoul . “The
government may have to think about selling it in pieces,
separating the banking assets and the investment business, to
speed the process and maximize returns for taxpayers.”  Shares of Seoul-based Woori, whose businesses include banks,
a brokerage and an insurer, rose 0.8 percent to 12,200 won at
9:02 a.m. in Seoul trading, valuing the government’s 57 percent
stake at 5.6 trillion won ($5.2 billion). The stock has dropped
21 percent this year, compared with the benchmark Kospi index’s
7.6 percent decline.  Financial Market Turmoil  South Korean private-equity funds MBK, TStone Corp. and
Vogo Fund showed interest in Woori in June, a person with direct
knowledge of the auction said at the time. Vogo said yesterday
that it didn’t bid because of the recent financial market
turmoil and its failure to line up partners, while TStone cited
the equity rout and concerns about opposition to its bid.  The MSCI World Index of equities has lost 8.2 percent in
August, heading for its biggest one-month rout since May 2010,
fueled by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and policy makers’
struggle to contain inflation.  Korea abandoned a previous attempt to sell the stake in
December due to lack of interest from buyers.  Woori was created in 2001 as a holding company for banks
that the government rescued following the Asian financial crisis
in 1997-1998, as part of a push to make the banking industry
more competitive. The government spent 12.8 trillion won to aid
Woori and has recouped 5.4 trillion won so far through block
sales of shares.  Government ‘Under Pressure’  Daewoo Securities Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Samsung
Securities Co. were hired in September to help Korea Deposit
sell at least 30 percent of the company. The firm yesterday
didn’t disclose how much MBK and its partners bid for the asset.  “The recent financial turmoil must have hampered efforts
by the buyout firms to raise funds,” said Park Yong Rin, head
of the policies and regulations team at Seoul-based researcher
 Korea Capital Market Institute.  “The government is also under
pressure not to sell the bailed-out company to buyout firms.”  The Public Fund Oversight Committee, which oversees sales
of state assets, will meet tomorrow to discuss whether to
proceed with the sale, the  Financial Services Commission  said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. The committee will keep the
criteria of “valid competition” for the sale, Secretary
General Kim Yongbeom said by phone in Seoul Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  