-- 
MTN Chief Dabengwa Aims to Double Data Offering Sales in Next Four Years

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-08-17T15:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/mtn-boosts-dividend-payment-policy-to-65-of-full-year-adjusted-earnings.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, aims to double its revenue from data
services in the next four years to bolster growth as it foresees
no major acquisitions opportunities.  “I can easily see data going to between 20 percent and 30
percent of group revenue within the next three to four years,”
Chief Executive Officer Sifiso Dabengwa said in an interview at
the company’s Johannesburg headquarters today. Data services
contributed 14.2 percent of the 56.5 billion rand ($8 billion)
total revenue in the first half.  MTN and other African mobile-phone operators bet that data
demand will continue to rise, making up for sluggish growth from
voice offerings, as more consumers use handsets to surf the Web.
The company aims to invest 22.2 billion rand in infrastructure
in its 22 African and Middle Eastern markets. The operator today
reported first-half earnings that missed analysts’ estimates as
currency shifts and declines in airtime and subscription sales
held back growth.  “Data has to be the main growth engine,” the CEO said,
adding that the company won’t make major acquisitions this year
because of the current lack of suitable targets.  The company is still looking for acquisitions as any market
with a population of more than 30 million and a mobile-phone
penetration rate of less than 30 percent is attractive, the CEO
said. “But it is also our responsibility not to throw away
shareholders’ money.”  Rollout Pace  Most of the regions in which MTN operates have a 40 percent
mobile-phone penetration rate, according to Dabengwa.  Nigeria 
and  South Africa , MTN’s largest markets in terms of revenue,
will get about half of the planned infrastructure investment.
The company is upgrading networks to so-called third-generation
technology to handle more data traffic.  “We expect to step up the pace of rollout in the second
half of the year” to make up for delays in equipment delivery,
Dabengwa said.  Adjusted first-half earnings per share rose to 4.70 rand
from 4.39 rand a year earlier. That missed the 5.05-rand average
of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
increased to 9.45 billion rand from 8.1 billion rand, while
revenue rose 1 percent to 56.5 billion rand.  First-half subscriber numbers gained by 7.5 percent, slower
than MTN’s full-year target of a 22 percent increase, while
airtime and subscription sales fell 2.8 percent. MTN said
revenue growth was hampered by the rand’s gain against the
dollar and the Nigerian naira’s drop versus the U.S. currency.  MTN rose less than 0.1 percent to 137 rand in Johannesburg
trading today. The stock has risen 1.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  