-- 
NetApp Shares Drop After Estimates Miss

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-17T22:54:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/netapp-drops-as-outlook-at-maker-of-data-storage-products-misses-estimates.html
NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  shares slumped as much
as 16 percent after the maker of data-storage products reported
fiscal first-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  Sales in the quarter that ended July 29 were $1.46 billion,
the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a statement
today. Analysts on average were predicting revenue of $1.51
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter
sales will be $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion, the company said,
compared with an average estimate of $1.61 billion.  NetApp’s business “softened dramatically” toward the end
of July, with the growth rate for the month half of what it was
in May, the company said on a conference call after the report.
Sales to the U.S. federal government were lower than expected
and bookings from large financial firms dropped, Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Georgens said on the call.  “To see the business slow down quite significantly in that
final month is what’s getting reflected in the stock price,”
said Bill Choi, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.
“Investors are sensitive about how all of these equipment
companies will face a tougher” economic environment, he said.
Choi rates NetApp shares “neutral.”  The shares fell as low as $34.89 in extended trading after
the company’s earnings report. They had declined $1.37 to $41.66
at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock is
down 24 percent so far this year.  Net Income  Net income in the first quarter fell to $139.5 million, or
34 cents a share, from $150.7 million, or 40 cents, a year
earlier. Profit excluding certain items was 55 cents, NetApp
said. Analysts on average had projected 56 cents.  Chief Financial Officer Steve Gomo said it’s “too early to
tell” whether the company will need to reduce its forecast for
fiscal 2012.  “It will depend upon whether broader economic stability
occurs in the coming months,” he said on the call.  The company also saidGomo will retire at the end of the
year. Nicholas Noviello, currently senior vice president of
finance, will replace Gomo in a planned transition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  