-- 
New Jersey Rating Cut to AA- by Fitch as Pension Deficit Pressures Budget

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-08-18T17:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/new-jersey-rating-is-cut-to-aa-by-fitch-on-mounting-budgetary-pressure-.html
Fitch Ratings  lowered the credit
rating on New Jersey’s general-obligation bonds by one step to
AA-, the fourth-highest grade, on what it called “mounting
budgetary pressure” from pension and employee-benefit deficits.  A bill putting more of the pension and health-care burden
on employees, signed by Governor  Chris Christie  in June, won’t
prevent the need for increased state contributions, Fitch said
yesterday in a report. Other negatives were a weak economic
recovery, persistent deficits and high debt, the company said.  The downgrade was in line with a cut by Moody’s Investors
Service by one level, to Aa3, in April.  Standard & Poor’s  cut
its grade to AA- in February. Both are also fourth-highest.  “Let me be very clear to anybody out there who either
holds  New Jersey  debt or is considering buying future debt: New
Jersey pays its bills; always has and always will,” Christie
told reporters today in Elizabeth. “Fitch is a little late to
the party.”  The outlook was revised to stable from negative by Fitch
analysts led by Ken Weinstein.  “Meeting the requisite increases in pension contributions
will be challenging and is likely to conflict with other long-
term challenges, such as property-tax relief, school funding,
and infrastructure needs,” Weinstein wrote.  Pension Payments  Daniel Solender, who oversees about $14 billion as head of
municipal bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City , New Jersey,
said the Fitch downgrade wasn’t surprising, given the earlier
decisions by S&P and Moody’s.  “This issue is not going to cause a cash-flow problem
today,” Solender said, referring to the higher pension
payments. “At some point, they’re going to have to start paying
into it.”  Christie, a 48-year-old Republican, signed a $29.7 billion
budget in June in which he vetoed about $1 billion in spending
added by Democrats who control both the state Senate and the
Assembly. The spending included a pension payment of about $480
million, below the $3 billion recommended by actuaries. The
state hasn’t made full payments into its pension system for most
of the past decade.  “New Jersey is struggling, like nearly every other state,
to rebound from the worst economic downturn since the Great
Depression,”  William Quinn , a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said in a statement. “It’s also hampered by
past administrations’ mismanagement of state finances, which
left New Jersey with a weaker economy than its neighbors’, huge
debts and billions of dollars of underfunding in the pension
plans and for future retiree medical benefits.”  Unemployment Rate   New Jersey’s finances have bottomed and are beginning to
rebound, helped by private-sector job gains and a shrinking
government, Christie said. The state’s unemployment rate was
unchanged in July at 9.5 percent, up from 9.4 percent a year
earlier. Businesses added 3,900 jobs while public employment
declined by 2,100, the state labor department said today.  Christie said the  credit-rating  downgrades may increase
borrowing costs in the short term, though he doesn’t expect it
to harm the state’s ability to borrow.  Under a measure signed by Christie, the state is required
to phase in full pension funding over seven years. That will
strain the state’s finances as it looks to fund schools and
property-tax relief programs, Weinstein said in an interview.  “The state has not been fully funding that payment and
won’t for several years,” he said. “The growing pension
payment will challenge their ability to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  