-- 
Jets Sign Ex-Bills Top Pick Aaron Maybin; Lose Robert Turner to Broken Leg

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-17T17:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/new-york-jets-may-sign-former-bills-top-pick-aaron-maybin-espn-reports.html
The  New York Jets  agreed to contract
terms with pass-rushing linebacker Aaron Maybin, a 2009 first-
round draft pick who was released by the  Buffalo Bills  after
failing to record a sack in two seasons.  Maybin arrived today at the Jets’ practice facility in
 Florham Park ,  New Jersey , to take a physical.  Maybin, 23, was taken by the Bills with the 11th pick in
the 2009 draft out of Penn State, where he entered the National
Football League draft after recording 12 sacks as a redshirt
sophomore. The 6-foot-4, 228-pounder had 24 tackles in 27 games
for Buffalo.  “We will give him that opportunity to come here and see
what he can do,” Ryan said at a televised news conference. “I
always spoke highly of him when he was in Buffalo. He’s got some
talent, some pass rush ability.”  Maybin’s performance in the NFL has been similar to that of
the Jets’ 2008 first-round pick, Vernon Gholston, who was
released by the team in March. If Maybin makes the team, Ryan
said he would likely be used as a pass-rusher when using
formations with five defensive backs, and on special teams.  “We don’t need him to be a starter, we’ve got two
excellent starting outside linebackers already,” Ryan said.
“But he’s going to be given an opportunity to help on
defense.”  Ryan also confirmed that offensive lineman Robert Turner
broke his right leg during the Jets’ exhibition game against
Houston and will have surgery this week. Turner was playing in
place of injured center Nick Mangold.  “We’ll find out how long that’s going to keep him out.
We’re not sure yet,” Ryan said. “Certainly that’s unfortunate
for us and we’ll move on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  