-- 
Nigeria Naira Slips to 7-Week Low at Sale as Dollar Demand Outpaces Supply

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-08-17T16:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/nigeria-naira-slips-to-7-week-low-at-sale-as-dollar-demand-outpaces-supply.html
Nigeria ’s naira depreciated to a
seven-week low against the dollar at a foreign-currency sale
today, after the central bank failed to meet lenders’ demand for
the U.S. currency for a 12th straight auction.  The currency of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy
declined 0.2 percent to 151.35 naira per dollar at the auction,
its weakest since the June 29 sale. It retreated 0.1 percent to
153.90 naira per dollar in interbank trading by 4:51 p.m. in
Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank sold $350 million compared with $475.7
million demanded by lenders, according to  data  published by the
Abuja-based central bank on its website.  Africa’s biggest oil producer has been using foreign
currency reserves to keep naira within a 3 percentage-point band
above or below 150 naira per dollar at its bi-weekly auctions to
help check inflation.  “What the central bank offers is insufficient, leading to
naira depreciation” Tayo Omidiji, head of research at Lagos-
based Sterling Capital Ltd., said by phone. “Besides the
traditional dollar demand for refined petroleum and industrial-
goods imports, there is increasing demand to meet hajj and
summer-holiday commitments.” The hajj is an annual pilgrimage
undertaken by Muslims to Mecca in  Saudi Arabia . The West African
nation is home to about 78 million Muslims.  Inflation Slows  The central bank doubled the amount of dollars banks can
sell to foreign-exchange bureaus on Aug. 12 to $1 million to
further reduce demand pressure which has seen a widening in the
gap between their exchange rates and those used by banks and
bureau de change operators.  Nigeria’s annual inflation rate fell to 9.4 percent in
July, the lowest level in more than three years for Africa’s
third biggest economy, the National Bureau of Statistics said
yesterday.  The country’s external reserves stood at $34.96 billion as
at Aug. 15, compared to $38 billion a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  