-- 
No Sex for All Blacks Fans Urged as Winning World Cup Strategy by Telecom

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-17T05:34:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/no-sex-for-all-blacks-fans-urged-as-winning-world-cup-strategy-by-telecom.html
New Zealand  rugby fans are being
urged to abstain from sex to help the All Blacks national team
break its 24-year World Cup drought on home soil.  Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd., through the All Blacks’
official BackingBlack fan club it sponsors, is planning an
advertising campaign calling on supporters to “Abstain for the
Game.” Participants will receive black rubber finger rings to
show their support during the Sept. 9-Oct. 23 World Cup.  The campaign is designed as a humorous take on the
“mythology” that abstaining from sexual activity improves
sporting prowess, Kieren Cooney, chief marketing officer at
Telecom Corp.’s retail arm, told  Television New Zealand  today.
“Whether people believe it or not, it goes with many sporting
people and what they believe will help,” he said.  BackingBlack was founded by Telecom Corp. and is endorsed
by the New Zealand Rugby Union as the All Blacks’ official fan
club. Its planned abstinence campaign will be fronted by former
All Blacks captain  Sean Fitzpatrick , according to the club’s
official Facebook page.  Advertisements will run in various local media, the New
Zealand Herald reported. Posters bearing the slogan, “Touch,
pause and don’t engage” -- a play on words from the instruction
referees give at scrums during matches -- will be placed in bus
shelters, the newspaper added.  “Our partners manage their own creative ideas but we are
in the loop on their latest campaigns, and as with other
BackingBlack activity we expect this to be entertaining and get
people talking,” Paul Dalton, the Wellington-based NZRU’s
commercial manager, said in a statement.  A poll on the Herald’s  website  asking fans if they would
abstain from sex during the six-week tournament attracted more
than 11,000 votes today. Ninety-two percent responded: “No, are
you kidding?”  The All Blacks, the world’s top-ranked team, won their only
World Cup title in 1987 when New Zealand co-hosted the inaugural
tournament with  Australia . The All Blacks open this year’s
edition Sept. 9 against Tonga at Auckland’s Eden Park.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  