-- 
Norway’s SN Power Acquires Brazil Hydropower Stake for $440 Million

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-17T12:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/norway-s-sn-power-acquires-brazil-hydropower-stake-for-440-million.html
SN Power, a hydropower project
developer majority-owned by the Norwegian utility Statkraft AS,
bought 41 percent of Desenvix SA for $440 million to expand its
Brazilian operations.  Through the acquisition, SN Power and Desenvix’s other
owners plan to install as much as 1,000 megawatts of renewable
energy in  Brazil  by 2018, focusing on hydropower projects, Oslo-
based SN Power said in a website  statement .  Desenvix has 162 megawatts of clean energy assets in
operation, SN Power Chief Executive Officer Torger Lien said. It
also has 176 megawatts under construction and a project pipeline
of about 1,600 megawatts, mainly hydropower assets, two wind
farms and a biomass plant.  “The development pipeline of Desenvix provides SN Power
with enough quality hydropower projects to reach its growth
objectives in Brazil in the short term and to create value,”
Lien said today by e-mail.  Having a local development organization also enables SN
Power to participate in future hydropower auctions, he said.
“The auctions constitute the main mechanism by which Brazil
assures sufficient growth in its power supply going forward.”  The hydropower development pipeline is in the southern
regions of Brazil. The acquisition also includes Sao Paulo-based
Desenvix’s 50 percent holding in Enex O&M de Sistemas Eletricos,
which focuses on operating and maintaining small and medium-
sized hydroelectric power plants.  Jackson Empreendimentos Ltda. owns about 41 percent in
Desenvix and Fundacao dos Economiarios de Seguridade Social, or
Funcef, Brazil’s third-largest pension fund, the rest. SN Power
is also 40 percent-owned by the Norwegian investment company
Norfund AS.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  