-- 
Obama on Iowa Stump Says Strong Recovery Will Begin With Small Businesses

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-17T13:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/obama-on-iowa-stump-says-strong-recovery-will-begin-with-small-businesses.html
President  Barack Obama , who told an
audience in rural Iowa yesterday that the U.S. economy will come
back “stronger than before,” plans to ask Congress next month
for additional spending to create jobs and more long-term
deficit reductions, an administration official said today.  Obama is expected to deliver a speech in early September in
which he will propose a mix of tax cuts and infrastructure
investment to boost the economy, said the official, who asked
not to be named because plans for the speech haven’t been
completed. He also plans to call for cutting long-term budgets
by more than the $1.5 trillion a congressional “super-
committee” has been charged with finding by late November, the
official said.  Obama is on the final leg of a three-day Midwest bus tour
as he seeks to regain the initiative on the economic debate that
likely will dominate the 2012 campaign. Yesterday, in  Iowa , he
said he was confident that small businesses and farming
communities can help economic recovery.  “I’m also convinced that comeback isn’t going to be driven
by Washington,” Obama said at a forum on the rural economy at
Northeast Community College in Peosta. “It is going to be
driven by folks here in Iowa.”  Updated 2008 Themes  In Iowa, the state that helped propel his drive toward the
Democratic presidential nomination in 2008, Obama used an
updated version of some of the same themes that animated his
earlier campaign.  Then, he cast himself as an outside agent of change running
against Washington and relying on grassroots support. Now, Obama
is calling on voters to join him in pressuring Congress, saying
“politics of the short term” and “the refusal of a faction of
Congress to put country ahead of party” are stalling measures
to bolster growth.  “There’s nothing wrong with our country, although there is
some problems with our politics,” Obama said yesterday. “I
hope that I can count on you in the days ahead to lend your
voice to this fight to strengthen our economy.”  In the days before the 2008 Iowa caucuses, Obama also
sought to enlist Iowans, telling a crowd on Dec. 27, 2007, that
“we can’t afford four more years of the same divisive food
fight in  Washington  that’s about scoring political points
instead of solving problems.”  The question now is whether Obama can recapture his earlier
support at a time when his ability to deliver on economic
promises is limited by budget concerns and his policies are
under attack by Republicans.  Proposals for Congress  In  Minnesota  and Iowa, Obama outlined a menu of measures
that he wants Congress to adopt, including a renewal of a
payroll tax cut for workers, revamping the patent process,
approving free-trade deals and setting up a so-called
infrastructure bank to help fund construction projects such as
road building.  Obama concludes his trip to the nation’s heartland today
with two town hall meetings in his home state of  Illinois  where
the  unemployment rate  is 9.2 percent. It’s the only state he’s
visited this week where the jobless rate is higher than the 9.1
percent national average.  Yesterday, Obama traveled 216 miles across Iowa, his
motorcade passing through back roads and stopping at various
points along the way to talk with local residents, eat some ice
cream, popcorn and pick up gifts for his daughters.  The  Republican National Committee  responded to Obama’s trip
by releasing an ad, “Obama’s Debt-End Bus Tour,” that lists
the jobs lost in Minnesota, Iowa and Illinois since he took
office.  Criticism from Perry  The president also was the target of criticism from Texas
Governor  Rick Perry , who announced on Aug. 13 that he is running
for the Republican presidential nomination.  “The president of the  United States  has conducted an
experiment on the American economy for almost the last three
years, and it has gone tragically wrong,” Perry said yesterday
at a Republican fundraiser in  Cedar Rapids , Iowa. Perry said any
move by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to act on
stimulus measures before the 2012 election would be “almost
treasonous.”  Carney told reporters that the administration takes the
Fed’s independence “quite seriously” and criticized Perry’s
“threatening” language.  Obama plans to announce new economic proposals next month,
though he continues to call for initiatives he previously
proposed. “We could do even more if Congress is willing to get
into the game,” he said.  Patent Reform  The Senate is poised to take up patent reform once
lawmakers return from their August recess, and Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  said they are waiting for Obama to submit the
free-trade agreements.  “It is my hope that the president, who continues to refuse
to send these agreements to Congress while simultaneously
calling for Congress to act, will finally resolve this
contradiction by sending the agreements immediately,”
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said in a statement.  After a summer spent mired in a bruising political battle
with Republicans on raising the debt ceiling that created more
uncertainty about the  U.S. economy , Obama over the last two days
has sought to reassure the American public.  Standard & Poor’s 
first-ever downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, risks of a
spillover effect from  Europe ’s debt crisis and volatility in
global markets are drawing comparisons to the beginning of the
2008 financial crisis.  U.S. Credit Rating  Fitch Ratings yesterday affirmed its top AAA rating on U.S.
Treasuries. Standard & Poor’s, another of the three major
ratings companies, on Aug. 5 cut its rating on federal debt to
AA+ from AAA. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note dropped
0.06 percentage point to 2.25 percent yesterday in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  U.S. stocks fell for the first time in four days on concern
that the European debt crisis may worsen and after the Commerce
Department said housing starts fell last month. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 1 percent to 1,192.76 in New York
yesterday. The benchmark index had rallied 7.5 percent in the
three previous sessions, its biggest jump since March 2009.  Concern about Europe’s crisis overshadowed a Federal
Reserve report that industrial production in the U.S. climbed in
July by 0.9 percent, the most this year and almost twice as fast
as economists forecast.  Aid to Farmers  At the rural forum, Obama outlined proposals that the
administration says will aid the economy in the farming regions
outside the nation’s big cities.  Among them are expanded loan programs run by the  Small
Business Administration  through a $1 billion investment fund
aimed at luring private capital, job search and training
services, and increased access to health care and technology.
Money will come from existing programs and funding, according to
a White House fact sheet.  The administration also announced that the Navy and the
departments of Agriculture and Energy will invest as much as
$510 million in a program aimed at producing biofuels for
aircraft and ships. The plan, part of the administration’s
energy strategy, will benefit rural areas, according to
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.  In Guttenberg, Iowa, yesterday, Obama met with five owners
of small businesses and greeted local residents at Rausch’s
Cafe.  Among the residents was Betty McVicker, 90, who said she is
a registered Republican and didn’t vote for Obama in 2008.
Still, she went to Rausch’s for a chance to meet him.  “He’s our president,” she said. “I’m thrilled to
pieces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  