-- 
Obama Plans to Announce Jobs Stimulus Package With Bigger Cuts in Deficit

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/obama-said-to-seek-spending-to-boost-economy-with-deficit-cuts-in-future.html
President  Barack Obama  is seeking to
revive a version of the so-called grand bargain with
congressional Republicans that would combine long-term U.S.
deficit reduction through entitlement benefit cuts and tax
increases with immediate steps to boost job growth.  Obama plans to press Congress for billions of dollars in
fresh spending to reduce unemployment as he also pursues a
compromise on long-term deficit cuts. He will begin by laying
out his ideas in a speech shortly after the U.S. Labor Day
holiday, which is Sept. 5.  With the U.S. unemployment rate at 9.1 percent and economic
growth slowing, Obama’s aides are working on a mix of tax cuts
and infrastructure spending beyond the measures he has been
promoting over the last several weeks, an administration
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because
details for the speech haven’t been completed.  Separately, Obama will present to a special 12-member
congressional committee charged with coming up with at least
$1.5 trillion in deficit reduction his own proposal for making
deeper cuts in the nation’s debt. It will include raising
government revenue as well as cutting entitlement programs such
as Social Security and Medicare, along the lines of the scuttled
deal he tried to strike with House Speaker  John Boehner  in July.  “I don’t think it’s good enough for us to just do it part
way,” Obama said yesterday at a town hall event in Atkinson,
Illinois. “If we’re going to do it, let’s go ahead and fix it.
And if we’re going to fix it, the only way I believe to do it in
a sensible way is you’ve got to have everything on the table.”  Slowing Growth  The administration is seeking a larger long-term deficit
deal to make room for short-term spending aimed at boosting the
economy at a time when growth has slowed and consumer confidence
is lagging.  Morgan Stanley & Co. yesterday lowered its forecast for
economic growth next year to 2.25 percent from 3 percent, citing
declines in business and  consumer confidence .  The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
yesterday to close at 1,193.89. The index had rallied 7.5
percent over the three days through Aug. 15 amid a decline in
jobless claims, an increase in retail sales and better-than-
estimated profits. The  S&P 500  is still down 12 percent from
April 29 on concern about  Europe  and an economic slowdown.  “More stimulus would benefit the economy, and that would
surely be a good thing,” said  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economic
adviser for Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto. The impact
“would depend on the size of the overall measures as well as
what they are and when they take place.”  Getting Through Congress  “The great issue is whether any such proposals would get
through Congress,” he said.  Republican congressional leaders are already lining up in
opposition to more federal spending.  “The American people understand that Washington can’t keep
spending money it doesn’t have,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican,
and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  wrote in an opinion
article published in  USA Today . “They want to see less
government -- not more taxes.”  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said
in a statement yesterday that Obama has “finally” reached the
conclusion that reducing the deficit will help the economy.  “But continuing the spending spree on failed stimulus
programs won’t shrink the deficit,” he said.  Obama said the country doesn’t have to choose between
 deficit reduction  and measures to stimulate the economy and
create jobs.  ‘We can do both in a sensible way,” he said.  Grand Bargain  Steps to spur jobs and raise revenue were part of the
discussion on a deal for deficit reduction and raising the debt
ceiling between the White House and Republicans before talks
broke down in July.  In an interview yesterday with  CBS News , Obama said that he
wished Boehner “had taken me up on a grand bargain to deal with
our long-term debt and deficit.”  “I will be putting forward a plan that will be similar to
the plan I put forward to the speaker,” Obama said in the
interview broadcast last night.  To offset the cost of the new initiatives, Obama will seek
additional long-term deficit reduction.  The administration wants “aggressive” steps on the
deficit “because it helps you pay for the kinds of things you
need to do in the near term to grow the economy and create
jobs,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said on  MSNBC ’s
“The Daily Rundown” program yesterday, without giving
specifics.  Bus Tour  Obama yesterday wrapped up a three-day bus tour through
 Minnesota ,  Iowa  and  Illinois  and is scheduled to leave for a 10-
day vacation at Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts, later today.  The president used his trip through the Midwest to
repeatedly call on voters to pressure Congress to embrace
measures that could improve the economy. At a forum on the rural
economy in Peosta, Iowa, on Aug. 15, he questioned “the refusal
of a faction of Congress to put country ahead of party” and the
“politics of the short term.”  “I need you to send a message,” Obama said yesterday in
Illinois. “I need  you to send a message to folks in
Washington: Stop drawing lines in the sand, stop engaging in
rhetoric instead of actually getting things done.”  He also sought to counter Republican opposition to raising
taxes for the wealthiest Americans, citing a New York Times
opinion article written by billionaire  Warren Buffett . The
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. chairman and chief executive wrote that
the nation’s richest individuals have been “coddled” and that
he paid a smaller percentage of his taxable income to the
government than anyone else in his office.  Tax Rates  “These days, the richer you are, the lower your tax
rate,” Obama said. “That can’t be something that is defensible
regardless of party.”  Adding to the political hurdles in front of any
administration proposals, voters are skeptical of both Obama and
Congress. Obama’s job approval rating was 40 percent in a  Gallup 
daily tracking poll taken Aug. 14-16 and it hit 39 percent the
day before, the lowest since he took office. Congressional
approval was at 13 percent, tying an all-time low, in a Gallup
Aug. 11-14 poll.  That was the sentiment of Jerry Smith, a dairy farmer and a
registered Republican who was among the crowd that got a
surprise visit from Obama yesterday at the Whiteside County Fair
in Morrison, Illinois.  “It’s a big mess,” he said. “You can blame it on
everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Alpha, Illinois, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  