-- 
Ohio Considers Letting Lawmakers, Citizens Belly Up to Bar in Statehouse

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-17T20:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/ohio-weighs-allowing-lawmakers-to-drink-alcohol-at-proposed-statehouse-bar.html
Ohio  lawmakers would be able to
knock back an evening beer or cocktail at the Statehouse cafe
under a proposal the board that runs the capitol is considering.  Milo’s Catering and Banquet Services, which serves food at
the Capitol Cafe in the basement of the Statehouse in Columbus
from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. weekdays, has proposed allowing alcohol to
be served after 5 p.m., said Gregg Dodd, a spokesman for the
Capitol Square Review and Advisory Board. It would be the
county’s only statehouse pub, according to the Associated Press.  “This is one of those things where the small business is
trying to enhance their operation and enhance their revenue,”
Dodd said in a telephone interview from Columbus.  Alcohol has been served at evening events at the Statehouse
since 1992, and Milo’s can dispense booze at private gatherings
outside business hours, Dodd said. The proposal would expand
that, he said. The board would not control the guest list,
though no political fundraisers will be permitted, Dodd said.  A committee is reviewing the request and will make a
recommendation to the full board in October, Dodd said.  The idea “sends a very negative message to the public,”
state Representative  Rex Damschroder , a Republican from Fremont,
wrote in a July 19 letter to the board.  Look Away, Children  “The Ohio Statehouse serves as a symbol of Ohio’s rich and
proud heritage and as a place where the public and school groups
visit every day to learn about our state’s history and watch
government in action,” Damschroder wrote in the letter provided
by Dodd. “There are plenty of bars in downtown Columbus, and
the Ohio Statehouse is the last place that should be added to
that list.”  The cafe was never intended to be just any dive, Louie
Pappas, who owns Milos Catering, told the  Associated Press .  “This has been twisted so many ways,” Pappas told the AP.
“We’re just trying to think outside the box and create a little
more revenue for that space.”  The bar at Mitchell’s Downtown down the street has been a
traditional watering hole for Columbus politicos. Jack Goodall,
the dining room manager there, said his guests are loyal and the
idea of whisky flowing in the halls of state doesn’t faze him.  “We have no problem whatsoever having another bar in
town,” Goodall said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  