-- 
Crude Oil Falls in New York on Signs Slowing Economy Will Curb Fuel Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-08-18T05:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/oil-declines-in-new-york-u-s-crude-inventories-show-unexpected-increase.html
Oil dropped from a two-day high in
New York as investors bet fuel demand will falter amid signs of
weaker growth in the U.S. and  Europe .  Futures declined as much as 0.7 percent today before
reports that may show U.S. jobless claims increased last week
and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region slowed this month.
Crude supplies rose 4.23 million barrels, an Energy Department
report showed. They were forecast to drop 500,000 barrels. Asian
equities fell after two Federal Reserve officials opposed a
pledge to keep U.S. interest rates at record lows.  “Continuing concerns over the health of the U.S. and
European economies will cap gains, which will be modest until
the end of the year,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at
Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “Crude oil will fluctuate
between $80 and $100 in the short term.”  Crude for September delivery slipped as much as 58 cents to
$87 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $87.23 at 1:56 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday gained 93 cents to $87.58, the highest since
Aug. 15. Prices are 16 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $110.61 a barrel,
up 1 cent, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday advanced $1.13, or 1 percent, to $110.60.
Prices are 45 percent higher the past year.  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude oil inventories rose to 354 million in the week
ended Aug. 12, according to the Energy Department report. The
nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve is releasing stockpiles in
coordination with the Paris-based  International Energy Agency .  The Energy Department has delivered 20.4 million barrels of
oil from emergency reserves since July 17, according to its
website. The government sold 30.64 million barrels to companies
in cooperation with the IEA.  Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate, fell 893,000 barrels to
33.7 million, the lowest since November, the report showed.
Gasoline inventories dropped 3.51 million barrels to 210
million. They were forecast to decline 1.18 million barrels,
according to the Bloomberg News survey. Stockpiles typically
shrink in summer amid the May-to-September peak driving season.  Refinery use dropped to 89.1 percent of capacity from 90
percent. U.S. refineries boost distillate-fuel output during the
second half of the year, making diesel for farm machinery and
heating oil for winter use in the Northern Hemisphere.  Equities Slide  Asian stocks fell for the first time in four days. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index slid 0.7 percent. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s pledge last week to keep  interest rates  near
zero until mid-2013 was “inappropriate policy at an
inappropriate time,”  Charles Plosser , president of the Fed Bank
of Philadelphia, said yesterday in a Bloomberg radio interview.  Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank
shouldn’t enact policy to protect stock investors. Both
officials dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9 statement.  U.S. initial jobless claims climbed by 5,000 to 400,000 in
the week ended Aug. 13, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey before a report today. Continuing claims
may have increased by 12,000 to 3.7 million.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index declined to 2 this month from 3.2 in July, according to
the median forecast of economists in a separate survey.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  this week rejected an expansion of the 440
billion-euro ($634 billion) rescue fund and rebuffed calls for
joint euro borrowing to end the debt crisis, saying greater
economic integration was needed first.  Technical Resistance  Oil in  New York  also fell after settling below technical
resistance at $87.59 a barrel for a second day yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the 38.2 percent
Fibonacci retracement of prices in the past year. A failure to
breach chart resistance usually means prices will extend a drop.  Exports of crude oil by OPEC member countries rose 2
percent in June after  Saudi Arabia  boosted shipments by 7.9
percent, according to data supplied to the Joint Organization
Data Initiative.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries shipped
22.54 million barrels a day in June, up from 22.11 million in
May, according to data posted on the website. The association is
supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum and
compiles data from primary sources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  