-- 
Oil Climbs in New York as U.S. Fuel Supply Drop Signals Increased Demand

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-17T12:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/oil-erases-gain-in-new-york-as-economic-concern-counters-stockpile-decline.html
Oil advanced to its highest price in
eight trading sessions in  New York  as investors bet that
shrinking fuel stockpiles in the U.S. indicate demand will
increase in the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures rose as much as 1.9 percent before an Energy
Department report today that may say crude and gasoline
stockpiles fell last week. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  said yesterday gasoline supplies slid the
most in almost five months. Inventories typically shrink in
summer amid the May-to-September peak driving season.  “It’s clearly the inventories supporting prices today,”
Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo who expects
the price of North Sea Brent oil to be capped at $118 a barrel
this quarter, said by phone. “It would be interesting to look
at the demand figures later today.”  Crude for September delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as $1.64 to $88.29 a barrel, the highest
price since Aug. 5, and was at $87.90 at 1:41 p.m.  London  time.
The contract yesterday slipped 1.4 percent to $86.65. Prices
have risen 16 percent in the past year.  Brent for October settlement climbed $1.41, or 1.3 percent,
to $110.54 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London. It lost 71 cents to $109.13 yesterday. The September
contract, which expired yesterday, fell 0.4 percent to $109.47.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles shrank 5.37 million barrels to
205.8 million last week, the biggest decline since the week
ended March 18, according to the API. Supplies are about 1.4
percent below their five-year average, API data shows. Demand
for the fuel peaks between the Memorial Day holiday in May and
Labor Day in early September.  The drop is “price supportive, there’s no doubt about it,
but I don’t think you can read too much into it,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty
in Sydney, who predicts crude will average $100 a barrel this
year. “I’d prefer to see what the Energy Department comes out
with. The market will watch to see how we go with producer
prices and the inventory data.”  U.S. crude-oil inventories rose 1.75 million barrels, the
API data showed. An Energy Department report today may show
crude supplies slipped 500,000 barrels and gasoline stockpiles
dropped 1.2 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  Tropical Storms  The API collects stockpile data on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed for its weekly survey.
Oil-supply totals from the API and the department have moved in
the same direction 71 percent of the time in the past year and
75 percent in the past four years.  Tropical Storm Greg in the Pacific off southwestern  Mexico 
is moving west-northwest with winds of 40 miles (64 kilometers)
per hour and may grow into a hurricane tomorrow, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said today. Tropical Storm Fernanda in
the Pacific between  Hawaii  and  Baja California  continued moving
west with winds of 50 mph.  Neither storm poses a threat to land, the NHC said.
Tropical Storm Gert has degenerated in the North Atlantic far
from land, according to the center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  