-- 
Hong Kong Brokerage Stocks Jump as Li Pledges China Investments

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-17T05:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/hong-kong-brokerage-stocks-jump-as-li-pledges-china-investments.html
Hong Kong brokerage shares rallied
after China’s Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  introduced new measures
for cross-border investing and pledged support for the city’s
financial industry.
       Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. (1788) , a brokerage
operating in Hong Kong and China, surged 13 percent as of the
midday trading break in Hong Kong and was poised for a record
gain. China Everbright Ltd. climbed 9.4 percent. The two
companies posted the biggest advances among stocks in the Hang
Seng Composite Index.  China will commit an initial 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion)
quota for Hong Kong companies to invest in the nation’s
securities and allow an exchange-traded fund linked to Hong Kong
stocks, Li said at an economic forum in Hong Kong today. He also
said China will expand the size of offshore bond sales by
Chinese companies and support the use of yuan for foreign direct
investment in the nation.  “The remarks were a catalyst for these stocks, enabling
them to rebound,” Ivan Li, deputy head of  Hong Kong  research at
Kim Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd., said by telephone today.
“The market had been expecting Chinese securities firms in Hong
Kong to be among the first overseas brokerages to invest in
China’s domestic equity market.”  Haitong Securities Co., the parent of Haitong International
Securities Group Ltd., was ranked fifth among local securities
firms in China domestic equity and rights offerings last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Haitong International
jumped 16 percent to HK$4.19 today.  Guotai Junan Securities Co., which is owned by Guotai Junan
International, took the eighth spot in the ranking of China
equity sales, the data show. Guotai Junan International shares
rose 13 percent to HK$2.96.  China  Everbright climbed 9.4 percent
to HK$12.34.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  