-- 
Top Stock Picker Jain Won’t Touch Chinese Banks on Bad Debt

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T07:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/top-stock-picker-jain-won-t-buy-china-banks-on-shockinghly-high-bad-debt.html
Bad loans at Chinese banks will rise
to “shockingly high” levels, eroding profits and slowing
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy, said Vontobel
Asset Management Inc.’s Rajiv Jain, who runs some of this year’s
best-performing mutual funds.  China ’s local governments are struggling to repay their
debt and “frothy” real-estate markets may leave banks exposed
to falling prices, Jain said in an Aug. 16 phone interview.
While valuations on Chinese banks have dropped to the lowest
levels since October 2008, Jain said the shares aren’t cheap
enough to buy because the lenders’ leverage is too high and
earnings are likely to disappoint investors.  “We have not owned a Chinese bank, and I don’t see owning
one any time soon,” said Jain, who oversees about $15 billion,
including three funds that beat 99 percent of peers this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. “If you look at the
accounting, I don’t see how anyone could put a penny there.”  The New York-based money manager’s outlook is at odds with
equity analysts, who predict gains of about 40 percent in
Chinese bank shares during the next 12 months, according to the
average of more than 900 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd.,  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  have 101 ratings equivalent to
“buy” and zero “sell” recommendations, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Record Lending  The MSCI China Financials Index dropped 2.1 percent at 3:14
p.m. in  Hong Kong . ICBC, the world’s biggest lender by market
value, retreated 2.2 percent. China Construction Bank slipped
0.6 percent and  Bank of China  lost 1 percent.  Chinese banks expanded credit at a record pace in 2009 and
2010, making more than 17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of new
loans as the government moved to offset a collapse in exports
during the global recession. About a third of local government
financing vehicles, used to get around laws prohibiting direct
borrowing, don’t have  cash flow  to service their debt, according
to China’s banking regulator.  Non-performing loans may climb to as high as 18 percent in
a “stress” case, Moody’s Investors Service said in a July 5
statement. China’s total bad-loan ratio was 1.1 percent at the
end of 2010, according to the central bank.  “We feel that the non-performing loans are going to be
shockingly high,” said Jain, who declined to give a specific
estimate for the amount of bad debt.  Top Performer  Jain’s $1.9 billion Virtus Emerging Markets Opportunities
Fund has climbed 15 percent during the past 12 months and rose
0.2 percent this year through Aug. 16, the best performance
among emerging-market stock funds with more than $500 million in
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jain’s Virtus
Foreign Opportunities Fund has returned 2.8 percent this year
and the Virtus Global Opportunities Fund climbed 4.2 percent,
the data show. The MSCI All-Country World Index has retreated
6.9 percent.  MSCI’s China Financials Index has dropped 17 percent this
year, sending the gauge to 8.8 times profits and 1.6 times net
assets, the lowest levels on a monthly basis since October 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares haven’t fallen
enough to compensate investors for the risks associated with
high leverage, low lending margins and management incentives
that may not maximize returns for shareholders, Jain said.  ‘Margin of Safety’  Government-controlled ICBC had a financial  leverage ratio ,
or total assets divided by common equity, of 16.5 at the end of
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with an average ratio of 12.7 for banks in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, the data show. ICBC’s net interest margin was
2.96 percent in the first quarter, compared with 6.1 percent for
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Brazil ’s biggest bank by market value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For the Chinese banks, “there’s no margin of safety for
us,” Jain said.  Analysts forecast gains for ICBC shares during the next 12
months, with an average price estimate of HK$7.14, compared with
the closing price of HK$5.12 in Hong Kong yesterday, according
to 25 projections compiled by Bloomberg.  The outlook for Chinese banks is positive for the second
half of 2011 because of “solid” earnings, low valuations and
the potential for “selective” easing of monetary policy,
Sandra Cai, an analyst at Samsung Securities in Hong Kong who
has a “buy” rating on ICBC, said in an Aug. 16 report.  Anti-Inflation Measures  Earnings of companies in the MSCI China financials index
climbed by an average 32 percent in the first quarter even as
the central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  three times
this year and lifted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios six
times.  The government may have limited room to use fiscal or
monetary stimulus to support lending and property markets
because of high inflation, according to Jain. China’s consumer
prices increased 6.5 percent from a year earlier in July, the
fastest pace in three years.  Outside the banking industry, Jain is finding opportunities
to invest in China. Baidu Inc., the country’s biggest Internet-
search company, was one of the top holdings in the Virtus
Emerging Markets Opportunities Fund at the end of July,
accounting for about 3.4 percent of assets, according to the
fund’s website.  No ‘Meltdown’ Coming  The stock is valued at 32 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for next year after climbing 43 percent in  New York 
since December, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with 8.7 times for the MSCI China Index.  The Chinese economy “will slow down, but these companies
should still be able to grow,” said Jain. “We are bearish but
we don’t feel there’s a meltdown coming.”  Morgan Stanley cut its estimate for Chinese economic growth
next year to 8.7 percent from 9 percent, according to an e-
mailed note today. Deutsche Bank AG lowered its prediction for
this year to 8.9 percent from 9.1 percent in a report yesterday.  Souza Cruz SA (CRUZ3) , Brazil’s biggest tobacco company, is another
holding that Jain says will benefit from rising consumer demand
in emerging markets. The shares trade for 15 times 2012 profit
estimates, almost double the ratio of 8 for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We don’t mind paying up a little bit,” said Jain. “We
are very bullish on the emerging markets story long term, we
just want to find the right spots.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 