-- 
Horizon Lines Misses Aug. 15 Payment on $330 Million in Convertible Notes

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-08-17T20:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/horizon-lines-misses-aug-15-payment-on-330-million-in-convertible-notes.html
Horizon Lines Inc. (HRZ) , the shipper
negotiating a debt restructuring with its lenders, missed an
Aug. 15 interest payment on its $330 million of convertible
notes and says it intends to make the payment as it announces an
anticipated deal with creditors.  Horizon Lines has “exercised the 30-day grace period” on
its 4.25 percent notes due in August 2012, Jim Storey, a
spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company, said
in an e-mailed statement. The company said June 1 that it had
entered into agreements with holders of the notes as part of a
debt restructuring they expected to complete this month.  The operator of  container ships  that serve the continental
U.S.,  Alaska ,  Hawaii  and the nation’s territories “intends to
make the payment when we announce the expected refinancing
transaction, which we anticipate in the near future,” Storey
said in the statement.  The bonds traded at 50 cents on the dollar today, according
to a person familiar with market prices. That’s down from 54.75
cents on Aug. 15, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
service of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. They’ve
dropped from 74.5 cents on July 13, Trace prices show.  Shares fell 1.6 percent to 87 cents as of 3:59 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Declining Volumes  Horizon Lines, which has had three years of mostly
declining container volumes, said the agreements it reached with
noteholders were part of a deal that would refinance its entire
 capital structure . In addition to the convertible debt, Horizon
Lines has a $225 million senior secured revolving credit
facility and a $125 million secured  term loan .  The refinancing included $350 million of new five-year,
first-lien, 9 percent senior secured notes and an “asset-
based” revolving loan of as much as $125 million that it was
negotiating with a lender, according to the statement in June.  The company amended the agreements seven times since the
announcement and last month extended a deadline by which it was
required to receive commitments from holders, according to a
July 29 regulatory  filing .  The shipper averted a potential May 21 default on the
convertible debt after a federal court agreed to reduce a $45
million fine by two-thirds at the request of the government.
Horizon Lines had agreed to pay the fine to resolve price-fixing
charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  