-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Paid Insiders $5.9 Million in Year Before Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-17T19:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/los-angeles-dodgers-paid-insiders-5-9-million-in-year-before-bankruptcy.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  paid company
insiders, defined as directors, officers and their relatives,
$5.9 million in the year before the Major League Baseball team
filed for bankruptcy, according to court documents.  The recipients’ names weren’t listed in the team’s
statement of financial affairs because the information is
confidential, Dodgers’ attorney Sidney Levinson told reporters
today after he met with creditors in Wilmington,  Delaware .  At the meeting, which was open to the public, the
creditors’ attorneys asked whether owner  Frank McCourt  took any
money from the team. Dodgers’ Chief Financial Officer Peter D. Wilhelm told them McCourt hadn’t received any compensation or
any loans for at least two years.  Instead, McCourt made an “equity contribution” of
$23.5 million within 90 days of the team’s June 27 bankruptcy.  The Dodgers have denied claims by  Major League Baseball 
that McCourt “siphoned off well over $100 million of club
revenues.” Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig and McCourt have
traded accusations about who is at fault for the team’s
financial woes.  Under the U.S. Bankruptcy code, companies are required to
list the names and amounts paid any insiders, who are generally
defined as top officers and equity owners.  U.S. Trustee  Mark S. Kenney, an attorney with the Office of the U.S.
Trustee, which hosted today’s meeting, declined to say why the
insider names weren’t made public. The U.S. Trustee monitors
bankruptcies on behalf of the  Justice Department  to ensure
compliance with the bankruptcy code’s filing requirements.  In court papers filed Aug. 12, the Dodgers listed two
categories of insider payments as aggregated amounts, without
any names attached. Current employees collected $3.82 million
between June 27, 2010, and June 26, 2011, according to the
statement. Former employees were said to have received $2.09
million in the same time period, including more than $987,000 in
severance pay.  The payments went to a “large number” of insiders,
Levinson said.  The team did name one executive who was paid $5,630: The
senior vice president of public affairs, Howard Sunkin, received
that amount for “Boston Red Sox Tickets for McCourt family and
guests.” No other explanation was given on the form.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at   sfarr@bloomberg.net  