-- 
Payback May Backfire as U.S. Presses BofA on Bad Mortgages

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-17T13:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/payback-may-backfire-as-u-s-presses-bofa-on-bad-mortgages-1-.html
Efforts by U.S. regulators and
government-controlled firms to recoup billions of dollars from
 Bank of America Corp.  for faulty mortgages may backfire, hurting
the same taxpayers they’re meant to protect.  After committing more than $30 billion for claims and
writedowns, the bank faces a $10 billion  lawsuit  from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  alleging “massive fraud.” Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac stepped up efforts to extract refunds beyond the
$5.1 billion already expected. The lender is also the biggest
target of a 50-state  foreclosure  probe seeking $20 billion from
the five largest home lenders and an $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
accord that includes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  Regulators behind these companies and agencies are walking
a thin line between success and renewed crisis, according to
 Neil Barofsky , former special inspector general for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program. While each is pushing for its own
interests, their collective demands could leave the nation’s
biggest lender needing another taxpayer rescue, Barofsky said.  “There is an inherent conflict,” said Barofsky, who’s now
a senior fellow at New York University School of Law. “As a
policy matter, is it really a good idea to permit a government-
controlled entity to potentially provoke a global meltdown by
laying claims against Bank of America?”  Capital Debate  New York-based AIG, Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac are each almost 80 percent owned by
U.S. taxpayers after 2008 rescues conducted at the depths of the
financial crisis. Created by Congress to boost U.S.
homeownership by buying loans, the two mortgage firms have
already received more than $170 billion in taxpayer funds, while
AIG at its height received $182 billion.  Concern about the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
swelled as its stock plunged earlier this month to a two-year
low. It  traded  at $7.53 as of 9:44 a.m. today in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Bank of America lost as much as half
its value this year amid speculation it will sell new shares to
raise capital, a move Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
has said won’t be necessary.  Moynihan told investors Aug. 10 that if there’s no
recession, the bank is “very comfortable” it can meet
international  capital  goals through earnings and asset sales,
buoyed by conditions that are better than when the credit crisis
broke out in 2007. The lender’s July earnings statement said the
company is “creating a fortress balance sheet.”  John E. McDonald, the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
with an “outperform”  rating  on the shares, estimated this week
the bank will face only $15 billion of new buyback losses. Even
if losses are four times that number, the bank will still exceed
minimum capital thresholds, McDonald wrote.  More Claims  By contrast, Bank of America may face another $62 billion
in losses from repurchasing bad mortgages under a worst-case
scenario dated Aug. 10 by Chris Gamaitoni, a former  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
senior financial analyst who now works for Compass Point
Research and Trading LLC. That’s including $17.8 billion Bank of
America had set aside to cover such costs at the end of June.  Claims totaling $11.6 billion were outstanding at midyear,
including the $5.1 billion by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
company said in its second-quarter presentation. While some
reserves have been set aside, the bank said it  expects  more
demands from private investors that may total $5 billion or more
over existing accruals.  As for the $8.5 billion settlement with a group that
includes the New York Fed,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment
Management Co., that’s being challenged by a group of Federal
Home Loan Banks who say the sum is too small. The U.S.-backed
cooperatives claim a reasonable settlement could exceed $27.5
billion.  Capital Ratios  “BofA is getting hit from all fronts,” said Mark Williams, a former Federal Reserve bank examiner who is now an
executive-in-residence at Boston University’s School of
Management. “Its too-big-to-fail size and wobbly financial
condition has put it in the middle of a potential regulatory
tug-of-war.”  Bank of America traded for as little as 50 percent of its
tangible book value, the lowest among the 10 largest U.S.
lenders, reflecting doubt about the true worth of its assets.
The company listed $222 billion in shareholders’ equity as of
June 30.  By the end of 2012, the bank has said it expects to have a
 capital ratio  of between 6.75 percent and 7 percent as measured
by the Basel III accords, which were designed to head off
another financial crisis by requiring banks to hold more
capital. Starting in 2013, Basel III rules require a ratio of
3.5 percent, expanding for firms like Bank of America to 9.5
percent by 2019, finance chief Bruce R. Thompson said.  AIG’s Suit  The conflict came into focus this month as AIG sued to
recover more than $10 billion in losses suffered on $28 billion
of mortgage securities, saying it was duped by Bank of America.
The lender rejected the allegations, saying AIG’s own “excesses
and errors” led to the losses.  Days before, the bank’s quarterly filing said Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee about half of the almost
$11 trillion U.S. mortgage market, had become “more rigid” in
resolving their demands for refunds. Fannie Mae’s most recent
quarterly  report  said its increasing number of claims raises the
risk that banks “will not be willing or able” to meet their
obligations.  Bank of America took $45 billion in U.S. aid plus asset
guarantees under former CEO Kenneth D. Lewis, and has since
repaid the sum. When Moynihan, 51, was named his successor in
late 2009, he said his goals included making sure the bank would
never again need government help, calling that task a “solemn
duty” in a 2010 essay.  Most of the claims stem from mortgages made by the lender
and Countrywide Financial Corp., which Lewis purchased in 2008,
using underwriting standards that were later criticized by
lawmakers and regulators as too lax.  Packaged Loans  The loans were packaged into securities and sold to Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac with a promise to buy them back if they
contained defects such as false information about borrowers or
properties. When defaults began to pile up, so did demands from
the two mortgage firms for refunds, totaling $27.7 billion on
loans originated by Bank of America and Countrywide from 2004
through 2008. The company had resolved $22 billion of those
claims through year-end.  Lawmakers are pressing Fannie Mae, which hasn’t posted an
annual profit since 2006, and Freddie Mac to shift more of the
burden back to banks that created defective loans. In an August
2010 letter to President  Barack Obama , Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who led the House Financial
Services Committee at the time, said the battle to get refunds
“should be fought with every tool.”  Pressing for Settlement  The danger is that added claims and losses may destabilize
the bank, said Williams, the former Fed examiner. Bank of
America posted a record second-quarter loss of $8.8 billion, its
sixth deficit in the past 11 quarters. It’s the largest U.S.
mortgage servicer, which involves billing, collections and
foreclosures, and handles about one-fourth of Fannie Mae’s
single-family loans.  Moynihan met Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Fed
governor Daniel Tarullo last week to press for a settlement of
the state mortgage foreclosure probes, said two people with
direct knowledge of the event. An agreement among banks, state
attorneys general and the Department of Justice would enable
lenders to resolve  delinquent  loans and allow the U.S. housing
market to recover, Moynihan told the officials.  Barofsky and James Cox, a Duke University law professor in
Durham, North Carolina, said they supported efforts by AIG,
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to pursue large penalties. “There
are no political gains and only gigantic potential losses by
further appearing to involve the government in private
industry,” Cox said.  Duty Roster  The Obama administration won’t take part in management
decisions of the companies it owns, according to Treasury
Department spokesman  Mark Paustenbach . Barofsky said he “never
got a single bit of pushback” from Treasury when he was the
inspector general to go easy on the largest U.S. banks, a
sentiment echoed by Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman for the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency .  The FHFA, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is
obliged by law to protect the assets and property of the two
enterprises, and that duty requires “first and foremost,
minimizing credit losses from delinquent mortgages,” Russell
said in an e-mailed statement. The refund demands are “an
important part of minimizing credit losses by holding
originators accountable.”  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, Mark Herr at
AIG, and  Jack Gutt  at the New York Fed declined to comment for
this article.  State Cases  At the state level, the duty of the attorneys general in
civil actions is to advocate for their clients -- in this case,
their taxpayers -- and let the defendants and their guarantors
deal with the consequences, said William K. Black, a former bank
regulator and now an economics and law professor at the
University of Missouri Kansas City. New York may be among states
omitted from an accord between Bank of America and the states
because Attorney General Eric Schneiderman doesn’t want a deal
that would impede his probe into mortgage securitization, said
two people with direct knowledge of the talks.  The results may not be good policy, according to Tim Rood,
a partner and managing director at The Collingwood Group, a
Washington-based firm that specializes in housing issues.  “I don’t think the AGs should be overly ambitious on how
big the settlement should be, at the risk of damaging already
fragile institutions,” Rood said. “We risk the unintended
consequences of having to, in one form or fashion, bail them out
of the financial hole that we are now digging for them.”  Geoff Greenwood, spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who’s leading the 50-state probe, said officials are
aware of the need to balance competing interests.  “We’ve been criticized by some as not being hard enough on
the banks and by others for being too tough on them,” Greenwood
said in a phone interview. “Welcome to our world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 