-- 
Farm Aid Shrinks as U.S. Debt Deal Means No Bailout

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-17T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/peppers-wilt-as-barley-drowns-for-farmers-who-can-t-tap-tax-aid.html
Sunburn is hard to avoid in the heat
of a southeast  Texas  summer. Even the watermelons have it this
year.  James Wiggins has turned six irrigation engines onto the
fruit on 2,000 acres spread across his three farms in Texas
almost every day since May. While he does his best to protect
the skin of the melons and ensure their growth, he says about
half will weigh 12 pounds instead of the usual 15 to 22 pounds.
At least a quarter of the crop may fail.  “We’ve never had a year that we’ve had to water this
much,” Wiggins, 64, said in an interview. “Even with water,
the fruits have been mostly small. And with the heat, most of it
is sunburned before it even gets ripe.”  Extreme weather that is reducing yields of corn, wheat,
cotton and soybeans is also taking a toll on smaller crops,
leaving pockets of losses in a farm economy the government says
may produce a record $94.7 billion in profit this year, thanks
to higher prices for the crops that do reach harvest and better
weather in other parts of the country.  From growers of Texas watermelons and Oklahoma peppers to
 North Dakota  barley, farmers in the central and southern U.S.
endured drought or flooding, Bloomberg Government reported.  Extra U.S. taxpayer aid to farmers, along the lines of
disaster bills that cost more than $30 billion in the late 1990s
and early 2000s, isn’t likely now because of the federal
deficit, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack told reporters on a
conference call Aug. 8.  “We have worked very hard to do what we can within the
existing authorities that we have,” Vilsack said.  Delaying Repayment  In response to the drought and other weather disasters, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  has offered loans to cover costs,
let growers delay repayment on previous obligations and allowed
cattle to graze on acreage set aside for conservation.  Farmers aren’t expecting the federal government to bail
them out, according to Mark Seastrand, a North Dakota barley
farmer.  “Most of us realize that’s a thing of the past,”
Seastrand, 46, said in an interview.  A 10-month drought centered in Texas that spread through
Oklahoma,  New Mexico ,  Arizona  and  Kansas  has moved into Corn
Belt states such as Iowa and  Illinois , according to the Aug. 9
 U.S. Drought Monitor . The dry weather has “left little hope”
for crops that rely on rain for irrigation, according to an
earlier report.  Chile Peppers  After July’s heat wave, the USDA on Aug. 11 reduced its
estimate of the corn harvest by 4.1 percent. Corn, valued at
$66.7 billion in 2010, is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by
soybeans, hay and wheat. All crops were valued at a record
$192.5 billion last year. Of the total, fruits and nuts
accounted for $20.2 billion, and vegetables $12.6 billion.  That includes $135 million in chile peppers, like those
Merlin Schantz grows on his 200-acre farm, 60 miles (97
kilometers) west of  Oklahoma  City.  This year, his plants, used in foods from hot sauce to
sausage, have been withered by drought.  “Right now, we’re going to be at a total or near-total
loss” on crops that aren’t irrigated, said Schantz, 52, whose
family lives in the house where he grew up near Hydro, a town
whose name has taken an ironic cast this summer. “If we have an
early freeze, we’ll be devastated.”  Without better weather, Schantz said he may lose as much as
$250,000 in revenue, a quarter of what his farm usually grosses
annually.  California  Citrus  Better weather is helping some farmers. In the Northeast, a
sunny summer has improved fruit crops, and in California, the
nation’s largest agricultural producer, cooler temperatures have
boosted citrus harvests, according to the USDA.  Temperatures in states from  Nebraska  to  Ohio  still averaged
6 degrees to 9 degrees Fahrenheit above normal in the first week
of August, according to the USDA. In July, parts of the Midwest,
the main growing region for corn and soybeans, were the hottest
since 1955.  Farm losses have already cost insurers such as  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  almost $700 million, according to the USDA.
More than $520 million of crop insurance payments have gone for
drought and $88 million for flooding, with the rest for damage
from diseases, tornadoes and other causes.  Floods slowed planting and swamped crops in the northern
Great Plains and along the Missouri River.  ‘Battling Mud’  “We’ve been battling mud in the fields,” Seastrand said.
He planted 1,600 acres of barley, wheat and soybeans this year
outside Sheyenne, North Dakota, down from the usual 2,200 acres.
Seastrand’s barley is turned to malt for Budweiser beer made by
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. (ABI)   North Dakota, the top U.S. producer of barley last year,
will fall behind Idaho and  Montana  this year with a 43 percent
smaller crop, the  USDA said  Aug. 11.  Russ Harville, manager of barley malt procurement for
Anheuser-Busch, a division of Leuven, Belgium-based Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV, said in an e-mailed statement that the company’s
“geographical diversification, strong inventories of choice
barley, long-term barley contracts and grower relationships
allow us the ability to manage through these conditions.”  Last year’s U.S. barley crop was valued at $691.1 million.  Watermelon-grower Wiggins said the high cost of fuel needed
to move the scarce water available through irrigation systems to
fields will make it a break-even year for farmers around Snook,
a town in  Burleson County , Texas, that claims the invention of
chicken-fried bacon. U.S. farmers grew about $492 million in
watermelons last year.  Irrigation costs have grown threefold, and the workforce
can’t be cut because harvesting will have to be done quickly,
according to Wiggins, who has a farm near Snook.  “If you cut down on the number of employees harvesting and
packing, it’ll take too long and more melons go bad,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  