-- 
Petrobras CFO Says Brazil Forces Maintenance After BP Spill

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-17T17:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/petrobras-to-maintain-2011-output-targets-cfo-barbassa-says.html
Brazilian regulators are forcing
state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to shut production
equipment more frequently for maintenance after BP Plc’s  Gulf of
Mexico   oil spill , the company’s chief financial officer said.  Increased shutdowns and project delays contributed to
slower gains in output in the second quarter, CFO Almir Barbassa
told investors during a conference call today. The Rio de
Janeiro-based company’s production rose 2 percent in the first
half, its slowest growth since 2007.  “There’s been an impact from the Gulf of Mexico,
authorities are calling for stoppages in situations where it
didn’t happen before,” Barbassa said. “Today we halt
production in much less critical situations.”  Petrobras aims to increase domestic production about 5
percent this year to an average of 2.1 million barrels of oil a
day as it adds two offshore platforms and boosts output at Lula,
Brazil’s largest discovery. A blowout at BP’s Macondo well in
April 2010 has cost the company about $41 billion in charges.  Petrobras must add enough production to compensate for
declining output at older fields and will likely fall short of
its target even with the new platforms, said  Adriano Pires , head
of the Rio de Janeiro-based Brazilian Center for Infrastructure.  “I think that this will be impossible,” Pires said in a
telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “I don’t think they
will increase more than 1 or 2 percent.”  Dwindling Deposits  Petrobras fell 10 centavos, or 0.5 percent, to 20.66 reais
in  Sao Paulo  at 1:10 p.m. New York time. The stock has dropped
24 percent this year, more than the 22 percent decline in
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Petrobras is developing Lula and other deep-water fields at
a time production wanes at its largest developments closer to
shore in the Campos Basin, which supplies about 85 percent of
 Brazil ’s production.  Output at Roncador, Petrobras’s largest producing field in
Campos, fell 5 percent in the first six months of 2011 to
287,000 barrels a day in June, according to Brazil’s oil
regulator. Petrobras has increased investments in these fields
because it is more difficult to extract oil from dwindling
deposits, Barbassa said.  Petrobras will test new technology later this year to
separate water from oil on the ocean floor to improve output, he
said. Oil wells often pump increasing volumes of water from
reservoirs as the amount of oil depletes, reducing production.  Pre-Salt Drilling  Petrobras is also drilling deeper at the Campos Basin to
find oil trapped below a layer of salt, which the company began
to identify over the past decade as technology advanced.  Petrobras has at least 1.3 billion barrels of recoverable
reserves locked in so-called pre-salt fields that are near
existing platforms in Campos. Three of Brazil’s 10 most
productive wells in June tapped pre-salt fields in the area.  Last month, Petrobras increased its long-term production
target 19 percent to 6.4 million barrels a day of oil and
natural gas in 2020 as the company develops the largest group of
oil discoveries on Earth over the past five years.  Still, a policy requiring the producer to buy goods and
services from local companies will stunt growth, Banco Safra has
said in a research report to clients.  Offshore Maintenance  “The goals of local content often slow development because
it reduces the possibility of bringing technology and people
from outside,” Joao Felix, Schlumberger Ltd.’s vice president
of technology and marketing for  Latin America , said in an
interview in June.  Petrobras is completing maintenance at some offshore units
this month and will accelerate production during the fourth
quarter, Eduardo Molinari, a production coordinator at
Petrobras, said on today’s conference call.  Petrobras’s production outside Brazil fell 5 percent in the
first half after the company cancelled contracts in  Ecuador  and
received a smaller share of output from  Nigeria ’s Agbami field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Saponar at 
 rsaponar@bloomberg.net  