-- 
Philippine Bonds Gain After Seven-Year Debt Auction; Peso Falls

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-08-17T09:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/philippine-bonds-gain-after-seven-year-debt-auction-peso-falls.html
Philippine bonds advanced after the
government sold seven-year debt at a yield below secondary
market rates. The peso retreated, ending a two-day rally.  The Bureau of the Treasury sold 9 billion pesos ($212
million) of debt due August 2018 yesterday at a coupon of 5
percent. Bids totaled 44.06 billion pesos. The peso fell on
concern the debt crisis in Europe may worsen after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
rejected an expansion of the 440 billion-euro rescue fund and
rebuffed calls for joint euro borrowing.  “People started buying bonds on the strong demand at the
auction yesterday,” said Angeline Sia, a fixed-income trader
who helps manage the equivalent of $14 billion at BPI Asset
Management Inc. in Manila. “The yield was a lot lower than the
market expected and the longer-term bonds rallied.”  The yield on the 5.875 percent bond due January 2018 slid
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.05 percent as
of 3:37 p.m. in Manila, according to Amstel Financial Services.  Sarkozy and Merkel agreed yesterday to press for closer
euro-area cooperation, tougher deficit rules and a harmonization
of their corporate tax rates. The leaders of  Europe ’s two
biggest economies spoke after a two-hour meeting in Paris as
investors clamored for indications that they would do more to
end the euro-area debt crisis amid a slowdown in their economies.  Concern that some governments in the region will struggle
to pay their debt bolstered demand for dollars in recent months
and cooled demand for emerging-market assets.  “The worries in Europe are preventing the peso from
strengthening as everyone is wary of negative news,” said
Rafael Algarra, treasurer at Security Bank Corp. in Manila.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 42.445 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  