-- 
Plosser Says Federal Reserve May Have to Increase Rates Before Mid-2013

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-17T19:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/plosser-says-fed-will-likely-need-to-raise-interest-rates-before-mid-2013.html
Charles Plosser , president of the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia, said the Fed will probably
need to raise interest rates before mid-2013 and that policy
makers should have waited to see how the economy performed
before pledging to hold rates at record lows for two years.  “It was inappropriate policy at an inappropriate time,”
Plosser, 62, said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. Plosser spoke in
his first interview since he dissented from a Fed decision on
Aug. 9 to step up stimulus for an economic recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  The economy may not need additional monetary stimulus, with
inflation rising and unemployment declining since November to
9.1 percent, he said. Plosser hasn’t significantly cut his
forecast for 2012 economic growth as the impact from “shocks”
like the earthquake in Japan subsides, he said in an interview
in New York with Bloomberg News editors and reporters.  Plosser,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and Narayana Kocherlakota
of  Minneapolis  opposed the Fed’s commitment to hold the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low near zero until at least
mid-2013, saying they preferred to maintain a low-rate pledge
for an unspecified “extended period.” The last time three
policy makers dissented was in November 1992.  The Fed is “reacting too quickly here,” Plosser said. “A
little patience might be a good idea.” He said the central
bank’s depiction of the economy in its Aug. 9 statement was
“excessively negative,” and he wants to wait until next month
to see if the economic rebound anticipated in the second half of
2011 materializes. He also said he is concerned that inflation
will accelerate in 2012 and 2013.  Stocks Decline  The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index fell 0.1 percent to
1,191.50 at 3:02 p.m. in  New York , while yields on 10-year
Treasuries fell to 2.174 percent from 2.22 percent yesterday.  The Fed didn’t commit to hold rates low until mid-2013 in
response to a global stock market rout in the days leading up to
the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting, Plosser said. Still, he said he is
concerned investors may interpret the decision as a reaction to
equities.  Fisher said today the central bank shouldn’t ease monetary
policy whenever there is a big drop in U.S. stock prices, an
action he said some traders might view as a “Bernanke put.”  “My long-standing belief is that the Federal Reserve
should never enact such asymmetric policies to protect stock
market traders and investors,” Fisher said today in a speech in
Midland,  Texas . “I believe my FOMC colleagues share this
view.”  Lifeline for Economy  The central bank shouldn’t be viewed as a lifeline for the
economy when Congress and the White House can’t agree on
providing more fiscal stimulus, Plosser said.  It’s “a big mistake for policy makers inside the Fed to
believe if fiscal policy is hamstrung that the Fed has to act,”
he said. “That is not a good reason to act.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 9 also discussed
“the range of policy tools available to promote a stronger
economic recovery” and said it’s “prepared to employ these
tools as appropriate.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in July
that the Fed may take new action if the economy stalls,
including beginning a new round of bond purchases.  Plosser said he hasn’t ruled out the use of “policy
tools” including a third round of asset purchases to combat an
emergence of deflation or to address turmoil in financial
markets.  “Clearly we would have to respond as lender-of-last-
resort,” and “that might include more bond purchases,”
Plosser said, adding he doesn’t foresee such a crisis happening.  Weak Economy  The economy grew at a weaker-than-projected 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, a July 29 government report
said. Growth in the prior quarter slowed to a 0.4 percent pace.
It was the weakest three-month period since the recovery began
in June 2009.  Growth is expected to pick up to a 2.1 percent pace in the
third quarter, according to the median forecast of 53 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 2 to Aug. 10. Economic growth at
that pace isn’t strong enough to steadily drive down the
 unemployment rate , Bernanke has said.  Hiring also has weakened, the Fed said on Aug. 9. Employers
added an average 72,000 jobs in the three months through July,
down from an average 217,000 in the prior three months. The
unemployment rate dropped to 9.1 percent in July, from 9.2
percent, because thousands of people stopped looking for work.  The Fed’s pledge to keep interest rates low for two years
probably won’t accelerate growth, Plosser said.  “What we did isn’t going to work,” he said. “Our
problems are not problems easily addressed by monetary policy,”
he said, adding that the Fed is “risking its credibility
because it’s doing things that don’t work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  