-- 
Fed Dissenters Say Pledge Gives Appearance of Targeting Stocks

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-08-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/plosser-fisher-say-fed-shouldn-t-prop-up-stocks-through-monetary-policy.html
Two Federal Reserve policy makers
said the central bank’s commitment to keep its benchmark rate
near zero for two years may create a misperception it’s aimed at
boosting stocks, which contributed to their opposition.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in an
interview yesterday that taking action after stocks tumbled
“signaled that we are in the business of supporting the stock
market.”  Richard Fisher , the Dallas Fed chief, said in a speech
that the Fed “should never enact such asymmetric policies to
protect stock market traders and investors.” Both also said the
policy won’t help spur growth.  Plosser, Fisher and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis 
voted against last week’s Fed decision to hold the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low until at least mid-2013, the most
dissent in almost 19 years. The move followed an 18 percent drop
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks from the end of
April through Aug. 8.  “It was inappropriate policy at an inappropriate time,”
Plosser said yesterday in a radio interview in New York on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
Policy makers will probably need to raise rates before 2013 and
should have waited to see how the economy performed, he said.  The economy may not need additional monetary stimulus, with
inflation rising and unemployment declining since November to
9.1 percent, Plosser said. He hasn’t cut his forecast for 2012
economic growth “very much” as the impact from “shocks” like
the earthquake in Japan subsides, Plosser said yesterday in an
interview in New York with Bloomberg News editors and reporters.
At the beginning of the year, Plosser forecast growth of 3
percent to 3.5 percent in 2012.  ‘Excessively Negative’  The Fed is “reacting too quickly here,” Plosser said. “A
little patience might be a good idea.” He said the central
bank’s depiction of the economy in its Aug. 9 statement was
“excessively negative,” and he wants to wait until next month
to see if the economic rebound anticipated in the second half of
2011 materializes. Plosser also said he is concerned that
inflation will accelerate in 2012 and 2013.  The  S&P 500 index (SPX)  rose 0.1 percent to 1,193.89 yesterday,
while yields on 10-year Treasuries fell to 2.17 percent from
2.22 percent on Aug. 16.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  didn’t commit to hold
rates low until mid-2013 in response to a global stock market
rout in the days leading up to the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting, Plosser
said. Fisher also said yesterday monetary easing shouldn’t be
used to boost stocks. “I believe my FOMC colleagues share this
view,” Fisher said in Midland,  Texas .  ‘Bernanke Put’  Some traders might view the easing of monetary policy as a
“Bernanke put,” or the idea that the central bank will loosen
credit after a stock-market decline, Fisher said.  Both Fisher and Plosser also said the central bank
shouldn’t be viewed as a lifeline for the economy when Congress
and the White House can’t agree on providing more fiscal
stimulus.  “I believe what is restraining our economy is not monetary
policy but fiscal misfeasance in  Washington ,” Fisher said.
Instead, the government must build a “modern, appropriate set
of fiscal and regulatory levers and pulleys” to encourage
investment by private companies, he said.  The FOMC on Aug. 9 also discussed “the range of policy
tools available to promote a stronger economic recovery” and
said it’s “prepared to employ these tools as appropriate.”
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in July that the Fed may take new
action if the economy stalls, including beginning a new round of
bond purchases.  Asset Purchases  Plosser said he hasn’t ruled out the use of “policy
tools” including a third round of asset purchases to combat an
emergence of deflation or to address financial-market turmoil.  “Clearly we would have to respond as lender of last
resort,” Plosser said. He said he doesn’t foresee such a crisis
happening.  Fisher told reporters following his speech that he opposes
additional asset purchases because they’d accomplish little
given ample liquidity available in the economy.  The economy grew at a weaker-than-projected 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter. Growth may pick up to a 2.1
percent pace in the third quarter, according to the median
forecast of 53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 2 to
Aug. 10. Economic growth at that pace isn’t strong enough to
steadily drive down the  unemployment rate , Bernanke has said.  Hiring also has weakened. Employers added an average 72,000
jobs in the three months through July, down from an average
217,000 in the prior three months. The unemployment rate dropped
to 9.1 percent in July, from 9.2 percent, because thousands of
people stopped looking for work.  The Fed’s pledge to keep interest rates low for two years
probably won’t accelerate growth, Plosser said.  “What we did isn’t going to work,” he said. “Our
problems are not problems easily addressed by monetary policy,”
he said, adding that the Fed is “risking its credibility
because it’s doing things that don’t work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  