-- 
Polish Zloty Weakens Versus Swiss Franc, Snaps Four-Day Rally

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-08-17T10:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/polish-zloty-weakens-versus-swiss-franc-snaps-four-day-rally.html
The zloty weakened versus the franc
to snap a four-day rally after the Swiss central bank stopped
short of adopting a target rate or temporary peg to the euro.  The Polish currency slid as much as 2.1 percent versus the
Swiss currency and traded at 3.6497 as of 11:59 a.m. in Warsaw,
down 0.6 percent on the day. It appreciated 0.2 percent to
4.1395 against the euro.  The  Swiss National Bank  will boost liquidity to the money
market, expanding banks’ sight deposits, or money that can be
accessed immediately, to 200 billion francs ($254 billion) from
120 billion francs, it said in a statement from Zurich today.
The currency retreated from its record against the euro reached
last week after President Thomas Jordan has said policy makers
are assessing “a whole range of options,” with a temporary
currency peg to the euro among the legal possibilities.  “The mood towards the entire region remains cautions on
the back of” the  Swiss franc ’s advance, said  Nigel Rendell ,
senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in  London . “If
the Swiss central bank continues with half-hearted measure to
stop the appreciation it will still attract safe haven flows as
the global situation is uncertain.”  The franc reached a record high against the zloty on Aug.
11, reflecting investor concern that the  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
may continue to worsen. A strong franc is bad for homeowners who
bought their property with foreign-currency loans as repayments
rise.  The total value of franc-denominated home loans in  Poland 
reached 151.8 billion zloty ($53 billion) at the end of June and
represented 53 percent of all mortgages outstanding, according
to the financial market regulator’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  