-- 
Posen’s BOE Stimulus Push Shapes Debate as European Debt Crisis Persists

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-18T13:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/posen-s-boe-stimulus-push-shapes-debate-as-european-debt-crisis-persists.html
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen ’s 11-month push for more stimulus is now shaping the
debate among officials as they consider whether the U.K. needs
more quantitative easing to fight the danger of  Europe ’s crisis.  With no policy maker seeking an interest-rate increase
after  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  switched votes, the
discussion on the Monetary Policy Committee has shifted toward
Posen’s agenda. He has pushed since October to increase the
bank’s 200 billion-pound ($261 billion) bond-purchase plan.  At stake is whether the U.K. can withstand an intensifying
debt crisis in its biggest export market at a time when the
domestic economy is struggling to grow and unemployment is
rising. Spending cuts by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government to reduce Britain’s deficit have left the onus on the
Bank of England to provide stimulus if the recovery falters.  “QE is potentially a lot closer than it would have
appeared just a few weeks ago,”  Ken Wattret , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in London, said in a telephone interview. We are
in a “period of negative spillover effects from markets to the
real economy and we are by no means at the end of that. If
anything, that will probably intensify in the next few weeks.”  Minutes of the nine-member MPC’s Aug. 3-4 meeting published
yesterday showed some officials “considered whether there was a
case for increasing” the bond plan. Posen, 44, was the only one
to vote to add to purchases, calling for a 50 billion-pound
increase.  Policy Shift  The decision was the first since May 2010 without a vote
for higher interest rates. ABN Amro Bank NV pushed back its
forecast for a rate increase to May 2012 from February after the
minutes, while  Barclays Capital  also changed its view and now
sees the bank on hold until August 2012.  The unanimous vote to hold the benchmark at a record-low
0.5 percent marks a shift from earlier this year, when
accelerating inflation pushed three policy makers to favor
higher borrowing costs.  Andrew Sentance , whose term ended in
May, had sought a half-point increase, while Weale and Dale
wanted a quarter-point move.  “The hawks have thrown in the towel,” said Nida Ali, an
economic adviser at Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club. “More
quantitative easing has gone from being a mere back-up option to
being a genuine possibility in the near future.”  ‘Holding My Nerve’  Posen raised the prospect of restarting the asset-purchase
program in September 2010 and has voted for it at every meeting
since October.  Monetary policy  “should continue to be
aggressive about promoting recovery,” he said on Sept. 28. In
March, he said he wouldn’t seek a second term at the central
bank if he had “made the wrong call.”  “I am accountable for my performance,” he told the
 Guardian  newspaper. “I’m holding my nerve because it is the
right thing to do.”  With the U.K. recovery showing signs of faltering, his
opinion may be gaining sway. Jobless-benefit claims rose 37,100
to 1.56 million in July, the biggest gain since May 2009, data
yesterday showed. The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  has fallen 7 percent this
month amid a global stock selloff sparked by concern that Europe
will fail to contain its debt crisis and that the global
recovery is cooling.  “Recent developments in world stock markets and in the
euro areaa are of particular concern,”  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  said in a letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne published Aug. 16. A week earlier, he said
headwinds are “becoming stronger by the day.”  Rate Bets  U.K. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter and investors have pushed back bets on when the bank
will raise rates until after July next year, data from Tullett
Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the sterling overnight
interbank average show. The pound has weakened against 10 of 16
major peers tracked by Bloomberg in the past six months, while
10-year bond yields have fallen to a record low.  Other central banks have responded to threats to their
economies. The  European Central Bank  began buying bonds of Italy
and  Spain  this month to lower yields on the nations’ debt. The
 Swiss National Bank  is boosting liquidity to the money market to
weaken the franc and protect exports, while the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to hold its main  interest rate  near zero at least until
mid-2013, saying U.S. growth is “considerably slower” than
anticipated.  ‘Sticking Point’  In the U.K., inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in July,
more than double the bank’s goal. That may continue to divide
the MPC and keep a majority from voting for more QE, according
to  Alan Clarke , chief U.K. economist at  Scotia Capital  in
London.  “The only sticking point is whether they can justify
pulling the trigger on QE when inflation is heading to 5
percent,” he said. “There’s nothing they can do about it. It’s
not happening because the recovery is overheating. It will still
be a hard sell.”  Clarke sees a 45 percent chance the bank will expand its
bond program in the next year, with November being the earliest
it may happen.  Weale said today that while he ended his call for higher
interest rates this month as global growth showed signs of
weakening, he doesn’t think it’s time for the central bank to
expand its bond-purchase program.  ‘Strike a Balance’  “I don’t think it is,” Weale said in an interview
broadcast on BBC Radio Scotland, when asked if it was time for
more quantitative easing. “When we form our view, we have to
strike a balance between different forces on the economy. There
were international headwinds affecting the growth rate, but we
do also have to remember the inflation rate is very high.”  So far, the MPC members who have raised the prospect of
more stimulus say the case is “not yet strong enough,”
according to the minutes. Still, they added that further asset
purchases might “become warranted were some of the downside
risks to materialize.”  “It’s still a minority view, but that can change pretty
quickly if it looks as if the economy is heading for another
down leg,” Wattret said. “I’m quite nervous that the upcoming
flow of data in the U.K. and the key trading areas like the euro
area and the U.S. is going to get worse. So securing a majority
in favor of more QE is not that difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  