-- 
Producer Prices in U.S. Probably Stabilized in July

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/producer-prices-in-u-s-probably-stabilized-in-july-after-economy-cooled.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. probably
began to stabilize in July, reflecting a slowdown in global
demand, economists said before a report today.  Producer prices rose 0.1 percent last month after dropping
0.4 percent in June, according to median forecast of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy, climbed 0.2
percent following a 0.3 percent gain, the survey showed.  Slowing sales mean companies will be less likely to raise
prices, one reason why Federal Reserve policy makers last week
projected inflation will cool. Less pressure on prices would
also give the central bank more room to act to spur growth after
the world’s largest economy almost stalled in the first half of
the year.  “There is very little upward price pressure on producers,
and while there is still some pass through of raw material costs
into the core, that should dissipate going forward,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  New
York . “In the second half of this year, the run up in energy
prices is going to start to drop out.”  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates of the economists surveyed ranged from
declines of 0.5 percent to gains of 0.6 percent.  “Inflation has moderated as prices of energy and some
commodities have declined from their earlier peaks,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement Aug. 9.
“Inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or
below those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate” of
maximum employment and price stability.  Fed View  Economic growth in the U.S. that the Fed officials said has
been “considerably slower” than forecast earlier this year
prompted the central bank to announce it would hold the
benchmark lending rate near zero “at least” into 2013.  A jobless rate at 9.1 percent that hampers wage gains and
 consumer spending  makes it unlikely inflation will accelerate in
coming months. Household purchases declined 0.2 percent in June,
the first decrease in almost two years, Commerce Department
figures showed Aug. 2. The report also showed incomes grew 0.1
percent that month, the smallest gain since November.  “The consumer continues to be wary and looking for
value,” said Larry Merlo, president and chief executive officer
of  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest provider of  prescription
drugs  in the U.S. “We’ve seen evidence of where she has traded
down from a premium product to a less expensive product.”  Trading Down  The Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company reported second-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates, helped by the
introduction of lower-price merchandise. During the Aug. 4
earnings call, Merlo described CVS as “recession resistant”
because it offers cheaper goods.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. rose 0.3 percent in July from the prior month, data
showed yesterday. Costs advanced 14 percent from July 2010.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, rose
0.2 percent in July as did the core index, according to the
median forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
Labor Department report tomorrow.  Investors have been snapping up  Treasury securities  amid
the European debt crisis and as the U.S. growth slowdown limits
inflation. Since the end of June, the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note has dropped almost 1 percentage point, to 2.22 percent
as of yesterday from 3.16 percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  