-- 
Putin, Medvedev Shown Fishing as 2012 Vote Decision Looms

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-08-17T15:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/putin-medvedev-shown-fishing-as-2012-vote-decision-looms-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  were shown  fishing together  on
the Volga river as uncertainty persists about which of them will
run for the Kremlin next year.  The two men, both wearing white trousers with beige shirts,
spent a day off on the Volga river in the black-caviar producing
region of Astrakhan. Photos posted yesterday evening on the
 Kremlin  website show Medvedev at the wheel of a speedboat and
holding a fish. Putin is pictured in the background with a
fishing pole.  Neither has ruled out running for president next year.
Medvedev, a 45-year-old former corporate lawyer picked by Putin
to replace him in 2008, has promised to loosen political
controls if he wins a second term. Putin, a 58-year-old former
KGB colonel, stepped down after serving two consecutive terms,
the maximum allowed by the constitution.  The leaders say they plan to decide together who will run
for the office. Medvedev has said a decision will be made soon,
while Putin said making it public too early would derail the
system of government which since 2008 has been based on a formal
dual leadership  People’s Front  Putin formed the All- Russia  People’s Front in May to rally
support for his ruling  United Russia  party. The premier, who has
remained at the center of power as prime minister, leads
Medvedev in opinion polls.  Medvedev today held meetings with fishermen and discussed
the Volga fishery industry, including sturgeon breeding.  Environmental damage and poaching represent a serious
threat for sturgeons, whose population in the Volga has fallen
by 99 percent in 15 years, Andrei Krayniy, head of the  Federal
Fisheries Agency , said during a meeting in Astrakhan.  Russia banned black-caviar exports in 2002 because of
reduced supplies of wild sturgeons. In February this year,
Russian authorities issued the first export permits in nine
years, allowing caviar to be shipped to  Europe  from sturgeons
raised in fish farms.  Medvedev called on all Caspian states, including Iran,
Turkmenistan and  Azerbaijan , to take part in breeding sturgeons
and to implement a moratorium on fishing wild specimens. The
Caspian basin holds almost 90 percent of world sturgeon
reserves, government data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Astrakhan, Russia, at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  