-- 
Rand Gains Sixth Day, Yields at Record Low on Foreign Investor Bond Buying

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-17T15:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/rand-gains-sixth-day-yields-at-record-low-on-foreign-investor-bond-buying.html
The rand advanced for a sixth day
against the dollar as foreign investor purchases of the nation’s
debt outweighed currency outflows from equity sales. Bonds
extended gains that drove yields to record lows.  The rand gained as much as 1.1 percent to 7.0582 per dollar
and traded 1 percent up at 7.0671 as of 5:11 p.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its increase in the past six days to 4.8
percent, the most among 16 major currencies.  South Africa ’s 13.5
percent notes due 2015 added 24 cents to 123.47 rand, driving
the yield down seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
6.78 percent, a record low on a closing basis.  Foreign investors yesterday bought a net 2.2 billion rand
($308.7 million) of South African bonds, adding to 48.8 billion
of net bond purchases this year even as foreigners sold 5.99
billion rand more equities than they bought, according to JSE
Ltd. data. The extra yield investors receive for buying South
African 10-year bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped eight basis
points to 5.60 percentage points today.  “While local equities have been scalded by recent events
and precipitated currency losses, bond flows have persisted,”
 John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a research note.
“This has lessened depreciatory pressure on the rand.”  South African bonds have rallied on expectation the central
bank will delay an interest-rate increase for as long as 12
months to support what it described as a “fragile” recovery in
 Africa ’s biggest economy.  Retail Sales  Retail sales grew 2.2 percent in June, after almost
stalling the month before, according to the median estimate of
12 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Growth is still below the
average in the first quarter, and may not be enough to persuade
the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  to lift its key repo rate from a
30-year low, Tebogo Mosepele, a Johannesburg-based analyst at
 Standard Bank  Group Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note.  “The soft reading in retail sales reinforce our view that
South African economic activity slowed during the quarter,”
Mosepele said. “Growing downside risks to global and domestic
growth warrant our view that  interest rates  are likely to remain
on hold this year.”  The Reserve Bank has kept its benchmark rate unchanged this
year, after lowering it three times in 2010, even as inflation
climbed to a 15-month high of 5 percent in July.  Standard Bank, Rand Merchant Bank and Nedbank Group Ltd.
have pushed out the likely date for a rate increase, and money-
market traders have pared bets for a rise in the next 12 months.  Forward-rate agreements starting in May next year, which
investors use to lock in borrowing costs, dropped one basis
point to 5.59 percent, the lowest since Jan. 10. The rate has
declined from 6.63 percent on May 16, the highest in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  