-- 
Treasury Yield Curve Flattest in Week on Concern U.S. Recovery Faltering

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-08-17T21:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/treasury-yield-is-20-basis-points-from-record-low-before-inflation-reports.html
The extra yield Treasury investors
get to hold 30-year bonds instead of two-year notes shrank to
the narrowest in a week on speculation the U.S. economic
recovery is stalling.  The long bonds rose as much as two points as stocks pared
gains. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  told Bloomberg Radio today that policy makers should
have waited to see how the economy performed before pledging on
Aug. 9 to hold interest rates at record lows for two years.  “What the curve flattening is telling us is that there is
risk capital that is finding its way into the  bond market  and
grabbing whatever yield it can,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief
economist in New York at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., one of the
20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It’s the economic
scenario. People are not comfortable.”  The difference between yields on two-year notes and 30-year
bonds shrank to 3.37 percentage points at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
from 3.48 percentage points yesterday. The spread was the
narrowest since Aug. 10, when it was the smallest since October
2010.  Treasuries erased earlier declines as a rally in U.S.
stocks evaporated. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day
up 0.1 percent after rising as much as 1.3 percent.  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 3.56 percent at 5:18 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.75 percent
securities maturing in August 2041 rose 1 29/32, or $19.06 per
$1,000 face amount, to 103 13/32.  Two-Year Yields  The two-year note yields were little changed at 0.19
percent. Yields on 10-year notes dropped five basis points to
2.17 percent after rising four basis points earlier today.
Yields on 10- and two-year notes touched record lows of 2.0346
percent and 0.1568 percent on Aug. 9.  Treasuries fell earlier today after the Labor Department
reported that the producer-price index advanced 0.2 percent in
July following a 0.4 percent drop in the previous month. The
median forecast of 78 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.1 percent gain.  “The data was higher than expected, so it’s showing a
little bit more inflation pressure than in recent months,” said
Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer. “It’s still generally
tame. It shouldn’t change people’s expectations of future
inflation or the Fed’s response.”  Break-Even Rate  The spread between yields on 10-year Treasuries and
comparable inflation-indexed debt, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the maturities
known as the break-even rate, was 2.13 percentage points, the
narrowest since Dec. 3.  Consumer prices climbed 0.2 percent last month following a
0.2 percent decrease in June, according to the median forecast
of 86 economists before Labor Department figures tomorrow.  Investors have been buying Treasuries on speculation the
European sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse and the U.S.
recovery is stalling.  The Fed will probably need to raise  interest rates  before
mid-2013, and the decision on Aug. 9 to hold borrowing costs
where they are at least through that time was “inappropriate,”
Plosser of the Philadelphia Fed said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Plosser dissented in a 7-3 vote along with  Richard Fisher ,
president of the Dallas Fed, and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of the
 Minneapolis Fed .  Bullard’s View  St. Louis Fed Bank President  James Bullard , who was the
first Fed policy maker to urge the round of bond purchases that
started last year, said the central bank isn’t signaling a third
stimulus program with its commitment to keep rates near zero.  “The most likely outcome for the  U.S. economy  is still
that the economy continues to grow at a moderate pace through
the second half of the year,” Bullard said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “If the economy is substantially weaker
than expected, we could take more action, especially if it was
coupled with a renewed deflation risk.”  Since concluding in June a $600 billion bond-purchase plan,
the Fed has maintained its balance sheet at almost record levels
by reinvesting proceeds from its securities holdings.  China, the biggest foreign holder of  U.S. government debt ,
boosted its holdings to $1.166 trillion in June, from $1.160
trillion in the previous month, Treasury Department figures
showed Aug. 15.  U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  landed today in Beijing,
seeking to allay concern in  China  that the deficit deal struck
by Congress and the administration of President  Barack Obama 
earlier this month doesn’t go far enough to rein in the nation’s
long-term debt.  In an interview with China’s Caijing magazine, Biden said
the administration “is deeply committed to maintaining the
fundamentals of the U.S. economy” to “ensure the safety,
liquidity and value of U.S. Treasury obligations for all of its
investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  