-- 
Regeneron Says FDA Delays Eylea Drug for Blindness

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-08-17T00:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/regeneron-says-fda-delays-eylea-drug-for-blindness-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of drug name in headline.)  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) 
declined as much as 13 percent in extended trading after U.S.
regulators delayed a decision on whether to approve the
company’s treatment for a common cause of blindness.  The  Food and Drug Administration  extended its target date
to complete its review of the medicine by three months to Nov.
18, the Tarrytown, New York-based company said today in a
statement.  The drug, known as Eylea, would compete with Lucentis from
Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)  Eylea is injected
every eight weeks, half as often as Lucentis. The less frequent
dosing would help Regeneron capture 25 percent of the U.S.
market from Lucentis, Edward Tenthoff, a senior research analyst
with Piper Jaffray & Co. in  New York , said yesterday in a note
to investors.  The FDA’s extension “is a result of the agency classifying
recent responses to questions regarding the chemistry,
manufacturing, and controls section” of the company’s
application to sell Eylea “as a major amendment” to the
application, Regeneron said in the statement. German drugmaker
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  is a partner on the drug and in June filed a marketing
application in  Europe .  Regeneron declined $7.42, or 13 percent, to $50 at 6:50
p.m. New York time in extended trading after falling 75 cents to
$57.42 at the close of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
gained 75 percent this year.  Unanimous Recommendation  A panel of outside advisers to the FDA voted 10-0 in June
to back Eylea as safe and effective for treating wet age-related
macular degeneration, a leading cause of blindness affecting
more than 1 million Americans. The FDA isn’t required to follow
the advisory panel’s recommendations.  Sales of Eylea, if approved, may reach $1.2 billion in
2016, Tenthoff said.  Sixty percent of Medicare beneficiaries with macular
degeneration took Roche’s cancer drug Avastin for the disease in
2008, Philip Rosenfeld, a University of Miami Miller School of
Medicine ophthalmologist, said last month at a Senate hearing on
drug pricing. Avastin isn’t FDA-approved for the eye disorder
though it may be prescribed “off-label” by physicians.  Lucentis costs as much as $2,000 for each monthly injection
compared with less than $50 a dose of Avastin, Jonathan Blum,
deputy administrator at  the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services , said at last month’s hearing.  Lucentis Sales  “Lucentis is on track for $1.9 billion in sales in the
U.S. this year, despite that massive Avastin cannibalization,”
Tenthoff said in an interview. Eylea may cost slightly less than
Lucentis, he said.  Democratic Senators  Herb Kohl  of  Wisconsin  and Sherrod Brown of  Ohio  are asking the Medicare program to declare Avastin
necessary to fight wet age-related macular degeneration.  Kohl and Brown seek a “national coverage determination”
that would give doctors and patients confidence Avastin is safe
and effective, said Ken Willis, a spokesman for the Senate Aging
Committee, which Kohl heads. “We want to save money for
taxpayers and consumers,” he said. “We want drugs to be as
affordable as possible.”  Roche points to studies at  Duke University  in Durham,  North
Carolina , and Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins University that used
Medicare claims data to show the use of Avastin for the eye
condition increases the risk of stroke and death in seniors.
Roche funded the Johns Hopkins study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in  Washington  at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 