-- 
Reluctance to Trim Business Tax Breaks Dims 1986 Repeat Chances

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/reluctance-to-trim-business-tax-breaks-dims-1986-repeat-chances.html
The 1986 overhaul of the U.S. tax
code is often hailed as the gold standard for its bipartisan
approach to  tax policy  that included compromises to raise
more corporate revenue and end tax breaks. Today’s estimated 
 budget  deficit, which exceeds $1.3 trillion, will make it tough 
for lawmakers to stage a repeat.  Still, dozens of companies are preparing to protect their
interests in the event of another overhaul attempt.  3M Co. (MMM) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and Pepsico Inc., for example, spent between
$610,000 and $1.2 million apiece in the second quarter lobbying
Congress on issues that included a tax code rewrite.  Veterans of the 1986 overhaul said offsetting lower income
tax rates by raising taxes for businesses would be a more
complicated political challenge than they faced 25 years ago.  “The context is quite different from the context of the
‘86 act,” Rob Leonard, the chief Democratic tax counsel on the
House Ways and Means Committee in 1986, told Bloomberg
Government. “The deficit is raging and entitlements are a major
part of the conversation. There are also a lot of new
personalities and leaders so there’s a lot of feeling out that
needs to occur.”  Leonard is now a partner at Akin Gump LLP in Washington.
His clients on issues related to a possible tax overhaul include
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and Cox Enterprises Inc.  Broadening the Base  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat who is a member of
the tax-writing Finance Committee, is among lawmakers looking to
the 1986 law for guidance. The broad strategy employed in 1986 -
- lowering individual income tax rates by curtailing breaks and
expanding the base -- still applies today, he said.  “The concept of cleaning out scores of these special-
interest tax breaks to hold down rates for everybody and keep
progressivity has been backed up again and again,” he said.  The political dynamic has shifted since the tax code was
revamped. Leonard noted that, in the four years leading up to
the 1986 law, Congress achieved two bipartisan budget deals and
a Social Security overhaul.  “Trust is at the core of what is needed for  tax reform  to
succeed,” Leonard said.  Lawmakers will return to  Capitol Hill  in September after
spending months in a grueling debate over whether to raise the
debt ceiling. Still, the guiding principle of a tax overhaul can
unify the parties, said former Senator Robert Packwood, an
Oregon Republican who headed the Finance Committee in 1986.  ‘Same Philosophy’  “What you had in ‘86 was Democrats who wanted to get rid
of deductions and Republicans who wanted lower rates,” he said.
“That same philosophy holds today.”  House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, and Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, have shown willingness to work together. They held a
joint hearing in July on the tax treatment of debt and equity,
the first such meeting since 1940.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, and Camp have called for lowering the top individual
income tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent. Neither lawmaker
has specified how they would achieve such a reduction.  Speaking in Decorah,  Iowa , on Aug. 15, President  Barack Obama  urged Congress to pass an overhaul of the  tax code . The
administration is expected to unveil its proposal as soon as
this fall.  The key to any overhaul is how the administration and
lawmakers will agree to pay for lower rates. Changes to the
individual part of the code, which included reducing income tax
rates from a top 50 percent to 28 percent, cost the Treasury
$121.7 billion in forgone revenue between 1986 and 1991,
according to the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  Repealing Corporate Breaks  The lower rates were offset by raising $120.4 billion from
corporations by, among other things, repealing an investment tax
credit, limiting the ability to deduct charges to bad debt
reserves and changing the tax treatment of real estate mortgage
investment conduits. The remaining $1.5 billion came from other
sources.  It would be tough for lawmakers to replicate that formula
because the biggest pot of potential revenue comes from benefits
on the individual side of the code. It would be politically
difficult to take money from individuals to help pay for lower
corporate tax rates.  Meanwhile, Democrats and Republicans aren’t using the same
definition of what constitutes a  tax cut . Democrats often assume
the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts will expire as scheduled at the end
of 2012, which would make the extension of current rates appear
to be a tax cut.  Current Tax Breaks  Republicans prefer to focus on current tax rates as a
baseline, which means any decision to let tax breaks expire as
scheduled would represent a tax increase.  Some Republicans are open to revenue generation that is
used to offset lower tax rates as long as net revenue doesn’t
increase. Democrats, in contrast, are likely to maintain that at
least some revenue should go toward deficit reduction, as
Obama’s  fiscal commission  urged last year.  “With the huge long-term fiscal problem we have, you
shouldn’t give away the revenue by lowering the rates,” said
Daniel Shaviro, a professor of taxation at the  New York
University School of Law .  Moreover, if congressional leaders are serious about
lowering corporate and individual income tax rates to 25
percent, the biggest chunks of revenue may come from benefits on
the individual rather than the corporate side of the tax code.
The exclusion of employer-provided health care from taxes is
projected to cost $659.4 billion in forgone revenue between 2010
and 2014, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation, and the
mortgage interest deduction costs $484.1 billion.  In contrast, the last-in, first-out style of accounting,
which Obama has sought to repeal, would save companies $22.9
billion between 2010 and 2014. Eliminating oil, gas and coal tax
benefits would generate $40.7 billion between 2011 and 2021,
according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.  “The ‘86 deal almost fell apart because Republicans were
only willing to have so much burden shift to the corporate
side,” Shaviro said. “That’s still pretty hard to do today.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
 Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  