-- 
Roche, Daiichi Sankyo Win U.S. Approval on Drug to Treat Advanced Melanoma

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T20:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/roche-daiichi-sankyo-win-u-s-approval-on-drug-to-treat-advanced-melanoma.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and Daiichi Sankyo
Co. won U.S. clearance to sell a pill for melanoma that is among
a new wave of medicines developed to fight the deadliest form of
skin cancer.  The Food and Drug Administration approved Zelboraf as a
therapy for patients whose tumors have spread or can’t be
removed surgically, the agency said today in a statement. The
drug, also known as vemurafenib, is the second cleared for the
disease this year.  Zelboraf may help patients with advanced melanoma, an
aggressive skin cancer blamed for  8,700 U.S. deaths  last year.
The drug from Roche, of  Basel ,  Switzerland , and Tokyo-based
Daiichi will compete with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Yervoy,
cleared in March as the first treatment proven to extend lives
of advanced melanoma patients.  “This has been an important year for patients with late-
stage melanoma,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the Office of
Oncology Drug Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research, said in the statement. “Zelboraf is the second
new cancer drug approved that demonstrates an improvement in
overall survival.”  Roche’s American depositary receipts gained 69 cents, or
1.7 percent, to $42.04 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. Each receipt equals one-quarter of a regular
share. Daiichi’s receipts, each representing one ordinary share,
gained 1 cent to $19.50 in over-the-counter trading.  Projected Sales  Sales of Zelboraf may reach 700 million Swiss francs ($886
million) by 2015,  Jack Scannell , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London , said today in a note to investors.
Bristol-Myers, based in New York, may earn $1.5 billion from
Yervoy in 2015, according to the average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is among other companies testing drugs
targeting genetic variations related to melanoma.  Zelboraf attacks a mutated gene that fuels tumor growth in
about half of advanced melanoma patients. A company-funded trial
showed the twice-daily pill worked better than chemotherapy
infusions in prolonging survival and shrinking tumors among
people with the mutation, according to a June 30 report in the
 New England Journal of Medicine .  After six months, 84 percent of the patients who took
Zelboraf were still alive, compared with 64 percent of those
treated with chemotherapy, the study found. A reduction in tumor
size was seen in 48 percent of patients in the Zelboraf group
and 5 percent in the chemotherapy group.  ‘Paradigm Shift’  The drug’s approval is “a paradigm shift in the treatment
of this disease,” said Antoni Ribas, an oncologist at the
 University of California  in  Los Angeles , in an e-mail. “For the
first time we have a treatment that works in a reproducible way
based on an in-depth understanding of what makes the melanoma
cancer cell grow and how we can block it.”  The FDA, in clearing the drug, also approved a companion
diagnostic test to help determine if a melanoma patient has the
mutation.  “The FDA approval of Zelboraf marks a major step forward in
personalizing the treatment of metastatic melanoma, a
devastating disease that until this year had limited approved
treatment options,”  Hal Barron , chief medical officer and head
of Global Product Development at Roche’s Genentech unit, said
today in an e-mail.  More than 68,000 Americans were diagnosed with melanoma
last year, according to the  National Cancer Institute  in
Bethesda,  Maryland . The five-year survival rate is 15 percent
among patients diagnosed after the cancer has spread. When
caught in its early stages, the disease has a 98 percent
survival rate after five years.  Combination Study  Roche and Bristol-Myers are collaborating to study whether
a combination of Zelboraf and Yervoy works better than either
drug alone. Yervoy works by spurring the immune system to attack
cancer cells.  “As Yervoy is an immunotherapy, it could be complementary
to Zelboraf rather than a straightforward either/or
competitor,” Scannell said. “However, in the absence of data
looking at the two drugs combined, they are initially likely to
compete against each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  