-- 
Bond Auctions Fail in Longest Stretch of 2011 as GDP Slows: Russia Credit

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-18T05:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/rts-futures-fall-as-growth-woes-trump-oil-gain-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, indicating stocks may drop in Moscow, as concern over the
slowing U.S. and European economies overshadowed rising
commodity prices.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September slid 1.4 percent to 163,790 yesterday after Moscow’s
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 1.9 percent. Futures contracts on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, lost 1 percent, while
those for OAO Lukoil, the Russian oil producer with the most
assets overseas, sank 0.9 percent. The Micex may open down 2
percent at the start of trading today, according to Alfa Bank.  French and German leaders rejected expanding a 440 billion-
euro ($636 billion) rescue fund and rebuffed calls to borrow
collectively as economic growth in the euro area slowed more
than economists forecast last quarter. The  Federal Reserve  vowed
last week to keep  interest rates  at a record-low through
mid-2013 to help reignite an economy that grew 1.6 percent in
the second quarter, the slowest pace since contracting in 2009.  The market is being affected by “the same old issues
around global growth concerns, unhappiness with how the euro
zone is handling the periphery crisis, lack of strong
solutions,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-market strategist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, said by e-mail. “Lack of good news
and dip-buyers are leaving markets struggling.”  Copper gained 0.9 percent in New York, while aluminum,
lead, and nickel prices rose in  London . Crude oil rose 1.1
percent to $87.58 a barrel in  New York . Urals crude, Russia’s
chief export blend, added 0.2 percent to $109.18 a barrel.  U.S. Inflation  Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
July, led by higher prices for tobacco, trucks and
pharmaceuticals. The 0.2 percent advance in the producer price
index followed a 0.4 percent drop in June, Labor Department
figures released yesterday showed. Economists forecast a 0.1
percent increase, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  The data suggests “Fed policy makers are unlikely to rush
to further easing,” Michael S. Hanson, an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in New York, wrote in a client note today.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent in the three months to June 30 from the first quarter,
according to European Union data published on Aug. 16. That was
less than the 0.3 percent median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Germany’s economy expanded 0.1 percent in the
period, more than the 0.5 percent median estimate.  The number of falling stocks exceeded gainers in the U.S.
 S&P 500 Index (SPX)  amid investor speculation the Fed may not consider
another economic stimulus program to avert a recession.  The Fed’s interest-rate pledge was “inappropriate policy
at an inappropriate time,”  Charles Plosser , president of the
Philadelphia Fed, said yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview.
Dallas Fed chief Richard Fisher said the central bank shouldn’t
enact policy to protect stock investors. Both officials
dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9 statement.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, advanced 1.3 percent to $32.63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  