-- 
Saatchi, Bonhams Boost Art Confidence Amid Market Worries

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-08-18T12:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/saatchi-bonhams-sales-boost-contemporary-art-confidence-amid-price-fears.html
A sale by auction house Bonhams and
an exhibition co-organized by the  Saatchi Gallery  are boosting
confidence in the market for contemporary art amid worries about
renewed financial turbulence, dealers said.  The Saatchi promotion of young artists -- recalling his
1997 Sensation exhibition of works by  Damien Hirst , Tracey Emin
and others -- and Bonhams’s entry into the contemporary market
will take place in October. They coincide with the  Frieze Art
Fair ,  Europe ’s biggest commercial event exclusively for
contemporary works.  While prices for some artists have recovered to pre-crisis
levels, collectors are concerned about economic weakness.
Museum-quality art should hold its value best, dealers said.  “Sellers are telling themselves, I might as well do it
now,” said Anthony McNerney, a former Phillips de Pury & Co.
specialist who now heads Bonhams’s new seven-strong
contemporary-art team in London. “If there’s a dip like there
was in 2008, it will dry up. Owners know that if they have a
great work, there are still wealthy people willing to buy it,
almost whatever the price.”  The Bonhams sale of about 30 and 50 lots on Oct. 13 comes
between auctions at Phillips in the afternoon and  Sotheby’s (BID)  in
the evening.  Bonhams’s top lot is a $2-million work by Alighiero Boetti.
The Italian Arte Povera artist’s “1984” is 30 feet (9 meters)
wide and consists of 192 drawings of magazine covers. It is the
first complete example of Boetti’s four hand-drawn collages
evoking years, and is the last left in private hands.  Artist Record  The work, formerly owned by Greek collector  Dakis Joannou ,
has been offered by a European private seller and estimated at
1.2 million pounds ($2 million) to 1.8 million pounds, the
auction record for the artist. It is the most valuable
contemporary work to be auctioned by Bonhams.  The owner was encouraged to sell because of the planned
Boetti retrospective at  Tate Modern  in February 2012, said
McNerney. “The seller hasn’t been offered a guarantee.”  The Saatchi Gallery and Channel 4’s “New Sensations”
promotion will collaborate with  London  pop-up gallery  The Future
Can Wait  to present work by emerging artists priced from 1,000
pounds to 10,000 pounds. Twenty of the artists will be
shortlisted for the New Sensations prize begun in 2007, and four
will have a television film made about them.  Affordable Works  The event, starting on Oct. 11 at Victoria House,
Bloomsbury, is designed to fill the gap left by the demise of
satellite fairs such as  Zoo , which specialized in affordable
works by emerging names.  “We felt this end of the market was neglected,” Rebecca Wilson, associate director of the Saatchi Gallery, said in an
interview. No commission is charged on sales by artists, who are
of various different nationalities and have recently graduated
from U.K. art schools. The Future Can Wait is a curated
exhibition of slightly older names. None of the works are owned
by the Saatchi Gallery or  Charles Saatchi , Wilson said.  “It’s exciting for collectors to think they could be
buying the art world’s next superstar and in financial terms it
represents a good deal,” Wilson said.  At the  Pavilion of Art & Design London  (PAD) opening on
Oct. 12, 60 galleries will be offering some big-ticket works by
established 20th-century names. The French-organized boutique
fair is in Berkeley Square, around the corner from  Claridge’s 
and in an area where many  hedge funds  are based.  Location Appeal  “It’s in a fantastic location and has a selective group of
dealers,” said Daniella Luxembourg, who as well as
participating in PAD for the first time will be inaugurating a
new London gallery space at 2 Savile Row on Oct. 9.  At the fair, Luxembourg & Dayan will be showing a 1930s
painted wood mobile by  Alexander Calder , priced about $2
million. New York dealer  Mitchell-Innes & Nash  is planning to
bring works by Alberto Burri and Kenneth Noland.  The New York-based fair SCOPE will not be returning to 
London in October 2011.   “The current climate of social unrest, and poor economic 
conditions, did not create for the sure environment to re-launch
this year's edition of the fair,” Mollie White, director, said 
in an email. The event plans to return to the U.K. capital after
the Olympics in 2012, she said.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 