-- 
SABMiller Takes $10 Billion Foster’s Offer Hostile After Board Rejection

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-17T11:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/sabmiller-takes-10-billion-foster-s-bid-hostile-after-board-s-rejection.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, will take its A$9.5 billion ($10
billion) bid for  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  directly to shareholders,
going hostile after the board rejected the price as too low.  The cash offer is worth A$4.90 a share, less any dividend
paid out by Foster’s, SABMiller said today. The board of
Melbourne-based Foster’s has shown “no willingness to engage,”
SABMiller said, after it announced an initial offer on June 21.
Foster’s had said the bid “significantly undervalues”
 Australia ’s largest brewer, whose shares closed at A$4.96 today.  “Anybody who expected SAB to pay a bid premium on top of a
price that had a bid premium in it was foolish,” said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.
SABMiller’s initial offer to the Foster’s board was 8.2 percent
higher than the target’s closing price the previous day.  An acquisition of Foster’s would be SABMiller’s biggest and
give the maker of  Castle  lager about half of Australia’s beer
market, including Victoria Bitter. Chief Executive Officer
Graham Mackay has made more than two dozen acquisitions since he
moved SABMiller’s listing to London in 1999, though he’s passed
on some of the industry’s biggest deals since 2008. He shunned
buying the beer unit of Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB last year
after rival  Heineken NV (HEIA)  paid a price SABMiller deemed too high.  SABMiller shares reversed initial declines and rose 20
pence, or 0.9 percent, to 2,138 pence at 12:05 p.m. in London.  Bid Multiples  SABMiller, which started selling beer to gold prospectors
in  South Africa  in 1895, has expanded through acquisitions
including Colombian brewer Bavaria and the Grolsch brand. The
company became the second-biggest brewer, behind Budweiser maker
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , after the $5.6 billion takeover of
Miller Brewing Co. by South African Breweries Plc in 2002.  Since the June 21 bid for Foster’s, which SABMiller said
values the target at 12.5 times its estimated 2011 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the
Australian brewer said it will get A$390 million in cash refunds
and interest after winning a dispute with the Australian
Commissioner of Taxation. That reduces the multiple to about
11.8 times estimated 2011 Ebitda, according to analysts at
Investec Securities in London. The average multiple for key
transactions in the beer industry in the past five years was 13
times earnings, Nomura Holdings Inc. has estimated.  No Rival Bidders  Andrew Butcher, a spokesman for Foster’s external media
adviser Butcher & Co., declined to comment on today’s bid.  Nigel Fairbrass , a London-based spokesman for SABMiller, declined to
comment beyond the company’s statement.  Foster’s shares rose about 13 percent on the day of
SABMiller’s first approach and fell as low as A$4.66 on Aug. 8
amid global market tumult and the absence of any rival bidder.  “Highly volatile equity market conditions have weakened
Foster’s bargaining position, as has the absence, to date, of
rival bidders,” analysts including Andy Smith at MF Global in
London wrote today in a note.  Representatives of competitors Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.,
Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Anheuser-Busch InBev declined to
comment today on the offer or their intentions.  SABMiller’s move “should have been expected,” said Will Seddon, who helps oversee more than $300 million, including
Foster’s shares, at White Funds Management in Sydney. “They
went suspiciously quiet, which was a ploy to get the share price
to soften before going hostile.”  Wine Spinoff  The offer is contingent on getting at least 90 percent of
the outstanding shares of Foster’s. SABMiller will fund the deal
from existing resources and new debt. The U.K. company will
provide a bidder’s statement to Australian regulators and
Foster’s, and expects to mail that information to Foster’s
shareholders about two weeks after it files to the company.  In May, Foster’s spun off wine unit Treasury Wine Estates
Ltd. to focus on the beer business, where it’s trying to stem
five years of market-share losses. After adjusting for the
spinoff, Foster’s has gained 20 percent since May 2010, when it
announced the plans to split its wine and beer businesses,
increasing speculation of a takeover approach for both.  Foster’s Chief Executive Officer  John Pollaers , who ran the
beer unit for 13 months before the wine spinoff, has introduced
new brands to appeal to younger consumers and win back customers
who switched to sweeter drinks such as pre-mixed spirits. The
executive plans to boost Foster’s share of faster-growing craft
and premium labels with brews such as Fat Yak and Big Helga and
reduce its reliance on stalling brands like Victoria Bitter.  Earnings Report  Foster’s is due to report earnings on Aug. 23, with the
company expected to post net income of A$697 million for the 12
months ended June, according to the average of four analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company had a year-earlier
loss of A$464.4 million after writing down the value of its wine
assets. Excluding items, profit was A$711.3 million in 2010.  “I don’t think anyone’s expecting fantastic numbers out of
Foster’s and there hasn’t been an alternative bidder,” said
Sean Fenton, who helps manage $1.1 billion at Tribeca Investment
Partners in Sydney. He doesn’t hold Foster’s shares. “Without
another bidder coming in and being aggressive, it’s hard to see
SABMiller needing to make a huge bump. The bid might look quite
attractive if we get some average numbers from Foster’s.”  Both brewers could cut costs and increase earnings if a
transaction is completed, Moody’s Investors Service said in
June. Moody’s rates Foster’s Baa2, two levels above junk status,
and SABMiller one notch higher at Baa1.  SABMiller’s Mackay said at the time of the June bid that
his plan to seek financing for the Foster’s purchase would still
allow the company to maintain an investment-grade  credit rating .  SABMiller is being advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co, Moelis &
Co., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  