-- 
Foster’s Says SABMiller $10 Billion Takeover Offer Too Low

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-18T09:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/sabmiller-seen-winning-takeover-bid-for-foster-s-with-6-boost-to-price.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  rejected a
hostile A$9.5 billion ($10 billion) bid by  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  as too
low, with analysts predicting that the suitor will need to raise
its offer for Australia’s biggest brewer.  SABMiller, the world’s second-largest beermaker by volume,
took its A$4.90-a-share bid directly to investors yesterday
after failing to engage the board of Foster’s in talks following
its initial June 21 approach. The London-based maker of Miller
Lite and Grolsch may have to raise the offer price by 6 percent
to A$5.20 a share to win over investors, the median estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News shows.  Buying Melbourne-based Foster’s would give SABMiller access
to about half of the Australian beer market and brands including
Victoria Bitter. It would be the biggest acquisition ever by the
brewer, which sells beers including Peroni and Castle lager.
Foster’s board of directors, which rejected an initial approach
at the same price, advised shareholders to ignore SABMiller’s
bid, saying today that conditions set by the suitor within the
approach “further detract” from the offer.  “With no other bidder in sight, time is on SAB’s side,”
Larry Gandler, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in
 Melbourne , said in a note to clients. “We think, over the next
four-to-five months, SAB will release conditions, bump its offer
and relinquish the dividend to deliver A$5.15 in cash to
shareholders, plus a 10 cent dividend.”  More Pressure  The bid price would be “reduced by the amount of any
dividend or distribution paid or declared by Foster’s” after
yesterday’s announcement, SABMiller said.  Foster’s shares rose 0.8 percent to A$5 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading. SABMiller shares slid 1.9 percent to
2,097.5 pence as of 9:40 a.m. in London.  SABMiller’s hostile offer applies more pressure to the
Foster’s board to start talks, yet “keeps a lid on ultimate bid
price expectations,” Citigroup Inc. analysts including Andy Bowley said in a note to clients. Citigroup doesn’t expect
SABMiller to be successful at the current price, estimating it
will need to raise the offer to about A$5.20 to secure a deal.
That would still be 10 cents a share lower than estimated in a
June survey, when SABMiller’s first approach was rebuffed.  If successful, the deal would be the biggest takeover of an
Australian company since 2008, when Westpac Banking Corp. bought
St. George Bank Ltd. for A$17.9 billion.  Australia  is a
desirable market for acquisitions since it hasn’t had a
recession since 1991, according to International Monetary Fund
data, and its consumption of alcohol has risen every year since
2005, according to government data.  No Rival Bidders  Japan ’s Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. agreed today to buy  New
Zealand ’s Independent Liquor Ltd. for NZ$1.53 billion ($1.28
billion), gaining access to Australia’s bottled-cocktail market.  Since SABMiller’s original approach for Foster’s, no rival
bidders have emerged, global markets have sunk and rivals such
as Kirin Holdings Co. and Carlsberg A/S cut profit forecasts
amid falling demand. Foster’s shares have risen as high as
A$5.23 intraday since June 21 before falling as low as A$4.51.  “Highly volatile equity market conditions have weakened
Foster’s bargaining position, as has the absence, to date, of
rival bidders,” analysts including Andy Smith at MF Global in
London wrote in a note.  Representatives of competitors Suntory Holdings Ltd. and
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  declined to comment on the offer or
their intentions. A spokesman for  Heineken NV (HEIA)  said its aim was
to expand in emerging markets. Asahi won’t bid for Foster’s,
President Naoki Izumiya said today in  Tokyo .  InBev Handbook  SABMiller, which hasn’t made a hostile purchase in its more
than two dozen acquisitions completed since 1999, may take a
page from InBev NV, Carlsberg and Heineken’s handbooks,  Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Groep in Amsterdam, said.  When its first approach to buy Anheuser-Busch Cos. was
rejected in 2008, InBev raised the price by 7.7 percent to
secure the industry’s largest purchase ever. Carlsberg and
Heineken increased a joint bid for Scottish & Newcastle Plc by
11 percent to 800 pence.  Foster’s is worth about 12.3 times forward earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in a bid
situation, according to Citigroup, which recommends investors
“hold” their Foster’s shares.  SABMiller said in June the offer valued Foster’s at about
12.5 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization and stuck by that valuation yesterday. InBev paid
about 13.2 times Anheuser’s Ebitda, according to Bloomberg data.  Earnings Report Due  “We don’t think A$4.90 is enough to get this transaction
over the line,” Paul Van Meurs, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in Sydney, said in a note to clients. “Once it is comfortable
that it is not bidding against itself, we think it is possible
that it would be prepared to raise the offer price.”  Foster’s, which reports earnings Aug. 23, said last month
it may buy back shares or boost dividends after winning a
dispute with the Australian Commissioner of Taxation. Foster’s
will get A$390 million in cash refunds and interest and is
reviewing its dividend policy and capital management options.  SABMiller’s hostile bid “makes sure that Foster’s
management actively consider their options, especially with
regards to how they handle cash distributions following the
recent positive tax ruling, at next week’s full-year results,”
said Simon Hales, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London .
“SAB are aware undoubtedly that the numbers next week are not
going to be particularly brilliant.”  Emerging Markets  SABMiller has a higher exposure to emerging markets than
most rivals and is, therefore, considered to have less to lose
by increasing its business in developed markets through an
acquisition of Foster’s. The percentage of earnings from markets
outside the U.S. and western  Europe  would drop to about 70
percent after buying the brewer from more than 80 percent now,
Deutsche Bank AG analyst Jonathan Fell has estimated.  SABMiller said the bid will be funded from existing
resources and new debt facilities. Turning the offer hostile is
unlikely to affect SABMiller’s credit ratings,  Fitch Ratings 
said, adding that its leverage calculations wouldn’t change
materially even if the price were raised by 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net 
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  