-- 
Samsung Galaxy Claims Title of Best Non-IPad: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-08-17T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/samsung-galaxy-claims-title-of-best-non-ipad-rich-jaroslovsky.html
When it comes to consumer
electronics, there’s Apple and Samsung -- and everyone else.  No wonder these two have been at each other’s throats
lately. Whether in  laptop computers , tablets or smart phones,
Samsung has emerged as Apple’s principal competition in terms of
design, performance and user experience.  The South Korean company’s latest weapon is the newly
upgraded Galaxy Tab 10.1, which lays legitimate claim to the
title of Best Tablet That Isn’t an IPad.  The Galaxy Tab is the first hardware that compares
favorably to the iPad 2. At 8.6 millimeters (about a third of an
inch) thick and 565 grams (about 20 ounces), it’s a smidgen
thinner and lighter than Apple’s tablet, which is to say it’s
very thin and light indeed. I found it easy to hold, even for
extended periods, and maneuver.  The Samsung also has a higher-resolution display than the
iPad 2 -- 1280 by 800, vs. 1024 by 768 -- and better cameras.
The screen measures 10.1 inches diagonally, compared to the
iPad’s 9.7 inches, though the Galaxy is narrower. As with most
similarly shaped devices, I found it better for watching movies
and TV shows than for reading or Web surfing.  Dies Young  The main drawback is the battery, which is significantly
shorter-lived than the iPad 2: seven to eight hours of normal
use, compared with 10 to 11. Prices are comparable: $500 for a
model with 16 gigabytes of storage and a Wi-Fi connection; $600
with 32 GB. You can also buy a version that runs on the Verizon
Wireless LTE 4G data network, but expect a further hit on the
battery. The LTE version is $200 more unless you buy a pricey
data contract, in which case there’s still a $30 premium.  All in all, the Galaxy Tab 10.1 is a lovely, well-designed
device. There’s more to a tablet than hardware, though, and it’s
on the software side that the gap between it and the iPad
widens.  The Samsung runs “Honeycomb,”  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s tab-optimized
version of its Android mobile operating system. While attractive
to users, it has proven less so to application developers. While
Apple claims more than 90,000 apps specifically designed for the
iPad and its iOS operating system, the best guess is there are
fewer than 1,000 for Honeycomb, six months after it hit the
market.  Better Interface  That shortage, and a desire to separate itself from the
flood of competing Android tablets, are behind a major software
upgrade Samsung just began pushing out over the air to users.
(The company this week temporarily halted distribution after
some users reported installation problems. The version I tested
was installed by Samsung.)  The upgrade adds a company-customized user interface,
called TouchWiz, as well as access to Samsung’s Music Hub and
Media Hub stores for acquiring songs, movies and TV shows, and a
bunch of new widgets and apps.  I found the most useful of these to be Live Panels, large,
self-updating windows overlaid on the Honeycomb desktop. You can
get weather from  AccuWeather  and stock quotes from Yahoo! at a
glance, as well as a quick look at your calendar and photos.
Another Live Panel connects you to Samsung’s Social Hub, which
commingles feeds from your Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn
accounts.  Less successful is the Mini Apps Tray, a set of shortcuts
you can summon at the touch of a button to launch apps from
within other apps. It’s a decent idea in theory, but the
performance is sluggish and you can’t customize the tray: Having
one-touch access to a world clock is nice, but how often do I
really need to know it’s 8:32 in Lisbon while I’m in the middle
of a game of Words With Friends?  Two-Faced  And although TouchWiz has been designed to coexist with
Honeycomb, having two user interfaces makes the Galaxy Tab feel
less polished and more disjointed than the Apple.  As  Steve Jobs  has shown, the sweet spot in mobile devices
is in neither the hardware nor the software; it’s in the
interplay between them, which is much easier to control when the
same company creates both. With Google acquiring Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., maybe it will someday achieve that
plane; in the meantime, the Galaxy Tab 10.1 is as good as we’re
likely to see in an Android tablet.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 