-- 
Esso Malaysia Falls by Record as San Miguel Buys at Discount

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-08-18T09:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/san-miguel-to-buy-65-of-esso-malaysia-at-3-50-ringgit-per-share.html
Esso Malaysia Bhd. (ESSO) , an oil refiner
and retailer, fell by a record in Kuala Lumpur trading after  San
Miguel Corp. (SMC)  agreed to buy  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s controlling stake
at a discount.  Esso Malaysia dropped 18.6 percent to close at 4.03 ringgit,
paring this year’s gain to 47 percent. Manila-based San Miguel
rose 2.4 percent to 128 pesos, its highest close in two weeks.
The 3.50 ringgit offer price represents a 29 percent discount to
yesterday’s close of 4.95 ringgit. The stock jumped 14 percent
before the announcement.  “I was surprised by the low price,” said Ang Kok Heng,
who oversees $292 million as chief investment officer at Phillip
Capital Management Sdn. “It’s just above its net asset value.”  San Miguel  will acquire Exxon’s entire 65 percent stake in
Esso Malaysia for about $206 million, according to a filing to
the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange yesterday. The price equates to
1.84 times earnings before interest and tax. That’s lower than
the median of 22.9 times for five similar global deals by oil
refiners and retailers in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The brewing group will also acquire all of unlisted
ExxonMobil Malaysia Sdn. and Exxon Mobil Borneo Sdn. for a
combined $403 million in its first acquisition of overseas oil
and gas assets, yesterday’s filing showed.  Bigger Acquisitions  The Manila-based company has expanded into refining,
telecommunications and mining to diversify from its traditional
food and beverage businesses. The takeovers would provide San
Miguel with downstream interests including seven fuel
distribution terminals and a network of 560 service stations,
according to the statement.  San Miguel, the majority shareholder in  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , the
 Philippines ’ largest oil company, is planning “bigger”
acquisitions in the region and is looking at energy assets in
Indonesia and  Australia , President Ramon Ang said in a mobile-
phone text-message yesterday.  “This acquisition provides us with a unique opportunity to
expand our participation in the regional oil and gas sector,”
Ang said in a separate e-mailed statement yesterday. “We will
focus our efforts not just on upgrading refinery capabilities,
but expanding reach into underserved areas in the fuels
market.”  Complimentary Business  San Miguel owns 68 percent of Petron, which supplies about
40 percent of the nation’s needs. Its lone refinery has a rated
capacity of 180,000 barrels a day, while its service stations
nationwide total 1,400. Petron rose 1.8 percent to 16.18 pesos,
set for its highest close since Aug. 2.  “San Miguel is still clearly in acquisition mode,” Philip Albert Felix, an analyst at Manila-based Philippine Equity
Partners Inc., wrote in a note today. “Since Esso Malaysia’s
operations are somewhat similar to Petron, complimentary
business and trade is possible.”  Esso Malaysia  operates gasoline stations and one refinery
in Port Dickson with a capacity of 88,000 barrels a day, San
Miguel said. It reported an 85 percent jump in profit to 268.6
million ringgit last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Exxon Mobil’s Malaysian downstream business is attractive
to San Miguel given that there is plenty of room to move up the
value chain by upgrading refinery capabilities,” Ang said.
“Our plan would be to upgrade the Port Dickson refinery so that
it can make use of a wider variety of crudes and produce higher-
value products.”  Power Plants   The group started as a brewer in 1890, eight years before
the Philippines’ declared independence from  Spain , and has been
expanding into other industries to boost return on equity to
three times the 7 percent level it used to earn from food and
drinks alone.  San Miguel owns power plants that account for a fifth of
the Philippines’ electricity generating capacity and has a 10
percent interest in Australia-based miner Indophil Resources NL,
which holds a third of Tampakan, the largest untapped gold and
copper deposit in  Southeast Asia . It expects new businesses to
make up 70 percent of revenue in five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  