-- 
SAS Returns to Profit on Passenger Gain

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-17T09:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/sas-returns-to-profit-on-passenger-gain.html
SAS Group, the Nordic region’s
largest airline, returned to profit in the second quarter after
passenger traffic rose and the carrier cut costs.  Net income was 551 million kronor ($86.2 million) compared
with a 502 million kronor loss a year earlier, the Stockholm-
based company said today in a statement. Profit beat the average
estimate of 202 million kronor in a Bloomberg survey of six
analysts. The shares rose the most in more than two years.  “There are positive prospects for continued traffic growth
during the second half of 2011, particularly on U.S. routes, but
also on domestic and intra-Scandinavian routes,” Chief
Executive Officer Rickard Gustafson said in the statement.  SAS, part-owned by the governments of Sweden, Norway and
 Denmark , had been unprofitable in all but two of the previous 14
quarters as it struggled with a drop in travel and competition
from discount carriers such as Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA. SAS in
May forecast a full-year 2011 pretax profit, and the carrier
reaffirmed that prediction today.  SAS climbed as much as 3.75 kronor, or 31 percent, to 16
kronor, the most since March 16, 2009. The stock was up 18
percent at 14.45 kronor as of 11:25 a.m. in Stockholm trading,
narrowing the decline for the year to 36 percent and valuing the
carrier at 4.75 billion kronor.  Consolidation  SAS is not engaged in any merger or acquisition talks,
Gustafson said today in an interview at the airline’s Stockholm
headquarters.  “I’m here to build an operation that allows SAS to stand
on its own legs,” Gustafson, who joined SAS as CEO on Feb. 1,
said. Consolidation thoughts “occupy very little of my focus
right now.”  Gustafson said he will present a new “strategic platform”
for the carrier this autumn, declining to be more specific.
While SAS will continue to trim costs, the platform is unlikely
to include a new “big cost-savings package,” he said.  The quarterly result was the best since the second quarter
of 2008, SAS said. The company concluded a 7.8 billion kronor
cost-savings plan during the quarter. Sales rose 13 percent to
11.2 billion kronor, as passenger numbers jumped 18 percent.  “The situation for the company is improving, in big part
thanks to its cost savings,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at
Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa, Denmark, with an “underweight” rating
on the shares, said yesterday by phone.  “The company is in a
far better position today than it has been for some years,
though big challenges remain such as price pressure from
Norwegian and other low-cost carriers.”  Last month  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,
 Europe ’s biggest airlines, said they’ll reduce the pace of
capacity growth after their earnings missed estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  