-- 
Serbia to Meet Economic Growth Target on Foreign Investment

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-08-17T13:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/serbia-relies-on-2-billion-in-foreign-investment-for-3-growth.html
Serbia ’s economy, which “stagnated
at best” in the second quarter, will expand 3 percent this
year, helped by an estimated $2 billion in foreign direct
investment, the National Bank of Serbia said.  An economic slowdown in the second quarter to 2.2 percent
from 3.4 percent in the first three months, was accompanied by
weaker growth in bank lending and an increase in non-performing
loans to 18.6 percent of total credits at the end of June, the
Belgrade-based bank said in a quarterly inflation report today.  Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F) ’s new auto plant, which will
start production in 2012, may contribute 0.4 percent to annual
growth, or a cumulative 2 percent through 2016, the central bank
said. The Fiat investment will also ensure Serbia’s current-
account deficit remains at around 7 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011 and falls to 6.3 percent of GDP in 2016.  Serbia is taking advantage of slowing inflation as it tries
to spur economic recovery before starting talks to join the
European Union and the central bank will seek direction for
future policy by assessing the impact of the global crisis and
domestic fiscal concerns, rather than home-grown inflationary
pressures which have weakened on declining domestic food prices
and a favorable base effect.  Slowing Inflation  The central bank expects inflation to slow to below 10
percent by November, central bank vice-governor Bojan Markovic
told reporters today in Belgrade.  The inflation outlook is benign and concerns ahead include
the euro region’s debt crisis and the threat of a further
increase in the Balkan country’s risk premium, which widened 60
basis points between the end of May and the end July to 439
basis points, as measured by the Emerging Markets Bond Index.  The approaching general elections are “a great challenge”
for keeping to the government’s budget-deficit plan, the bank
said, which may further increase Serbia’s risk premium and
generate a new wave of inflationary pressures.  With growing global risk aversion among investors,
“markets will be especially vulnerable to fiscal policy
management and fulfilling the planned budget framework,”
Markovic said.  IMF Talks  The central bank “welcomes the government’s commitment to
agree on a precautionary loan program with the  International
Monetary Fund ,” Markovic said, adding that the precautionary
credit is “just right” for Serbia’s economic situation and the
country isn’t considering a more binding “stand-by” loan.  Any program with the IMF will be possible only if “the
government stays within the planned budget deficit target” and
it is vital for policy makers that monetary effects of the
fiscal gap “remain within the planned framework in order to
continue with easing,” Markovic said.  The bank cut its two-week repurchase rate in June and July
by a cumulative 75 basis points to 11.75 percent and held off on
another move this month on domestic fiscal concerns and to take
time to assess the impact of the global financial turmoil.  The central bank released the inflation report a day before
an IMF mission arrives in Belgrade for talks on the next loan.
Central bank Governor Dejan Soskic said yesterday Serbia
shouldn’t be surprised if the fund refuses a new program if it
finds fiscal policy too loose.  The global crisis also shouldn’t affect Serbia’s planned
Eurobond issue next month except the borrowing costs, Markovic
said.  The central bank won’t relax mandatory reserve rules for
banks to make more money available to companies, which still
struggle to recover from the 2009 and 2010 crisis, Markovic
said. A 5 percentage-point cut in the reserve requirement will
force the central bank to “keep the benchmark  interest rate  1
percentage point higher than necessary,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  