-- 
Singapore July Exports Decline 2.8%

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S u n i l   J a g t i a n i
-- 
2011-08-17T02:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/singapore-july-exports-decline-2-8-.html
Singapore ’s exports fell the most
since 2009 in July as sales of electronics slumped, adding to
concern the city state may experience a recession as global
economic risks grow.  Non-oil domestic exports declined 2.8 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 1 percent gain in June, the island’s
trade promotion agency said in a statement today. The slide was
the largest since the 6.2 percent drop in October 2009. The
median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 4.6 percent.  A faltering U.S. recovery and the European debt crisis have
clouded the outlook for export-fueled Asian expansion, even as
the region fights price pressures. The weakness in shipments
abroad raises the odds of a “technical” recession in Singapore,
CIMB Research Pte and Bank of America Merrill Lynch said today.  “We could see a real risk of Singapore, being one of the
most export-oriented economies on this planet next to  Hong Kong ,
experiencing a technical economic contraction,” said Song Seng- Wun, an economist at CIMB Research in Singapore who has analyzed
Asian economies for more than two decades. “It could be a sign
of things to come for the other economies around the region.”  A technical recession is usually defined as two consecutive
quarters of declines in gross domestic product.  Electronics shipments by companies such as contract
manufacturer Venture Corp. dropped 16.9 percent in July from a
year earlier, after declining 17.2 percent the previous month.  Petrochemicals, Pharmaceuticals  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 5.9 percent. Pharmaceutical shipments
surged 48.5 percent after advancing 1.1 percent in June.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as Sanofi-
Aventis SA can cause industrial output to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil exports fell a seasonally adjusted 2.3
percent last month from June, when they declined a revised 4.1
percent, today’s report showed.  The city state’s gross domestic product shrank an
annualized 6.5 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months, when it surged 27.2 percent.  Singapore’s central bank may maintain a stance of allowing
modest appreciation in the local dollar in October because the
threat from inflation remains, Song said. The island uses the
 exchange rate  as its main tool to manage monetary policy.  Still, “they will be like other central banks where they
have put further tightening moves on hold,” he said. “Going
forward, the Singapore dollar rate of appreciation may slow down
from the kind of pace we saw in the first half.”  The currency was little changed at S$1.2044 a dollar at
10:25 a.m. today.  Singapore on Aug. 10 cut its forecast for export growth in
2011, saying non-oil domestic exports will probably climb 6
percent to 7 percent, less than a previous prediction of 8
percent to 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  