-- 
Somali Soldier Who Killed al-Qaeda Leader Is Injured in Retaliatory Attack

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-08-17T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/somali-soldier-who-killed-al-qaeda-leader-is-shot-in-retaliation.html
The commander of the Somali forces
that killed al-Qaeda’s suspected leader in East Africa and one
of the FBI’s  most-wanted men  said he was injured in a
retaliatory attack.  Fazul Abdullah Mohamed, suspected of being involved in 1998
attacks on U.S. embassies in  Kenya  and Tanzania, was shot and
killed in June in Mogadishu, Somalia’s capital. Captain Hassan
Mohamed Abukar, who was at the checkpoint where Fazul was
killed, said he’s received death threats and was wounded earlier
this month in an attack by al-Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab fighters.  Al-Shabaab has waged a four-year insurgency against the
Western-backed government of President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed. The rebels withdrew from Mogadishu on Aug. 6 after
suffering a series of military defeats. Abukar was shot by a
group of al-Shabaab fighters who recognized him while they were
fleeing Mogadishu’s central Bakara Market.  “We were in the middle of an operation to secure Bakara
Market on the day when we cleared the terrorist elements out of
Mogadishu,” Abukar said in an interview on Aug. 14 from his bed
at Mogadishu’s Medina Hospital. “A group of al-Shabaab
militants suddenly appeared at a nearby corner and realized that
I was the commander who killed their leader Fazul. They opened
fire and a bullet struck me behind my right knee.”  ‘Rain Fire’  Abukar said he was recognised because he was previously a
judge in one of the Shariah courts that made up the Islamic
Courts Union. Al-Shabaab is a splinter group of the so-called
ICU that controlled Mogadishu for about six months in 2006.  Also known as Jame’l, which means university in Somali and
refers to his achievements at Quranic school, Abukar said he was
contacted by someone identifying themselves as an al-Shabaab
officer after Fazul’s death and told he would be dealt with
according to  Islamic law .  On Aug. 6, Abukar said he encountered a group of fighters
fleeing the city. One of the fighters, dressed in the green
uniform worn by al-Shabaab militants, identified Abukar as “the
big apostate,” before shooting him, he said.  Fazul was in a 4x4 vehicle with his driver, a one-legged
man, when they were stopped at a checkpoint in southwestern
Mogadishu at about 11:15 p.m. on June 7. Abukar says he ordered
the driver of the vehicle, who identified his passenger as an
elder of the community, to turn on the light inside the vehicle.  “He switched the light on and then switched it off quickly
so we didn’t have time to identify them,” he said. “Then one
of the occupants fired a bullet and I ordered my troops to rain
fire on them.”  Bodies Exhumed  Without knowing their identities, the bodies were buried in
Mogadishu. They were exhumed a day later after Somalia’s
National Security Agency examined some of their personal
belongings, including a laptop, three mobile phones, an AK-47
rifle and documents that were found in the car, Abukar said. DNA
tests subsequently confirmed Fazul’s identity, he said.  “We really did a good job because we killed a man who was
a murderer and who killed many Americans as well as thousands of
Somalis,” Abukar said.  The near-simultaneous  bombings  of the U.S. embassies in  Dar
es Salaam  and Nairobi on Aug. 7, 1998, killed 224 people,
including 12 U.S. citizens. Mohammed was indicted by a New York
district court for his alleged involvement, according to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s website listing the most
wanted terrorists.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in June that
the killing of Fazul dealt a “significant blow” to al-Qaeda.
The U.S. had offered a $5 million dollar reward for information
leading to his arrest or conviction.  “The U.S. government hasn’t given us a cent,” Abukar
said, adding he fears for his life. “We need the U.S.
government to give us our bounty of $5 million and to help
ensure our safety.”  The U.S. government doesn’t comment on its Rewards for
Justice program because of the importance of its
confidentiality, a U.S. Embassy spokesman said in an e-mailed
response to a request for comment on Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 