-- 
South African Retail Sales Rose by 2.2% in June as Low Rates Spur Spending

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-17T15:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/south-african-retail-sales-rose-2-2-in-june-as-low-rates-spur-spending.html
South African retail sales rose 2.2
percent in June from a year earlier as the lowest  interest rates 
in 30 years helped to bolster  consumer spending .  Retail sales increased from a revised 0.2 percent in May,
the Pretoria-based  statistics office  said on its website today.
The median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a 2.1 percent expansion. Sales rose 2 percent in the month.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent this year even as inflation climbed to
a 15-month high of 5 percent in July. While the economy expanded
an annualized 4.8 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace
in a year, unemployment has increased, undermining spending.  “Growth in retail remains a key driver to economic
growth,” Freddie Mitchell, an economist at Efficient Group in
 Pretoria , said in a e-mailed note to clients today. “Consumer
demand in the economy still appears to be on the fragile side.”  The rand traded at 7.0718 per dollar at 4:50 p.m. in
Johannesburg from 7.0756 before the data was released.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 25.7 percent in the three
months through June from 25 percent in the previous three
months, while manufacturing growth slowed to 0.9 percent in
June, from a revised 1 percent the month before, according to
the statistics office.  “Interest rates are likely to remain unchanged for some
time,” Kgotso Radira, an economist at Investec Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed note to clients today. That
“is unlikely to provide any stimulus to spending.”  Standard Bank Group Ltd. said Aug. 15 it expects the
central bank to delay raising rates until the third quarter of
next year as a weakening global economy curbs  South Africa ’s
growth prospects. Africa’s largest lender had previously
forecast a rate increase in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  