-- 
South Africa Seeks Criminal Case Against Sishen, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-08-17T14:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/south-africa-plans-charges-against-sishen-iron-ore-over-prospecting-rights.html
South Africa ’s Department of Mineral
Resources, defending itself in court after awarding prospecting
rights to a company linked to President  Jacob Zuma ’s son, will
seek criminal charges against the plaintiff, its lawyer said.  Sishen Iron Ore Co., a unit of  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  and the
plaintiff in the civil case, arranged with an official to date
its rights application May 1, 2009, a day after it submitted the
proposal, Willie Vermeulen, the Department of Mineral Resources’
senior counsel, said in a court in  Pretoria  today.  The date is significant as the 21.4 percent rights that had
been held by  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  expired April 30.  “What is that other than the resolution to mislead?”
Vermeulen asked the court. Sishen “is confessing to prima facie
fraud,” he said. “Sishen says it has laid criminal charges;
the state responds that we will do likewise against Sishen.”  The Directorate for Priority Crimes Investigation raided
the mineral department’s offices in June as part of a probe into
the dispute over Sishen, the department said at the time.  Sishen Iron Ore is controlled by Kumba, based in Pretoria,
and also partially owned by Exxaro Resources Ltd.  Kumba and  ArcelorMittal (MT)  are asking the North Gauteng High
Court to overturn the award of prospecting rights for the Sishen
mine to Imperial Crown Trading 289 (Pty) Ltd., whose owners
include Jagdish Parekh, a business partner of Duduzane Zuma.  ‘Fair Access’  Awarding Kumba the right would be an “overconcentration”
of assets and run counter to South African laws on allowing
“fair access” to the country’s resources, Vermeulen said.  ICT’s receipt of the rights was based on “incomplete,
manipulated and fraudulent title deeds,” Chris Loxton, senior
counsel for Sishen Iron Ore, told the court yesterday. Kumba,
controlled by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , says it’s the only party
eligible for the rights to the nation’s largest iron ore mine.  Kumba won’t comment before putting its response to the
court, in a session that’s scheduled for Aug. 18, the company
said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  Bheki Khumalo, a Department of Mineral Resources spokesman,
didn’t immediately respond to voice or text messages left on his
mobile phone after Bloomberg News called seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  