-- 
Spar Nord Pre-Tax Profit Jumps; Bank Mulls Leasing Unit Sale

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-17T10:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/spar-nord-pre-tax-profit-jumps-bank-mulls-leasing-unit-sale.html
Spar Nord Bank A/S,  Denmark ’s
fourth-largest listed bank, said profit before tax grew almost
four-fold in the first half as loan losses fell.  Pre-tax profit grew to 191 million kroner ($37 million) in
the six months through June from 50 million kroner a year
earlier, the Aalborg, Denmark-based bank said in a statement to
the stock exchange today. Loan losses fell 17 percent to 191
million kroner. The bank is also looking into selling its
leasing business to boost liquidity, it said.  Spar Nord Bank said it issued 1.7 billion kroner in bonds
in the second quarter, bringing its liquidity surplus to 3.3
billion kroner. In June, the lender said small and medium-sized
banks faced an international funding wall after two regional
insolvencies triggered the European Union’s first senior
creditor losses within a resolution framework. The government
has since proposed measures to allow troubled banks to sidestep
Denmark’s so-called bail-in law.  “Clearly, the recent months’ turbulence in the Danish
banking market engenders both expenses and challenges,” Spar
Nord Bank Chief Executive Officer Lasse Nyby said in the
statement. “But as our completed bond issues and our decision
to divest our leasing activities show, these are challenges with
which we can cope.”  The bank said today that because of the “highly uncertain
funding market” for Danish banks, Spar Nord is looking into
selling part or all of its leasing business. Such a move would
boost so-called strategic liquidity by about 7 billion kroner
and reduce reliance on senior funding, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  