-- 
Sports Authority Offers $150 Million Over 25 Years to Name Broncos Stadium

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-17T04:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/sports-authority-offers-150-million-over-25-years-to-name-broncos-stadium.html
Sports Authority  Inc., the sporting
goods retailer owned by private-equity firm Leonard Green &
Partners LP, offered more than $150 million over 25 years for
the naming rights to the  Denver Broncos ’ Mile High Stadium.  Sports Authority won unanimous approval yesterday from the
Metropolitan Football Stadium District in Denver to assume the
final 10 years of the naming-rights agreement negotiated by
money manager  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  The facility will be renamed the
Sports Authority Field at Mile High Stadium.  “We were only approved for the 10-year deal, so we’ll go
back to get the 15-year extension,” Jeff Schumacher, executive
vice president and chief marketing officer for Sports Authority,
said in a telephone interview. “Over the 25 years, we’ll invest
over $150 million.”  The amount includes upgrades to the $500 million stadium,
which opened for the 2001 season, Schumacher said.  Sports Authority, based in Englewood,  Colorado , and the
Broncos approached Invesco about giving up the naming rights
about a year ago.  Since it signed the 20-year, $120 million deal, Invesco has
switched from being a seller of mutual funds directly to the
public to one that sells through financial advisers, Doug Kidd,
managing director of corporate affairs, said in a telephone
interview from Atlanta.  “Our presence in Denver is smaller now,” Kidd said. “We
thought this was a win-win and we can better align our marketing
spin with the current way we sell funds.”  Sports Authority will “pick up all our rights and
responsibility,” Kidd said.  More than 100 workers begin work today on enhancements to
the stadium in time for the National Football League regular-
season opener Sept. 12 against the  Oakland Raiders , Schumacher
said.  Sports Authority already supports high school and community
stadiums in Colorado, Schumacher said, “but nothing to this
level. This is the crown jewel to what we’re doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  