-- 
St. John’s Basketball Player Garrett Signs $1 Million Baseball Contract

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/st-john-s-basketball-player-garrett-signs-1-million-baseball-contract.html
Amir Garrett, a  St. John’s
University  freshman basketball player, will get to play his two
favorite sports after signing a $1 million deal with  Major
League Baseball ’s  Cincinnati Reds .  Garrett, a left-handed pitcher who throws a 96 mile-per-
hour fastball, was picked by the Reds in the 22nd round of the
June 7 draft and signed the contract on Aug. 15, according to an
e-mailed release from the university.  The 6-foot-6, 190-pound forward from  Los Angeles  will
attend St. John’s in the fall to play his freshman basketball
season. He’ll then turn to baseball next year as a member of the
Reds’ minor-league system.  “Not everyone gets to play two sports they love,” Garrett,
19, said in the statement. “I’m excited to play in the Reds’
organization but definitely excited to play at St. John’s. I’ll
be able to handle business on campus during the school year and
then for Cincinnati.”  The contract allows Garrett to keep his collegiate
eligibility this season because the Reds are paying for his
schooling, in accordance with National Collegiate Athletic
Association regulations, though he’ll still count toward the Red
Storm’s limit of 13 scholarships, the release said.  Reds spokesman Larry Herms said in a telephone interview
that he wasn’t aware of the details of Garrett’s contract. Paul
Pierson, assistant director of amateur scouting, didn’t return a
voice mail seeking comment.  “He’s a special talent,” St. John’s coach Steve Lavin
said in the release. “His length, explosiveness, quickness and
highly skilled game make him an ideal fit for our system.”  St. John’s went 21-12 last season and on Feb. 21 entered
the Associated Press Top 25 for the first time in 11 years. The
team lost 96 percent of its scoring and 98 percent of its
rebounding last season through graduation and departures,
according to the release.  -- Editors: Dex McLuskey, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  