-- 
Sudan to Evaluate Human Rights in Southern Kordofan, SUNA Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-08-17T09:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/sudan-to-evaluate-human-rights-in-southern-kordofan-suna-says.html
Sudan is forming a committee to
evaluate the human rights situation in Southern Korodfan, state-
run SUNA news agency  said , after the  United Nations  said  war
crimes  may have been committed in the area.  The committee will include members from the Foreign
Ministry, the military judiciary, the Ministry of Interior and
state security, and will be headed by the presidency’s Advisory
Council for Human Rights, Khartoum-based SUNA reported
yesterday, citing Justice Minister Mohamed Bishara Doussa.  The  UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights 
called in an Aug. 15 report for an investigation into possible
crimes against humanity and war crimes, allegedly committed
mainly by government forces, during clashes in June with
insurgents from the northern branch of South Sudan’s ruling
party.  Fighting erupted a month before the July 9 independence
ceremony that concluded South  Sudan ’s secession from Sudan, a
move that capped a 2005 peace agreement ending a civil war
between the north and south.  The UN said in the report said the Sudanese army and
militia loyal to it may have carried out “extrajudicial
killings, arbitrary arrests and illegal detention, enforced
disappearances, attacks against civilians, including children,
looting of civilian homes and destruction of property.”  Battles and airstrikes by the Sudanese army in Southern
Kordofan forced more than 73,000 people to flee their homes,
according to the UN.  Southern Kordofan is Sudan’s only oil-producing state,
accounting for 115,000 barrels a day, according to Sudan’s
minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 