-- 
Sugar Exports From India to Climb on Higher Output, Group Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-08-17T09:48:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/sugar-exports-from-india-to-climb-on-higher-output-group-says.html
Sugar exports from  India , the
second-largest producer, may climb as much as 54 percent next
year as output expands for a third year and a supply shortage
from Brazil drives demand, according to a producers’ group.  Shipments may rise to between 3 million metric tons and 4
million tons in the year starting Oct. 1, Narendra Murkumbi,
president of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. India has
allowed mills to ship 2.6 million tons of sugar this year.  Rising Indian supplies may help cool a 45 percent rally in
raw sugar prices in New York and cap global food costs tracked
by the  United Nations  that advanced in June for the 10th time in
the past 12 months. Futures have jumped on concern that cane
production in Brazil will drop for the first time in six years
because of adverse weather.  “Indian sugar is finding buyers in the Middle East, North
and East Africa,” said Murkumbi, who is also the managing
director of  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS)  “Economic growth, change
in diet and supply shortage from other origins” are driving
demand for Indian sugar, he said.  Sugar may advance to 29 cents a pound by December as  China ,
the second-biggest user, and Indonesia replenish stockpiles and
the crop declines in Brazil, according to the median in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight exporters, importers and traders
at a conference in Cebu, the  Philippines  this week.  The harvest in Brazil’s Center-South, the world’s largest
producing region, will fall short of previous estimates on
lower-than-expected yields, the Unica industry association said
on Aug. 11. Output will be 31.6 million tons, down from a July
13 estimate of 32.4 million tons, it said.  Yemen, Iraq  Refined sugar exports from India were fetching between $730
a ton between $740 a ton on a free-on-board basis and buyers
included  Sri Lanka , Bangladesh, Yemen and Iraq, Murkumbi said.
The nation may ship 200,000 tons to 300,000 tons by Sept. 30, he
said.  India’s sugar production may increase by as much as 7
percent to 26 million tons next year, Murkumbi said. Prices may
remain ‘stable-to-firm’ in the near term, he said.  White sugar for October delivery was down 0.4 percent at
$745.50 a ton in  London  at 2:35 p.m. in Mumbai. Raw sugar for
October delivery climbed as much as 1.1 percent to 28.34 cents a
pound in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 