-- 
Franc Rises Versus Dollar on Bets Central Bank Measures Won’t Curb Gains

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-17T15:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/swiss-franc-strengthens-on-bets-snb-measures-insufficient-to-curb-advance.html
The franc rose versus the dollar
after the  Swiss National Bank  refrained from pegging the
currency to the euro, emboldening traders seeking refuge from
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis to resume purchases.  The Swiss currency erased its earlier advance versus the
euro before Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf and Economy
Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann hold a briefing in Bern. The
Swiss currency snapped five days of declines against the
greenback after the SNB said it decided to expand liquidity to
the money market. Vice President Thomas Jordan has said policy
makers are assessing “a whole range of options,” including a
temporary currency peg to the euro.  “It’s not clear what the Swiss government is going to
say,” said Sara Yates, a London-based strategist at Barclays
Plc. “The reaction suggests that the market is again looking
for comments about whether a peg is likely. If we don’t have any
more-decisive measures it’s hard to see the market not going
down again.”  The franc strengthened 0.4 percent to 79.34 centimes per
dollar at 4:04 p.m. in  London . It traded at 1.14696 against the
euro, after earlier gaining as much as 2.1 percent.  The central bank will raise banks’ sight deposits, or money
that can be accessed immediately, to 200 billion francs from 120
billion francs, continue to repurchase outstanding SNB bills and
use foreign-exchange swap transactions, it said in an e-mailed
statement from Zurich today.  “If the SNB decided to adopt a peg against the euro it
would effectively mean they would have to commit to unlimited
intervention to maintain that peg,” said Steven Saywell, head
of foreign-exchange strategy for  Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “That would be very difficult for the SNB to do -- some
would say impossible -- in the current market conditions.”  Saywell, who forecasts the franc will strengthen to 1.10
against the 17-member common currency, spoke in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with  Owen Thomas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  