-- 
Swiss Swap Rates Turn Negative Amid SNB’s Franc Struggle: Chart of the Day

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-17T22:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/swiss-swap-rates-turn-negative-amid-snb-s-franc-fight-chart-of-the-day.html
The rate to exchange fixed- for
floating interest rate payments denominated in francs turned
negative for the first time while the  Swiss National Bank  loses
ground in its fight to halt a surge in the currency.  The top panel of the Chart of the Day shows the two-year
swap rate slid yesterday to below zero. The bottom panel shows
the appreciation in the franc versus the euro this month even as
the Swiss central bank took steps to curtail demand for its
nation’s assets and dampen the appreciation of its currency,
sending interest rates to record lows.  The Swiss National Bank in a statement yesterday said that
it will boost liquidity to the money market, expanding banks’
sight deposits to 200 billion francs ($253 billion) from 120
billion francs. The bank will also continue to buy SNB bills and
use foreign-exchange swap transactions. The franc gained after
the move as the actions fell short of speculation that the
central bank would announce a target rate or temporary peg to
the euro.  “What the market is doing is making the move to negative
 interest rates  for the SNB,” said Douglas Borthwick, head of
foreign-exchange trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros
Trading. Even with the decline in rates, “people still are
buying Swiss securities out of fear and wealth preservation
anxiety. Investors continue to purchase Swiss assets as well as
gold.”  The franc surged as much as 2.2 percent against the euro
yesterday. Traders’ concern over the escalation of the euro
regions debt crisis also were heightened after a meeting this
week between German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  failed to bring any new concrete
measures to stymie the contagion.  The SNB on Aug. 3 lowered its target for the three-month
Swiss franc Libor to “as close to zero as possible” from 0.25
percent and raised banks’ sight deposits to 80 billion francs
from 30 billion francs, and then on Aug. 10 raised them to 120
billion francs. Swap rates are based in part on expectations for
the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, in a particular
currency. The Swiss swap rate is based on six-month franc Libor,
which was fixed yesterday at 0.08667 percent, according to data
from the British Bankers’ Association.  -- Editors: Dave Liedtka, Greg Storey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  