-- 
Franc Gains as Swiss Stop Short of Target in Attempts to Weaken Currency

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-08-17T11:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/switzerland-increases-efforts-to-weaken-franc-with-flood-of-bank-liquidity.html
The franc strengthened after the
Swiss central bank stopped short of announcing a target rate or
temporary peg to the euro in its third attempt in as many weeks
to drive down the currency.  The  Swiss National Bank  will boost liquidity to the money
market, expanding banks’ sight deposits to 200 billion francs
($253 billion) from 120 billion francs, it said in a  statement 
today. The bank will also continue to buy SNB Bills and use
foreign-exchange swap transactions. The franc surged as much as
2.1 percent against the euro before paring gains and trading at
1.1413 at 1:15 p.m. in Zurich.  “There were strong expectations, maybe too much, in terms
of interventions or a peg,” said Steven Saywell, head of
foreign-exchange strategy for  Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “What we’re seeing here is disappointment” and “it’s
going to be very difficult for the SNB to stand in the way of
the foreign-exchange markets, which will want to push the franc
higher,” he said.  The franc reached a record high against the euro on Aug. 9,
reflecting investor concern that the region’s fiscal crisis may
continue to worsen. While the SNB trimmed borrowing costs to
zero on Aug. 3, the currency continued to appreciate,
threatening to erode exports and spark a recession. SNB Vice
President Thomas Jordan has said policy makers are assessing “a
whole range of options,” with a temporary currency peg to the
euro among the legal possibilities.  Next Move?  The SNB, led by Philipp Hildebrand, today said that “it
will, if necessary, take further measures against the strength
of the franc,” without elaborating.  “It remains to be seen what they do next,” said Fabian Heller, an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “The
SNB has other means of action, but for now, they’re just
pursuing this liquidity strategy.”  While BNP’s Saywell said on Bloomberg Television today that
it’s going to be near impossible for policy makers to peg the
franc to the euro and commit to unlimited currency purchases,
Janwillem Acket, chief economist at Julius Baer Group Ltd. in
Zurich, called a unilateral intervention a “daunting task.”  “It’s only a matter of time to see economic figures in
 Switzerland  turn ugly,” Acket said. “If they go for a peg,
they’d have to throw quite a lot of money on the market.”  Swiss Exports  The seven-member Swiss government has also signaled concern
that the franc’s ascent may hurt the economy. The currency is on
the agenda at today’s weekly cabinet meeting.  The franc, considered a haven in times of turmoil, has
strengthened 11 percent this year against the euro. It reached a
record 1.0075 on Aug. 9, trading near parity with the single
currency. Versus the dollar, the franc has appreciated 19
percent this year to an all-time high of 70.71 centimes on the
same day earlier this month.  With exports contributing about half of gross domestic
product, Swiss companies including  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s
biggest watchmaker, and chemicals maker  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  are under
increasing pressure to cut costs to maintain margins.  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
the world’s largest food company, said on Aug. 10 the franc’s
gain hurt first-half sales growth.  ‘Not Sufficient’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  earlier this month cut its Swiss
growth forecasts for this year to 1.9 percent from 2.1 percent,
and for next year to 0.6 percent from 2 percent. The “chances
of the real economy emerging unscathed are remote,” economists
 Dirk Schumacher  and Adrian Paul said.  The SNB on Aug. 10 almost tripled banks’ sight deposits to
80 billion francs and said that the “massive overvaluation” of
the franc poses a threat to economic growth.  With general elections just two months away, lawmakers,
have increasingly rallied behind SNB policy makers to avert job
losses and prevent companies from moving production sites
abroad. Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said last
week that the central bank “wants to feel that it’s being
supported on significant decisions.”  The  Social Democratic Party , the country’s second-largest,
said in an e-mailed statement today that while the SNB’s
measures are “going in the right direction,” they’re “not yet
sufficient,” to protect the economy.  ‘Ultimate Weapon’  The central bank has been reluctant to resume purchases of
foreign currencies after efforts to weaken the franc in the 15
months through mid-June 2010 caused a record loss of $21 billion
last year and sparked calls such as from Christoph Blocher, vice
president of the  People’s Party , for Hildebrand to resign.  “Central bankers burnt their fingers with massive currency
purchases already,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at
UniCredit Group in Munich. “They probably wait for the right
moment to eventually launch their ultimate weapon” by
introducing a franc target versus the euro.  Jordan said in an interview with Tages-Anzeiger newspaper
published on Aug. 11 that policy makers will act “as soon as
we’re convinced that it’s the right time,” calling the
situation “serious.” Policy makers considered the liquidity
injection the “appropriate” measure, he said.  Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London ., said he’s not convinced whether it will work.  “The SNB is not tackling the  exchange rate  directly,” he
wrote in an e-mailed note today. “It’s unclear if this further
expansion of quantitative easing will be enough to cap the franc
if euro strains persist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  