-- 
Syria Protesters Defy Government Forces as U.S. Condemns Latakia ‘Carnage’

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-17T14:59:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/syria-protesters-defy-government-forces-as-u-s-condemns-latakia-carnage-.html
Protesters opposed to Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s rule defied government forces and
pressed ahead with nightly gatherings in flash-point areas,
including the blockaded port city of Latakia, an activist said.  Demonstrators massed at evening rallies amid a curfew in
Latakia, where tension has been heightened since the military
closed off access by land and sea this week, Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said today. Gunfire
was heard and security forces made many arrests, with a
clampdown also under way in the central city of Homs, he said.  About 50 tanks took up positions near Homs, where shelling
occurred,  Al Arabiya  said, citing activists. At least two people
died in the Homs area today and another in Latakia, Merhi said.  The U.S. has been unable to verify reports that warships
fired on Latakia, “but that doesn’t change the fact that
there’s plenty of carnage in the city of Latakia being inflicted
on innocents by Syrian armor, by Syrian snipers, by Syrian
security personnel,” Victoria Nuland, a  State Department 
spokeswoman, told reporters yesterday in  Washington .  At least one person was killed in Deir al-Zour late
yesterday and two died in Homs, Merhi said. More than 2,400
people have been killed since the uprising against Assad began
in March, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in  Syria . The  United Nations  has
put the toll at about 2,000. Protests began after revolts ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt , and destabilized  Libya .  Sunnis Targeted  Demonstrators took the streets of Syria’s capital,
Damascus, and its suburbs as well as the eastern town of Deir
al-Zour and the southern area of Daraa, where the uprising
began, Merhi said by phone from Damascus.  Latakia, which was overtaken by soldiers backed by
artillery and warships this week, has been subjected to tank
fire that targeted Sunni Muslim areas, Merhi said. The
government said any naval action on the city was a “routine
exercise” aimed at preventing weapons smuggling by sea, not an
attack.  Assad has ignored “the increasing chorus of condemnation
from the international community, which is why we are working
hard now with our partners around the world to increase the
pressure, political and economic,” Nuland said.  Loyalty  “So long as the Syrian army and security forces remain
loyal, it will be difficult to topple Assad,” said Patrick
Seale, a biographer of Bashar’s father, Hafez al-Assad. “His
main asset is that no foreign country has any appetite for a
military intervention and the Russians and the Chinese will
certainly veto any attempt to condemn him at the UN Security
Council.”  President  Barack Obama , Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah and
British Prime Minister  David Cameron  have called on Syria’s
government to stop attacking its people. U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  on Aug. 12 urged nations doing business with
Syria to cut off trade and arms sales.  Canada  is extending
sanctions on Assad’s regime.  “Now is the time for President Assad to act in response to
these calls,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said
yesterday. “He is fast losing the last shreds of his
legitimacy. He must stop the violence immediately.”  The foreign minister of neighboring Turkey,  Ahmet Davutoglu , said on Aug. 15 that the “time for words will be
over” unless Syria ends military operations against its people.  Assad, who succeeded his father as president after his
death in 2000, has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots. More than 500 members of the security forces have died
since the unrest began, the government has said.  The U.S. State Department estimates that the government has
detained more than 30,000 people.  The UN has withdrawn non-essential staff from Syria, the
office of the UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon  Michael Williams  said when contacted by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 