-- 
Police Watchdog Drops Probe of Stephenson, Yates in Phone-Hacking Inquiry

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T13:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-k-police-watchdog-drops-phone-hacking-probe-of-two-former-top-officers.html
Britain’s police watchdog cleared
former Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson and his
deputy John Yates in relation to a botched phone-hacking
investigation of News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid.  While police made mistakes such as ending the probe too
soon in 2009 and failing to notify victims, the senior officers
acknowledged the errors by resigning last month, the Independent
Police Complaints Commission said today in a statement  on its
website . Yates will remain under investigation for his alleged
role in securing a job for the daughter of a former editor at
the now-defunct newspaper, Neil Wallis, the IPCC said.  “The role of the Metropolitan Police in its response to
allegations of phone hacking by News of the World has rightly
come under huge public scrutiny,” IPCC Deputy Chairwoman
Deborah Glass said in the statement. “There can be no doubt
about the damaging effect of the perceived inadequate
response.”  The police are under pressure to explain their links with
News Corp. journalists and their failure to further probe phone-
hacking by the News of the World following the jailing in 2007
of the paper’s royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a private
investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , for intercepting phone messages
left for celebrities and politicians.  “It is difficult to see what further investigation would
achieve,” the IPCC said of Yates, who closed the earlier probe.
“We would agree that he made a poor decision in 2009. He
himself has acknowledged that, given what is now known, he made
a poor decision for which he has now taken responsibility.”  Widespread Hacking  In 2009, after the  Guardian newspaper  reported that the
News of the World had settled a phone-hacking case out of court,
Yates conducted a review and announced there were no grounds for
a further inquiry. The police were forced to open a new probe in
January after evidence of widespread hacking at the News of the
World emerged in civil lawsuits.  Yates told a parliamentary committee last month that  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, News International, had covered up phone
hacking and failed to turn over enough evidence during the
earlier probe.  Wallis, who worked for the police as a communications
consultant in 2009 and 2010, was arrested last month as part of
the new phone-hacking inquiry. Stephenson has said 10 out of the
45 press officers at the Met once worked at News Corp. U.K.
publications.  ‘Peripheral Involvement’  “I am pleased that the IPCC have accepted that no
investigation into me is required in relation to my involvement
in the phone hacking matters,” Yates said in an e-mailed
statement. “However, I am disappointed with the IPCC’s decision
to investigate my peripheral involvement in recruitment process
of Neil Wallis’s daughter.”  Stephenson said in an e-mailed statement that he had
expected to be cleared of any wrongdoing.  “I regret resources have had to be expended on this
matter,” Stephenson said.  The watchdog also cleared Stephenson in relation to his
acceptance of hospitality from a family friend at a luxury
medical facility while he was on sick leave.  “The public will make its own judgments about whether any
senior public official should accept hospitality to this extent
from anyone,” the IPCC said in the statement.  The watchdog also cleared  Peter Clarke , who was responsible
for the original investigation, saying he had explained why the
probe was closed with resources spread thin covering suspected
terror plots.  “He has explained the parameters of the investigation, as
well as the reasons why the huge volume of material seized at
the time was not subject to analysis,” the IPCC said of Clarke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  