-- 
U.S. DOE Electric Power Flash Report for June (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-08-17T19:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-s-doe-electric-power-flash-report-for-june-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Electric Power Flash report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  The contiguous  United States  experienced temperatures that were
above normal in June 2011. In particular, southern states
experienced significantly above average temperatures which
exacerbated drought conditions present in the region.
Accordingly, the total population-weighted cooling degree days
for the United States were 20.2 percent above the June normal.  In June 2011, retail sales of electricity remained relatively
unchanged from June 2010. Over the same period, the average U.S.
retail price of electricity increased 0.9 percent. The average
U.S. retail price of electricity for the 12-month period ending
June 2011 increased 1.6 percent over the previous 12-month
period ending June 2010.  The total electric power generation in the United States
decreased 3.0 percent compared to June 2010 (the change in
electric power generation does not necessarily coincide with the
change in retail sales of electricity because utility billing
cycles tend to lag electricity production in many areas). Over
the same period, coal generation decreased 4.6 percent, while
natural gas generation decreased 4.4 percent. Petroleum liquids
generation showed the largest percentage change, decreasing 50.3
percent due in part to the increased cost of petroleum liquids
as a fuel used in electricity generation. Conventional
hydroelectric generation increased 13.3 percent from the
previous year, as riverflows in the Northwest showed signs of
returning to normal following an abnormally long hydroelectric
season.  Total coals stocks in the electric power sector decreased 5.3
percent from the previous month. Accordingly, the average number
of days of burn for coal plants consuming bituminous or
subbituminous coal as their primary fuel  SOURCE: U.S. Department of Energy *T --Editors: Terry Barrett  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  