-- 
U.S. Government Merits a Junk Credit Rating: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-08-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-s-government-merits-junk-debt-rating-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
Politicians and investors say
 Standard & Poor’s  made a mistake when it cut the U.S.’s credit
rating from AAA to AA+. I agree. I wonder why S&P didn’t take it
all the way down to CCC.  The country’s political leaders, from President  Barack Obama  on down, are alternately decrying S&P’s hubris and blaming
their opponents. Big investors who hold lots of Treasuries are
also on S&P’s case.  Warren Buffett  said the downgrade “doesn’t
make sense,” that Treasuries are still AAA in Omaha,  Nebraska ,
and that S&P should rate U.S. debt AAAA. If AA+ means very low
credit risk and AAA means no credit risk, I guess AAAA would
signify negative credit risk.  My question, though, is why U.S.  government bonds  carry a
rating any better than CCC, which is well into junk territory.
Such a grading,  according  to S&P, implies the debtor is
“currently vulnerable and is dependent upon favorable business,
financial, and economic conditions to meet its financial
commitments.”  Sounds right to me. Our economy is in horrible shape.
Unemployment is stuck at more than 9 percent, real per-capita
output hasn’t budged in six years, the national savings rate is
zero, and domestic investment is a miserable 4 percent of
national income. With 78 million  baby boomers  heading into
retirement, we have made no provision to pay their full annual
Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefits, which will
average $40,000 in today’s dollars. We are spending more than
the next 13 countries combined on defense. The U.S. is running
enormous budget deficits, and our tax system is collecting the
least revenue per dollar of output since World War II.  Credit Risk  True, bad economic conditions don’t necessarily translate
into bad credit. Credit risk formally refers to the likelihood
of actual default -- that is, not paying debts precisely when
they are owed. Even if our economy continues to falter, the
government collects enough taxes to do this job for decades,
provided it treats its bondholders as senior creditors and pays
them before others, like Social Security beneficiaries and
soldiers.  There’s another reason the U.S. can always stave off
default. The Federal Reserve can simply print dollars to make
bond payments. Unlike  Greece  -- which relies on the  European
Central Bank  for its supply of euros -- our government controls
its printing press. The Fed could even print $10.3 trillion and
buy up every single Treasury bill and bond held by the public
and foreigners. There would be no debt outstanding on which to
default. The Chinese could no longer claim we are “addicted to
debt.”  Interest and Principal  Where, the reader might ask, would the Treasury get the
money to make interest and principle payments on the debt?
Simple: from the Fed. The central bank would lend the Treasury
the money needed to pay the interest, which the Fed would then
return to the Treasury under the heading “profits of the  Federal
Reserve .” The principal would be rolled over as the Treasury
issued the Fed new bonds to pay off old ones.  The questions multiply. If it’s possible just to print
money and never default, why aren’t Treasuries rated AAAA, like
Buffett suggests? And why doesn’t the Fed go ahead and crank up
the printing presses? Why, for that matter, doesn’t the ECB
print euros and buy up all the Greek, Italian, Spanish,
Portuguese and Irish debt?  To some extent, both the Fed and the ECB have been doing
this. But they have been trying hard to keep it quiet. The Fed
called it Quantitative Easing II. The ECB has been buying
government bonds in large quantities, and euro-area countries
have arranged for the ECB to launder more bond purchases through
the new European Financial Stability Facility.  S&P Understands  S&P understands what the central banks are doing. It also
knows that printing too much money to buy up debt can trigger
high inflation rates, if not hyperinflation, which could force
 Uncle Sam  and Tante Brunhilde (Sam’s European counterpart) to
slow their printing presses and, at some point, formally
default. The trigger could get pulled at any time. If regular
folks get wind of what’s really going on, they will drop the
dollar and the euro like hot potatoes, producing the inflation
that Sam and Brunhilde deeply fear.  S&P knows something else: Its credit grading isn’t viewed
strictly as an indicator of repayment probability. Investors
think the rating indicates whether a country’s bonds are a safe
investment -- that is, whether they will be paid in real, hard
currency, as opposed to colored pieces of paper devalued by
inflation. If S&P thinks printing money is the only way a
country can service its debt and that bondholders will get paid
in watered-down dollars, it will think twice about granting a
AAA rating.  The real scandal here is that S&P knows that the Fed and
ECB have been printing money like crazy to buy up debts, both
private and public. It also knows that given long-term fiscal
commitments and likely future economic conditions, these central
banks will surely need to print vastly more money, which means
bondholders will end up being paid back only partially or in
debased currencies. And it should know that this implies one and
only one rating: CCC.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 