-- 
U.S. Chamber Stays Silent on Tax Increase Amid Overhaul Push

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-08-17T17:36:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-s-chamber-remains-silent-on-tax-increases-amid-overhaul-push.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is
urging the new congressional deficit-reduction committee to
overhaul the  tax code  without taking a position on the central
issue of whether higher taxes should be part of the proposal.  In  a letter  sent to the committee members yesterday,  Bruce Josten , the chamber’s chief lobbyist, called for a “complete
restructuring of the U.S. tax code” that would lower rates and
make the tax code more efficient.  “The chamber urges you to consider how the current tax
laws act as an impediment to worldwide competitiveness, a
deterrent to saving and investment, and an obstacle to
innovation and entrepreneurship,” he wrote on behalf of the
nation’s largest business group. The chamber’s board includes
executives from Pepsico Inc.,  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)   Josten’s letter sidesteps one of the core issues dividing
Democrats and Republicans on the 12-member joint committee.
Democrats such as Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus 
of Montana are calling for a balanced approach that includes tax
increases along with spending cuts. Republicans such as  Dave Camp  of Michigan, who leads the House Ways and Means Committee,
are opposed to higher taxes.  Raising Revenue  Diane Lim Rogers, the chief economist at the Concord
Coalition, an Arlington, Virginia-based group that advocates for
deficit reduction, said she was encouraged by the letter, though
the group didn’t mention a specific revenue target.  Rogers said 
the letter places a tax overhaul next to entitlement spending as
part of the work for the joint committee. That’s the same
formula used by bipartisan groups that have called for tax
increases as an element of  deficit reduction .  “What they’re saying very carefully is that there are ways
to raise revenue that are not harmful to the economy,” said
Rogers, a former Democratic staff member on the Ways and Means
Committee.  When asked questions about the chamber’s stance, including
whether the group would support an agreement that would pair $10
in spending cuts for every $1 in tax increases, spokeswoman
Blair Latoff referred to the letter and said it speaks for
itself. All the Republican presidential candidates who
participated in a debate in Iowa last week said they would
reject such a deal.  Automatic Cuts Loom  The joint committee, with Democratic Senator  Patty Murray 
of Washington and Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of
 Texas  as co-chairmen, was given the task by the recent debt-
ceiling law of finding $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction by
Nov. 23. The House and Senate must vote on the recommendations
by Dec. 23.  If the committee doesn’t reach an agreement or its
recommendations don’t become law, automatic spending cuts would
occur, starting in 2013.  The letter doesn’t say the chamber would oppose a tax
overhaul that raised more revenue than the current tax system
does. Josten did say that tax changes shouldn’t single out
industries.  Democrats, sensing the difficulty of rewriting the tax code
in three months and trying to persuade Republicans to back
higher revenue, have been discussing the same targeted tax
increases that President  Barack Obama  has supported in the past.
Those proposals would raise taxes for oil and gas companies,
private equity managers and corporate-jet owners.  Cantor Warning  In a  memo sent  to House Republicans today, Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of Virginia warned of the damaging effects of higher
taxes.  “It is in everyone’s interest -- especially small business
job creators -- for the deficit-reduction committee to report
and for Congress to enact at least the $1.5 trillion in spending
reductions called for without a tax increase,” he wrote.  Compared with his statements on taxes, Josten was clearer
in his prescription for how the committee should address
spending on government health-care and retirement programs.  “Entitlement spending is out of control, on autopilot, and
leading America toward fiscal disaster,” he wrote. “Moreover,
Congress cannot fix the root cause of the problem without
addressing the entitlement programs of Medicare, Medicaid and
Social Security.”  The chamber’s lack of emphasis on revenue neutrality in a
tax overhaul leaves open the possibility that the group could
ultimately support higher taxes as part of a broader proposal,
said Michael Linden, director of tax and budget policy at the
Center for American Progress, which often agrees with Democrats.  “They’re laying down a marker on what  tax reform  should
look like, very broadly, but they haven’t said that revenue has
to stay at the same level it is now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  