-- 
Economy Not Double-Dipping Yet as Production-to-Consumer Spending Increase

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-17T11:55:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-s-spending-increase-holds-off-double-dipping.html
Some of the gloom that settled over
the U.S. economic outlook as stocks and sentiment plunged in
recent weeks may soon dissipate as households keep spending and
factories keep producing.  Industrial output climbed in July by the most this year,
according to figures from the  Federal Reserve  yesterday. Reports
last week showed retail sales rose by the most in four months
and claims for jobless benefits dropped to the lowest level
since early April.  “There’s nothing in here to suggest the economy is
slowing, let alone declining,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York. “Production continues, and production continues because
consumers are still making their purchases.”  Profits at companies ranging from Home Depot Inc. to  Macy’s
Inc. (M)  are beating analysts’ estimates as sales increase, showing
household spending may be picking up after stalling in the
second quarter. Cisco Systems Inc. shares soared last week as
demand for its networking equipment improved, hinting at a
pickup in business investment.  “You look at what companies are saying in their earnings
calls and there is no indication that companies are cutting back
abruptly in their hiring or spending,” said Neil Dutta, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York . “While
recession risks are on the rise, a recession is not baked in the
cake and the data bear that out.”  Yesterday’s report from the Fed showed that the 0.9 percent
increase in production at factories, mines and utilities
followed a revised 0.4 percent gain that was more than
previously estimated. Economists projected a 0.5 percent rise in
July, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Auto Rebound  Production of automobiles and parts surged 5.2 percent last
month, a rebound from the supply-chain disruptions that resulted
following the March earthquake in Japan, the Fed report showed.
Excluding motor vehicles, manufacturing climbed 0.3 percent
after a 0.2 percent gain in the prior month.  Business equipment production rose 0.6 percent in July
following a 0.2 percent gain in June. Output of computers and
electronic products increased 0.5 percent after a 0.8 percent
decline in June. Furniture production rose 0.7 percent after a
2.4 percent decrease.  Those gains are reflected in second-quarter profit at
Atlanta-based Home Depot, the largest U.S. home improvement
retailer, which raised its full-year profit forecast yesterday.
Cisco, the world’s largest maker of networking equipment, last
week reported fiscal fourth quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates.  Order Books, Visibility  “We’re not hearing a lot of concern, I would say, from our
customers in terms of their order books, in terms of their
visibility,” James Squires, chief financial officer at  Norfolk
Southern Corp. (NSC) , the second-biggest eastern U.S. railroad, said
on a July 26 conference call with analysts. “We’re not hearing
anything negative about the second half.”  On the consumer side, retailers are benefiting as
households continue to spend. Sales climbed 0.5 percent in July,
the most in four months, following a 0.3 percent gain in June
that was larger than previously estimated, according to Commerce
Department figures released last week.  Target Corp., the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
posted a 3.7 percent gain in second-quarter profit that
surpassed analysts’ estimates, driven in part by improved sales.  Income at Target  Net income rose to $704 million, or $1.03 a share, from
$679 million, or 92 cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts projected 97 cents,
the average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Target has limited store openings during the past two years
and pursued sales growth by adding grocery sections and offering
discounts on items purchased with a store-issued debit or credit
card. Those initiatives helped same-store sales in the quarter
rise the most since 2007.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest retailer,
yesterday boosted its profit forecast for the year. The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based firm said that second-quarter sales
at the company’s U.S. stores open at least a year were unchanged
from a year earlier, excluding fuel, after falling the eight
previous quarters. Excluding fuel, sales at the company’s Sam’s
Club locations open at least a year gained 5 percent.  Credit Standards  More consumers and businesses are gaining access to credit
as lending conditions are easing. Banks loosened credit
standards on most types of loans in the second quarter, with
commercial and industrial lenders citing “aggressive
competition” as a reason for the easier terms, according to a
Fed survey released Aug. 15.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed down 1 percent at
1,192.76 yesterday after rallying 7.5 percent in the three
previous sessions, its biggest jump since March 2009.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. increased its
stake in  Wells Fargo & Co ., adding 9.7 million shares of the
biggest U.S. home lender in the three months ended June 30,
boosting the holding by 2.8 percent, Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire said Aug. 15 in a filing that listed its U.S.
stockholdings.  Berkshire accelerated purchases on Aug. 8 as the  S&P 500 
plunged 6.7 percent, its steepest decline since December 2008.  Bernanke and Fed  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-making
colleagues pledged on Aug. 9 to hold the main  interest rate  at a
record low near zero at least until mid-2013, saying economic
growth is “considerably slower” than anticipated.  “The economy at the margin was picking up some momentum at
the start of the third quarter,” Dutta said. “If the labor
market holds together, then the economy holds together.
Sentiment has overreacted somewhat relative to economic
fundamentals.”  Concerns about the economy earlier this month were
reflected in Aug. 10 comments by members of the Business Cycle
Dating Committee of the  National Bureau of Economic Research ,
the official arbiter of when recessions start and end.  “The sum total of the indicators over the last six
months” points to “increased recession risk over the coming
year,” said  Jeffrey Frankel , a panel member and professor at
 Harvard University .  July Employment  American employers added more jobs than forecast in July
and the  unemployment rate  fell for the first time in four
months. Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a 46,000 increase
in June that was larger than earlier estimated, the Labor
Department said Aug. 6. The jobless rate dropped to 9.1 percent.  The U.S. is not the only country reporting better-than-
forecast economic data in the past week.  Japan ’s economy, the
third-largest in the world, contracted less than estimated in
the second quarter, figures showed Aug. 15.  Most indicators in Japan from the quarter started July 1
point to an economic rebound, with industrial production rising
for three straight months since plunging in March. Companies are
also forecasting they will boost output this month to make up
for lost capacity resulting from the natural disaster.  “There are plenty of worries, there are plenty of fears,
but so far the fears are completely unfounded,” Rupkey said.
“Bad things have not happened. We’ve been pleasantly
surprised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  