-- 
U.S. Seeks Offshore Wind Bids in Rhode Island, Massachusetts

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-08-17T22:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-s-creates-offshore-wind-zone-for-rhode-island-massachusetts.html
The U.S. Interior Department
designated an  area  off the coasts of  Rhode Island  and
 Massachusetts  where developers may build sea-based wind farms.  The department invited energy companies to submit proposals
for wind projects in a statement today. It designated similar
areas off the coasts of Delaware,  Maryland , New Jersey and
 Virginia  in February and plans to offer commercial leases in
those places as early as 2012.  Today’s call for proposals will determine whether there is
competitive interest in the area. If few developers apply, the
department will streamline the process to make leasing faster.
Interior handles commercial leasing for all energy projects more
than 3 miles (4.8 kilometers) offshore.  “By focusing on priority areas with high wind potential
and fewer conflicts, and conducting early, coordinated reviews,
we can accelerate the leasing process,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said in the statement.  The department’s  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management ,
Regulation and Enforcement also will complete an environmental
review of the zone and consider alternatives through a public
comment process. Any leases awarded to developers will not
authorize construction, Interior said in July. Proposed projects
would require further site-specific environmental reviews.  ‘Huge Step Forward’  “The establishment of commercial lease areas is a huge
step forward,” Amy Grace, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said today in an e-mail. It took about ten years for
Cape Wind Associates LLC to receive final permits for its 468-
megawatt project off Cape Cod, Massachusetts, she said.  Interior’s latest call for proposals “should solicit
interest from existing offshore developers Deepwater Wind, NRG
Bluewater, and Fisherman’s Energy, as well as Iberdrola, who has
indicated an interest in moving to offshore development in prior
calls,” Grace said.  Interior on April 12 issued a  determination of no
competitive interest  for the  zone  off  Delaware , and said NRG
Energy Inc.’s Bluewater Wind LLC was the only company to submit
a bid. Bluewater proposes to build a 450-megawatt project more
than 13 miles from shore. Regulators in 2008 approved the
company’s contract to sell 200 megawatts of output to utility
Delmarva Power & Light Co., though Bluewater is still
negotiating power purchase agreements for the remaining
capacity.  Leases Offshore Maryland  Companies that have expressed interest in leases offshore
from Maryland include Bluewater, Iberdrola SA, the world’s
largest wind-power generator, and U.K-based developer Renewable
Energy Systems Ltd. Energy Management Inc., the parent of Cape
Wind’s developer, and Fishermen’s Energy, which in May received
approval for a demonstration project off  New Jersey , also have
submitted bids in Maryland.  Other companies that have shown interest in leases off the
coast of New Jersey include Bluewater, Neptune Wind LLC,
Deepwater Wind LLC, U.K.-based TCI Renewables Ltd., Dublin,
Ireland-based Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd., and Enxco
Development Corp.  Interior has not yet disclosed the names of interested
bidders in Virginia and said today additional wind zones will be
identified soon in  North Carolina  and Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  