-- 
Most U.S. Stocks Retreat Amid Dell’s Decline, Comments From Fed Officials

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-17T21:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-dell-drops-in-german-trading.html
Most U.S. stocks declined, wiping
out an earlier advance, as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  forecast weaker sales and
two Federal Reserve officials expressed concern about the amount
of stimulus being applied to the economy.  Dell fell 10 percent as slower spending on PCs and consumer
technology crimped its sales forecast.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) ,
the teen-clothing retailer, slid 8.7 percent as executives said
cost pressure will rise. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies 
that are least-tied to the economy, including phone and utility
providers, rose at least 0.8 percent as a group.  Eastman Kodak
Co. (EK)  surged 26 percent as analysts and investors told Bloomberg
News its patents may make it a takeover target.  About 18 stocks fell for every 17 that rose on U.S.
exchanges. The S&P 500 added 0.1 percent to 1,193.89 at 4 p.m.
in New York, after gaining 1.3 percent at most and dropping as
much as 0.7 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed
4.28 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,410.21 today.  “People started to reevaluate the odds of a QE3,”  James Paulsen , the chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based
Wells Capital Management, which oversees about $340 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “There are a lot of people that
have been saying we’re going to get a QE3” and comments from
Fed policy makers may have reduced those odds, he said, using
the nickname for a potential third round of quantitative easing.  The S&P 500 rose as much as 28 percent after Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  foreshadowed on Aug. 27 of last year a second-
round of so-called quantitative easing. The index has fallen 12
percent from a three-year high on April 29 on concern about
 Europe ’s debt crisis and an economic slowdown. The Fed finished
its second round of asset purchases at the end of June.  Fed Speculation  Earlier gains in stocks were propelled by better-than-
estimated earnings at companies including  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
 Staples Inc. (SPLS)  Stocks reversed earlier gains on investors’
speculation that the Fed may not consider another economic
stimulus program to avert a recession.  Bernanke’s pledge last week to keep  interest rates  near
zero percent until mid-2013 was “inappropriate policy at an
inappropriate time,”  Charles Plosser , president of the Fed Bank
of Philadelphia, said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. Dallas President
 Richard Fisher  said the central bank shouldn’t enact policy to
protect stock investors. Both officials dissented from the Fed’s
Aug. 9 statement.  Wholesale Costs  Stock-index futures maintained gains today after a report
showed that wholesale costs in the U.S. rose more than forecast
in July. The 0.2 percent advance in the producer prices index
followed a 0.4 percent drop in June, Labor Department figures
showed. Economists forecast a 0.1 increase, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News Survey. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy, climbed 0.4
percent, the most since January.  The report showed the cost of crude goods dropped in July
for a third consecutive month, led by declining petroleum and
food prices. Slowing sales and the drop in raw-materials mean
companies will be less likely to raise prices, which may give
Federal Reserve policy makers more room to act to spur growth
after the world’s largest economy almost stalled.  Inflation data suggest “Fed policy makers are unlikely to
rush to further easing,” Michael S. Hanson, economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in New York, wrote in a note today.
“But with the economy remaining muddled on a slow growth and
high unemployment path, a dovish bias is likely to remain for
now.”  Technology Shares Slump  Technology companies in the  S&P 500  fell 0.9 percent, the
most within 10 industries.  Dell slumped 10 percent to $14.20. Lackluster demand from
consumers and market-share gains by Apple Inc. weighed on
results, offsetting stronger corporate orders for server
computers.  Abercrombie & Fitch declined 8.7 percent to $64.87.
Pressure from increasing commodity costs will be greater in the
second half, Chief Executive Officer Michael Jeffries told
investors on a conference call. Earlier today, the  New Albany ,
Ohio-based company reported that second-quarter sales rose 23
percent on U.S. back-to-school purchases and gains in Europe.  Target rose 2.4 percent to $50.55. The second-largest U.S.
discount retailer posted second-quarter profit that surpassed
analysts’ estimates as cost reductions helped offset sales of
lower-margin goods.  Store Openings  Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  has slowed store
openings during the past two years and pursued sales growth by
adding grocery sections and offering discounts on items
purchased with a store-issued debit or credit card. Those
initiatives helped same-store sales in the quarter rise 3.9
percent, the most since 2007.  Staples added 0.5 percent to $14.29. The office-supply
retailer said its second-quarter earnings minus some items were
22 cents a share, beating the average analyst estimate of 19
cents a share.  Per-share earnings increased 17 percent among the S&P 500
companies that have released quarterly results since July 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About three-quarters of
the companies have topped the average analyst profit forecast,
the data show.  Eastman Kodak surged 26 percent to $2.69. The 131-year-old
camera company may hold patents worth five times more than the
business itself, making it a takeover target, investors and
analysts told Bloomberg News. The digital-imaging patents owned
by Kodak may now be worth $3 billion in a sale, MDB Capital
Group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  