-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold and Wheat Climb, Rubber Drops

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-17T11:21:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-and-wheat-climb-rubber-drops.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Norway’s Oil Era Extended as  North Sea  Offers Hidden Giant (1)  Norway may slow a decade-long slump in oil production after
a series of discoveries from the Arctic to the North Sea.  Fertilizers Lag Food Costs in Boost to Global Production Outlook  Prices in the $150 billion fertilizer market are lagging
behind gains in food costs, providing farmers another incentive
to boost production as grains and oilseeds advance.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Rise as Gap in Prices Spurs Purchasing From China  Copper may rise in  London  on signs Chinese buyers are
taking advantage of the gap between prices in the U.K. city and
 Shanghai .  South Korean Agency Buys Aluminum, Zinc, Nickel in Tenders (1)  South Korea ,  Asia ’s third-biggest buyer of base metals,
bought 2,000 metric tons of aluminum, 1,500 tons of zinc and 200
tons of nickel in tenders, according to a government body
website.  MINING:  Talvivaara Shares Slump on Quarterly Loss, Guidance Reassessment  Talvivaara Mining Co., a Finnish nickel producer, fell the
most in more than a week in London trading after reporting a
second-quarter loss.  ENRC First-Half Profit Rises 29% on Higher Commodity Prices (1)  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a Kazakh metals producer,
posted a 29 percent increase in  first-half profit and said a
review of corporate governance is  “well under way.”  Bumi Posts $62 Million Operating Profit on Record Coal Price (1)  Bumi Plc, the Indonesian coal exporter founded by  Nathaniel
Rothschild  last year, reported operating profit of $62 million
in the first half, driven by record thermal-coal prices.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Gains for Third Day in London as Debt Concerns Spur Demand  Gold climbed for a third day in London and approached a
record as concern about Europe’s debt crisis spurred demand for
a protection of wealth.  Gold May Decline $100 After Gain of $900 Since End of 2008 (1)  Gold, which has risen about $900 since the end of 2008, may
fall by $100 an ounce or more in the “near term” and probably
still attract buyers, UBS AG said.  Palladium Rebound to Halt Near $779 an Ounce:  Technical Analysis   Palladium’s rebound from a 12-week low last week may halt
near $779 an ounce, according to technical analysis by
Commerzbank AG.  U.S. Gained From Ending Gold Standard in 1971: Chart of the Day  The U.S. “benefitted immeasurably” from dropping the gold
standard four decades ago because the dollar became the world’s
reserve currency, allowing borrowing costs to fall, Societe
Generale SA said.  Gold Market Is a ‘Bubble Poised to Burst,’ Wells Fargo Says (3)  Speculative demand from investors has pushed the gold
market into a “bubble that is poised to burst” after prices
surged to a record this year,  Wells Fargo & Co . said.  AGRICULTURE:  Peppers Wilt as Barley Drowns for Farmers Who Can’t Tap Tax Aid  Sunburn is hard to avoid in the heat of a southeast Texas
summer. Even the watermelons have it this year.  Wheat Rises for Third Day as Dryness May Reduce U.S. Seeding  Wheat rose for a third day in  Chicago  on speculation hot,
dry weather in the U.S. Plains may curb seeding of winter
varieties and on concern adverse weather in Russia and Ukraine
might hurt crops.  Coffee Rises as  Vietnam  Harvest Nears Completion; Cocoa Drops  Coffee rose for a seventh session in London on concern
about limited supplies from Vietnam as the harvest in the
world’s largest producer of robusta beans neared completion.
Cocoa fell.  Sugar Exports From  India  to Climb on Higher Output, Group Says  Sugar exports from India, the second-largest producer, may
climb as much as 54 percent next year as output expands for a
third year and a supply shortage from Brazil drives demand,
according to a producers’ group.  Rubber Drops for Second Day as European Crisis May Hurt Demand  Rubber dropped for a second day on mounting concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen, hurting the global economy and
demand for the commodity used in tires and gloves.  Japan  Buys 14,750 Tons of Feed Wheat in Tender, Ministry Says  Japan bought 14,750 metric tons of feed wheat in a tender
today, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said.  Asia Inflation Risk to Rise on Thai Plan to Boost Rice Price (2)  Yingluck Shinawatra became  Thailand ’s first female prime
minister by pledging to lift rural incomes through higher rice
prices. The rest of Asia may now have to pay for her campaign
promise.  Soybean Output in India May Climb as Monsoon Rains Spur Sowing  Soybean production in India, Asia’s biggest exporter of the
oilseed meal, may climb as much as 10 percent next year as
farmers increase area under the oilseed, a processors’ group
said.  SHIPPING:  Maersk’s Tanker Subsidiary Extends Losses Into a Third Year  Maersk Tankers, a division of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and
operator of the world’s largest product tanker fleet, lost $19
million in the first half, extending losses into a third year.  Chemical, Oil Products Tanker Due at Libyan Rebel Port Today  The chemical or oil products tanker Breeze A is scheduled
to arrive at the rebel-held port of Benghazi in Libya today,
according to data from AISLive Ltd.  ECONOMIES:  Expanding Yuan Role Is Biggest Boost to  Hong Kong  Since 2003 (1)  Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  unveiled the biggest
package of measures supporting Hong Kong’s economy since the
2003 SARS epidemic, allowing more two-way investment in shares
and sparking a rally in brokerage stocks.  China Sells Dim Sum Bonds in Hong Kong at Record Low Yield (1)  China sold 15 billion yuan ($2.4 billion) of bonds to
institutional investors in Hong Kong at the lowest yields since
the Ministry of Finance began issuing debt in the city in 2009.  Franc Gains as Central Bank Refrains From Currency Target (3)  The franc strengthened after the  Swiss central bank
stopped short of announcing a target rate or temporary peg to
the euro in its third attempt in as many weeks  to drive down
the currency.  Merkel, Sarkozy Shun Euro Bonds in Call for More Integration (1)  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy rejected an expansion of the 440 billion-euro
($633 billion) rescue fund and rebuffed calls for joint euro
borrowing to end the debt crisis, saying greater economic
integration was needed first.  No Double-Dip Yet With U.S. Economy Punching Up Growth Figures  Some of the gloom that settled over the U.S. economic
outlook as stocks and sentiment plunged in recent weeks may soon
dissipate as households keep spending and factories keep
producing.  BOE Unanimously Held Key Rate as Weale, Dale Switched Votes (2)  Bank of England  policy makers  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale 
ended their push for an interest- rate increase this month as
the euro-area crisis and signs of a global economic cooling
threatened to hurt growth in Britain.  OTHER MARKETS:  European Stocks Fall on Growth Concern as Franc, Oil Advance  European stocks fell for a second day as German and French
leaders failed to convince investors they will revive growth.
The Swiss franc strengthened, the dollar weakened and
commodities rose.  U.S. Stock-Index Futures Gain; Staples Gains, Dell Declines  U.S. stock-index futures gained, indicating the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index will climb for the fourth time in five days.  Oil Climbs From Two-Day Low as U.S. Gasoline Inventories Decline  Oil advanced from a two-day low in  New York  as investors
bet that shrinking fuel stockpiles in the U.S. indicate demand
will increase in the world’s biggest crude- consuming nation.  SPORTS:  Arsenal’s Wenger May Face Further Sanctions From UEFA: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
media, with clickable links to the Web.  English League Championship Soccer Table  The English Football League Championship soccer table
through Aug. 16:  No Sex Urged for All Blacks Fans in Telecom World Cup Campaign  New Zealand rugby fans are being urged to abstain from sex
to help the All Blacks national team break its 24-year World Cup
drought on home soil.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  