-- 
Tudou Declines in Trading Debut After IPO Sells at a Discount to Youku.com

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-08-17T20:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/tudou-plunges-in-trading-debut-after-ipo-sells-at-a-discount-to-youku-com.html
Tudou Holdings Ltd.,  China ’s second-
biggest video website, tumbled 12 percent in its first day of
trading after raising $174 million in a U.S. initial public
offering, selling at a discount to larger rival  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)   The Shanghai-based company’s American depositary receipts
fell $3.44 to $25.56 as of 4 p.m. New York time, after touching
$23.50 and opening below the offering price. Tudou sold 6
million ADRs yesterday at $29 apiece, the midpoint of the
marketed range. The ADRs are trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol TUDO.  Tudou priced its stock at a 58 percent discount to
Youku.com, which sold shares to the public in December, after a
rout in equities this month shrank investor appetite for new
stock. Both companies tapped the public market to finance
technology upgrades, bandwidth expansion and rights to videos as
they vie for visitors in the world’s biggest online market.  “We have plenty of challenges ahead to make sure we can
bring in enough content to meet users’ needs, that the platform
is growing rapidly and advertising numbers are also growing
rapidly,” Tudou Chief Executive Officer Gary Wang said today in
a phone interview from  New York . “We want to use the proceeds
to grow the company organically.” Wang trimmed his stake to
about 9 percent following the IPO from 13 percent.  The offering valued Tudou at $822 million, or about one-
third the size of Beijing-based Youku.com, which had a market
value of $2.7 billion at yesterday’s close on the New York Stock
Exchange.  Youku.com Shares  The share sale also valued Tudou at about 16 times sales in
the 12 months through March 31, compared with a multiple of 37
times for Youku.com, based on yesterday’s closing price.
Youku.com’s ADRs gained 13 percent today after declining 8.1
percent yesterday.  Tudou’s site offers movies, TV series and content it
produces itself, as well as user-generated videos such as are
found on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube. The company and its rivals get
most of their revenue from advertising, which for Chinese video
sites almost  doubled  to 1 billion yuan ($157 million) in the
second quarter, according to Beijing-based researcher Analysys
International.  The company accounted for 14 percent of online-video
advertising revenue in China at the end of the second quarter,
compared with 17 percent at the end of 2010, while Youku gained
two percentage points to 23 percent and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ’s video
site jumped to 13 percent from 7.9 percent, according to data
from Analysys International.  China Internet Users  Another 28 percent of the market is split among five
competitors including Baidu Inc.’s Qiyi.com; a site operated by
Xunlei Ltd., which is part-owned by Google; and Nasdaq-listed
Ku6 Media Co., the data show.  China had 485 million Internet users at the end of June,
according to  data  from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center. There were about 215 million
Internet users in the U.S. as of July, according to Reston,
Virginia-based researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   Tudou completed its offering after 13 U.S. IPOs were
withdrawn or postponed from Aug. 7 to Aug. 12, the most in a
week since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Each
of Tudou’s ADRs represents four Class B ordinary shares.  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  