-- 
UN Human Rights Chief Is Said to Favor Syria War Crimes Probe

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-17T22:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/un-human-rights-chief-is-said-to-favor-syria-war-crimes-probe.html
The Syrian government’s crackdown on
dissent is so deadly that it merits investigation by the
 International Criminal Court , the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights is prepared to tell the Security
Council tomorrow, a UN diplomat said.  The Security Council will be told by High Commissioner Navi Pillay that there is evidence Syria has violated international
law, according to a UN diplomat briefed on the findings who
wasn’t authorized to discuss them publicly.  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Bashar al-Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles,
artillery and helicopters. The U.S. State Department alleged the
authorities detained more than 30,000 people, some in cages.
Human-rights activists say Syrian forces have killed more than
2,400 since anti-government demonstrations began in March.  The latest UN report, combined with growing international
indignation, may add momentum to a European-led push at the UN
to overcome Russian resistance to firmer action against Assad.  The International Criminal Court, based in  The Hague , seeks
to try despots charged with war crimes, genocide and crimes
against humanity. It issued an arrest warrant for Libyan
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  in June.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is close to asking Assad to
leave office, an explicit demand that would come more than a
month after the administration said Assad had lost legitimacy,
said a U.S. official, who asked not to be identified because the
timing of the announcement is still being discussed.  Increasingly Isolated  Criticism by Arab nations has left Assad increasingly
isolated, leaving  Iran  as his only unwavering ally left in the
region. Lebanon, part of the UN Security Council, didn’t block
an Aug. 3 statement from the body that condemned the use of
force in five months of violence.  The Syrian government, which has blocked access to aid
workers and media, may allow a UN team to enter  Syria  to assess
the humanitarian situation, said UN emergency relief coordinator
Valerie Amos.  “We hope that we are very nearly at the point where a
mission will be able to go,” she said today in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  