-- 
Hungarian Bonds Advance for Eighth Day on Rate Cut Speculation

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-17T15:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/hungarian-bonds-advance-for-eighth-day-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
Hungarian bonds strengthened for an
eighth day, making the country’s debt the best performer in the
world in the past week, amid speculation the central bank may
respond to lower economic growth by cutting  interest rates .  The yield on the government notes maturing in June 2022,
the most actively traded in  Hungary  today and in the past six
months, fell 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.306
percent as of 4:15 p.m. in Budapest. That compared with 8.03
percent on Aug. 5. The forint strengthened 0.3 percent to 268.9
per euro.  Hungary’s gross domestic product was unchanged in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the statistics
office said yesterday, while expansion in the country’s largest
export market,  Germany , almost stalled. On the same day, the
Debt Management Agency auctioned 40 billion forint ($215
million) in three-month treasury bills after getting 193 billion
forint in bids, the biggest demand at a sale of the securities
since Sept. 21.  “We’re going to see a number of central banks looking into
policy rate cuts and Hungary is on my list,”  Benoit Anne , head
of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA, said in an
interview from  London . The lower outlook for economic growth in
 Europe  has helped push yields lower, Anne said.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank left borrowing costs at 6 percent
for a sixth month on July 26 as focus shifted from inflation to
the impact of Europe’s debt crisis on the economy. Policy makers
said they planned to leave borrowing costs unchanged for an
“extended period.”  ‘Extremely Unfavorable’  “It would be surprising if the central bank cut rates in
this situation, the financial stability risks don’t allow it,”
Zoltan Adam, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in Budapest, said by phone
today.  Hungary is facing an “extremely unfavorable economic and
financial environment” because of the crisis in the euro area,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  told reporters today. Inflation may
be lower than forecast and additional measures will be needed to
cut public debt, the highest among eastern members of the
European Union, in light of the second-quarter growth data,
Orban said.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  