-- 
University of Miami Is Target of 5-Month-Old Rules Investigation by NCAA

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-17T20:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/university-of-miami-is-target-of-5-month-old-rules-investigation-by-ncaa.html
The  University of Miami  athletic
department is the target of a five-month-old investigation of
possible rules violations, college sports’ top official said
today.  National Collegiate Athletic Association President Mark Emmert confirmed the probe a day after  Yahoo Sports  said Miami
booster  Nevin Shapiro , who’s imprisoned for his role in a $930
million  Ponzi scheme , provided thousands of impermissible
benefits to at least 72 athletes from 2002 through 2010.  “If the assertions are true, the alleged conduct at the
University of Miami is an illustration of the need for serious
and fundamental change in many critical aspects of college
sports,” Emmert said on the NCAA’s website. “This pertains
especially to the involvement of boosters and agents with
student-athletes.”  Emmert said the NCAA has been “investigating the matter”
at Miami for five months.  “The serious threats to the integrity of college sports
are one of the key reasons why I called together more than 50
presidents and chancellors last week to drive substantive
changes to Division I intercollegiate athletics,” Emmert said.  Shapiro described an eight-year run of NCAA rules
violations, some involving participation and knowledge of Miami
football and basketball coaches, during 100 hours of jailhouse
interviews, according to  Yahoo’s 11-month investigation . In
addition to cash, Shapiro told the website that the benefits he
gave athletes included prostitutes, jewelry, travel, paid trips
to nightclubs and restaurants, entertainment in his home and
yacht and bounties for on-field performance.  Court Testimony  Shapiro, who gave $150,000 to Miami for an athletic lounge,
also said in federal court in September 2010 that he gave cash
or gifts to dozens of college athletes.  Miami President Donna Shalala said in a statement that
she’s “disheartened and saddened” by the allegations leveled
against some current and former athletes and athletic department
members.  “I regard these allegations with the utmost of seriousness
and understand the concern of so many of you,” Shalala said in
a letter addressed to the university community and posted on the
school’s website. “We will vigorously pursue the truth,
wherever that path may lead, and I have insisted upon complete,
honest and transparent cooperation with the NCAA from our staff
and students.”  Shalala said the school will work with the NCAA’s
enforcement division in a “thorough and meticulous” probe.  New Coach  “If they were exposed to Mr. Shapiro, clearly, we have to
make sure that we prevent that from going forward,” Al Golden,
Miami’s first-year coach, told reporters today before practice.
“How did this guy, if he did, how did he get around our players
like that? Me, as a coach, I want to know and I know our
assistant coaches want to know, because we want to make sure it
never happens again.”  The 42-year-old Shapiro, who was born in  Brooklyn , New
York, co-owned sports agency Axcess Sports & Entertainment while
he was a Miami booster and was providing cash and benefits to
players, Yahoo said.  Shapiro’s allegations about violations at Miami were
disclosed in multiple interviews with federal prosecutors, Yahoo
said.  Shapiro, the former owner of a bogus wholesale-grocery
distribution business, was given a 20-year prison term in June
after pleading guilty to running a $930 million Ponzi scheme. He
was ordered by the judge in the case to pay $82.7 million in
restitution.  The 42-year-old Shapiro admitted to stealing $35 million to
pay illegal gambling debts, purchase floor seats for Miami Heat
basketball games and make mortgage payments on a $5 million
house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  