-- 
Madison 92nd Street Associates Seeks Bankruptcy Protection

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-17T01:16:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/upper-manhattan-marriott-hotel-owner-files-for-u-s-bankruptcy-protection.html
Madison 92nd Street Associates LLC,
the owner of the  Upper East Side Courtyard by Marriott in
Manhattan , sought  bankruptcy protection  to avoid a  foreclosure
sale  and pursue mortgage refinancing, according to a court
filing.  The corporation listed assets of as much as $500 million
and debt of as much as $100 million, according to the filing
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. The company owns
the 226-room hotel on East 92nd Street that opened in 2006 and
has been managed by Courtyard Management Corp., a unit of
Marriott International Inc., according to the filing.  The New York State Department of Taxation and Finance holds
the largest unsecured claim of $679,581, court papers show.
Lender General Electric Capital Corp., owed $74 million, has
scheduled a foreclosure sale for Aug. 24. The company’s majority
equity holders are working with Westport Capital Partners LLC to
line up refinancing, according to the filing.  Mismanagement, high labor costs and the economic slowdown
have contributed to an erosion in net operating income and
caused the company to become delinquent on its mortgage and
subject to foreclosure proceedings, according to the filing.  The company has a pending lawsuit against Marriott alleging
fraud and will seek to end the existing management agreement
with Courtyard, according to the filing. A call to Marriott’s
media line after regular business hours wasn’t immediately
returned.  The case is In re Madison 92 Street Associates LLC, 11-
13917,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  