-- 
Turkish Central Bank Under ‘Psychological’ Pressure, Ex-Chief Canevi Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-17T14:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/turkish-central-bank-under-psychological-pressure-ex-chief-canevi-says.html
Turkey ’s central bank may be acting
under psychological pressure from the government and a surprise
interest rate cut this month doesn’t match its goal of reducing
the current-account deficit, a former central bank chief said in
an interview.  Governor Erdem Basci’s policy mix of low rates combined
with measures to slow domestic lending that’s driving record
growth in the trade deficit “made sense” until the rate
reduction on Aug. 4, said Yavuz Canevi, head of the central bank
under former Prime Minister Turgut Ozal from 1984-1986.  “I really would not say that the central bank had
pressure, but psychologically you can call it pressure,” Canevi
said at his offices at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , a unit of  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, where he’s now chairman. “The current governor is
much closer to Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan than the
previous governor. They were childhood friends” and Basci is
trying “to accommodate the policies of the current
government,” he said.  The lira has dropped to the lowest in more than two years
against the dollar after the central bank reduced the benchmark
one-week repo rate to a record low of 5.75 percent at an
extraordinary session Aug. 4. With the central bank seeking to
stimulate growth, some investors have expressed concern that
it’s
steps to rein in the  trade gap  won’t work in time to stave off a
so-called “hard landing” for the $735 billion economy.  Running Into Trouble  Canevi, who served in an administration that liberalized
Turkey’s economy in the 1980’s, is the first chairman of a
Turkish bank to suggest that the central bank might be making
decisions under the influence of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government, which was re-elected to a third term on
June 12 with almost 50 percent of the vote. TEB is the country’s
ninth biggest bank by assets, according to data on the website
of the Banks Association of Turkey.  Canevi said he was concerned about administration
officials’ comments on monetary policy.  “If Babacan speaks I can understand that,” Canevi said.
“But if every minister makes a comment on how the central bank
should run the policy, we may run into trouble.”  Parliament passed legislation giving the central bank
independence following a financial crisis in 2001.  “For sure, the Turkish central bank is not the most
independent central bank in the emerging markets world,”  Benoit Anne , head of global emerging markets strategy at  Societe
Generale  in  London , said in e-mailed comments. “There is
greater tolerance for this” worldwide with “the death of
inflation-targeting as a policy framework,” he said. “Some
central banks are naturally more pro-growth or dovish, going
along with government wishes.”  Zero Rates  Turkey’s policy is built on a goal of real interest rates
of zero,  Bulent Gedikli , a deputy chief of the governing party
said on June 24, echoing comments made by Erdogan before the
elections. Interest rates are “still too high” and Turkey
should match rates in the U.S. “below 1 percent” if it wants
to join the 10 biggest economies of the world, Industry Minister
Nihat Ergun said Aug. 9 after the bank’s unexpected cut.  “The government’s main concern is growth and unemployment
so any kind of slow growth would be unacceptable to the Erdogan
government,” Canevi said. “If they really detected the economy
moving to a slow growth phase, particularly with the current
government coming out of the election with a victory, they could
not explain that to the public.”  The central bank under Basci, who was an adviser to Babacan
at the Treasury, is reluctant to “raise its head against the
government because it is two months away from the election and
with a big victory,” Canevi said. “So they are trying to
accommodate what the government is really willing to see.”  Bank Priorities  The central bank’s priority is to control inflation, though
it has a legal duty towards growth, employment and financial
stability, Basci said in a televised interview with CNN Turk
news channel on Aug. 15.  “Everyone should be careful with their comments and remain
responsible,”  Tevfik Aksoy , head of emerging markets for the
region, said in e-mailed comments. “I completely agree with the
central bank. The same people criticized the central bank during
2009, 2010 and suggested they should hike. In a few months
everyone will say the central bank was right.”  Lira Slump  Confusion over the bank’s policies is shaking investor
confidence in an economy that had first quarter growth of 11
percent. Since the last rate cut, the stock market lost 12
percent, extending its decline this year to 18 percent. The lira
has fallen 4 percent, hitting the lowest since March 2009 on
Aug. 11. The lira continues to be the world’s worst-performing
major currency this year, losing 12 percent against the dollar.  “I don’t think I’m prepared to criticize the central bank
policy,” Canevi said. “I am still in the process of
understanding what they have in their mind, referring to the
last two week’s policies. Until then, it was really a
coordinated policy mix geared to slow down, cool the economy.”  The current-account deficit expanded to $72.5 billion in
the 12 months through June, equating to about 9 percent of
economic output. Loan growth was at 38 percent year-on-year as
of Aug 5, despite central bank measures to slow credit expansion
and the government’s target of bringing the rate of growth down
to 25 percent.  Speculators  Canevi said he also saw dangers in Basci expressing an
implied target for the lira. Basci said on Aug. 15 that the
currency was 5 to 10 percent “undervalued” against a basket of
the euro and dollar. The lira traded at 2.1525 to the basket
when he spoke and was at 2.1576 at 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul today.  “You are opening a window for speculators, and some
innocent people will think they can also speculate” and get
burned, Canevi said.  As policy switches from controlling possible overheating to
stimulating growth amid a global downturn, Turkish banks
including TEB are unlikely to stick to the government’s goal for
limiting credit expansion, he said.  “I don’t think any bank will keep that 25 percent
target,” Canevi said. “It is going to be extremely difficult
unless the overall size of the economy goes down.” He predicted
credit growth for the year “near 30 percent.”  The central bank’s pursuit of a rigidly pro-growth strategy
also risks tempting the government to enact “protectionist”
policies to control the current-account rather than moving
toward needed structural reforms, Canevi said.  “If that is the way we are going, I think it is the wrong
way,” he said. “If we have come all the way to this point, we
have come because of the liberal policies, de-regulated policies
that started in the 1980s during Ozal’s time,” he said.  ‘Very Volatile’  Pushing  interest rates  lower, as proposed by Erdogan’s
government, risks taking away the “carrot” that’s attracting
international liquidity to Turkey and keeping its economy
running, Canevi said.  “Running a 50, 60, 70 billion dollar current-account
deficit is not an easy thing for a developing country, he said.
“But fortunately money keeps coming. Our worries are that this
is not sustainable; this is a very volatile situation.”  Canevi said the central bank may soon stop listening to
officials outside the bank.  “Within a year or so, the central bank will close down the
doors and windows and try to act according to their own central
bank law,” he said.  Bond yields show investors are betting on a 40 percent
chance of another rate cut when the central bank meets next on
Aug. 23, according to Onur Aydogan, head of fixed-income trading
at ING Bank AS in Istanbul. Yields have fallen 80 basis points
since the bank last cut rates, trading at 7.88 percent at 5:30
p.m. today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  