-- 
Turkey Yields Drop 3rd Day on Central Bank Rate-Cut Speculation

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-17T14:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/turkish-lira-weakens-for-second-day-on-speculation-of-rate-cut-next-week.html
Turkish bond yields fell for a third
day on bets that the central bank may cut rates at a meeting
next week or reduce reserve requirements for  bank deposits .  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds declined eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.88 percent at the 5 p.m.
close in Istanbul, according to a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index
of the securities, heading for the lowest level since Jan. 26.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will convene
on Aug. 23. The bank cut its key one-week repo rate by 50 basis
points to a record low of 5.75 percent at an emergency meeting
this month, citing concern that the economic slowdown in  Europe 
is spreading to  Turkey .  Germany ’s gross domestic product missed
estimates in first quarter, fanning bets of a rate cut in
Turkey.  “Prices are showing that the market is betting on a 40
percent possibility of a rate cut,” Onur Aydogan, head of
fixed-income trading at ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said by phone.  Yields have fallen 75 basis points since the central bank
unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate on Aug. 4.  Further cuts in the Turkish central bank’s benchmark
interest rate are a possibility, depending on the lira’s
performance, Governor Erdem Basci said in an interview with
CNBC-e television Aug. 8.  Industrial production declined 0.9 percent in June from a
month earlier, the fifth consecutive fall as the central bank
warns of an economic slowdown.  Consumer confidence  fell to 94.83
in July from 96.42 a month earlier, the statistics office in
Ankara said Aug. 16.  Slowing Inflation  Turkey’s two-year breakeven rate, the difference in yields
between inflation-linked and fixed-rate bonds, is at 531 basis
points, the lowest since at least December 2010, as a slowing
economy leads investors to trim bets on inflation.  Inflation expectations for the next 12 months fell to
74.99, the lowest level since March, a survey of around 8,000
people by the Ankara-based state statistics showed Aug. 16.  Less pressure on prices would give the Turkish central bank
more room to act to stimulate the fastest-growing G20 economy
and keep unemployment under control.  A rate cut of 50 basis points “won’t achieve anything,”
Tatha Ghose, a senior emerging-markets economist in  London  at
Commerzbank AG, said in e-mailed comments. “So they could do
more and clearly they are not bothered about the lira impact.”  Lira Weakness  Turkey’s currency has depreciated 6.5 percent over the past
month, making it the worst-performing emerging-market currency
in the period. The central bank has increased lenders’ reserve
requirements four times since December in an effort to slow loan
growth. The lira gained 0.8 percent to 1.7624 per dollar by 5:07
p.m. in Istanbul today.  “Interest in bonds from foreign investors is continuing
and this flow may have caused foreign-exchange sales,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti Securities, said in e-mailed
comments.  Turkey could “relax” its year-end target of 25 percent
loan growth and may lift measures against banks that were
intended to help narrow a record current-account gap, Star
newspaper reported Aug. 15, citing administration officials it
didn’t identify.  “The bank will make measured and slow reductions in
reserve requirements rather than a rate cut for now,”  Tevfik Aksoy , London-based chief economist for the region at  Morgan
Stanley & Co ., said in e-mailed comments.  Lowering  interest rates  will depend on the global economy
and future economic data, Aksoy added.  The central bank said on Aug. 4 that it will release $930
million in currency supply by cutting the reserve requirement
for banks’ foreign-currency deposits, a measure that takes
effect Aug. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  