-- 
US Airways Can Proceed With Pilot-Slowdown Suit Against Union, Judge Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-08-17T18:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/us-airways-suit-blaming-pilots-for-work-slowdown-can-proceed-judge-says.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  can proceed
with a lawsuit accusing its pilots union of encouraging and
engaging in an unlawful work slowdown, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Robert J. Conrad Jr. in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , today rejected the US Airline Pilots
Association’s argument that the case should be thrown out or
transferred to a federal court in Brooklyn, New York, that’s
already hearing a separate union case against the airline.  “Trial in this venue appears likely to be more expedient
and efficient than in New York,” Conrad said. He said
Charlotte’s federal docket was less congested than Brooklyn’s.
Charlotte is also the airline’s largest hub.  US Airways  sued the union last month, claiming its pilots
were disrupting airline operations to gain leverage in
collective-bargaining talks. On Aug. 8, the Tempe, Arizona-based
carrier asked Conrad to issue an order blocking the alleged job
action. A hearing on that request is scheduled for Aug. 19.  “The judge’s ruling was not unanticipated, and it does not
fundamentally alter our legal position,” Scott Theuer, a union
spokesman, said in an interview. “We are prepared to move ahead
in both the  New York  case and to simultaneously and aggressively
defend the lawsuit in the Charlotte court.”  ‘Situation Is Untenable’  The airline has been unable to reach a single labor
contract for its pilots since the 2005 merger of US Airways and
America West Holdings Corp. because of a dispute over how to
merge the seniority lists from the two carriers. The two pilot
groups operate under different pay scales and work rules.  “The current situation is untenable for US Airways, the
traveling public, and the pilots who refuse to accede to the
threats and intimidation” of those who allegedly support the
job action, the airline said in an Aug. 8 court filing.  The union has denied US Airways’ claims and has blamed a
poor safety culture for flight delays. In the  Brooklyn  lawsuit,
the pilots accuse the airline of violating federal law governing
airline labor negotiations.  “We are pleased the judged ordered a hearing on the
preliminary injunction which is set for this Friday,” Todd Lehmacher, a US Airways spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. He declined to comment on the ruling on the dismissal
motion.  The airline’s case is US Airways v. US Airline Pilots
Association, 11-00371, U.S. District Court, Western District of
North Carolina (Charlotte). The union’s case is US Airline
Pilots Association v. US Airways Inc., 11-cv-2579, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 