-- 
Music Publishing Group Drops Appeal of YouTube Copyright Infringement Case

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-17T21:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/music-publishing-group-drops-appeal-of-youtube-copyright-infringement-case.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  settled copyright-
infringement claims brought by music publishers over the
unauthorized use of music videos on the company’s YouTube
website.  The settlement allows music publishers to form licensing
agreements with YouTube and receive royalties, the National
Music Publishers Association said today in a statement
announcing it was dropping its appeal of a lower-court ruling
that rejected the group’s claims.  “We are pleased to have resolved NMPA’s litigation claims
and to work with YouTube in providing a new licensing
opportunity for songwriters and publishers,” David Israelite,
the chief executive of the Washington-based trade group, said in
the statement.  The NMPA was a plaintiff in a companion suit to one filed
in 2007 by  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , which charged that YouTube violated
copyrights by allowing users to upload videos of music, TV shows
and sports events without permission. A district court ruled
last year that YouTube wasn’t liable for infringement because it
removed unauthorized videos when informed about them.  Music publishers and songwriters have seen income decline
because many music fans download songs for free from the
Internet and sales of compact discs have plummeted.  “Today’s deal offers more choice for rights holders in how
they manage use of their songs,”  YouTube  said in a blog posting
on its site today. “While this deal is only with publishers, it
will also benefit recording artists and record labels.”  Appeal in Effect  The appeal of the district court ruling by New York-based
Viacom, which owns  MTV Networks  and  Comedy Central , remains in
effect. Oral arguments in the Viacom appeal are expected to take
place before the end of this year, according to court papers.
Viacom was seeking $1 billion in damages from YouTube.  The NMPA, along with YouTube and music publishers including
the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization, agreed to “voluntary
dismissal” of the appeal, according to a filing today in
appeals court in Manhattan.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , fell $5.85, or
1.1 percent, to $533.15 at 4:30 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading.  The music publishing appeal is The Football Association
Premier League Ltd. v. YouTube Inc., 10-3342, 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals ( New York ). The Viacom appeal is Viacom v.
YouTube, 10-03270, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  