-- 
Verizon Tells Striking Workers It Plans to Suspend Benefits

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-17T21:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/verizon-tells-striking-workers-it-plans-to-suspend-benefits.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  told
45,000 striking workers that it will suspend certain benefits at
the end of the month if they haven’t returned to their jobs, a
move that a union official called a “scare” tactic.  Workers at two unions that have called strikes will lose
basic health-insurance, dental, vision and prescription-drug
benefits, said Richard Young, a spokesman for the New York-based
telephone company. Verizon stopped funding the workers’ pensions
when their former contract expired Aug. 6.  “Verizon is spending many millions of dollars a day
providing health care for workers who willingly decided to
strike,” Young said in an interview yesterday. “If they’re not
employed and not working for the company, we’re not going to
fund their pensions.”  The employees, represented by the  Communications Workers of
America  and the  International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ,
went out on strike after they failed to reach an agreement on a
new contract with Verizon, the second-largest U.S.
telecommunications company. Verizon is asking the workers to pay
more for health-insurance benefits, while the unions have said
the company is profitable and executive compensation is healthy.  “This is the first time in the history of our negotiations
with Verizon that they’ve threatened this much,” Bill Huber, a
business manager for the IBEW, said yesterday after receiving
the letter. “It’s a tactic they’re using to try to scare the
people.”  Flared Tensions  The conflict between the two sides has escalated as the
strike entered its 11th day. The company has suffered 155
incidents of sabotage and obtained injunctions to prohibit
striking workers from disrupting business in  New York ,  New
Jersey ,  Delaware  and  Pennsylvania , said Young. On Aug. 12,
workers protested outside Verizon Chairman Ivan Seidenberg’s
home in West Nyack, New York.  Both sides last week also filed unfair labor practice
charges against each other with the  National Labor Relations
Board . Verizon today started running three advertisements, one
of which says the company needs to update the 50-year-old
contracts in order to stay competitive. The ads will run in
print publications.  “They claim we want to strip away 50 years of contract
negotiations. THEY’RE RIGHT. We think that’s fair,” reads an ad
posted on Verizon’s  website .  Workers today held a rally in downtown  Manhattan  opposing
 New York City ’s proposed $120 million telecommunications
contract with Verizon coming up for vote at the city’s  Panel for
Educational Policy .  John Liu , New York City’s comptroller, urged
the panel’s members to postpone the vote until the contract
dispute is resolved.  “Now is not the time to fund new projects, especially as
thousands of New Yorkers and their families are in danger of
losing their benefits,” Liu said in a statement.  Allowed in Contract  Young said the letter shouldn’t have been a surprise to the
unions because the option of suspending benefits during a strike
was in the workers’ contract. Verizon wants to give employees
“as much time as possible to find alternative arrangements,”
he said.  The striking workers are primarily from Verizon’s
traditional land-line telephone business, with the company’s
wireless business largely unaffected. The walkout is the largest
since about 73,000  General Motors Co. (GM)  workers went on strike for
two days in 2007, said Jeffrey Keefe, professor of labor and
employment relations at  Rutgers University  in New Brunswick, New
Jersey.  Verizon rose 73 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $35.61 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares are little
changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  