-- 
Vestas Climbs Most Since 2003 After Quarterly Earnings Beat Estimates

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-17T13:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/vestas-second-quarter-profit-beats-most-analyst-estimates.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the largest
wind-turbine maker, jumped the most in eight years in Copenhagen
trading after second-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates
and as investors covered short positions.  Vestas advanced as much as 28 percent, the most since March
2003, and traded at 113.4 kroner at 3:25 p.m. local time. The
company, whose shares have lost 64 percent in the past year due
to falling turbine prices, had reported losses in four of the
previous six quarters.  The company is “doing quite well,” Chief Executive
Officer  Ditlev Engel  said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. Vestas maintained its 2011 revenue forecast of 7
billion euros ($10 billion) with a margin for earnings before
interest and tax of about 7 percent. This year’s order intake is
expected to be in about 7,000 to 8,000 megawatts.  “These results are a big step in the right direction,”
said Gerard Reid, a London-based analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. “The fear was that the company would issue a
profit warning as they did this time last year.”  Net income of 55 million euros compared with a net loss of
119 million euros in the year-earlier period, the Randers,
Denmark-based company said in a statement. That surpassed the
41.5 million-euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 36 percent to 1.4 billion euros.  “We are not talking to anybody, we are focused on organic
growth,” Engel said when asked about the prospects for
consolidation in an industry that’s been buffeted by the
European debt crisis and financing issues.  Tougher Financing  Wind turbine prices are steadying at lower levels after a
three-year slump that squeezed margins, Suzlon Energy Ltd.,
 Asia ’s third-biggest producer of the machinery, said last month.
Vestas had suffered from tougher financing terms for wind-park
developers, pricing pressure from Asian competitors and European
governments cutting investments amid mounting public debt.  The German turbine maker Nordex SE reported a loss for the
second quarter last week and said it will miss this year’s
earnings target.  Vestas’s results “are likely to be a relief to the market
as comments retaining guidance should be viewed positively
against growing street expectations for a profits warning
following Nordex disappointment last week,” Rupesh Madlani, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital , said in a note to investors.  ‘Fallen Knife’  Shares of Vestas were also helped by investors covering
short positions, according to Jefferies’ Reid in a note titled
“Time to catch the fallen knife.” He has a “Buy”
recommendation on the stock.  Short interest in Vestas was 13 percent of shares
outstanding as of Aug. 15, according to  Data Explorers . That’s
more than double the short interest in shares of competitors
Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA and Nordex.  The practice of short-selling means that investors borrow
stock and sell it, betting it will decline so they can make a
profit when they repurchase it.  “We know there’s been some short interest in the stock but
we’re focusing on operating Vestas for the long term,” Engel
said in a telephone interview.  Today’s share gain trimmed Vestas’s stock loss this year to
36 percent. In comparison, the 64-member Bloomberg Wind Energy
Index has dropped 14 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net 
Marc Roca in London at   mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  