-- 
Viktor Bout Never Sold Arms, Brokered Deals, Lawyer Tells Manhattan Court

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-17T22:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/viktor-bout-never-sold-arms-brokered-deal-defense-lawyer-tells-judge.html
Viktor Bout , a Russian accused of
conspiring to sell weapons to a Colombian terrorist group, never
sold arms or brokered any deals, his attorney told a federal
judge at a pretrial hearing.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin asked Bout’s attorney,
Albert Dayan, in federal court today in  Manhattan  whether his
client would contest at trial that he sold arms internationally.  “He never sold, he never brokered” any arms deals, Dayan
told the judge.  “Your position is that he was not an international arms
dealer?” the judge asked.  “That is correct,” Dayan said.  “What was his business then?” the judge asked.  “He was in the air transportation business,” Dayan said.  Bout was arrested in Bangkok after a sting operation in
2008 by U.S.  Drug Enforcement Administration  agents who told him
they were buying weapons for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
 Colombia , or  FARC,  including surface-to-air missiles, armor-
piercing rocket launchers and machine guns.  Scheindlin granted a government request to let jurors hear
evidence that supported prosecutors’ contention that Bout was
actually an international arms dealer who had been involved in
weapons transactions around the world as early as 1997.  She ruled that a pilot could testify that he worked for
Bout in  Africa  and saw Bout’s Russian cargo planes deliver
weapons and ammunition in 1997 to UNITA rebels for the group’s
campaign against the Angolan government. The pilot also could
testify that Bout delivered weapons and soldiers in 1998 from
Rwanda to a conflict zone in the Congo, she ruled.  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0365, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Manhattan federal court at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 