-- 
VMware Enlists Dell to Help Wage ‘Operating Systems War’ in Cloud Business

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-08-17T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/vmware-enlists-dell-to-help-wage-cloud-operating-systems-war-.html
VMware Inc. (VMW)  is working with  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  and the Ubuntu Linux operating system to spur adoption of
its cloud-computing software, ratcheting up competition with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for corporate customers.  Dell’s services arm will help install VMware’s  Cloud
Foundry  program, while Ubuntu will begin including parts of the
software, said Jerry Chen, a vice president at VMware.  EnStratus
Networks LLC , which lets companies manage cloud-computing
software, also will support Cloud Foundry.  VMware is forging alliances to capitalize on the shift to
cloud computing, which lets businesses keep information in data
centers. Cloud Foundry can store programs in different data
centers, as well as a customer’s own facility, so there’s a
backup in case of an outage. While that portion of market is
still small, it may become as pivotal as operating systems are
to computers, attracting Microsoft, VMware,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
Salesforce.com Inc., said Ben Pring, an analyst at  Gartner Inc. (IT)   “It’s still a very early-stage marketplace and very
unproven,” he said. “They see it as the next strategic chokehold
that a cloud vendor can get, the next go-round of the operating
systems war.”  Gartner, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , expects the market
for this kind of product -- called application infrastructure
services, or platform as a service -- to grow from $1.4 billion
this year to $2.4 billion by 2015. That doesn’t include the
management software and developer tools the companies can sell
with it. It also doesn’t account for the cloud storage and
computing power that companies such as Amazon.com Inc. offer
separately, Pring said.  Virtualization Leader  VMware, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is the biggest
seller of virtualization software, which lets companies use
fewer server computers in data centers by running different
operating systems on a single machine. VMware’s stock has risen
20 percent in the past year, boosted by companies putting more
of their information in data centers. The company is majority-
owned by EMC Corp., the largest maker of storage computers.  Cloud Foundry is still available only in a test version and
includes an open-source project that lets outside developers
contribute to the product.  VMware also aims to appeal to corporate customers with
software that writes cloud applications using several different
programming languages. That contrasts with the approach of
Microsoft, which relies on .Net, and Google, which uses Java,
Chen said.  Bigger Market  Most large customers currently use one technology or the
other, so it’s hard to say how much demand there is for an all-
in-one feature, Pring said. Still, the flexibility will help
VMware target a wider swath of businesses, rather than just one
camp, he said.  Microsoft may be the toughest adversary in wooing large
corporate customers, Chen said. Because of Microsoft’s long
history with business customers and its work on the .Net
language, “they’re the one we worry about most in competing for
enterprise customers,” he said.  Salesforce.com, which also has a partnership with VMware,
is increasingly vying for those buyers as well, Pring said.  Having multiple copies of programs stored in different
cloud data centers may be a draw for customers, particularly
after Amazon’s Web Services suffered a brief outage this month
and one lasting several days in April.  “If Amazon goes down, you are kind of out of luck,” Chen
said. “If you put your app on Cloud Foundry and it’s running on
VMware and Amazon, you can just move to another instance. You
don’t have the problem of being locked into one vendor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  