-- 
Wal-Mart Entrance in South Africa Is a ‘Huge Challenge’ for Pick n Pay

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-17T14:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/wal-mart-s-south-african-entry-is-huge-challenge-to-pick-n-pay.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s entry into
the South African market presents a “huge challenge” for  Pick
n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , said Gareth Ackerman, chairman of the
country’s second-biggest food retailer.  “It is going to make businesses a lot more competitive and
bring prices down,” Ackerman said in a speech to the Cape Town
Press Club today. “We are dramatically changing our business to
deal with those challenges.”  Pick n Pay has faced increased competition since
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, bought a controlling stake in South African shop
operator and wholesaler  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  The 16.5 billion-
rand ($2.3 billion) transaction was approved by  South Africa ’s
antitrust tribunal on May 31 on the condition that no jobs are
cut for two years.  Pick n Pay plans to fire 3,137 workers, or 8.6 percent of
the workforce, it said July 6 after profit plunged 29 percent in
the six months through Feb. 28 and the company lost market share
to bigger rival  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)   Job eliminations are necessary because unions refused to
let their members work more flexible hours, Ackerman said. “Our
business has to be more competitive,” the chairman said. “We
have to be more productive.”  Government Challenge  The government has objected to the Wal-Mart investment in
Massmart, saying it may have a “destabilizing” impact on the
economy as a surge in imports threatens to undermine
manufacturing output.  Three government ministers asked the Competition Appeals
Court on July 21 to refer the takeover back to the Competition
Tribunal, saying there were technical irregularities in
documents used by the regulator.  “The government should not have got involved at this
stage,” Ackerman said. “For them to enter the fray way after
the decision was made was wrong. It’s sending the wrong message.
One needs to have a transparent, consistent approach to
government policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  