-- 
Wasserstein’s Ambitious Sister Wendy Won Pulitzer, Had Mystery Baby: Books

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/wasserstein-s-ambitious-sister-wendy-won-pulitzer-had-mystery-baby-books.html
Like her older brother Bruce, Wendy Wasserstein was something of a slob.  I once attended a meeting presided over by  Bruce Wasserstein  where the only color in his tie that matched his
shirt was the stain.  The brilliant investment banker and his famous playwriting
sister shared a practiced disregard for physical appearance. It
signaled, “I’m too brilliant, too busy, too engaged with
important matters to waste time on how I look.”  “The siblings were as similar as they were different,”
writes  Julie Salamon  in “ Wendy and the Lost Boys ,” her
empathic biography of the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of “The
Heidi Chronicles.” “They were smart and ambitious and had
gargantuan personalities, hers projecting warmth and his, gruff
superiority ... They struggled with their weight and shared a
particular look; strong expressive faces notable for character,
not beauty.”  The much-married Bruce, the brains behind Wasserstein
Perella & Co. and, for a time,  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , guarded his privacy
even while operating on the public stage of global mergers and
acquisitions.  Wendy, beginning with the success of her first play, the
barely fictional “Uncommon Women and Others” in 1977,
transformed her life into comedy with pathos on the more literal
stage. (Perennially rebroadcast on public television, “Uncommon
Women” recounted her days at Mount Holyoke College in the early
years of second-wave feminism.) At the same time, at age 27 she
became as public a personality as any bold-faced name in the
gossip columns.  Plays and Life  Her plays and life were so interconnected it was hard to
tell where the one ended and the other began.  In “The Heidi Chronicles” (1988), the title character is
an art historian who champions unheralded women artists while
her own complicated romantic relationships always leave her
alone and depressed. In a final act that riled the feminists of
her generation, Heidi Holland adopts a baby.  “‘I’m happy she won the Pulitzer Prize, but I was
disturbed by the play,’” Salamon quotes “Feminine Mystique”
author Betty Friedan as saying. “‘In depicting Heidi as
troubled over career and family, Wendy Wasserstein inadvertently
fed a media hype, a new feminine mystique about the either/or
choices in a woman’s life.’”  Two decades later, after years of unfulfilling love affairs
and long, intense relationships with gay men, Wasserstein became
pregnant. Conceived via artificial insemination, daughter Lucy
Jane came into the world in 1999 with her father’s identity
still secret. The writer was 55 when she died of lymphoma in
2006. Lucy Jane went to live with Bruce and his family. He died
in 2009, at 61, of heart failure.  Complicated Artist  Salamon is a gifted storyteller whose eclectic oeuvre --
including “Hospital” and “The Devil’s Candy: The Anatomy of a
Hollywood Fiasco” -- suggests an enviable catholicity of
engagement and a serious passion for digging beneath the markers
of a story. These qualities are especially useful in telling the
tale of Wendy Wasserstein, a brilliant, complicated artist whose
gifts included making everyone feel like her friend even when
acting in unsentimental self-interest, a quality Bruce must have
admired.  The book is at its most revealing in detailing
Wasserstein’s relationships with Christopher Durang, Andre
Bishop, Gerald Gutierrez, William Ivey Long and Terrence McNally
-- each an iconic theater figure, each at one time an object of
romantic desire and all gay.  Circles Within Circles  “Wendy and the Lost Boys” presents e-mails, letters and
extensive interviews showing the circles within circles of
relationships Wasserstein spun among a group of people who
mostly remained loyal to her, no matter how hurtful her
betrayals could be.  Salamon leaves to others the task of evaluating the long-
term impact of Wendy Wasserstein’s work; this is not a critical
biography. Indeed, the book’s title is reductive, suggesting a
life that centered on a mother-figure’s relationship with needy
young men. But whoever attempts the critical biography will have
been given an exceptional road map of Wendy Wasserstein’s
journey.  “Wendy and the Lost Boys: The Uncommon Life of Wendy
Wasserstein” is published by the Penguin Press (460 pp,
$29.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 