-- 
Web Merchants Credit Rater Wins Valley’s Backing

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-08-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/web-merchants-credit-rater-wins-backing-of-ups-silicon-valley.html
Kabbage Inc. wants to find out
whether players who build underground business empires in the
online game “Mafia Wars” are a better credit risk than those
who idle away hours milking cows in “FarmVille.”  The Atlanta-based finance provider, which helps  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  merchants buy inventory, just closed on $17
million in new venture funding from investors including Mohr
Davidow Ventures. It plans to use some of that money to see
whether social media and online gaming are indicators of
creditworthiness.  Instead of FICO credit scores or pledges of collateral,
Kabbage uses the length of an online merchant’s selling history,
monthly transaction volume, revenue patterns, feedback ratings
and other metrics to develop its own score of creditworthiness
in just minutes.  “The way credit scoring and analysis has been done forever
in the banking industry is very backward,” said Bryan Stolle, a
general partner at  Menlo Park , California-based  Mohr Davidow
Ventures , which contributed more than half of the new funding.  The rest came from earlier investors including Stephens
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Warren Stephens, TPG Capital’s
David Bonderman and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   “When I first saw it, I thought, ‘My God, somebody is
going to pay a lot for that information,’” said Stephens, whose
 Little Rock , Arkansas-based firm does  investment banking ,
private placements and asset management.  Instant Money  Once merchants are approved, Kabbage puts increments of
money up to $20,000 in their PayPal accounts, giving them
instant cash to buy more goods to sell online or cover other
expenses. Kabbage plans to test doubling the amount it advances
to $40,000, Chief Executive Officer Rob Frohwein said in an
interview.  “We want to be the de facto financier to all online
merchants,” Frohwein said.  With more than 2,000 accounts now, Kabbage is adding about
300 more each week and projects 5,000 customers by year end. So
far, there have been no charge-offs for failure to repay,
Frohwein said, adding that all delinquencies have been paid
within a week.  Kabbage gets repaid in monthly increments over a period of
as much as six months directly from the merchant’s PayPal
account, and it has visibility on the merchant’s transactions so
it can see money accumulate or dissipate. Last month, Kabbage
was  awarded a patent  for its processes for determining
creditworthiness.  Daily Transactions  “What better credit information do you want on a retailer
than to see their daily transactions and whether they are
meeting their projections? It was like ‘Holy cow, this is
awesome,’” said Mohr Davidow’s Stolle, who will join Kabbage’s
board.  Kabbage recently lowered its fees and charges 3 to 7
percent for the first month, or 10 to 18 percent if the money is
kept for the full six months, said Chief Operating Officer
Kathryn Petralia, the firm's co-founder and a former 
executive at  credit card  and financial services companies 
including  CompuCredit Holdings Corp. (CCRT)   By comparison, EBay’s PayPal unit has a program called Bill
Me Later, which allows merchants to defer payments although it
doesn’t advance cash. Bill Me Later has some promotional
financing rates of zero interest for six months, otherwise its
typical  interest rate  is 19.99 percent.  FarmVille, Mafia Wars  Another metric that may help assess creditworthiness is
participation in online games and social media sites.  In addition to looking at merchants’ Facebook and Twitter
activity, Kabbage plans to study participation in games such as
Zynga Inc.’s Mafia Wars and FarmVille to see whether there’s a
correlation with on-time repayment, said Marc Gorlin, chairman
and co-founder of Kabbage. Gorlin’s previous business dealings
brought Bonderman and Stephens in as investors.  UPS is already using some things it has learned from
Kabbage to help shape the way its UPS Capital unit views the
credit risk of its customers, said Joe Guerrisi, a vice
president of corporate marketing at Atlanta-based UPS, who has
an observer seat on Kabbage’s board.  “We’re looking at how they use data, which is
fundamentally different than what is taking place in financial
services today,” he said. “This tells us more about the pain
points” small merchants feel.  Vintage Boots  One repeat Kabbage customer is Val Prescott, founder of an
online vintage boot retailer called  The Old Rebel Boot Co. ,
which refinishes and sells cowboy and fashion boots on eBay.  Prescott buys discarded boots in bulk for $1 to $3 per
pound from businesses that scrounge items from estate sales and
charities such as Goodwill. Then she and her business partners
clean and polish them, and sell them for $50 to upwards of $500
per pair.  Prescott has taken four or five advances from Kabbage since
starting her business a year ago, and now she’s selling 125
pairs per week and has 2,500 pairs in inventory. She recently
took another $10,300 from Kabbage to replenish her stock and
build her own website.  “Before I found Kabbage, if someone called and said, ‘I
have 30,000 pounds of boots. Do you want them?’ -- I would put
my head in my hands because I wanted them so much but had no way
to buy them,” said Prescott, 78, who runs the company with her
daughter Tracy and granddaughter Kate. “They’re almost like a
silent partner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe in Atlanta at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net . 