-- 
Wells Fargo Settles Connecticut Probe Over ‘Pick-a-Payment’ Home Mortgages

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-17T18:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/wells-fargo-reaches-agreement-with-connecticut-over-loans.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will consider
about 1,535 Connecticut mortgages for modification as part of an
agreement with the state on adjustable-rate loans, the state’s
attorney general said.  The accord resolves claims that Wachovia Corp. and Golden
West Financial Corp. violated state consumer protection laws,
Attorney General George Jepsen said today in a statement. The
banks failed to adequately inform borrowers that minimum
payments on “pick-a-payment“-type mortgages wouldn’t cover
interest due, causing the balance to grow, Jepsen said.  “I want to stress that Wells Fargo inherited this problem
when it acquired Wachovia and Golden West,” Jepsen said. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo bought Wachovia and its Golden West
unit in 2008.  To resolve the investigation, the bank also agreed to pay
 Connecticut  $741,465 to support the state’s foreclosure-
prevention efforts, Jepsen said.  The Connecticut accord is the 11th such agreement by the
lender, which has also settled with  California , Texas, Florida,
Illinois,  New Jersey  and five other states.  Loan Modifications  The California settlement, which called for more than
$2 billion in loan modifications and $32 million in payments to
borrowers who had lost their homes in foreclosure, was announced
by then-Attorney General  Jerry Brown , in December.  “Customers were offered adjustable-rate loans with
payments that mushroomed to amounts that ultimately thousands of
borrowers could not afford,” Brown in a statement at the time.
Brown is now California’s governor.  The bank is providing “home payment relief” to some pick-
a-payment customers in the settling states, allowing them to
earn principal forgiveness by making on-time payments, cutting
 interest rates  and extending loan terms, a Wells Fargo
spokesman, Tom Goyda, said today in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  