-- 
Westfield Punished for Expanding as Default Swaps Surge: Australia Credit

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-18T07:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/westfield-punished-for-expanding-as-default-swaps-surge-australia-credit.html
Bond investors are penalizing
 Westfield Group (WDC)  for its first new market forays in 11 years.  The 52-year-old, Sydney-based company announced joint
ventures last week to buy and develop shopping centers in Milan
and Brazil, after sticking to existing markets since 2000. While
the developer, which now owns 124 malls in Australia, New
Zealand, the U.K., U.S. and Brazil, said the expansion will
boost returns, bond investors see increasing risk.  “Their formerly conservative strategy is straying from
course,” said Scott Rundell, head of credit research at ING
Investment Management in Sydney, which manages about A$15
billion ($15.7 billion) of fixed-income assets. “The
acquisitions are in two countries that Westfield doesn’t have a
track record in, which makes investors more nervous.”  Credit-default swaps on Westfield surged 54 basis points
this month to 190.9 yesterday, the highest since October 2009,
CMA data show. The contracts were the most expensive relative to
the Markit iTraxx  Australia  index of corporate debt since
November 2009, and the highest compared to an index of global
real-estate investment trusts since at least May 2009, Bloomberg
and CMA data show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the company’s $1
billion of 4.625 percent notes due in May 2021 instead of
similar-maturity Treasuries increased 78 basis points this month
to 241, the most since they were issued, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The notes were sold at a yield premium of
147 basis points in May, according to Bloomberg data.  Spin Off  Chairman Frank Lowy, 80, and his co-chief executive officer
sons Peter and Steven, spun off half of the company’s Australian
and  New Zealand  shopping centers into Westfield Retail Trust at
the end of last year to give investors the option of owning an
entity with low debt and steady returns. That freed up Westfield
Group to seek riskier, higher-return developments in new
markets, the Lowys said at the time.  Westfield yesterday said net income fell to A$650.9 million
in the six months ended June 30, from A$960.9 million a year
earlier, as the spinoff dented the group’s property revenue. The
retail trust, which owns half of each of the company’s 56
Australian and New Zealand shopping centers, posted a profit of
A$571.3 million for Nov. 2 to June 30.  Westfield has about A$14 billion of bonds and loan
facilities maturing by the end of 2021, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Slide  Westfield, which would have transformed a A$1,000
investment in its shares made in 1960 into A$159 million in 2009
according to its website, is trying to snap a recent stock
slide.  The retail trust spinoff paved the way for the group’s
entry into higher-return markets, said Scott Courtney, head of
REIT research at Morningstar Australasia Pty in Sydney.  “The creation of  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  has allowed
Westfield Group to do what it’s all about, to grow its global
model,” Courtney said in a telephone interview. “In spite of
markets moving up and down, the announcements last week show
Westfield remains focused on its longer-term strategy.”  Like the  debt market , the equity world hasn’t rewarded the
move. Westfield Group shares have declined 56 percent since a
peak in February 2007 and lost 20 percent since the spinoff was
announced Nov. 3. Westfield Retail is trading 12 percent below
its debut price and closed at A$2.43 today in Sydney.  New Markets  “Westfield’s return on capital is still more like a REIT
than a developer, so I can understand why investors are
concerned about their strategy,” said John White, who helps
oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based managing director for
Asia-Pacific public real estate securities at investment firm
Heitman. “What it requires is to continue to ramp up their
development pipeline.”  Westfield said Aug. 10 it will spend 740 million reais
($465 million) to acquire half of Sao Paulo-based mall operator
Almeida Junior Shopping Centers SA. Two days later it announced
plans to invest 115 million euros ($166 million) to buy a 50
percent stake in the development site of a Milan shopping center
in partnership with Italian developer Gruppo Stilo, with the
cost of the entire development totaling as much as 1.25 billion
euros.  Brazil ,  Italy   Brazil’s economy grew 7.5 percent last year, the fastest in
two decades, as unemployment fell to a record in December,
fueling wage growth and  consumer confidence . Retail sales rose
7.1 percent in June from a year earlier, beating economists’
forecasts, as the emerging middle class lifted spending.  “Westfield has a strong track record of gradually
expanding in new markets and Brazil seems to offer attractive
fundamentals for future growth,” Lourens Pirenc, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report on Aug. 12. “With the share
price giving Westfield little to no credit for future growth,
this announcement should help improve sentiment.”  Italy is a different story, with the nation’s parliament
last week approving 45.5 billion euros in deficit cuts to
balance its budget and try to convince investors the country can
tame the Euro area’s biggest debt burden after  Greece .  Westfield’s investment in the Milan development “is more
of an expansion into the European Union than Italy,” John Kim,
an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Sydney, who has a
“buy” recommendation on the stock, wrote on Aug. 15. “This
part of Italy is clearly the most affluent in Italy and one of
the most affluent in  Europe .”  Where Next?  The company’s choice of joint ventures is a safe method of
introducing itself into new markets, and paves the way for
future growth in the regions, Morningstar’s Courtney said.  Westfield may next expand into  Argentina  from Brazil,
through a similar joint-venture arrangement, and into a mature
economy like  Germany , where more retailing is still done on the
main street rather than in malls, he said.  “On top of the ventures into new markets, Westfield is
also facing an economic slowdown at home,” said Jason Watts,
Sydney-based head of credit trading at National Australia Bank
Ltd. “Anything related to the consumer discretionary sector is
suffering at the moment.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens is seeking
to balance surging commodities exports to  China , which are
boosting expectations for growth and price increases, with
consumer confidence in its deepest slump since 2008 and a
faltering global economy.  Jobs Worry  The nation’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose to an eight-
month high in July as hiring stalled, and retail sales
unexpectedly declined in June for a second straight month,
statistics bureau data released this month show.  While Australia’s central bank considered lifting borrowing
costs on Aug. 2 to control inflation, cash-rate futures indicate
policy makers will lower the benchmark by one percentage point
by year-end after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and concern
about a double-dip recession in the U.S. roiled markets
worldwide.  The yield on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond fell 13
basis points to 4.36 percent as of 5 p.m. in Sydney, below the
4.75 percent cash rate. The notes yielded 221 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries.  The Australian dollar has fallen 4.7 percent against the
U.S. currency in August, paring its advance against the
greenback in the past 12 months to 17 percent. The so-called
Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, bought $1.0478
in Sydney trading.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.58 percent for the next five years, the
highest inflation expectations among eight developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Handing Over  Frank Lowy  and a fellow Hungarian refugee started Westfield
more than half a century ago, capitalizing on a wave of
immigrants entering Australia to grow from a suburban deli to
the nation’s biggest mall owner.  The company entered the U.S. in 1977, with the acquisition
of a mall in Trumbull,  Connecticut ; New Zealand two decades
later, after assuming management of the country’s biggest
shopping center group, St. Luke’s; and the U.K. in 2000, with
the purchase of a center in  Nottingham .  While Westfield continues to seek new markets, debt and
equity investors may not need to digest another move in the near
future.  “History is littered with companies rushing into new
markets overseas without doing their homework,”  Peter Lowy  told
reporters yesterday. “We’re not running to open new markets
until we can see the real investment returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 