-- 
Whiskey, Wine Fraud That Took in $49 Million Brings 5-Year Term for Briton

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-17T11:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/whiskey-wine-fraud-that-took-in-49-million-brings-5-year-term-for-briton.html
A British man who defrauded American
and Canadian investors of around 30 million pounds ($49 million)
through investment schemes tied to wine, whiskey, cognac and
champagne was sentenced to 5 years in prison.  Richard Gunter, 50, spent more than 1 million pounds from
the proceeds to buy luxury cars with personalized license
plates, the  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecuted the case,
said in a statement today. Gunter’s U.K.-based company called
the Hallmark Partnership, and later Vintage Hallmark Plc,
operated like a  Ponzi scheme , prosecutors said.  Gunter promised investors high rates of return over short
periods of time, including a 50 percent return over 10 months
for a champagne investment, and a 110 percent return over three
months from whiskey investments. Vintage Hallmark then tried to
persuade investors to convert the amount they were owed on the
deals into promissory notes, and later to swap the notes for
shares.  The shares turned out to be worthless and the company
liquidated. It owed about 100 million pounds based on what it
had promised investors, according to prosecutors.  The jury couldn’t reach a decision against Gunter’s co-
defendant, Robin Grove, after a six-week trial. The SFO has
decided not to re-try him. Gunter’s 5-year sentence was handed
down in June and couldn’t be made public until today because of
reporting restrictions related to Grove’s trial.  Gunter had previously been found guilty for his involvement
in a similar wine investment scheme in 2008. He was sentenced to
4 1/2 years in prison for that fraud. He is to serve the terms
concurrently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  