-- 
Wholesale Prices in U.S. Increase More Than Estimated on Tobacco, Trucks

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-17T20:13:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in July, led by higher prices for tobacco,
trucks and pharmaceuticals, showing declines in commodity
expenses have yet to filter to other goods.  The 0.2 percent advance in the  producer price index 
followed a 0.4 percent drop in June, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent
increase, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The so-called core measure, which excludes volatile food
and energy, climbed 0.4 percent, the most since January.  The report showed the cost of crude goods dropped in July
for a third consecutive month, led by declining petroleum and
food prices. Slowing sales and the drop in raw materials mean
companies will be less likely to raise prices, which may give
Federal Reserve policy makers more room to act to spur growth
after the world’s largest economy almost stalled.  “Pipeline pressures continue to moderate,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York .
“Relief for producers from a long period of rising input costs
are in train.”  Most stocks dropped as Dell Inc. forecast weaker sales. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced less than 0.1 percent to
1,193.88 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. About 21 stocks fell
for every 20 that rose.  Treasury securities  climbed, sending the
yield on the 10-year note down to 2.16 percent from 2.22 late
yesterday.  Survey Results  The median estimate for producer prices was based on
forecasts from 78 economists. Projections ranged from declines
of 0.5 percent to increases of 0.6 percent. The decrease in June
was the first drop in a year.  Compared with July 2010, companies paid 7.2 percent more
for goods last month after a 7 percent rise in June.  Excluding volatile food and energy costs, wholesale prices
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
Bloomberg survey showed. Core wholesale prices climbed 2.5
percent in the 12 months ended in July, the biggest year-to-year
increase since June 2009.  Fuel costs fell 0.6 percent as gasoline prices dropped 2.8
percent, today’s report showed. The cost of finished consumer
foods increased 0.6 percent, led by potatoes and cheese.  Expenses for intermediate goods increased 0.2 percent from
the prior month, while prices of crude goods dropped 1.2
percent.  Trucks, Tobacco  Companies were charged 1 percent more for light motor
trucks, while pharmaceutical prices climbed 0.4 percent. The
cost of tobacco products jumped 2.8 percent, the most since
March 2009.  “Inflation has moderated as prices of energy and some
commodities have declined from their earlier peaks,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement Aug. 9.
“Inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or
below those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate” of
maximum employment and price stability.  Economic growth in the U.S. that the Fed officials said has
been “considerably slower” than forecast earlier this year
prompted the central bank to announce it would hold the
benchmark lending rate near zero “at least” into 2013.  A jobless rate at 9.1 percent that hampers wage gains and
 consumer spending  makes it less likely inflation will accelerate
in coming months. Household purchases declined 0.2 percent in
June, the first decrease in almost two years, Commerce
Department figures showed Aug. 2. The report also showed incomes
grew 0.1 percent that month, the smallest gain since November.  ‘Looking for Value’  “The consumer continues to be wary and looking for
value,” said Larry Merlo, president and chief executive officer
of  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest provider of  prescription
drugs  in the U.S. “We’ve seen evidence of where she has traded
down from a premium product to a less expensive product.”  The Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company reported second-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates, helped by the
introduction of lower-price merchandise. During the Aug. 4
earnings call, Merlo described CVS as “recession resistant”
because it offers cheaper goods.  Producer prices, one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department, are calculated based on costs
on the Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month,
which may influence month-to-month changes.  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose 0.3 percent in
July from the prior month, Labor Department data showed
yesterday. Costs advanced 14 percent from July 2010.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, rose
0.2 percent in July as did the core index, according to the
median forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
Labor Department report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  