-- 
Wienerberger Soars in Vienna as Quarterly Profit, Sales Rise

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-08-17T15:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/wienerberger-rises-most-in-year-as-second-quarter-ebitda-rises.html
Wienerberger AG (WIE)  rose in Vienna
trading after the world’s biggest brickmaker said its second-
quarter profit increased 11 percent as sales surged.  Shares advanced 5.6 percent to 9.55 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in the Austrian capital, erasing yesterday’s
decline. Wienerberger has fallen 33 percent this year, valuing
the company at 1.12 billion euros ($1.6 billion).  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization rose to 111.6 million euros from 100.9 million
euros a year earlier, the Vienna-based company said in a
statement today. That was in line with the average adjusted
109.2 million-euro profit estimated by five analysts. Sales
jumped 8 percent to 590.6 million euros, in line with the
average estimate of 589.2 million euros.  “This is a decent set of numbers from Wienerberger and
should support the stock,” Flor O’Donoghue, analyst at Davy,
wrote in a note to investors. “Another positive factor will be
Wienerberger’s planned buyback of 2 percent of its equity, which
will run from Aug. 22 to Nov. 22.”  The brickmaker, led by Chief Executive Officer Heimo Scheuch, aims to return to profit this year after two years of
losses. While Scheuch spoke of a “significant” increase in
earnings, he declined to provide more detail.  “I’m not expecting a recession,” Scheuch said in an
interview, adding that the company was leaner and fitter than
three years ago and therefore better prepared for potential
obstacles.  First-half net income before minority interests and effects
of a hybrid coupon was 37.5 million euros, compared to a loss
39.4 million euros a year earlier, the company said. Sales in
the period increased 19 percent to 985.7 million euros.  Sales in the first-half were driven by increases in
 Germany ,  France , Belgium and Switzerland, Scheuch said. Those
markets, which together generate more than one-third of
Wienerberger’s revenue, will continue to perform well for the
rest of the year, he said.  In  Poland , the  Czech Republic , and  Russia , sales will
probably also continue their “positive trend,” while the rest
of eastern  Europe  will “remain weak,” Scheuch said.  “There are no signs of recovery in  North America  at the
present time,” Scheuch said, adding that new residential
construction failed to meet expectations during the second
quarter after a severe winter allowed only limited construction
activity in many regions during the first three months.  To contact the editor on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  