-- 
Woodside’s Chief Coleman Says Considering Selling Stakes in Browse, Pluto

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-18T07:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/woodside-chief-coleman-says-considering-selling-stakes-in-browse-pluto.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-largest oil and gas producer, may sell stakes in its
Browse and Pluto liquefied natural gas ventures to help fund the
developments as demand rises in  Asia .  “We see interest starting to occur as people ask questions
about these projects,” Peter Coleman, chief executive officer
of the Perth-based company, said today in an interview in Sydney.
“We can see that each time we hit a milestone. We’ll match that
interest up with our funding requirements.”  Coleman, 51, who took control of Woodside in May, plans to
develop an estimated A$75 billion ($79 billion) in Australian
LNG projects with existing partners including BP Plc and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  The company aims to approve the Browse venture in mid-2012
and expects to develop a second stage at Pluto after the A$14.9
billion project begins exports in March.  “With Browse and Pluto, it would make sense to sell down
some equity if the price was good,”  John Hirjee , a Melbourne-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone today.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Total SA are among companies that may be
interested in acquiring stakes, he said.  Woodside fell 2.4 percent to A$36.87 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney, compared with a 1.2 percent drop in the S&P/ASX 200
Index. The shares have dropped 13 percent this year.  Shell, Chevron  Global trade in natural gas increased 10 percent last year
from 2009 as energy use soared, BP said in July, with LNG
shipments gaining 23 percent.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Chevron and
Santos Ltd. are among producers building or planning almost
A$250 billion in LNG projects in Australia, Deloitte Access
Economics said last month in a report.  Woodside owns 50 percent of Browse, to be built in Western
 Australia , with partners BP, Chevron, Shell and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
holding the balance. Woodside owns 90 percent of Pluto, also in
Western Australia, while Tokyo Gas Co. and Kansai Electric Power
Co. each has 5 percent. It’s also planning the Sunrise venture
in the  Timor Sea  with partners including Shell and
ConocoPhillips.  “This is a good time to have that amount of equity because
we’re at the low-spend part of the projects and we’re adding
value,” Coleman said, declining to say when, or how much of the
ventures, Woodside may sell. “It’s a matter of knowing how long
to hold your cards. I have a good hand.”  Supply Deal  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Melbourne-based BHP, Australia’s
biggest oil and gas producer, may each get a stake in Pluto in
return for supplying gas to the venture from their Scarborough
field off the Western Australian coast, Commonwealth Bank of
Australia analysts said in a June report. The Pluto project is
located in Karratha, about 1,600 kilometers (994 miles) north of
the state capital Perth, while a site 60 kilometers north of the
town of Broome has been selected for Browse.  Woodside would likely keep at least a third of Browse and
Pluto, maintaining the largest positions in the ventures,
Deutsche Bank’s Hirjee said, adding some of its current partners
may be interested in increasing their stakes. “There’s also little
doubt these days that customers want a small chunk of equity.”  BHP in April doused speculation it plans to buy Shell’s
remaining stake of 24 percent in Woodside and make a takeover
bid. The Hague-based Shell sold a 10 percent stake in Woodside
last year for about $3.3 billion.  “I would hope Shell would stay with us and see the value
in staying with Woodside,” Coleman said. “If they did choose to
exit, that’s Shell’s decision, and I’m sure they would do that
in a way that would ensure it was beneficial for everybody.”  ‘Tightening Up’  The market for the fuel has been “tightening up” since
the Fukushima nuclear disaster in  Japan , Coleman said, adding he
had met with LNG customers in Japan,  China  and  Taiwan  since
joining the company. Australian gas projects will likely benefit
as countries delay nuclear power expansion plans after the March
11 earthquake and tsunami that crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power station in Japan, Chevron said in April.  “In the long term, we’ll see countries looking at their
energy mix, and our view is that they are going to bias that
more and more toward LNG, and that’s going to put Woodside in a
position to meet that market,” Coleman said.  Browse may cost A$38 billion, while a second Pluto
processing unit may cost A$10 billion, Deutsche Bank estimated
in a report this month. Sunrise may cost about $13 billion,
according to the report.  Woodside completed an agreement in June that provided more
than A$1 billion of benefits to indigenous groups in  Western
Australia  and cleared the way for the Browse development. The
accord gives the company access to land in the Kimberley region
where the proposed plant will be build.  “That was important for us,” Coleman said. “That sent a
message out to the marketplace.”  Bond Sale  Woodside sold $700 million of 10-year bonds in the U.S. in
May with a coupon of 4.6 percent. Moody’s Investors Service said
in June it may cut Woodside’s Baa1 credit rating after the
company announced a further delay and cost overrun at Pluto.  “We were able to raise debt at very, very competitive
rates, so the market is seeing the value of Woodside and its
underlying business,” Coleman said. “We don’t have any concern
at all that we’ll be able to go out and get very competitive
rates in the marketplace to fund our programs.”  Coleman, former vice-president of Exxon Mobil Development
Co. and a 27-year employee at the company, was born in
Australia’s Victoria state and educated at  Monash University  and
Deakin University. He succeeded  Don Voelte  as Woodside CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 