-- 
Yankees Lead AL East After Red Sox Split Doubleheader With Tampa Bay Rays

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-17T05:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/yankees-lead-al-east-after-red-sox-split-doubleheader-with-tampa-bay-rays.html
The  New York Yankees  beat the Kansas
City Royals 9-7 to take sole possession of the lead in the
American League East from the Boston  Red Sox , who split a
doubleheader with the third-place  Tampa Bay Rays .  The Yankees haven’t been alone atop the division since Aug.
5, when they beat the Red Sox at Fenway Park. Last night’s win
took the Yankees to 74-46, one-half game ahead of the Red Sox,
who recorded a 3-1 win and a 6-2 loss to move to 74-47.  Robinson Cano  hit a three-run homer to snap a 5-5 tie at
Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City,  Missouri , last night as the
Yankees scored five runs in the fourth inning.  Derek Jeter 
batted in the final run in the seventh inning with a single.  Ivan Nova (12-4) won his eighth straight decision, allowing
nine hits and seven runs while striking out two in 5 1/3 innings.
Nova hasn’t lost since a 3-2 defeat to the Los Angeles Angels on
June 3. Mariano Rivera pitched a perfect ninth inning for his
32nd save of the Major League Baseball season.  “It seems like every time I pitch, we score a lot of
runs,” Nova told reporters.  Danny Duffy (3-7) surrendered eight runs on as many hits in
three innings to take the loss.  Melky Cabrera’s third-inning home run, which gave  Kansas
City  a 4-3 lead, was his career-high 16th of the season and
extended his hitting streak to nine games. His previous career
best for home runs was 13 in 2009, when he played for the
Yankees.  Also last night, Albert Pujols became the first player to
hit 30 home runs in each of his first 11 major league seasons.  The St. Louis Cardinals first basemen connected in the
sixth inning off Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher Jeff Karstens. The
Pirates won the game at PNC Park in Pittsburgh 5-4 in 11 innings
on a home run by Garrett Jones.  “He’s a real weapon,” Cardinals manager Tony La Russa
said of Pujols. “I can guarantee you, though, he’s not happy
right now because we lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  