-- 
Yemeni Opposition Groups Establish Governing Council After Mass Protests

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-08-17T14:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-17/yemeni-opposition-groups-establish-national-governing-council.html
Yemen’s opposition groups elected
143 members of a national council set up to forge unity against
President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  “Our concern about the country has pushed us to establish
the council,” Mohammed Basindwah, the president of the National
Dialogue Committee at the Joint Meeting Parties coalition, told
reporters today in San’a, the capital. “It is meant to secure
the country in case the regime starts a war.”  The national council will work to intensify pressure on
Saleh to step down and help protect public and private
properties in areas where the central government no longer
maintains a presence, according to a document distributed by the
Joint Meeting Parties.  Mass protests since February in the Arab world’s poorest
country have demanded the removal of the president, inspired by
popular revolts that ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt .
Saleh has been under renewed pressure to end his 33-year rule
after spending more than two months in neighboring  Saudi Arabia 
recuperating from injuries sustained in a June 3 attack.  Security forces and Saleh supporters killed one protester
and wounded 16 late yesterday in the port city of Hodiedah,
Abdhafiz Majib, an activist, said in a phone interview.  Attack On SabaFon  Unidentified gunmen fired rocket-propelled grenades today
at the head office of  SabaFon GSM , a mobile-phone network
operator, in Sana’a, the al-Sahwa opposition  website  reported,
without saying where it got the information. Sheikh Hamid al-
Ahmar, an opposition tribal leader, is the company’s chairman.  Bahrain Telecommunications Co., the nation’s largest phone
operator, bought a 20 percent stake in SabaFon in March 2007.  The protests have cost the Yemeni economy about $8 billion
since the start of the year through July, Al Hayat newspaper
said on Aug. 14, citing Trade Minister Hisham Sharaf. Tourism
revenue may plunge to less than $50 million in 2011 from $1.1
billion last year, he said, according to the London-based
newspaper.  U.S. officials have called for an immediate transfer of
power, saying the process can happen even as Saleh convalesces
in a Saudi palace. Saleh has remained defiant, saying yesterday
in a speech to tribal supporters that he was returning home.  His remarks came amid reports of new talks on a transfer of
leadership that would involve him handing over authority to Vice
President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi while keeping his title. The
proposal includes the formation of a new government and
elections for head of state, a senior Yemeni official who was
briefed on the negotiations said Aug. 12.  The decision by the main opposition coalition to form a
national council was “a declaration of a civil war,” Abdu al- Janadi, deputy information minister, said on Aug. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  