-- 
‘Barbaric’ Soccer Resisted by Prussians; ‘Pina’ Lives: Film

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-02-24T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/-barbaric-soccer-resisted-by-stiff-prussians-pina-lives-to-dance-film.html
Before soccer came to  Germany  in
the late 1800s, “sport” meant whiskered, solemn Prussians in
voluminous pantaloons performing exercises on vaults, or on
rings suspended from the ceiling.  Nineteenth-century gymnastics looks joyless in “Der ganz
grosse Traum” (The Very Big Dream), an Anglophile, feel-good
movie opening in German cinemas today. The film is a
fictionalized account of how English soccer was introduced to
Germany, where it was at first deemed barbaric. The credits
tell us it was banned in Bavarian schools until 1927.  Now it’s the national sport and a Bavarian team,  Bayern
Munich , is the reigning champion. The man credited with
bringing the game to Germany is Konrad Koch, who started
playing in 1874 at the Braunschweig gymnasium where he taught
ancient languages and German. (He also tried to introduce
cricket, but it never caught on.)  The movie takes liberties with his biography. Played by
Daniel Bruehl, the talented star of the 2002 comedy “Goodbye
Lenin,” Koch is the school’s first English teacher, arriving
fresh from four years in Oxford. He takes the boys to play
soccer in the gym, where they have to speak English. (“I keek
ze ball into ze goal.”)  Pronouncing ‘th’  When the history teacher encourages the boys to speculate
about how many Prussian troops would be needed to conquer the
U.K., Koch teaches them to pronounce “th” so they don’t
“sound like idiots” if they visit Britain.  The authorities view him as a threat to their rigid,
class-bound, militaristic society and ban soccer from the
school premises. Then a delegation from Berlin announces it
will visit to examine whether the sport may have pedagogical
value.  In this story, soccer overcomes class barriers, teaches
fairness and gamesmanship, and encourages individuality
instead of blind obedience. First-time director Sebastian
Grobler touches on big themes.  There are moments where the plot seems formulaic. Some
scenes near the end lurch into un-Prussian schmalziness. One
incident of slapstick humor is schoolboyish (a chaplain gets a
soccer ball whacked into his sensitive areas).  Yet “Der ganz grosse Traum” shines a spotlight on an
era that rarely features in German movies. The performances,
even by the newcomers playing pupils, are all good. Rating:
**1/2  No Gimmick  “Pina” has convinced me 3-D movies are not just a
gimmick. This artistic, beautifully crafted dance documentary
by Wim Wenders takes you right into the space inhabited by the
dancers.  The movie, which opens in German cinemas today, is a
tribute to the choreographer Pina Bausch who died in 2009 of
cancer at the age of 68. She founded a genre known as
“Tanztheater” in which the dancers speak, sing, cry and
laugh.  The stage is covered in peat for her primeval “Sacre du
Printemps.” In “Cafe Mueller,” dancers move blindly around
a gray area littered with furniture, unable to make contact.  Bausch’s dancers, some of whom are elderly, pay tribute
to their mentor in interviews and in movement. The film offers
spectacular images of them performing against a background of
industrial sites in the Ruhr region.  In one, a woman in a blue dress dances on pointe in the
coking plant of a disused mine. In another, a man wearing
rabbit ears sits at the back of the suspended monorail in
Wuppertal, the city where Bausch’s company is based.  Dance fans will want to see this film. It may even win a
few converts to the art. Rating: ***  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 