-- 
J&J, Apple, Delta, Claiborne, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-02-24T12:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/abbott-delta-claiborne-google-intellectual-property.html
Abbott Laboratories, the maker of
the arthritis drug Humira, succeeded in a bid to overturn a
$1.67 billion patent-infringement verdict won by  Johnson &
Johnson .  The 2009 verdict, the largest patent-related damages award
in U.S. history, was reversed yesterday by the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington , according to the
court’s website. The three-judge panel ruled that patent
7,070,775, co-issued to  New York  University and J&J’s Centocor
unit, is invalid.  The Federal Circuit ruled yesterday that J&J failed to show
it described fully human antibodies in 1994, when it sought
patent protection. The elements of the patent asserted against
Abbott are therefore invalid because they don’t adequately
describe the invention, the court said. Inventors are required
to provide descriptions so others may emulate or build on the
work.  “The evidence clearly showed that Abbott was first to
invent a fully human anti-TNF antibody, Humira,” said  Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for Abbott.  J&J, which sells the competing arthritis medicine Remicade,
had convinced a jury that Abbott infringed the patent, which J&J
said covered the human antibodies used in Humira. The appeals
court ruled that J&J’s patent application never described fully
human antibodies and said at most the claims “constitute a wish
list of properties” that such an antibody would have.  “The opinion confirms that you can’t claim what you didn’t
invent,” said William Lee of Boston’s WilmerHale, who
represented Abbott in the case.  Rob Bazemore, president of the Centocor unit, said in a
statement the company is considering whether to ask the panel to
reconsider its decision or request that the case be heard by all
active judges of the court.  Humira is Abbott’s biggest drug with $6.55 billion in sales
worldwide last year, or about 18 percent of the Abbott Park,
Illinois-based company’s total revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Remicade is J&J’s largest drug product,
accounting for about 7.5 percent of the New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based company’s business, or $4.61 billion in sales.  Humira blocks action of tumor necrosis factor, or TNF. When
the body produces too much TNF, it can cause the immune system
to attack healthy tissue and leads to inflammation.  J&J sued in 2007, seeking royalties and compensation for
what it said was unauthorized use of the patent.  A federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , agreed and in June 2009
said Abbott owed $504 million in patent royalties to J&J based
on sales of Abbott’s Humira arthritis drug, plus $1.17 billion
to compensate J&J for decreased sales of its competing
treatments. The trial judge later added $175.6 million in
interest, bringing the total to $1.84 billion.  Abbott has filed its own lawsuit against the Centocor unit,
claiming J&J’s arthritis drug Simponi, made with human
antibodies, is infringing an Abbott patent. It also claims a J&J
psoriasis medicine, Stelara, violates two other patents. Those
cases are pending in federal court in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  Arthritis, which involves the breakdown of the cartilage
protecting joints,  affects  one out of seven Americans, or 37
million people, according to the National Institutes of Health.
Three of the largest drugs used to treat arthritis are Humira,
Remicade and Enbrel, which generated $3.53 billion in sales last
year for Thousand Oaks, California-based Amgen Inc.  The case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, 10-1144,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Centocor Inc. v.  Abbott Laboratories ,
07cv139, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  Delta Must Face Virgin on Upper-Class Seating Patent, Court Says    Delta Air Lines Inc ., the world’s second-biggest carrier,
should go to trial over Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.’s claims it
infringed a patent for its “upper-class” seating system, a
U.K. appeals court ruled.  A November 2010 ruling in Delta’s favor erred because the
patent covering the seating system applies to seats assembled
off the aircraft, not just those on board, Justice Robin Jacob
wrote at the Court of Appeal in  London  yesterday.  “The case must proceed to trial, where, I understand,
Delta will take a number of other non-infringement points,”
Judge Jacob wrote on behalf of a three-judge panel.  Virgin, the long-haul carrier controlled by billionaire
Richard Branson, sued Atlanta-based Delta in 2008 for using
seats for its first class section designed by  Premium Aircraft
Interiors Group Ltd. , a U.K. aircraft-interior designer that was
sued by Virgin a year earlier for about 49 million pounds ($79.6
million).  The ability to provide comfortable reclining seats on long-
haul routes can play a vital part in the success of an airline,
according to an earlier judgment in the case. When Virgin
introduced its flat-bed seats in 2003 it increased its market
share on long-haul routes by 12 percent, it said.  Delta spokeswoman  Betsy Talton  didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment yesterday.  Apple Seeks Patent on Method of Increasing Battery Capacity    Apple Inc ., the Cupertino, California-based company that
makes the iPod and iPhone, applied for a patent on a technology
aimed at increasing the capacity of batteries used in electronic
devices without increasing their size.  Application  20110037439 , which was published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Feb. 17, is for
a method of increasing the energy density in rechargeable
lithium battery cells.  According to the application, increasing the coating for
the batteries’ current collectors can improve the battery
capacity. This could include coating surfaces of collectors with
materials separated by an electrolyte separator.  Apple filed the application in September 2009 with the
assistance of  Park Vaughn Fleming & Dowler LLP  of Davis,  California .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Claiborne’s Juicy Unit Claims Jesus Juice Infringes Marks    Liz Claiborne Inc .’s Juicy Couture unit sued a New York
clothing company for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed Feb. 18 in federal court
in  Manhattan , marks used by  Jesus Juice Coature LLOC  confused
the public. Juicy also claims that the name of Jesus Juice was
deliberately chosen to trade on Juicy’s fame and that the
spelling of “coature” is “a deliberate misspelling and play
on the word ‘couture.’”  Juicy, based in Pacoima, California, says its products are
sold in more than 30,000 retail stores and that the brand has
been used and promoted by a range of Hollywood celebrities.  They include Jessica Biel, Gerard Butler, Adrien Brody,
Ashton Kutcher, Madonna, Gwyneth Pantrow, Brad Pitt, Ben
Affleck, Sarah Jessica Parker, Reese Witherspoon and Drew
Barrymore, according to court papers.  Despite receiving multiple requests from Juicy, Jesus Juice
continues actions that infringe the Juicy marks, according to
court papers.  Juicy asked the court to order Jesus Juice to quit
infringing the trademarks, and for destruction of all products
and promotional material that has marks “confusingly similar”
to the Juicy marks.  The company also asked for awards of money damages,
attorney fees, and litigation costs, and Jesus Juice’s profits
attributable to the alleged infringement.  Jesus Juice didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Claiborne acquired Juicy in April 2003.  Juicy is represented by  Martin J. Feinberg   of Olshan
Grundman Frome Rosenzweig & Wolosky LLP  of New York, and  Kevin
C. Parks  and  Nimita L. Parekh  of  Leydig Voit & Mayer Ltd.  of  Chicago .  The case is Juicy Couture Inc. v. Jesus Juice Coature LLC,
1:11-cv-01152-LTS U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google’s Belgian Copyright Appeal Could Decide European Policy    Google Inc . is fighting a Belgian ruling blocking it from
publishing links to local newspapers on its online news service
that could decide the fate of search engines and referencing
services in  Europe .  Google is appealing a 2007 Belgian court ruling that its
news search breached copyright laws, forcing it to remove links
and snippets of articles from French- and German-language
newspapers. The judge in that case “seemed to have badly
understood” the functioning of Internet search services,
Google’s lawyers said.  “This case will have serious consequences to the way
information is searched and managed” on the Internet,  Eric
Valgaeren , one of the lawyers representing Google, told the
Brussels Court of Appeal in a hearing yesterday. “A negative
ruling would put at risk all referencing services or even cause
them to disappear.”  The court should “put an end to the hypocritical
position” of the claimants and the “astronomical sums”
they’re seeking, Valgaeren, a partner in the Brussels office of
 Stibbe  firm, said at the hearing.  Copiepresse , a group that represents French and German-
language newspapers, and an association that represents
journalists on copyright issues, were among those that filed the
original lawsuit after Google News was introduced in Belgium in
2006.  There is “no exception” for Google in copyright law, the
Brussels court said in its Feb. 13, 2007, ruling. The court
ordered Google to pay 25,000 euros ($34,300) a day until it
removed news content from Belgium’s French- and German-language
publications. Flemish newspapers didn’t join the case. Google
had to remove articles, photos and graphics linked to the papers
“from all its sites” and cached copies visible in searches.  The newspapers have a second lawsuit pending against Google
in which they seek up to 49.1 million euros for the period in
which their content was visible on Google News.  Google presented its arguments yesterday and the hearing is
scheduled to resume in March. The  Mountain View , California-
based company gets no commercial benefit from linking articles
because the news service is free,  Nicolas Roland , another Google
lawyer told the court.  Due to its potential implications for search engines across
Europe, the case could end up in the European Union’s highest
court. The Belgian tribunal could ask the 27-nation EU’s  Court
of Justice  for guidance on how to interpret copyright rules in
cases such as these, Petillion said.  Google and the newspapers had to wait longer than they
wanted for this hearing. The slowness of some Belgian courts was
partly to blame, said Margaret Boribon, secretary-general for
Copiepresse. It took about two years from the end of the written
procedure, where written arguments between the parties and the
court are exchanged, to get a date for yesterday’s court
hearing.  The Belgian newspapers argue Google News doesn’t generate
enough traffic to their sites to make inclusion attractive.
Google News no longer references the newspapers involved in
today’s case. Only Google’s main search site lists the
newspapers, such as La Libre Belgique and  Le Soir , the most-read
French-language daily in Brussels.  “If Google agrees to pay,” the newspapers will come back
to Google News, said Boribon.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  WilmerHale Snares Munger Patent Litigator Andrea Weiss Jeffries  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP hired Andrea Weiss
Jeffries for its Los Angeles IP practice, the Boston-based firm
said in a  statement  yesterday.  Jeffries , a patent litigator, joins from Los Angeles-based
 Munger Tolles & Olson LLP . She has represented clients whose
technologies have included computer memory, software, database
technology, pharmaceutical formulations, medical devices and
wireless communications. Jeffries served as a judicial clerk to
Judge Harry L. Hupp of U.S. District Court for the Central
District of California.  She has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Duke
University and a law degree from  Stanford University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 