-- 
Madagascan Ex-President Demands Role in Talks, Wants to Run in Election

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-02-24T15:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/madagascan-ex-president-demands-role-in-talks-wants-to-run-in-election.html
  Marc Ravalomanana , who was ousted as
president of  Madagascar  in March 2009, said he wants to return
home to participate in mediation talks, and that he would like
to run in presidential elections this year.  Five days after he was prevented from boarding a flight to
Madagascar from Johannesburg, where he is in exile, Ravalomanana
said he didn’t want to participate in a new transitional
government headed by  Andry Rajoelina .  “I just want to go back for 24, or 40 hours, to take part
in peaceful dialogue between Malagasy parties, and then I will
come back,” Ravalomanana said by phone today. “I do not think
I or Rajoelina should be part of any transitional government.”  A proposal from the  Southern African Development
Community ’s international mediation team has said the former
president shouldn’t return to Madagascar until the country’s
stability can be ensured. That would make it impossible for him
to run in elections to be held by November because Rajoelina
changed the constitution to say candidates must be resident in
the country for six months prior to the vote.  Ravalomanana said he rejected SADC’s “road map” out of a
crisis that was triggered when Rajoelina seized power with the
help of the military and later reneged on power sharing
agreements with three former presidents. Ravalomanana wants SADC
to organize four-party talks, including Rajoelina, to meet in
Madagascar and for the regional body to ensure the safe passage
of former president Didier Ratsiraka and himself.  With or Without You  Leonardo Simao, who is heading SADC’s international
mediation team, said negotiations over Madagascar would be
closed “within the coming days,” with eight of 11 parties
signed up to the “road map.”  “Those who have chosen not to participate, for strategic
or other reasons, will have the responsibility for explaining to
their activists, their supporters, why they are not
participating, not the mediation team,” Simao said in an
interview in Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar, today.  Ravalomanana’s party “were awaiting instructions from
their leader in  South Africa ,” he said.  The three parties that have rejected the accord “represent
the most popular and credible parties in Madagascar,” and that
there could be no consensus without them, Ravalomanana said.  The “road map” would make Rajoelina president of a
transitional government until elections later this year.  Madagascar’s government will ask South Africa to “keep
Ravalomanana there for as long as possible” to avoid any
trouble and allow the country to move forward with mediation,
Prime Minister Camille Vital said today.  The government issued an arrest warrant for Ravalomanana
following his Feb. 17 announcement to journalists in
Johannesburg that he would return.  “It could be that we end up going to look for him with the
arrest warrant, if he insists” on returning, Vital said in an
interview today. “I think it is better for him to stay in South
Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at
   hmcneish@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 