-- 
Aegon to Sell Shares to Repay State Aid After Net Income Beats Estimates

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-02-24T12:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/aegon-to-sell-shares-to-repay-state-aid-after-net-income-beats-estimates.html
  Aegon NV , the Dutch owner of U.S.
insurer Transamerica Corp., fell the most in nine months in
Amsterdam trading after announcing plans to sell shares to repay
750 million euros ($1 billion) of state aid.  It will sell 173.6 million shares, or 10 percent of the
current total, to institutional investors, the Hague-based
insurer said in a statement today. The mean estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was for Aegon to raise 645
million euros.  “The dilution is bigger than expected,” said Corne van Zeijl, who helps manage about 42 billion euros at SNS Asset
Management in Den Bosch, the Netherlands. “A share sale was
necessary to repay the state aid.”  Aegon, which has already repaid half the 3 billion euros of
state aid it received in 2008, has agreed to settle the
remainder before the end of June and may sell its Transamerica
Reinsurance unit to raise funds. That will allow the insurer to
resume paying dividends and making acquisitions after the
European Union imposed constraints as a condition for the
bailout.  Aegon fell as much as 7.3 percent and was down 4.3 percent
to 5.21 euros as of 12:24 p.m. in Amsterdam. That gave the
company a market value of 9.1 billion euros.  Aegon plans to resume dividend payments in May 2012, and
aims to return 10 cents a share to shareholders over the second
half of 2011. The company aims for a “sustainable dividend,
growing with the business and capital,” Chief Executive Officer
Alex Wynaendts told analysts today.  ‘New Era’  “It is important for our company that we are now entering
into a new era,” Wynaendts told reporters on a conference call.
“We can put the crisis behind us.”  The insurer would outpace Dutch rivals  ING Groep NV  and  SNS
Reaal NV  if it meets the June repayment target. ING, which owes
the Netherlands 5 billion euros after receiving a 10 billion-
euro bailout, earlier this month said it hopes to return a
significant amount this year. SNS has 500 million euros in aid
left to repay.  Aegon is in talks with one “party” on a sale of its life
reinsurance activities, the company said today, adding that the
process is proceeding in line with expectations.  Fourth-quarter net income fell to 318 million euros from
393 million euros a year earlier, the Hague-based insurer said
in a separate statement today. That beat the 252.5 million-euro
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. Writedown  A 206 million-euro charge related to the winding down of
some U.S. insurance products was cushioned by lower impairments
and higher investment gains.  The firm in December said it plans to discontinue some
types of workers’ life insurance paid for by employers in the
U.S., known as bank-owned and corporate-owned life insurance
products, resulting in a goodwill writedown.  Impairment charges, mainly on U.S. housing-related
securities and Irish banks, declined to 133 million euros from
212 million euros. The overperformance of assets held at fair
value, including convertible bonds, hedge fund and private
equity investments, amounted to 30 million euros, the insurer
said.  Impairments on the U.S. portfolio are expected to decline
further in the second half of this year, Wynaendts told
analysts.  The company’s fourth-quarter underlying pretax profit,
which excludes investment swings, rose to 489 million euros from
478 million euros. Earnings on this basis are expected to be
“negatively impacted” this year by the potential sale of
Transamerica Re and the wind down of some U.S. products.  Profit Target  Aegon  aims  to grow underlying pretax earnings by 7 percent
to 10 percent a year on average from the 2011 level, the insurer
said.  “Aegon performed strongly in the fourth quarter,” Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities, said by e-
mail. “With the current equity issue we expect that the chances
for government debt repayment increases significantly.” Salah
has a “buy” recommendation on the shares.  Capital in excess of what is required for a Standard &
Poor’s AA credit rating was 3.8 billion euros at the end of
December, Aegon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  