-- 
Canada Stocks Pare Gains as Middle Eastern Instability Grows

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T20:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/magna-northern-dynasty-pason-systems-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell for a fourth
day as commodity producers slipped after violent protests in
Libya heightened concern that political instability in the
Middle East will slow the economic recovery.    Suncor Energy Inc . dropped 4.5 percent to lead declines
among energy producers as oil fell on assurances from the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and the International Energy Agency that they can
compensate for any disruption of Libyan shipments. Barrick Gold
Corp. declined 3.1 percent as gold fluctuated after seven days
of gains. Autoparts maker  Magna International Inc . slumped 10
percent after the reporting fourth-quarter earnings that missed
analyst estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index fell 81.15
points, or 0.6 percent, to 13,875.04 at 3:45 p.m. in Toronto.  “It’s still about the Middle East, Libya, Yemen, Egypt --
all those countries. There are still a lot of jitters from that
area,” said Adrian Mastracci, a money manager at KCM Wealth
Management Inc. in Vancouver and leader in the Globe & Mail’s
annual stock-picking competition for financial professionals.
“The economic recovery is still not fully developed, so you do
have to be mindful of some risks.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate Canadian gross
domestic product growth accelerated 3.2 percent this quarter
from 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter 2010. Sixty-four out of
118 companies in the S&P/TSX Index that have reported earnings
since Jan. 10 have surpassed analyst estimates, Bloomberg data
show.  Crackdown    Libya ’s  Muammar Qaddafi , who has lost control of much of
the country’s oil-rich east, appealed to citizens to end
violence as his forces stepped up a crackdown on opponents and
more than 100 people were reportedly shot dead.  Crude oil for April delivery fell 0.8 percent to settle at
$97.28 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract touched $103.41, the highest intraday price since
September 2008. Suncor Energy, Canada’s biggest oil and gas
producer, slumped 4.5 percent to C$43.99, after earlier sliding
4.8 percent, the biggest intraday drop since May.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and  National Bank of
Canada  reported earnings that beat the average analyst estimate.
CIBC, Canada’s fifth-largest bank, gained 3.5 percent to
C$82.46. National Bank, the country’s sixth-biggest lender,
climbed 2.8 percent to C$73.77 after reporting profit excluding
some items that beat the average estimate by 9.7 percent.  Canadian lenders are benefiting from lower loan losses as
the country’s economic recovery accelerates and job creation
rises. Canada’s six banks may report a 14 percent average
increase in profit before one-time items for the quarter, said
Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at  Royal Bank of Canada  Capital
Markets.  Missing Estimates    European Goldfields Ltd ., a gold and lead producer, fell 22
percent, the most in the S&P/TSX, after Reuters reported that
Greece delayed issuing a permit for two mines. The company said
after trading was halted that it hadn’t been officially notified
by  Greece  that there is any issue regarding the permitting
process.    Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd . soared 8.7 percent to
C$18.96, after earlier reaching C$20.64, the biggest intraday
gain since December 2010. The Vancouver-based explorer for gold,
copper and molybdenum in Alaska said it received a positive
preliminary assessment technical report for its Pebble Project
in southwestern Alaska. Northern Dynasty is a possible takeover
target, according to Adam P. Graf, an analyst at Dahlman Rose &
Co.    Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc . advanced 2.9
percent to C$39.27. The maker of drugs for central nervous
system disorders reported fourth-quarter earnings of 47 cents a
share on an adjusted basis, beating the average analyst estimate
by 1.3 percent, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Johnson in New York at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 