-- 
AIA Group's 2010 Net Profit May Rise 15% on Stock Market, Currency Gains

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-02-24T01:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/aia-group-s-2010-net-income-may-rise-15-on-stocks-currencies.html
  AIA Group Ltd ., the third-largest
Asian insurer by market value, may report a 15 percent profit
increase in its maiden annual results after the largest initial
public offering in Hong Kong.  The company will probably say tomorrow that net income rose
to $2.02 billion in the year ended Nov. 30, from $1.75 billion a
year earlier, according to the average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  American International Group Inc . sold a
67 percent stake in Hong Kong-based AIA’s $20.4 billion IPO in
October, cutting its stake to 33 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker, 53, is trying to
rebuild a business hurt by financial troubles at bailed-out AIG
since 2008 and uncertainties during the attempted takeover by  Prudential Plc  last year. The life insurer that operates in 15
markets in  Asia  has lost market share, and seen declines in
agent productivity and new policy sales.  “It’s a widely held stock but many thought the listing
valuation was rich, so they need to deliver,” said  Andrew Sullivan , director of institutional sales at OSK Securities Hong
Kong Ltd. “The key for AIA will be the management guidance on
how they intend to increase their penetration in what is an
extremely competitive business without driving costs higher.”  AIA’s 2010 earnings were likely boosted by a weighted
average 19 percent increase in the stock indexes of its major
markets in the second half, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a
Feb. 21 research note.  Currency Appreciation  The insurer, which reports its earnings in U.S. dollars,
may also benefit from the 3.7 percent appreciation of currencies
in the markets it operates in, Credit Suisse analyst Arjan van Veen wrote. It will be too early to see a turnaround in
operations, he said. Nine of the 10 most-actively traded
currencies in Asia excluding Japan rose against the dollar in
the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Hong
Kong  currency is pegged to the dollar.  AIA’s Hong Kong traded shares have gained 8.5 percent from
the IPO price to close at HK$21.35 yesterday. The stock has
fallen 2.3 percent this year, compared with an average gain of
about 1.6 percent among the world’s 500 biggest publicly traded
insurers tracked by Bloomberg.  Prudential offered a year ago to buy AIA for $35.5 billion,
a price tag that the U.K. insurer’s shareholders balked at. The
deal collapsed in June when AIG’s board rejected Prudential’s
reduced bid of $30.4 billion, opting to sell shares in an IPO of
the unit to help repay its $182.3 billion government bailout.  Tucker, hired in July to run AIA, built the Asian
operations of Prudential over 15 years before a four-year stint
as group CEO of the London-based insurer through 2009.  Management Changes  He has reshuffled AIA’s senior management, appointing three
new regional managing directors, a new chief financial officer
and new group chief distribution officer, including at least
three former Prudential executives.  AIA, with one of the largest pools of existing policies
among regional insurers, has seen new policy sales lagging
behind market growth, eroding its lead over rivals such as
Prudential and bank-backed insurers in some markets.  While AIA remains the biggest life insurer in Hong Kong,
its largest market, contributing 37 percent of pretax operating
profit in the first half of 2010, it slipped to fifth place in
terms of new policy sales in the third quarter, Credit Suisse
said in a Jan. 5 report.  The value of its new business, a measure of the
profitability of new policies, will be a key indicator during
the results announcement, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Roy Ramos and Mancy Sun said in a Jan. 15 report. It was about 4
percent of AIA’s value of in-force policies in the first half of
2010, compared with 16 percent for both Prudential’s Asian
operations and China Life Insurance Co.  New Business Value  Morgan Stanley estimated AIA’s value of new business to
increase to $684 million last year, or 30 percent lower than in
2008, according to a Dec. 2 report. A recovery to pre-crisis
levels may not happen until 2013, analysts Ben Lin and Christy
He wrote in the report. CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets analyst
Patricia Cheng estimated the value of new business for 2010 at
$636 million.  Insurers in Hong Kong including AIA may benefit from rising
sales to Chinese visitors and the introduction of yuan-
denominated policies in the city, which helped drive the
industry’s new life insurance premiums up 26 percent in the
third quarter of 2010, Goldman Sachs said.  The industrywide premium per policy sold to Chinese
visitors is twice that of local Hong Kong policyholders,
Citigroup Inc. analysts Darwin Lam and Zerlina Zeng wrote in a
Jan. 31 report. Chinese also tend to buy regular-premium
policies, they said.  Insurance sales to Chinese visitors may grow 26 percent a
year from 2010 to 2015, doubling their share of the Hong Kong
life insurance market to 15 percent by the end of the period,
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  