-- 
AIA Group Reports Full-Year Earnings of $2.7 Billion, Exceeding Estimates

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-02-25T08:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/aia-group-reports-full-year-earnings-of-2-7-billion-exceeding-estimates.html
  AIA Group Ltd ., the third-largest
Asian insurer by market value, said full-year profit rose 54
percent on increased policy sales and investments, sending the
shares to the biggest gain since the first day of trading.  Net income advanced to $2.7 billion, or 22 cents a share,
in the year ended Nov. 30, from $1.75 billion, or 15 cents, a
year earlier, it said in a statement of its maiden annual
results after Hong Kong’s largest initial public offering. The
earnings beat the average estimate of $2.02 billion by nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. AIA forecast profit of as
much as $2.3 billion in its IPO prospectus.  “The numbers mean so far they’ve basically met investor
expectations,” said Hao Kang, who manages the equivalent of
about $228 million at ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co. in
Beijing and doesn’t own the shares. “We’re looking to hear from
the management today to see if they’re confident enough about
the future, and that will help give investors a clearer
indication about the whole market going forward.” Hao has been
trimming holdings of Chinese insurers.  AIA Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker, 53, is trying to
rebuild a business hurt by troubles at bailed-out parent  American International Group Inc . since 2008 and uncertainties
during the attempted takeover by  Prudential Plc  last year. The
life insurer has lost market share and seen declines in agent
productivity and new policy sales.  ‘Challenging Year’  “It was a challenging year in many different ways,”
Tucker said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today in
Hong Kong. The results “demonstrated incredible resilience of
the business and the people.” The company is sustaining
recovery momentum in the first quarter, after seeing a pickup in
the fourth, he later told a press conference.  The shares jumped as much as 7 percent and were 5.7 percent
higher at HK$22.30 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong.
They rose 17 percent on the first day of trading on Oct. 29. It
was the second-most actively traded stock by value of a company
with a market capitalization of more than $10 billion today on
the  Hong Kong  stock exchange after HSBC Holdings Plc.  Yesterday’s closing price valued AIA at about $32.6 billion,
or about 1.3 times its embedded value last year.  Strengthening Asian currencies helped boost total weighted
premium income of the insurer that reports results in U.S.
dollars by 12 percent to $13 billion, according to the statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange. Without the exchange effect,
the number would have increased by 5 percent.  Strengthening Currencies  Currencies in the markets AIA operates appreciated an
average 3.7 percent in the second half, Credit Suisse Group AG
analyst Arjan van Veen wrote in a Feb. 21 report. Nine of the 10
most-actively traded currencies in  Asia  excluding Japan rose
against the dollar in the past year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Hong Kong currency is pegged to the dollar.  AIA said it won’t pay a dividend for 2010. The company
plans to announce its first payout in July, Tucker said at the
briefing in Hong Kong.  AIA’s total value of new business increased 22 percent to
$667 million over 2009, the statement said. The growth was
particularly strong in the fourth quarter as AIA’s IPO boosted
confidence, it said.  The results showed a “recovery is well under way with more
to come,” Tucker said in a conference call with journalists
today.  The measure of the profitability of new policies was about
4 percent of AIA’s value of in-force policies in the first half
of 2010, compared with 16 percent for both Prudential’s Asian
operations and China Life Insurance Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts Roy Ramos and Mancy Sun said in a Jan. 15 report.  Investment-Linked Products  A recovery to pre-crisis new business levels may not happen
until 2013, Morgan Stanley analysts Ben Lin and Christy He said
in a December research note. AIA’s value of new business was
$968 million in 2008, the analysts wrote.  AIA’s investment income excluding that from investment-
linked products jumped 14 percent to $3.5 billion last year as
the company reduced cash holdings in favor of local-currency
debt and stocks.  AIA increased the amount of policyholders and shareholders’
assets invested in stocks to 11.7 percent last year from 8.2
percent in 2009, it said the statement. The stock indexes of
markets AIA operated in rose a weighted average 19 percent in
the second half, Credit Suisse said in the Feb. 21 note.  The embedded value expanded 18 percent to $24.7 billion
from a year earlier, according to today’s statement. Embedded
value, an estimate of the economic value of life insurance
business using actuarial and investment assumptions, is used to
value life insurers.  Valuation  Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley estimated Prudential to
be trading at 1.1 times to 1.15 times last year’s embedded value.
China Life, the nation’s largest insurer, is valued at 2.1 times
to 2.4 times, according to estimates of the two and CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets. Prudential and China Life have yet to report
2010 earnings.  Prudential offered a year ago to buy AIA for $35.5 billion,
a price tag that the U.K. insurer’s shareholders balked at. The
deal collapsed in June when AIG’s board rejected Prudential’s
reduced bid of $30.4 billion, opting to sell shares in an IPO of
the unit to help repay its $182.3 billion government bailout.  AIG sold a 67 percent stake in Hong Kong-based AIA’s $20.4
billion IPO in October, cutting its stake to 33 percent. The New
York-based insurer posted its first profit in three quarters
yesterday on gains from divestitures including the majority
stake it sold in AIA.  Management Reshuffle  Tucker, hired in July to run AIA, built the Asian
operations of Prudential over 15 years before a four-year stint
as group CEO of the London-based insurer through 2009.  He has reshuffled AIA’s senior management, appointing three
new regional managing directors, a new chief financial officer
and new group chief distribution officer, including at least
three former Prudential executives.  AIA, with one of the largest pools of existing policies
among regional insurers, has seen new policy sales lagging
behind market growth, eroding its lead over rivals such as
Prudential and bank-backed insurers in some markets.  While AIA remains the biggest life insurer in Hong Kong,
its largest market, contributing 37 percent of pretax operating
profit in the first half of 2010, it slipped to fifth place in
terms of new policy sales in the third quarter, Credit Suisse
said in a Jan. 5 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  