-- 
Airline Bond Yields Rise to Records as Oil Surges: China Credit

-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h   a n d   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 
2011-02-24T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/airline-bond-yields-rise-to-records-as-oil-concern-spreads-china-credit.html
Bond yields for China’s largest
airlines rose to records as soaring oil prices overshadowed
plans to invest $228 billion in the world’s most populous
nation’s aviation infrastructure.  China Southern Air Holding Co.’s 900 million yuan ($137
million) of 4.62 percent bonds due 2014 were last quoted by
Chinabond at a yield of 5.199 percent, the highest since the
debt was issued in 2009. The yield on  Air China Ltd .’s 3 billion
yuan of 3.48 percent bonds due 2014 is at 4.805 percent, the
most since issue, Chinabond indicative prices show.  China will invest more than 1.5 trillion yuan in domestic
aviation through 2015 as carriers add planes and more airports
are built to cater to rising demand for  air travel , Li Jiaxiang,
head of the Civil Aviation Administration, said in Beijing
yesterday. Oil climbed to the highest in 30 months in  London 
after Li spoke as  Libya ’s civil uprising reduced shipments from  Africa ’s third-biggest producer.  “Right now people are more focused on oil prices and
what’s happening in the Middle East and Africa than on the
prospects for growth for Chinese airlines,” said Kelvin Lau, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research Pte. “If  oil prices  were to suddenly surge 50 percent, then there will be
a problem for these carriers.”  China, which overtook Japan as the world’s second-largest
economy, will become the biggest contributor to global air
traffic over the five years ending 2014, the  International Air
Transport Association  said on Feb. 14. Chinese air travelers may
increase by 181 million on domestic routes, with an additional
33 million on international services in the period, IATA said.  Fuel Surcharges  China Southern Airlines, the nation’s largest carrier, led
peers in raising fuel surcharges on domestic routes from Feb. 22
to help offset higher oil prices. Its shares fell 3 percent to
HK$3.53 in Hong Kong yesterday, paring their gain over the past
year to 18 percent.  The cost of insuring U.S. airline debt with credit-default
swaps jumped this week after crude crossed $100 a barrel in  New
York  for the first time since October 2008.  Five-year contracts on Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines Inc.,
the world’s second-largest carrier, climbed to a four-month high
of 644 basis points on Feb. 23, according to data provider CMA.
Contracts on Chicago-based United Continental Holdings Inc. and
AMR Corp., the parent company of  American Airlines , rose to the
most in more than two months, CMA prices show.  The short-term impact of higher fuel prices may be offset
by derivatives contracts the U.S. companies buy to hedge against
price swings, according to  Fitch Ratings . Those hedges typically
tail off early next year, and a continued increase in oil prices
may hinder efforts to reduce debt, Fitch analysts including Mark Sadeghian and William Warlick wrote in a Feb. 22 report.  Hedging Details  Fuel costs account for about 27 percent of airlines’ total
spending, according to IATA. Air China has hedged about 40
percent of its total fuel requirement, while  China  Southern
isn’t hedged, according to Daiwa Institute’s Lau.  Rao Xinyu, head of  investor relations  at Beijing-based Air
China, declined to comment. No one in the media relations team
for China Southern Air Holding was available when Bloomberg
called the company’s main Guangzhou office yesterday.  The yuan traded near a 17-year high yesterday on
speculation interest rates will rise. The Chinese currency
slipped 0.07 percent to 6.5787 per dollar after reaching 6.5732
in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It’s gained 3.3 percent since a two-year peg was relaxed
in June and touched a 17-year high of 6.5654 on Feb. 21.  Money Rates Drop  The benchmark money-market rate fell the most in three
weeks on speculation banks are freeing up more cash. The seven-
day repurchase rate, a gauge of the availability of funds,
dropped 284 basis points to 3.4 percent, according to a daily
fixing from the National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the
biggest decline since Feb. 1.  The yield on the 3.77 percent government bond due December
2020 dropped 6 basis points to 3.91 percent, according to
Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt-clearing house. That’s the
lowest since Jan. 13. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  China Eastern Air Holding Co., the parent company of the
nation’s second-largest carrier China Eastern Airlines Corp.,
raised 500 million yuan from five-year bonds this week,
Bloomberg data show. The bonds’ yield rose to 5.315 percent from
5.31 percent, according to Chinabond prices.  Adding Routes  China Southern Airlines, Air China and China Eastern
Airlines, China’s three biggest carriers, are adding routes and
increasing flights as economic growth and rising affluence spur
demand for business and leisure travel. China had about 2,600
aircraft as of last year, when passenger turnover totaled about
267 million, according to the Civil Aviation Administration.  “Expansion of the aviation industry is very important for
our country’s economic growth,” Li, who was previously Air
China’s chairman, told reporters in Beijing yesterday. “Local
governments are very keen on pushing forward development.”  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting China’s sovereign
debt from default rose to 77.5 basis points on Feb. 23, the
highest in more than three weeks, according to CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Shelley Smith  in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
Chan Sue Ling in  Singapore  
 slchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  