-- 
Airlines Scrap Libya Evacuation Flights as Soldiers Open Fire in Tripoli

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-02-24T15:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/airlines-scrap-libya-evacuation-flights-as-soldiers-open-fire-in-tripoli.html
Airlines including  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG , British Airways and Emirates called off flights to
Tripoli as Muammar Qaddafi tightened his grip over the Libyan
capital and foreign governments hurried to evacuate citizens.  Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, has  canceled
all flights  from today until Feb. 27 following a travel warning
by  Germany ’s Federal Foreign Office. Emirates has halted flights
until March 26, while Qatar Airways won’t serve the destination
until further notice.  Libyan opposition is in control of eastern cities including
Benghazi and Tobruk, while Qaddafi, the country’s leader, has
vowed to fight to his “last drop of blood.” Countries
including the U.S.,  China , the U.K. and Turkey are attempting to
extract citizens by ferry across the Mediterranean or by
specially scheduled planes.  “There’s a material change in the risk if you are flying
to or from Libya at the moment,” said Paul Mitchell, an
aviation analyst with  Aon Corp ., the world’s largest insurance
broker, in an interview.  Insurers that protects airlines against losses may be
unwilling to provide coverage at the same prices as before the
crisis, he said. Aon, based in  Chicago , matches insurance buyers
and sellers.  “If you are looking to fly there, there will be additional
charges over and above what you would normally pay for that
coverage,” said Mitchell.  Shooting Civilians  Soldiers and militiamen shot at civilians in the capital
and most people stayed home out of fear, said Egyptians crossing
back into their country over a border now in the hands of
Qaddafi’s opponents. Tanks blocked the main highways out of
Tripoli, residents said.  The uprising follows others in North  Africa  and the Middle
East that brought down the governments of Tunisia and Egypt over
the past weeks.  British Airways, a unit of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, has canceled flights through Feb. 28,
spokeswoman Cathy West said.  “We have decided we won’t operate there because the safety
of our customers and staff is of the utmost importance,” she
said in a telephone interview.  Alitalia, KLM  Italy’s Alitalia SpA also said it has suspended service as
passengers are unable to reach departure gates at Tripoli’s
airport and security and baggage services are “at risk.”  KLM, the Dutch unit of  Air France-KLM  Group, Europe’s
largest carrier, has extended cancelations through Sunday,
spokeswoman Gedi Schrijver said. Air France doesn’t fly to
Libya.  Lufthansa’s BMI division has called off today’s flight to
Tripoli and is currently assessing whether to resume service
tomorrow, spokeswoman Jo Tabberer said.  Austrian Airlines, another Lufthansa subsidiary, has
stopped flights to the capital city until Feb. 27 and will
decide the following day whether to resume operations, according
to the carrier’s website.  Alitalia may operate extra flights to help Italian citizens
get out of Libya if Italy’s government requested it, the airline
said in a statement.  Carriers may have provide special notice to their insurers
of flights involving Libya, which would be underwritten on an
individual basis, said Aon’s Mitchell. Insurers charge extra for
flights into  Afghanistan , some areas of Africa and parts of
Latin America, he said. Airline insurers have also charged extra
for flights to and from  Iraq .  Marie Ali, a spokeswoman for  American International Group
Inc .’s Chartis unit, the largest aircraft insurer in the U.S.,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  