-- 
Ally Girds for GM Showdown as Former Parent Expands Auto Lending

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-02-24T12:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ally-financial-girds-for-gm-showdown-as-former-parent-expands-auto-lending.html
Ally Financial Inc., the U.S.-owned
lender preparing for an initial public offering, is bolstering
ties to  General Motors Co . dealers amid signs the automaker may
become a rival in vehicle financing.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter held dealer
meetings in several cities and broke custom by scheduling a
first-ever event at the National Automobile Dealers Association
in San Francisco this month that didn’t include executives of
GM, the biggest U.S. car manufacturer, or Chrysler Group LLC,
said  Gina Proia , an Ally spokeswoman.  Ally, the biggest U.S. new-car lender, started as a GM unit
and still gets most of its business through GM and Chrysler
dealers. With an IPO in the works, Detroit-based Ally wants to
assure investors those dealers will remain customers for years
to come, said  Maryann Keller , an auto industry analyst. GM is
expanding its own finance operations, marked by last year’s $3.3
billion purchase of AmeriCredit Corp.  “The number one question Ally will have to answer on the
roadshow is how they can go public if their number one customer
is moving away from them,” said Keller, principal of a self-
named consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They’re going
to have to tell a story about what their business model is going
to be.”  At stake for Ally is almost $23 billion in U.S. retail
contracts as of last year on 803,000 new vehicles. Carpenter,
63, also faces encroachment from traditional lenders like  Capital One Financial Corp ., which caters mainly to retail
customers, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., which is targeting dealers.
That’s home turf for Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., the
largest source of funds for GM dealers and customers.  Lower Scores  GM acquired AmeriCredit to help the automaker offer credit
to more consumers, Dan Ammann, GM’s vice president of finance,
said last year. Renamed General Motors Financial Co., the unit
has expanded since the takeover and may increase loans to
borrowers with lower credit scores.  GM Financial started a trial leasing program in  Ohio  late
last year and expanded to seven states in the Northeast in
January. GM may also challenge Ally’s hold on dealers by lending
them cash to purchase inventory, said Duane Paddock, chairman of
GM’s National Dealer Council. Ally dominates that business,
providing “floor-plan” funds to 82 percent of GM dealers and
76 percent of Chrysler dealers, according to the lender.  “We have assumed that GM Financial would become a floor-
plan source,” said Paddock, who owns a  Chevrolet  dealership in
Kenmore,  New York , and is co-chairman of the national dealer
council’s finance committee. “GM said never say never, but
certainly not today. It’s not going to happen any time soon.”  Buying Ally  The automaker’s management also has debated buying all or
part of Ally, a discussion that began before the AmeriCredit
purchase, three people with knowledge of the discussions said in
May. Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said in June that it
doesn’t make sense to carry billions of dollars in lending
assets on the automaker’s books.  There are no current talks about a sale between GM and the
U.S. Treasury Department, which owns 73.8 percent of Ally after
a series of bailouts totaling $17.2 billion, said two people
with knowledge of the company’s plans. They declined to be
identified because acquisitions are confidential. GM sold 51
percent of GMAC in 2006 for $7.4 billion to a group of investors
led by Cerberus Capital Management. The bailouts have since
diluted that stake to 7.8 percent. GM still controls about
9.9 percent.  Banks Expand  Renee Rashid-Merem, GM’s spokeswoman, declined to comment,
while Ally’s Proia said the relationship with GM “is an
important and mutually beneficial strategic alliance.”  Mark
Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, said he couldn’t comment.  Other lenders are also making a push to expand their dealer
business. JPMorgan has become more aggressive in lending for
dealer inventory, said James Wood, who attended a meeting with
Ally executives on Feb. 17 in  Dallas  and owns dealerships in
Decatur and Denton,  Texas . Capital One CEO Richard Fairbank said
in a January earnings call that the McLean, Virginia-based
lender has increased auto lending by “deepening dealer
relationships.”  Mary Kay Bean, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on whether the lender is increasing the
financing or products it provides to GM and Chrysler dealers.  GM also offers leasing programs through U.S. Bancorp and in
May 2010, Chrysler partnered with Santander Consumer USA, a
division of  Spain ’s biggest bank, to offer loans to less
creditworthy borrowers.  NADA Meeting  Laurie Kight, a spokeswoman for Santander Consumer USA,
confirmed the company’s agreement with Chrysler and said the
lender didn’t have similar agreements with other manufacturers.  The meeting at NADA, billed as the “automotive industry
event of the year,” and the U.S. tour may mark Ally’s response
to heightened competition, said Adam Steer, an analyst at New
York-based CreditSights Inc. In the past year, Ally has also
moved away from an almost total reliance on GM and Chrysler,
expanding to serve Saab Automobile AB and  Thor Industries Inc .  The shift at the San Francisco convention was having “our
own meeting” to give everyone an update on the company as it
sharpens its focus on auto lending, Proia said. In past years,
Ally would have met with dealers in events hosted by automakers
or other companies rather than hold its own, she said.  “The main motivation for doing this is to provide dealers
specific information about Ally and what we are doing to support
their business and show our commitment,” Proia said.  Biggest Lender  Ally made more new-car loans than any other lender last
year, according to Experian Automotive, a  Costa Mesa ,
California-based firm that tracks auto-lending data. The company
controlled about 38.2 percent of GM consumer loans and
45.4 percent for Chrysler at the end of 2010, according to a
statement.  On the tour to meet dealers, Carpenter made the case that
Ally’s status as a  bank holding company  will mean it can borrow
money more cheaply than non-bank finance companies and finance
the purchase of dealer inventory at lower rates, said Jim
Hardick, co-owner of Moritz Chevrolet in  Fort Worth , Texas, who
attended the Dallas meeting.  The lender can finance dealer inventory at about
2.25 percent, said Tom Durant, owner of Classic Chevrolet in
Grapevine, Texas. Before Ally became a bank holding company,
GMAC loaned his dealership wholesale financing at 3.75 percent,
Durant said.  “They’re trying to get the dealers on their side,” Durant
said. “This has more to do with their IPO than it does with
dealers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 