-- 
Hamburg May Triple Capacity as Rising Oil Raises Port’s Appeal

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/hamburg-may-triple-capacity-as-rising-oil-raises-port-s-appeal.html
The Port of Hamburg, which is
attracting more traffic as oil and charter prices increase, may
triple container volumes in the next 15 years with plans to
deepen the River Elbe and develop the harbor.    Germany ’s largest container port lost its European No. 2
ranking to Antwerp in 2009, in part because ships took advantage
of cheaper fuel and charter rates to sail to harbors further
afield. A rise in  oil prices  and a doubling of container ship
fees in the past year are boosting Hamburg’s attraction as a
docking site, said Jens Meier, the chief executive officer of
the Hamburg Port Authority, in a Feb. 23 interview.  “Right now, the cost advantage of using Hamburg has come
back to the level where it was before the crisis,” he said.
“We can reach 25 million containers, or close to 300 million
tons, by 2025 if we fight for it.”  The number of standard containers handled by Hamburg
increased 13 percent to 7.9 million last year, according to the
port authority, which owns most of the land in the port. Cargo
volumes rose 10 percent last year to 121 million tons.  The development project would give Hamburg the potential to
boost the number of containers handled to about 25 million in 15
years, according to an October study by the  Institute of
Shipping Economics  and Logistics in Bremen.  For container ships transporting goods in boxes, rates more
than doubled in the past year as trade rebounded with the global
economy, a Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association index shows.  Bigger Vessels  Plans under way to deepen the River Elbe and add a new
terminal at the Steinwerder site would give shippers even more
reason to make Hamburg their first choice as this would enable
bigger vessels to sail into the harbor at full capacity and
would increase the number of docks, said Meier.  The container shipping industry, which transports more than
$4 trillion of goods each year, is set to expand more than 8
percent in 2011, according to A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the
world’s largest container line.  The  Port Authority  and Hamburg’s new senate will this year
decide how to develop the port and how to use the Steinwerder
site. A fifth container terminal may be built, or the
development may be used for other goods and general cargo, said
Meier.  Steinwerder may also be developed for industrial production
by companies that need proximity to a port to import raw
material goods or export their products, he said.  Open Tender  Proposals for the 125-hectare  CTS Central Terminal
Steinwerder  include a 1,500-meter (0.93 miles) main quay that
can accommodate four large ships simultaneously. The port
authority will start work to clear the area of World War II
bombs in July.  The project may cost around 500 million euros ($690
million) to develop and could be ready by 2020, said Meier.
Hamburg may be in a position to put the site up for open tender
in two to three years, said Meier.  “We’ve had a lot of requests from companies that want to
lease a piece of land in the port and it’s a mix of all kinds of
companies -- terminal operators, shipping, industrial and
construction companies -- from all over the world,” he said.  China Ocean Shipping Group Co.,  China ’s largest shipping
company, is interested in investing in the Port of Hamburg, Wei Jiafu, Cosco’s chairman, said in an interview on Jan. 28.  Hamburg lost market share to other ports during the global
financial crisis, as falling oil prices and a decline in the
charter rates for feeder ships reduced the difference in price
between travelling the longer route around  Denmark  and going
through the Kiel channel to Hamburg, Meier said.  Infrastructure  Another key to seize the expected increase in global cargo
volumes is to improve the infrastructure, Meier said. The port
is implementing several measures, such as a new traffic
management system for trucks, improving the bridges in the port
and the railway systems in the hinterland as well as introducing
a new traffic management system for the Elbe, he said.  “Our job is to bring the infrastructure to a more or less
perfect condition and to give our clients the ability to bring
goods to the ports and the terminals, and that means increasing
efficiency, for example on the railroads,” said Meier.  If the planned deepening of the Elbe’s navigation channel
starts this year and is concluded by 2013, there is also a
“good chance” to get more trade from ships that are more than
330 meters long -- the world’s largest  container ships , he said.  “There may be a one-time hockey-sticker effect,” Meier
said, adding that once the largest container ships can start
using Hamburg, they are likely to continue using the port.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg Fisc at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  