-- 
Anadarko Sees Agreement With Eagle Partner in Coming Weeks

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-02-24T21:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/anadarko-venture-with-eagle-ford-partner-may-close-within-weeks.html
  Anadarko Petroleum Corp ., the
second-largest independent U.S. oil and natural-gas producer by
market value, said it’s in exclusive talks with a partner on a
joint venture in the Eagle Ford shale formation of  Texas  that
could be solidified in coming weeks.  The company, based in The Woodlands, Texas, said last year
that it was looking for a partner in the Eagle Ford. That
followed a $1.5 billion deal with an affiliate of Japan’s Mitsui
& Co. announced in February 2010 to help develop the Marcellus
Shale in the northeastern U.S.  Anadarko said today that it plans to double its drilling
activity in the Eagle Ford to more than 200 wells this year, as
it looks to boost output of petroleum liquids. The company said
its estimated ultimate recoveries from existing Eagle Ford wells
are the equivalent of more than 450,000 barrels of oil per well
on average.  “We’re very pleased with this tentative agreement that
we’ve reached and hope to have a definitive agreement to discuss
with you in the coming weeks on the Eagle Ford,” President Al Walker said today during a conference call with analysts and
investors.  Walker said the structure Anadarko used in the Marcellus is
one the company likes. He said the potential joint venture
partner in the Eagle Ford may work with Anadarko in more than
just that formation. The company also will look for other areas
to sell assets or form joint ventures, Walker said.  Mitsui Deal  In the Marcellus transaction, Mitsui agreed to participate
as a 32.5 percent partner. The agreement allowed Mitsui to earn
acreage for funding development expenses, and it gave the
company an opportunity to acquire a share of existing wells and
acres by reimbursing prior spending.  Anadarko fell $1.53, or 1.9 percent, to $78.14 as of 4:00
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Apache Corp. is the largest independent U.S. oil and gas
producer by market value. Such companies don’t own refining,
chemical or retail fuel businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 