-- 
Anglo Irish Bank Deposits to Be Sold to Allied Irish Banks

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-02-24T18:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/anglo-irish-bank-deposits-to-be-sold-to-allied-irish-banks.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. will sell
almost all its deposits to  Allied Irish Banks Plc  as the
government begins to wind down the nationalized lender.  Irish Nationwide Building Society, which was also seized by
the state last year, must sell 3.6 billion euros ($5 billion) of
deposits to Irish Life & Permanent Plc, Judge Brian McGovern
ruled in the High Court in Dublin today. Anglo is selling 8.6
billion euros of deposits to Allied Irish.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  sought the order under laws
introduced last year to help reduce the size of the country’s
financial system. Anglo Irish’s deposits were 11.1 billion euros
at end-December, according to unaudited figures published on
Feb. 8. Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide’s combined deposits
were between 14 billion euros and 15 billion euros, Davy, a
Dublin-based securities firm, estimated on Feb. 9.  “This is a decisive step toward resolving the position of
Anglo and Irish Nationwide in a way that protects depositors and
strengthens the banking system,” Lenihan said in a statement.  The existing terms and conditions of the deposits will
remain after the transfers, the National Treasury Management
Agency, which is managing the sales, said in a statement.  Merger    Anglo Irish  and Irish Nationwide will be merged as part of
a restructuring plan, subject to European Commission approval,
Anglo said on Feb. 8. The government has injected about 29
billion euros into Anglo and 5.4 billion euros into Irish
Nationwide after real-estate loans soured.  The banks are also selling so-called NAMA bonds, issued by
Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency, to purge the
country’s lenders of risky commercial property loans.  Allied Irish will receive about 12.2 billion euros of NAMA
bonds from Anglo Irish, Allied Irish said in a separate
statement. Allied Irish will pay 3.5 billion euros in cash to
Anglo Irish as part of the transaction, it said.  “Some 237 staff will transfer to Irish Life and 210 staff
will transfer to Allied Irish” as part of the deal, the NTMA
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  