-- 
Manulife Says India and South Korea ‘Obvious Gaps’ in Asia

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-02-24T21:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/manulife-says-india-and-south-korea-are-obvious-gaps-in-asia.html
  Manulife Financial Corp .,  Canada ’s
largest insurer, wants to expand into  South Korea  and may
consider joint ventures in  India  to increase its Asian business,
said Robert Cook, senior executive vice president and general
manager of  Asia .  “There are two obvious gaps in our portfolio, being India
and Korea,” Cook said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Hong Kong. “There are interesting prospects in both areas.”  Manulife, which has been in Asia for 115 years, has said
profit from the region may climb to C$1.5 billion ($1.52
billion) a year by 2015, more than double the C$623 million it
posted in 2010. The projection is part of Chief Executive
Officer Donald Guloien’s plan to propel overall profit to C$4
billion by the end of that year.  “We’ve had a pretty good track record of growth in the
past decade, and we certainly expect that to continue,” said
Cook, who identified AIA Group Ltd. and  Prudential Plc  as
Manulife’s main competitors in Asia.  Cook declined to predict when the Toronto-based insurer
will enter South Korea or India because of the availability of
opportunities and government restrictions.  In India, Manulife would consider a joint venture to expand
into the world’s second-most populous nation, Cook said. Foreign
companies are restricted to owning up to 26 percent of a venture
there.  “In recent years, there’s been a lot of talk about the
possibility of that ownership restriction being increased to 49
percent,” Cook said. “That’s something that we’re watching
very carefully.”  Acquisitions  The only way to enter the South Korean market would be by
making acquisitions, which leads to a “premium” valuation for
potential targets, Cook said.  Manulife will expand in Asia through a combination of
organic growth, acquisitions and finding new channels, said
Cook, a 30-year veteran of the company who has been in  Hong Kong 
since 2007.  The owner of Boston-based John Hancock Financial had made
15 mergers or acquisitions in Asia over the past decade, Cook
said, including last year’s purchase of Fortis Bank SA/NV’s 49
percent stake in a Chinese wealth-management joint venture, now
known as Manulife TEDA Fund Management Co. The insurer sells
insurance and asset-management products such as mutual funds in
countries including  China , Hong Kong, Japan and  Malaysia .  Manulife had 42,000 agents in Asia at the end of the fourth
quarter, a 21 percent increase from the end of 2009. Cook wants
to double the number of agents by 2015, although “it isn’t a
primary measure I use” to gauge success.  Manulife climbed 35 cents, or 2 percent, to C$18.29 in 4
p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have
gained 6.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 