-- 
Apache Starting Gas Output From West Australian Plant After Cyclone Carlos

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-02-24T05:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/apache-starting-gas-output-from-west-australian-plant-after-cyclone-carlos.html
  Apache Corp . will start its gas
plant at Varanus Island today after production was halted by a
tropical cyclone that also flooded the site of  Chevron Corp .’s
Gorgon project off Western  Australia .  Gas supplies from Apache’s plant, about 75 kilometers (47
miles) off the northwest coast, will be progressively restored
“over the next few days,” David Parker, a Perth-based
spokesman, said by telephone.  Jabiru Metals Ltd . shut down its
gas power station and concentrator plant after the disruption,
the Australian copper and zinc producer said in a statement.  Carlos is a Category 2 cyclone that a week ago struck the
city of Darwin more than 1,800 kilometers to the northeast of
the Gorgon site on  Barrow Island . The storm is over open water
and moving away from the coast, the Bureau of Meteorology said
on its website. Carlos dropped about 300 millimeters of rain in
24 hours and caused “significant flooding” on the island, Guy Houston, a Chevron spokesman, said in a statement.  “It may take several days for the water in and around the
airport to drain,” Perth-based Houston said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Regular jet aircraft flights back into Barrow
Island may not start until early next week. Smaller aircraft
will be used in the interim.”  Most Gorgon construction and oil field workers will start
returning to Barrow Island by the weekend, Houston said. Chevron
is developing the A$43 billion ($43 billion) liquefied natural
gas venture with  Exxon Mobil Corp . and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  Oil Fields  The Varanus Island plant is  Western Australia ’s second-
largest producer of domestic gas and provides more than 30
percent of supplies. A La Nina weather system may boost the
number of tropical storms in Australia, the bureau said this
month. The cyclone season typically runs from November to April.  The storage ship Dampier Spirit is reconnecting to Apache’s
Stag oil field off Western Australia, while the Ningaloo Vision
floating production, storage and offloading vessel will return
to the Van Gogh field “later this week,” Parker said today.
The projects were closed Feb. 21 because of cyclone Carlos.    Santos Ltd ., Australia’s third-largest oil and gas
producer, may reconnect the production vessel at the Mutineer-
Exeter oil field tomorrow after shutting the operation on Feb.
21 because of Carlos, Tom Baddeley, a Perth-based spokesman,
said in e-mailed comments.    Woodside Petroleum Ltd ., Australia’s second-biggest oil and
gas producer, said two fields remain shut because of the impact
of storms in the area, while a third is closed for maintenance,
according to Francine Tonkin, a Perth-based spokeswoman.  Production from Enfield off the coast from Exmouth was shut
in on Feb. 16 in response to Tropical Cyclone Dianne, while
output from Cossack Pioneer was halted Feb. 21 because of
Carlos, Tonkin said in an e-mailed statement. The Vincent field
remains closed because of a planned shutdown for work on a
compressor.  Woodside operates the North West Shelf Venture, the biggest
source of gas for Western Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  