-- 
Apple Shareholder Measure on Board Elections Wins With 73%

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-02-24T23:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/apple-shareholder-measure-on-board-elections-wins-with-73-1-.html
  Apple Inc . said a shareholder
proposal that would make it harder for unopposed directors to be
elected passed with a vote of 73 percent, including abstentions
-- a sign that investors want more control over the board.  The measure, which Apple’s management opposed, stipulates
that board members need a majority of the vote to win election,
rather than just a plurality. The initiative won 422.5 million
votes at Apple’s shareholder meeting yesterday, with 151.5
million against it, Apple said in a filing. An additional 1.74
million abstained from voting.  A separate proposal that would have asked the board to
reveal its  succession plan  for Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  was rejected by almost 70 percent of votes cast, including
abstentions. Apple argued that the measure would expose company
secrets to competitors and make it harder to retain executives.  The success of the majority-vote proposal, backed by the  California  Public Employees’ Retirement System, suggests that
investors want a bigger role in choosing board members.
Corporate-governance advocates have complained in the past that
Jobs had too much sway over directors. The close-knit nature of
the board may have resulted in the limited disclosures about
Jobs’s health, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a dean at Yale University’s
School of Management, said last year.  ‘Not a Coronation’  “We’re asking for an election, not a coronation of the
board,” Anne Simpson, a senior portfolio manager at Calpers,
said in a statement yesterday. “An election where you can be
voted in without a majority is unworthy of a great company like
Apple.” Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, owns 2.6
million Apple shares, according to the  statement .  In arguing against the measure, Apple management said board
members would risk losing their seats simply because too few
shareholders cast votes.  Apple shares gained 26 cents to $342.88 at 4 p.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has climbed 6.3
percent this year.  The rejected succession proposal, backed by the  Laborers’
International Union of North America , was endorsed by the
investor-advisory service  Institutional Shareholder Services .  “Shareholders deserve to know the company has a plan in
place,” Jennifer O’Dell, assistant director of corporate
affairs for the union, said before the vote. “We want to know
that companies are considering these issues.”  Yesterday’s meeting, held at Apple’s headquarters in
Cupertino, California, was the first time the board was
available for questioning since Jobs announced a leave of
absence on Jan. 17. He handed day-to-day operations to Chief
Operating Officer  Tim Cook  for the third time in seven years.  Apple shareholder Kirk DeBernardi, of Brentwood,
California, said a public succession plan isn’t necessary.  “They are secretive, but it doesn’t worry me,” he said at
the meeting yesterday. “Companies can have their own private
plans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 