-- 
Target Projects Sales Will Top $100 Billion on Canada Stores

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-02-24T21:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/target-net-income-rises-11-on-credit-card-business-sales-miss-estimates.html
  Target Corp ., the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, said annual sales may top $100 billion
within the next seven years, bolstered by its first expansion
outside the U.S.  That would amount to an increase of more than 50 percent
from last year. The chain also may double earnings per share
over that period, Chief Financial Officer Douglas Scovanner said
today on a conference call after fourth-quarter results. Net
income in the period ended Jan. 29 rose 11 percent to $1.04
billion, the Minneapolis-based company said.  Target, led by Chief Executive Officer Gregg Steinhafel,
plans to open stores in Canada as of 2013. The expansion,
coupled with Target’s new rewards program and the introduction
of more fresh food, may help the chain overcome a “persistently
weak” U.S. discount market, Scovanner said.  “We’re confident that the two sales-building strategies
that we launched, PFresh and 5 percent rewards, are working as
advertised,” Scovanner said, referring to the retailer’s new
PFresh grocery sections.  Target rose $1.74, or 3.5 percent, to $52 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading for the largest gain since
Nov. 24. The stock has dropped 14 percent this year, compared
with a 3.4 percent decline for larger rival  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .  For 2011, Target’s sales at stores open at least a year may
increase as much as 5 percent, after a 2.1 percent gain last
year, with the rewards and grocery sections accounting for more
than half that growth, said Scovanner. So-called same-store
sales are viewed as a key measure of a retailer’s health since
they exclude the impact of store openings and closings.  Profit Growth  Earnings per share may increase 10 percent this year,
excluding as much as 15 cents a share in costs from entering
Canada, Scovanner said. That forecast would put profit at about
$4.24. Analysts anticipate $4.35, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Excluding a tax benefit, Target’s fourth-quarter profit was
$1.38. Analysts on average projected $1.39, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 2.4 percent to
$20.7 billion. Same-store sales rose 2.4 percent last quarter,
bringing the company to its first annual gain in three years.  “The numbers are better than good enough,” said Robert Summers, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial Group in New York
who has a “positive” rating on Target. “The real
determination on whether the things they are doing will be
successful gets sorted out over the next handful of months.”  Competition  Target, which operates 1,750 stores in the U.S., will face
competition in  Canada  from Wal-Mart, which entered the
neighboring nation more than a dozen years ago. This week,
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart reported a seventh straight
drop in same-store sales at U.S. locations, because of poor
presentation and assortment of merchandise.  Target customers bought more items per visit, encouraged by
a rewards program that gives users of Target’s credit and debit
cards 5 percent off purchases. Units per purchase gained 3.6
percent last quarter, outpacing a 1.6 percent advance in total
transactions.  “That’s a healthy signal,” Summers said. “While you
still have to work at getting more people into your stores, the
people that are in your stores are putting more stuff in their
basket.”  Selling more discounted items also led to a narrower gross
margin, or the percentage of sales left after cost of goods
sold. The margin shrank 0.4 percentage point to 28.7 percent
last quarter. The average selling price per item also dropped
2.7 percent.  Profit at Target’s credit card unit more than tripled to
$151 million last quarter as bad debt expense sank more than 70
percent. A year earlier, Target’s total fourth-quarter profit
was $936 million, or $1.24 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  