-- 
Ashmore Agrees to Buy 63% of Emerging Markets Management

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-02-24T16:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ashmore-agrees-to-buy-63-of-emerging-markets-management-1-.html
  Ashmore Group Plc , a U.K. fund
manager focusing on emerging markets, agreed to buy 63 percent
of Emerging Markets Management LLC for as much as $246 million
in cash and stock to raise its exposure to equities.  Ashmore will pay $96 million in cash and $29.9 million in
new stock for the majority stake in Arlington, Virginia-based
EMM, a closely held money manager which oversaw $10.4 billion at
the end of last month, the company said in a statement today.
The remainder will be paid under a three-year earn-out plan.  The acquisition of the majority stake will result in
London-based Ashmore having almost 20 percent of its assets in
equities at a time when emerging market stocks are falling
because of unrest in the Middle East.  “There has been a specific desire to increase the balance
of the business, which has been dominated by the debt space,”
Chief Financial Officer Graeme Dell said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a very nice business to enhance our existing
activities.”  Ashmore shares dropped to the lowest in almost five months
on concern rising inflation in emerging markets will damage debt
investors. They fell 9.1 pence, or 2.7 percent, to 333.9 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the lowest since Sept. 24.  “Inflation is the elephant in the room, it’s bad for the
debt managers,” Steve Keeling, a London-based analyst at Singer
Capital Markets Ltd. who has a “buy” recommendation on the
shares, said in a telephone interview. “Emerging markets are at
the top of people’s worries at the moment.”  Net income in the fiscal first-half rose 14 percent to 95.7
million pounds, or 13.5 pence a share, from 83.9 million pounds,
or 11.7 pence, Ashmore said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  