-- 
Asian Currencies Slide on Concern Oil-Price Surge to Slow Economic Growth

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-02-24T09:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/asian-currencies-slide-on-concern-oil-price-surge-to-slow-economic-growth.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by  India ’s rupee and  South Korea ’s won, on concern the global
economy will slow after oil prices surged on escalating tensions
in the Middle East.  Crude climbed to the highest level since September 2008 as
Libya’s uprising reduced shipments from Africa’s third-biggest
producer. Global funds sold about $1 billion more shares than
they bought in South Korea and  Taiwan  this week through
yesterday, exchange data show.  “Rising oil prices may derail global economic growth and
make people risk averse,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global
economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Tensions in the
Middle East raise concern about the impact on oil supplies.”  The rupee retreated 0.7 percent to 45.4275 per dollar as of
2:17 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won dropped 0.6 percent to 1,131.05 and the  Taiwan dollar 
weakened 0.6 percent to NT$29.76. The Philippine peso fell 0.6
percent to 43.805 and the Malaysian ringgit declined 0.5 percent
to 3.0630.  Oil prices have surged 18 percent this week, and Deutsche
Bank AG estimates a sustained increase of $10 a barrel would cut
growth in the  U.S. economy  by 0.5 percent over two years.  Imported Inflation  India’s rupee weakened by the most since Jan. 5 on concern
the rising oil prices would boost its import costs and widen the
current-account deficit.  Asia ’s third-largest economy imports
almost 75 percent of the fuel it uses. The currency also dropped
on speculation stock market losses will prompt overseas
investors to pull money out of local assets.  “The rupee is being dragged down by  oil prices  and the
weakness in stocks,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, treasurer at
FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai. “If oil persists at these levels, the
current account is going to deteriorate.”  The peso pared its advance for the month to 1.2 percent on
concern the increase in fuel prices will stoke inflation in a
nation that imports almost all of its oil requirements.  The Philippine central bank is “carefully” monitoring the
Middle East situation as it affects overseas workers’
remittances and oil prices, Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said
today in Manila.  The won extended this week’s losses to 1.7 percent as the
Bank of Korea said today consumer confidence declined for a
third month in February. Overseas investors sold more Korean
stocks than they bought for a third day.  The ringgit dropped for a fourth day as Malaysia’s
benchmark stock index declined by the most in two weeks.
Inflation in the Southeast Asian economy accelerated to 2.4
percent in January from 2.2 percent a month earlier, official
data showed yesterday.  ‘Passive Tax’  “If the price of oil keeps going up, it’s a passive tax on
the consumer,” said Godwin Chan, a foreign-exchange trader at
OSK Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “You wouldn’t have
foreign or local investors buying in the local equities
market.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.3 percent to 8,883 and
Thailand’s baht dropped 0.2 percent to 30.66, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s dollar declined 0.2 percent
to S$1.2797, while  China ’s yuan weakened 0.07 percent to 6.5787.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  