-- 
Assange Ruling in U.K. Won't End Fight to Block Extradition, Lawyers Say

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/assange-ruling-in-u-k-won-t-end-fight-to-block-extradition-lawyers-say.html
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange’s
extradition battle with  Sweden  is unlikely to end for months,
regardless of what a  London  judge rules at a hearing today.  A series of appeals of District Judge Howard Riddle’s
decision, scheduled for today, on Sweden’s request to extradite
the 39-year-old Australian to face sexual-misconduct allegations
is almost inevitable, lawyers said.  “I don’t expect this will be the end of the story,”
Michael Caplan, a lawyer at Kingsley Napley in London, said in a
telephone interview. “Ultimately I wouldn’t be surprised if it
goes all the way to the Supreme Court” of Britain.  Caplan represented General Augusto Pinochet, the former
Chilean leader who was arrested in London in October 1998 on an
international arrest warrant for human rights violations issued
by a Spanish prosecutor. The dispute over extradition in that
case took almost 18 months.  Also representing Pinochet was lawyer  Clare Montgomery , who
is currently working for the prosecution in the Assange case.  Assange’s defense lawyers  Mark Stephens  and Geoffrey Robertson have said the push to bring him to Sweden, where two
women have accused him of rape and sexual molestation, may be
politically motivated. U.S. agencies are investigating
WikiLeaks’ posting of thousands of classified U.S. military and
diplomatic documents on the Internet.  If extradited, Assange’s lawyers claim he could eventually
be sent to the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and
face a death sentence for espionage. Prosecutors have said the
case isn’t related to WikiLeaks. Stephens regularly represents
media organizations including Bloomberg News.  Assange Prediction  Assange himself predicted a lengthy court battle after a
hearing in the case earlier this month, saying “Inevitably one
side or the other will appeal” the ruling.  While European arrest warrants are supposed to be handled
quickly, Dan Hyde, a criminal lawyer at Cubism Law in London,
said the appeals process for Assange could take “well in excess
of a year.”  “The higher up the system you go, the longer it takes to
get a court date,” Hyde said in a telephone interview. “After
going to the Court of Appeal and  Supreme Court , Assange’s
lawyers could follow it all the way up to the  European Court of
Human Rights  in Strasbourg.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 