-- 
Massmart Full-Year Operating Profit to Grow at Slower Pace Than First-Half

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-02-24T07:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/massmart-says-first-half-earnings-excluding-one-time-items-increased-5-6-.html
  Massmart Holdings Ltd ., the retailer
selling a controlling stake to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., said its
fiscal full-year operating profit will grow at a slower pace
than the first half.  Operating profit excluding foreign exchange adjustments
increased by 13 percent in the six months through December,
Johannesburg-based Massmart said in a statement today. Sales in
the 34 weeks through Feb. 20 jumped 13 percent, the same pace as
in the first half, it said.  “Should the trends experienced in the Christmas period and
the subsequent eight weeks continue, we expect a difficult
second half,” the company said. It will focus on reducing stock
levels and containing costs, Massmart said.  Massmart, South Africa’s largest food and general goods
wholesaler, said its customers in the country experienced record
levels of deflation with food prices declining as much as 4
percent and general merchandise as much as 10 percent. While
consumer indebtness in  Africa ’s largest economy has reduced, it
was not to the extent that Massmart expected in such a “benign
economic environment,” it said.  The stock fell 71 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 144.28 rand as
of 9:27 a.m. in Johannesburg. Net income increased to 738.5
million rand ($103.9 million) in the first half through
December, from 693.7 million rand in the year.  Confident Cash Flows  Massmart, Africa’s third-largest distributor of  consumer
goods  in sub-Saharan Africa with operations in 14 countries,
closed one outlet during the period, opened 16 and acquired five
new stores, taking its total to 308 stores. That helped increase
the group’s net trading space by 8.7 percent, to a total 1.25
million square meters, it said.  The company will open three more Makro food wholesalers in  South Africa  this year, Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison
said on a conference call. The general merchandise retailer
maintained its first-half dividend at 2.52 rand.  “According to our dividend policy of 1.7 times cover, we
would have paid a lower dividend this time, but being confident
of the cash flows, we are happy with the dividend we paid,”
said Pattison from Johannesburg today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  