-- 
New Zealand Dollar Rises After S&P Says Rating Unaffected by Earthquake

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-25T16:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/australian-new-zealand-dollars-drop-versus-yen-on-middle-east-earthquake.html
  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened
for a second day versus the greenback after  Standard & Poor’s 
said the nation’s ratings aren’t “immediately affected” by
this week’s earthquake, the deadliest in 80 years.  The New Zealand and Australian currencies also gained
versus the yen as an advance in global stocks spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets. The Aussie rose for a third day against
the  U.S. dollar  on speculation a commodities boom will prompt
the  Reserve Bank  to increase  interest rates .  “Comments out from Standard & Poor’s that the quake is not
immediately affecting New Zealand’s credit ratings helped the
kiwi lift a little,” said Alex Sinton, a senior dealer at ANZ
National Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “There’s a short-covering rally
with probably more to go.” Short-covering is where investors
end a bet that an asset will decline.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to 75.05 U.S. cents
as of 11:34 a.m. in  New York  from 74.74 cents. It has gained 2.9
percent this month and 3.8 percent this year. The currency
gained 0.3 percent to 61.37 yen.  Australia’s dollar advanced to $1.0152 from $1.0088, and
climbed 0.5 percent to 82.99 yen.  “New Zealand’s financial system remains operational and
will support an inevitable period of increased activity
associated with the extensive reconstruction and repair work,”
S&P said in a statement today.  Rate-Cut Bets  A magnitude 6.3 earthquake struck the Pacific nation’s
second-largest city, Christchurch, on Feb. 22, a disaster ANZ
National Bank said will cut gross domestic product by at least
half a percentage point.  The kiwi had its biggest weekly drop against the yen since
the five days ended July 2 as swaps traders priced as a
certainty that the central bank will cut its benchmark by 25
basis points to 2.75 percent on March 10, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG index.  Four of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
a cut of at least 25 points. A central bank spokesman yesterday
declined to comment on speculation an unscheduled meeting would
be held to consider a rate change.    Australia ’s currency slid the most since November versus
the yen this week as global stocks dropped on concern higher oil
prices, spurred by the violence in Libya, will derail the
economic recovery. Crude in New York retreated from the highest
level in 29 months today on assurances from the U.S.,  Saudi
Arabia  and the International Energy Agency that they can
compensate for any disruption of Libyan shipments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 