-- 
Australian Business Investment Advances Less Than Forecast

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-02-24T00:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/australian-business-investment-advances-less-than-forecast-1-.html
Australian business investment
increased less than economists forecast in the three months
through December as a decline in spending by mining companies
offset a rebound in manufacturing.    Capital spending  rose by 1.3 percent from the third quarter,
when it gained a revised 6.9 percent, the Bureau of Statistics
said in Sydney today. That compares with the median forecast for
a 2.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens kept the
benchmark interest rate on hold at 4.75 percent this month,
saying consumer restraint is slowing inflation and offsetting an
expansion of the  mining industry .  Australia ’s exports of  iron
ore  and coal are helping propel growth and the central bank
expects the economy will strengthen this year.  The weakness “will come from building and structures after
what was very strong growth in the third quarter,”  Adam Carr , a
senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney, said before
the report. “So it’s just a base effect really. The underlying
trend is still one of strength.”  Spending on buildings and structures fell 2.8 percent in
the fourth quarter, today’s report showed. Company investment in
new plant and equipment advanced 6.1 percent.  Australian companies forecast investment of A$128.9 billion
($129.3 billion) in the year ending June 30, 2011, which was 3.6
percent higher than their estimate three months earlier. They
plan A$132.7 billion of new investment in the year ending June
30, 2012.  Demand From  China   Demand from China for resources and energy, has spurred
companies such as Chevron Corp. to expand projects. Construction
is underway on Chevron’s A$43 billion liquefied natural gas
Gorgon venture in  Western Australia , increasing demand for
skilled workers. BG Group, based in Reading, U.K., said Oct. 31
it will begin work on a $15 billion LNG venture in Queensland,
generating 5,000 construction jobs.  A government report this month showed Australian employment
climbed by 24,000 in January, surpassing the median forecast for
a 17,500 gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The
jobless rate of 5 percent matched the lowest level in two years.  The jobs boom is among reasons RBA Governor Glenn Stevens
raised rates by 175 basis points between October 2009 and
November last year, driving Australia’s currency to parity with
the  U.S. dollar . In contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve has kept
its main interest rate near zero since December 2008.  Stevens said this week mining investment may rise as much as
2 percent of gross domestic product in the next few years, a
windfall that challenges policy makers to ensure the boom
doesn’t turn to bust.  “With a large boost to income, we need to think about the
balance between saving and spending, because we do not know the
permanent level of the terms of trade,” Stevens said in
Melbourne yesterday. “I argue for erring on the side of saving
for the time being, and I think this is by and large what is
happening so far.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  