-- 
Australia to Set Carbon Tax Next Year Ahead of Trading Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-02-24T05:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/australia-to-set-tax-on-carbon-emissions-starting-july-2012-gillard-says.html
  Australia  will set a price on  carbon
emissions  next year in preparation for a trading program that
could begin as early as 2015 aimed at curbing  greenhouse gases .  The government will impose a price starting on July 1, 2012,
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in a statement today. The
amount of the tax, which Gillard didn’t specify, will be fixed
for three to five years before the trading system begins and
will then be determined by the global market, according to the
statement.  Gillard vowed to revive the climate-change plan after she
replaced  Kevin Rudd  last year. Rudd’s popularity plummeted after
he shelved the pricing and trading proposals, which require
approval from parliament and will need the support of four
lower-house lawmakers from outside the ruling  Labor party .  “It is the cheapest and fairest way to cut pollution and
build a clean energy economy,” Gillard said. “The best way to
stop businesses polluting and get them to invest in clean energy
is to charge them when they pollute.”  Countries are already spending billions of dollars to
reduce emissions and promote renewable energy. Low-carbon energy
investment surged to a record $243 billion last year, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said on Jan. 11.  Gillard established a Multiparty  Climate Change  Committee,
a measure proposed by the Australian Greens party, to consider
how to reduce emissions. That committee still needs to discuss
incentives to industries and households as well as setting the
level of the tax.  Out In Front  “The politics of getting this across the line is
paramount,” Anthony Hobley, Sydney based lawyer and climate
change specialist at Norton Rose LLP., said in a phone interview.
“Australia gave the impression it was out in front on pricing
carbon, but if there are delays on these timelines today it will
behind countries like  China , Japan and  Korea  in putting a price
on carbon.”  The levy would need to be at least A$25 ($25.20) a ton to
be effective,  Origin Energy Ltd . Managing Director Grant King
said today during an earnings teleconference call from Sydney.  “We have got work to do on industry assistance
arrangements, we’ve got work to do on household compensation,”
Gillard said. “There will be some difficult conversations to
come.”  Independent Lawmakers  Two of the independent lawmakers Gillard needs to support
the laws in parliament --  Tony Windsor  and  Rob Oakeshott  -- are
part of her multiparty committee. Windsor said, while he
supported the framework released, it didn’t guarantee his
support for any legislation.  “Don’t construe by my presence here that I’ll be
supporting any scheme,” Windsor said today as he stood beside
Gillard at her media conference. “This is very much the start
of the process.”  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said his Liberal-National
coalition wouldn’t support the laws. He said it would add A$300
per year to household electricity bills and that a voter
backlash would prevent it getting parliamentary approval.  “We will fight this every second of every minute of every
hour of every day of every week of every month,” Abbott told
reporters in Canberra. “I don’t believe it’s going to happen.”  Gillard’s Labor government has previously promised at least
a 5 percent cut in emissions by 2020 compared with 2000 levels
and didn’t release fresh figures today. Australia, the biggest
exporter of coal, will also source one-fifth of its energy from
renewable energy projects such as wind and solar by 2020.  Floods, Cyclone  The nation has been hit in the past three months by
flooding, bushfires and Tropical Cyclone Yasi, which killed at
least 36 people, destroyed homes and wiped out crops. The Greens
party, whose support Gillard needs to pass climate legislation
in the upper house Senate, has  blamed  climate change for the
increased intensity and frequency of extreme weather events.  Santos Ltd., Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
said today’s announcement was an “important step” to a well-
designed price.  Alcoa Inc ., the biggest U.S. aluminum producer,
said it supported a “carefully designed” carbon price that
doesn’t damage industry.  “Regardless of the approach taken, it is critical that the
government’s climate change response ensures the sustainability
and growth of what are world class alumina and aluminium assets
in Australia,” Alcoa Australia Managing Director Alan Cransberg
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  