-- 
Bank of Ireland to Sell Fund Services Arm to Northern Trust

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-02-24T09:40:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/bank-of-ireland-to-sell-fund-services-arm-to-northern-trust-1-.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, the nation’s
largest bank, agreed to sell its fund administration unit to  Northern Trust Corp . for as much as 60 million euros ($82
million) as it seeks to bolster capital.  The lender will generate about 40 million euros of core
Tier 1 capital, a gauge of financial strength, from the sale of
Bank of Ireland Securities Services, the Dublin-based bank said
in a statement today. The accord will boost Northern Trust’s
assets under custody and administration in Ireland by 70 billion
euros, the Chicago-based custody bank said in a statement.  Bank of Ireland, 36 percent owned by the government, is
selling assets as part of its effort to raise  2.2 billion euros 
of additional capital required by the central bank. Ireland
agreed in November to force lenders to bolster capital as part
of its international bailout. The country’s banks are struggling
with mounting bad loan losses following the collapse of a
domestic real-estate bubble.  “Ireland is one of the largest European domiciles for
cross-border fund administration,” said Frederick Waddell,
chief executive officer of Northern Trust. “We look forward to
combining this business with our existing activities in Ireland.  Northern Trust established a foothold in Ireland in 2000
through its acquisition of Ulster Bank Investment Services Ltd.
The firm employs about 570 people at offices in Dublin and
Limerick. The lender doesn’t break down assets under
administration and custody by region. The company had $4.1
trillion of assets under administration and custody globally at
the end of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  