-- 
Barclays, After Victory, May Face Writedown of Lehman Assets

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-02-24T15:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/barclays-after-victory-may-face-writedown-of-its-lehman-assets-from-deal.html
  Barclays Plc , after defeating a bid
by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to recover an $11 billion
“windfall” on its brokerage purchase, may have to write down
part of a $3.7 billion gain recorded on the deal, according to a
judge’s ruling and documents in a bankruptcy court trial.  The U.K.’s third-biggest bank was awarded $800 million of
the $3 billion it wanted, and may get a similar amount later,
according to a ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan .  Peck at the same time denied a Barclays claim to margin and
other assets, some of which it previously recorded as part of
the 2.3 billion-pound ($3.7 billion) gain, according to
deposition notes and court testimony of Gary Romain, the bank’s
accounting specialist for the acquisition.  Barclays was the sole bidder for defunct Lehman’s brokerage
in the 2008 credit crisis, taking 10,000 employees and giving
72,000 customers access to $40 billion in frozen assets. Peck
said in his Feb. 22 ruling that the deal benefited all parties
and helped to save everyone from “an even greater economic
calamity.”  The trustee liquidating the remnants of New York-based
Lehman’s brokerage said Feb. 22 that he had won $4.8 billion of
assets away from Barclays.  “For $4.8 billion, Barclays will likely appeal,” said
Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald
PLLC in Louisville,  Kentucky , who has written articles on the
case and isn’t involved in it. “I think they have a good chance
to prevail on appeal.”  Barclays Spokesman  Michael O’Looney, a spokesman for London-based Barclays,
declined to comment.  Barclays fell as much as 2.2 percent in London trading
today, and was at 316.25 pence, off 2.75 pence, or 0.86 percent
at 9:44 a.m.  New York  time. This month the bank reported net
income for 2010 of 3.56 billion pounds ($5.8 billion), showing a
smaller decline than analysts expected as investment-banking
profit almost doubled and writedowns shrank.  Peck wasn’t specific in his ruling about some amounts
Barclays won or must forfeit. He invited lawyers for Lehman, its
creditors, the trustee and Barclays to propose orders spelling
out details within 10 days.  “It will be interesting to see whether Barclays seeks
reconsideration or clarification,” Bowles said in an e-mail.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 