-- 
BASF Profit Doubles, Spurring Better-Than-Estimated Dividend

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-02-24T13:20:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/basf-profit-more-than-doubles-to-1-1-billion-as-automotive-sales-advance.html
  BASF SE , the world’s biggest
chemical company, said profit more than doubled as demand from
the automotive industry expanded, spurring the company to
propose a higher-than-estimated dividend.  Net income in the fourth quarter increased to 1.1 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) from 455 million euros, Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based BASF said. Analysts predicted 945 million euros. A
dividend of 2.20 euros beat a Bloomberg forecast of 2.10 euros.  BASF had a “very strong start” to this year and predicted
a further gain in sales and earnings in 2012, even as raw-
material prices surge. Chief Executive Officer Juergen Hambrecht
has made acquisitions to expand in personal-care chemicals and
additives and plans to hire a further 2,900 workers this year.  “The outlook is pleasingly positive at this early stage of
the year, and that’s the main piece of good news for the
market,” said Lutz Grueten, an analyst at Commerzbank, which
recommends clients “buy” the shares.  Though demand is rebounding, BASF faces margin pressure
from input costs. The chemicals division will post higher sales,
yet lower operating profit this year, it predicted. Still,
management has a consistent track record of dealing with
inflation, JPMorgan Cazenove analysts said in a note.  BASF rose 0.4 percent to 58.98 euros at 1:13 p.m. in  Frankfurt , for a market value of 54.1 billion euros. It has
fallen 1.3 percent this year, compared with a 5.5 percent
advance at  Dow Chemical Co . Any share weakness is an opportunity
to invest, JPMorgan’s Neil Tyler and Martin Evans said.  ‘Optimistic’  A faster-than-expected economic recovery created some
temporary delivery bottlenecks at BASF’s petrochemical division.
Unscheduled plant shutdowns at competitors exacerbated the
supply shortage, allowing the German company to pass on the
higher raw-material costs through prices.  “Overall, we are optimistic for the first quarter and the
year,” said Hambrecht, who will step down after eight years at
the helm. Chief Financial Officer Kurt Bock will succeed him at
the annual shareholders meeting on May 6.  BASF’s outlook mirrors upbeat comments from Dow Chemical,
the biggest U.S. chemical maker. Its fourth-quarter profit beat
estimates, and the company raised prices and predicted that
earnings will continue increasing this year. DuPont Co. raised
its 2011 profit forecast on Jan. 25.  BASF’s earnings from inorganic and intermediate chemicals
will remain at last year’s levels, while sales in both
businesses will rise slightly, the company said.    China  Boost,  Libya  Concern  China’s passenger-car sales in 2010 rose 33 percent to 13.8
million vehicles, the country’s vehicle-manufacturers
association said on Jan. 10. BASF got about one-quarter of sales
last year directly or indirectly from automotive companies,
according to estimates by Oliver Schwarz, an analyst at MM
Warburg in Hamburg.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization equal to 17.4 percent of sales, approached BASF’s
18 percent-target for 2012. Quarterly Ebit totaled 1.69 billion
euros, short of predictions averaging 1.92 billion euros.  BASF, which purchased moisturizer-ingredient maker Cognis
last year, expects a “slight increase” in sales in 2011,
excluding acquisitions. Sales increased to 16.42 billion euros
from 13.17 billion euros in the quarter. Operating cash flow
climbed to a record 6.46 billion euros last year.  BASF’s Wintershall unit, the operator of eight  oil fields 
in the Libyan desert, halted oil and gas production in the North
African country as a revolt spreads to topple the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi . BASF earned 70 million euros in profit in Libya
last year and its assets are valued at about 600 million euros,
board member Hans-Ulrich Engel said.  Hambrecht couldn’t specify when production will resume and
called the spike in the price of oil, currently trading at a 30-
month high, as “exaggerated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  