-- 
Bill Clinton Says Education Opportunities for Women to Cap Population Rise

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-02-24T18:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/bill-clinton-says-education-opportunities-for-women-to-cap-population-rise.html
Increasing education opportunities
for women and girls may limit global-population growth, easing
food shortages and slowing the erosion of natural resources,
former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  said.  “It wouldn’t be bad for American farmers if instead of
going from 6.5 billion to 9 billion people on planet Earth, we
topped out at 8 billion,” Clinton said today at the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s annual outlook conference in
Arlington, Virginia. “It would save more water, and we’d have
more resources for our children and grandchildren.”  The global population is expected to rise to 9.256 billion
by 2050, up 34 percent from 6.93 billion this year, the U.S.
Census Bureau  estimates . Half the world’s population lives on
less than $2 a day, and 1 billion people go to sleep without
food every night, Clinton said.  Women make up about 70 percent of the world’s  poor ,
according to the  United Nations . In 2008, wages for women were
17 percent less than men, on average, the UN said.  “What’s particularly frustrating to me is if you look
around the world, more people have been lifted out of poverty in
the last 20 to 30 years than any other period in history, but
populations are growing the fastest in nations that have the
least ability to take care of their people,” Clinton said.  Food Cost  High commodity costs have a disproportionate affect on
poorer countries, where people spend more of their incomes on
food, U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said today in a
speech. U.S. consumers spend about 6.2 percent of their  income 
on food, compared with 33 percent in  China  and 45 percent in  Kenya , according to U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  Rising food costs and corruption have sparked protests
across the Middle East and North Africa, toppling regimes in  Egypt , the world’s largest wheat importer, and Tunisia. Global
food prices jumped 25 percent last year and surged to a record
in January, according to the UN.  Before today, corn prices soared 85 percent in the past
year on the Chicago Board of Trade. Wheat surged 58 percent, and
soybeans climbed 39 percent. Prices rallied as adverse weather
from  Russia  to  Canada  curbed global output, while demand
increased in emerging markets including China.  The William J. Clinton  Foundation , in partnership with the
Hunter Foundation, plans to spend $100 million over 10 years to
improve agricultural businesses and infrastructure in  Africa ,
according to Clinton’s website.  The Clinton Bush Haiti Fund, a collaborative effort with
former President  George W. Bush , has raised funds for Haiti
earthquake victims, including providing  grants  to promote
agriculture. Clinton also worked with former President George
H.W. Bush in 2005 to raise money for victims of the 2004 Asian
tsunami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Arlington at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 