-- 
Bodycote Eyes North American Purchases to Coat Jet, Energy Gear

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-02-24T13:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/bodycote-eyes-north-american-purchases-to-coat-jet-energy-gear.html
  Bodycote Plc , a supplier of metal-
strengthening services to Ford Motor Co., is considering
acquisitions in  North America  to be closer to customers, Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Harris said.  The company, which made no purchases in 2010, is eyeing
coatings businesses that cater to the region’s aviation and
energy customers, Harris said in a telephone interview today.
Bodycote has more than 200 million pounds ($323 million) of
available credit lines, said Chief Financial Officer David Landless, who was also on the call.  Net debt fell to 51.3 million pounds from 85.5 million
pounds during 2010, the Macclesfield, England-based company said
in a statement today. Net income in 2010 was 27.6 million
pounds, compared with a net loss of 50.1 million pounds the
previous year.  “Acquisitions will be a source of growth,” Harris said.
The company is looking for both “fairly small in-fill
acquisitions and larger acquisitions in niche technologies,” he
said. Smaller purchases will help in providing services such as
heat treatment to its automotive and general industrial
customers, the executive said.  Larger acquisitions would involve technologies such as
spraying ceramic materials onto turbine blades for  jet engines 
or drill bits for shale-gas drilling, part of the company’s
surface-technology business, he said.  “That technology is something we already have,” Harris
said. “We’d like to be bigger in it because our customers say
‘can you please bulk up because we’d like to do business with
you in other countries.’”  He declined to name any potential targets, saying “there’s
nothing on the radar screen at the moment.”  Close to Customers  Bodycote’s factories in those activities are largely in
Britain, and North American customers would rather have the work
done nearby, Harris said. “You get a part stuck in customs for
five days and that stops the build of a complete engine,” he
said. “They don’t like that.”  The company’s largest business in aerospace comes from
widebody commercial jets, Harris said. Production of those
planes “is projected to be very high, certainly by the time you
get to 2013 or 2014,” the CEO said. “The worry in the industry
is: Is there the capacity in the industry as a whole to meet the
demand everybody is expecting?”  Airbus SAS said on Feb. 2 production of its A330 twin-aisle
jet will rise to 10 a month by mid-2013, from eight now, to
satisfy “unprecedented” demand. It had about 1,100 orders on
that date. Boeing Co. has 847 orders for its Dreamliner 787 jet,
due to be in service by the third quarter of this year.  “We’ve got capacity to grow and we’re confident we’ll be
able to support all our aerospace customers,” said Landless,
the finance chief. Customers include  Rolls-Royce Group Plc ,  General Electric Co . and  United Technologies Corp .’s Pratt &
Whitney unit.  “Rolls-Royce are certainly beseeching us to make sure that
we’re ready for increases in their demand over the medium
term,” Landless said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  