-- 
Boeing Defeats EADS for $35 Billion Air Force Tanker Program

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-24T23:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/boeing-wins-35b-air-force-tanker-deal.html
  Boeing Co ., the sole supplier of
aerial refueling tankers to the U.S.  Air Force  since 1948, beat
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. for a $35 billion
program to build 179 new tankers, the Pentagon said today.  It was the Chicago-based company’s third try at the
contract since Congress and the Air Force first proposed the
tanker replacement program in late 2001.  “This competition favored no one, except the taxpayer and
the war fighter,” Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn said at
a Pentagon news conference.  “This is certainly a disappointing turn of events, and we
look forward to discussing with the Air Force how it arrived at
this conclusion,” said EADS North America Chairman Ralph D. Crosby Jr.  EADS has the right to protest the decision within 10 days
of being briefed by the Air Force, which may happen next week.  “We structured a competition that was fair, that was based
on a variety of factors, including price and war-fighting
capabilities, and Boeing was the clear winner of that process,”
which “does not provide grounds for protest,” Lynn said.  Boeing will manufacture basic 767-model aircraft in
Everett,  Washington , and convert them into tankers in Wichita,  Kansas , during the first stage of a three-part Air Force program
stretching decades to replace its tanker fleet. Today’s initial
contract was valued at $3.5 billion. The first phase covers 13
production lots through 2027. The Pratt & Whitney unit of  United
Technologies Corp . will provide the engines.  50,000 Jobs  Boeing said the contract would support at least 50,000 jobs
in the  United States . Boeing jumped to $73.35 as of 6:41 p.m.
after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Boeing rose 53 cents to $70.76 today in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The Air Force’s large tanker fleet consists mostly of 415
 KC-135R  aircraft that first entered service in 1956; the last
was delivered in 1964. The new tanker is being designated the
KC-46A, the Pentagon said.  Boeing and EADS were assessed on how well their respective
aircraft met 372 mandatory war-fighting requirements in a “best
value” evaluation that took account of the aircraft’s basic
price as well as “total lifecycle cost,” including  fuel
efficiency , combat mission refueling effectiveness and military
construction expenses.  “This was a spirited competition, with both offerers
acquitting themselves well,” said Air Force Secretary Michael Donley.  Greater Capacity  EADS had been bullish about winning the order, saying its
A330 airliner-based model offered greater capacity than Boeing’s
767 model because it was larger.  EADS’s Airbus unit has already beaten Boeing in bids to
supply the U.K. and  Australia  with refueling planes. It also won
aircraft contests in  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates ,
while Boeing was selected in Japan and  Italy .  The victory came amid moves by Boeing to redesign its 767  production line  to cut costs in an attempt to outbid EADS,
saying its aircraft would have lower overall production and
maintenance expenses.  “Boeing’s victory was a major upset, and not at all what
the industry was expecting,” said  Richard Aboulafia , a military
aircraft analyst with the Fairfax, Virginia-based  Teal Group .  “The low ownership cost message clearly had its appeal in
these budget constrained times,” he said. “But EADS’s
supporters will do their best to try to stall this contract, and
to make a split-buy an acceptable alternative.”  The consensus was that EADS would win, said Byron Callan, a
defense analyst with Capital Alpha Partners LLC. “With the win,
Boeing erases the market share it has lost in recent years to
Airbus in global tankers,” he said.  Boeing as Underdog  Deutsche Bank aerospace analyst Myles Walton in a Feb. 22
note to clients said “Boeing seems to be presenting itself as
the underdog, which is either managing expectations or they are
the underdog and want to ensure political supporters are
preparing to fight a loss.”  “In either case, we expect stock reaction could be a
couple dollars upside on a win and a modest downside move on a
loss,” Walton said.  Asked during a Dec. 1 interview about the relative value of
the tanker program to Boeing’s defense business, Dennis Muilenburg, chief of Boeing’s Defense, Space and Security unit
said, “in terms of our overall business base, it’s not a
needle-mover for us. It’s important to us, but it’s not
something we are dependent on.”  Contract Derailed  Boeing’s first attempt at the contract was derailed in 2004
by a scandal involving former top Air Force procurement official
Darleen Druyun and then Boeing Chief Financial Officer Michael
Sears.  Sears was sentenced to four months in prison for offering
Druyun a job in October 2002 during the initial tanker
negotiations. She was hired in January of 2003. Druyun was
sentenced to nine months in prison.  The second attempt was postponed by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in September 2008 to review the competition’s
criteria and leave the decision to the next administration.  Boeing successfully protested the tanker award that
February to  Northrop Grumman Corp . and EADS.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  