-- 
Bombardier's Fuller `Busy as All Get Out' With CSeries Interest

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-02-24T20:52:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/bombardier-s-fuller-is-busy-as-all-get-out-with-cseries-plane-interest.html
  Bombardier Inc . is seeing intense
interest in its narrow-body CSeries jet and has no plans to
fulfill rival Airbus SAS’s prediction that it might abandon the
aircraft unless orders increase, an executive said today.  “We are neck-deep in conversations with customers, and we
are exactly where we want to be,” said Chet Fuller, who left
General Electric Co.’s aviation unit in December to lead
Bombardier’s commercial sales and marketing group. “I am busy
as all get-out.”  Bombardier, the third-biggest planemaker behind  Boeing Co .
and Airbus, has 90 firm orders with options to buy 90 more for
the CSeries aircraft, scheduled to debut in 2013. The narrowbody
plane is designed to compete with smaller versions of the A320
family from Airbus and the 737 from Boeing in the biggest slice
of the commercial aerospace market. There are three announced
customers for CSeries models, which start at 110 seats.  John Leahy, Airbus’s chief salesman, said last week the
business case for CSeries would no longer stand up now that
Airbus, based in Toulouse,  France , is offering A320 customers
more efficient new engines for a version of its narrowbody,
called the A320neo. Options for the upgraded jet include the  Pratt & Whitney  geared turbofan that is the sole engine
available on the CSeries.  If Bombardier doesn’t win a good crop of orders over the
next year, the Montreal-based manufacturer might not stick with
the program, Leahy said. Fuller, who declined to discuss
specific customers, disagreed.  Airbus, Boeing  “Look, Airbus and Boeing have had this space to themselves
for two decades,” Fuller said in the interview at Bombardier
facilities in  Montreal , where the company is based. “You know
what? The world deserves choice. We are exactly where we want to
be at the intensity and the frequency and where we are in the
pipeline.”  Boeing, based in  Chicago , has said it will decide whether
to put new engines on its existing aircraft later this year and
prefers to develop a new narrowbody jet in about 2020.  Bombardier projects that an airline might save $1.82
million a year flying a CSeries plane in  North America  instead
of an Airbus A319, assuming an oil price of $100 a barrel, 2,000
flights a year and no cost for carbon emission and noise fees.
Under European rules, which include fee and noise restrictions,
the savings increases to $2.4 million a year.  “The industry wants to forget that we’re still about three
years prior to” the CSeries entry-into-service date, Fuller
said. “The industry wants to forget that the 777, the 737, the
A319, the 787 all had about the same order book as we did
today,” he said referring to Boeing and Airbus models.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  