-- 
Box.net Receives $48 Million Investment, Led by Meritech

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-02-24T16:22:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/box-net-gets-48-million-equity-debt-investment-from-andreessen-meritech.html
Box.net, a provider of online
storage and collaboration software, said it raised $48 million
in financing to help it hire staff and broaden services aimed at
business customers.  Meritech Capital Partners led a $38 million equity
investment in  Palo Alto , California-based Box, joined by venture
capitalists including Emergence Capital Partners and Andreessen
Horowitz, the fund operated by Internet pioneer  Marc Andreessen .
Hercules Technology Growth Capital Inc. has committed $10
million in debt financing.  As companies seek to store more of their documents and data
on remote servers, using so-called cloud computing, Box aims to
gain a foothold in the market for business collaboration
dominated by software giants such as  Microsoft Corp . and  Oracle
Corp . With the new round of capital, the startup plans to add
more than 60 engineers and salespeople to its team of 140 by
year-end, and will build new products designed for larger
businesses, said Aaron Levie, chief executive officer of Box.  “We’re going to be investing quite heavily in our
infrastructure, in our R & D, and in our product, to build the
next generation of the way that businesses are going to manage
and share their data in the cloud,” Levie, 26, who founded Box
from his University of Southern California dorm room in 2005,
said in an interview last week.  Signing Up Users  Unlike SharePoint, the online file-sharing software offered
by Microsoft, Box signed up most of its 60,000 business
customers by giving away a limited version of its software. As
users get other people in their companies to enroll and work
together on documents stored online, Box begins charging monthly
rates and unlocking additional features.  Box.net  membership is “open for all of our full-time
employees,” said Sean Andersen, director of interactive
services for  Six Flags Entertainment Corp . About 250 employees
and partners of the Grand Prairie, Texas-based theme park
operator use Box to coordinate marketing efforts. As that number
goes up, the company pays a higher monthly fee. “I’m hoping for
the adoption to take off,” Andersen said.  Closely held Box doesn’t disclose revenue. The startup had
previously raised $32.5 million from investors including Draper
Fisher Jurvetson, Scale Venture Partners and U.S. Venture
Partners, all of which also participated in the latest funding
round.  Paying Customers  Box’s biggest opportunity for growth may be in building a
sales force that can convert more free users into paying
customers, said John O’Farrell, a partner at Menlo Park-based
Andreessen Horowitz.  “We see a fair amount of companies that are talking about
selling to enterprise customers but don’t take to heart that
that is a big effort and something that requires a significant
amount of patience and time,” O’Farrell said. “The big
opportunity is to start migrating those legacy users who are
spending many millions of dollars on older solutions.”  Box also plans to expand its business internationally,
where it sees 50 percent of its usage but earns only 15 percent
of annual sales, according to the company.  “You have all these gigantic enterprise software guys who
are transitioning to the cloud,” CEO Levie said. “Startups
like Box get to reinvent the whole model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  