-- 
Frankenstein, Monster Swap Roles; Bland ‘Spelling Bee’: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T00:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/boyle-s-frankenstein-monster-swap-roles-spelling-bee-warwick-thompson.html
A new theatrical adaptation of
“Frankenstein” in  London  has a well-loved story, an Oscar-
winning director and two electrifying actors as the leads. All
that and a gimmick, too. It’s an embarrassment of riches.  The gimmick? Benedict Cumberbatch (hero of the    BBC ’s
“Sherlock’’ series) and buff film actor Jonny Lee Miller
alternate as Frankenstein and The Creature. One night it’s
Miller who opens the show by plopping naked out of a pulsating
membranous sac as Cumberbatch recoils in horror. The next
night, vice-versa.  I saw both, and the palm goes -- by a margin -- to
Cumberbatch. Miller endows The Creature with pathos and heart,
and he is physically exciting to watch. Cumberbatch, however,
brings greater range and depth: He can be both funny and
vicious. And as Frankenstein, his touch of madness is
compelling in a truly maniacal way.  Whichever of the leads you see, you’re in for a treat.
Danny Boyle (director of “Slumdog Millionaire’’) fills the
 Olivier Theatre  with energy, and he uses the stage’s massive
hydraulic revolve to whisk us in a blink from a prosperous
1820s drawing room to the wilds of  Scotland ’s Orkney Islands.  Style Mash-Up  Boyle employs an ambitious mix of theatrical styles. The
first scene is a long physical-theater affair in which the
inarticulate Creature flops naked around the empty stage with
pitiful involuntary jerks until he learns to walk.  Suddenly a screaming steam locomotive bursts through the
back of the set, nearly mowing him down. Its passengers alight
and begin to beat and taunt the poor creature. Technology
brings speed, power, innovation, new life. It can bring
brutality and dehumanization too. As a visual metaphor, it
sums up the whole thrust of the play.  The moral and theological ambiguities in Nick Dear’s
crackling adaptation are as sharp as in Mary Shelley’s 1818
novel. What is the responsibility of a life-giver to his
handiwork? Does the Creature have a soul? What is the nature
of humanity? Does God exist? The confrontations between
Frankenstein and The Creature (once he has learned to speak)
bubble with intellectual speculation.  So far, so Mary Shelley. What Dear and Boyle add to the
mix are Gothic “Jekyll and Hyde’’-type hints that the
Creature is really a figment of Frankenstein’s personality.
They never appear side by side in the presence of others, and
the double casting increases the strange ambiguity. “You and
I are one,’’ says Frankenstein at the end.  Cutesy Dialogue  That said, not every scene is written as sharply as it
might be. A cutesy dialogue between Frankenstein and the
child-ghost of his dead brother about the purpose of creation
could be cut. The support acting is variable too: George
Harris is stiff as a board as Frankenstein’s father. If those
drawbacks take the edge off the experience a tad, they don’t
pull from its overall emotional and intellectual sweep.  “Frankenstein,” sponsored by Coutts & Co., will be
broadcast to movie theaters globally as part of the National
Theatre Live series. Rating: ***  ‘Greenland’  On another of the National Theatre’s stages,
“Greenland,’’ about  climate change , provokes an equally
powerful question: When is a play not a play?  Anyone who has sat through two hours of hectoring
agitprop, larded with dramatically moribund monologues and
hammerblow lectures straight to audience will know the answer:
When it’s a turkey.  Written by four playwrights (a commissioning blunder if
ever there was one), the show interweaves several unconnected
stories. A young girl becomes an activist, a climate-change
modeller falls in love with a civil servant and a lonely
arctic scientist chats with his younger self. Funnily enough,
they all actually end up saying the same thing.  The cast is talented, and the direction lively. If only
the characters could just step out of mouthpiece mode for a
second, or stop representing a preconceived idea, it might be
worth watching. They don’t, and it isn’t.  Even the converted can’t take this much preaching.
Rating: *  “Frankenstein’’ and “Greenland’’ are in repertory at
the National Theatre. Information, including the
“Frankenstein” telecast: +44-20-7452-3000;
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk .  ‘Spelling Bee’  For lovers of high school Americana and general DayGlo
perkiness, “The 25th Annual Putman County Spelling Bee’’ will
be a magnet. For anyone else, its appeal is less clear.  The 2005 revue-style Broadway musical arrives at the
 Donmar Warehouse  in a new production by Jamie Lloyd. Six young
contestants want to win their local spelling bees. There’s the
overachiever, the goof, the bully, the shy one, and so on,
every box ticked. Their musical numbers are pretty much as
formulaic as their characterization suggests.  Bits of spurious emotional angst are thrown in to the
sugary mix like chunks of cheap chocolate into cookie dough.
“My mom is distant,” “My gay dads demand too much,” “My
family thinks I’m dumb.” The tone, which ranges from
straightforward pre-teen cuteness to songs about unfortunate
boners, is disturbingly mixed, and ad-lib gags about the
current UK political scene -- huh? -- only add to the
confusion.  There are some very energetic production numbers, and the
cast all give it their best shot. Occasionally it spells out
m-o-d-e-r-a-t-e-l-y a-m-u-s-i-n-g. Rating: **  Through April 2 at the Donmar Warehouse. Information:
+44-844-871-7624;  http://www.donmarwarehouse.com .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Warwick Thompson in London at
 warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beecht ;
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 