-- 
Oil Surges to $119 on Libya Crisis; Goldman Sees ‘Upside Risk’

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-24T13:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/brent-oil-approaches-120-on-turmoil-in-libya-goldman-sees-upside-risk-.html
Oil climbed to the highest in 30
months in London as  Libya ’s violent uprising reduced supplies
from Africa’s third-biggest producer.  Brent rose above $119 a barrel on estimates the revolt
caused Libya to lose as much as two-thirds of its oil output.
Futures in  New York  gained for a sixth day, after climbing above
$100 a barrel. The cuts create “significant upside risk” to
prices and any further disruptions could create severe shortages
in global oil markets, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “When geopolitics in the Middle East are at play in the
oil markets, all conventional bets on the direction of  oil
prices  based on supply and demand fundamentals are off,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in  London .  Brent oil for April settlement rose as much as $8.54, or
7.7 percent, to $119.79 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the highest since Aug. 21, 2008. The contract traded
at $115.15 at 1:13 p.m. London time. It has rallied 12 percent
this week.  Crude for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  gained as much as $5.31, or 5.4 percent, to $103.41 a
barrel in electronic trading. Yesterday, it added $2.68 at
$98.10, the highest settlement since Oct. 1, 2008.  Libya, which pumps 1.6 million barrels a day of oil, is the
ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, shipping most of its crude and
fuels across the Mediterranean to Europe. The country has the
largest reserves in  Africa .  Output Halt  As much as 1 million barrels of Libya’s daily oil
production may have been shut,  Barclays Capital  said in a report
yesterday. Goldman Sachs estimated disruptions at 500,000
barrels a day. Total SA and OMV AG became the latest energy
producers to scale back operations, following Eni SpA, RWE AG
and BASF SE’s Wintershall unit. China National Petroleum Corp.
said it relocated 47 of its Libyan-based workforce.  New York futures retreated from an intraday high of $100 a
barrel yesterday after Saudi Arabia and other countries said
they won’t wait for an emergency meeting of OPEC to increase
output, according to a person with knowledge of producer-nation
policy. Any extra supply would be conditional on requests for
more crude, the person said.  “One reason we haven’t seen a far more aggressive rally is
because from an OPEC spare capacity perspective they are far
healthier now,” Soozhana Choi, head of Asian commodities
research at Deutsche Bank AG in  Singapore , told Rishaad Salamat
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.” “Beyond spare
capacity, if you look at commercial inventories, they are quite
healthy as well.”  U.S. Inventories  Gasoline prices advanced to their highest since September
2008. Contracts of the fuel for March settlement on the Nymex
gained as much as 14.1 cents to $2.8560 a gallon. The motor fuel
also reached similar highs in  Europe  to trade at $980 a ton.  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil user,
climbed 163,000 barrels last week, the industry-funded American
Petroleum Institute said yesterday. An Energy Department report
today may show supplies increased 1.1 million barrels in the
seven days ended Feb. 18 from 345.9 million, according to the
median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Libya is the latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited
by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by
the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
Disturbances have spread to  Iran ,  Bahrain , Yemen and  Algeria .  Unrest in Bahrain, which is linked to  Saudi Arabia  by a 26-
kilometer (16-mile) causeway, has in the past spread across the
border. In 1995, the Saudi government arrested a large number of
Shiite Muslims on suspicion of involvement in protests taking
place in Bahrain, said New York-based Human Rights Watch.  $220 Oil  Prices may surge to $220 a barrel if more production is
halted in Libya and Algeria, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
led by Michael Lo in  Hong Kong , said yesterday in a note.
Algeria is also an OPEC member.  “There is room for spikes, possibly to $175,” Carl Larry,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston, told Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.” “Something like that
would have to take an extreme situation, more unrest in the
Middle East, particularly Saudi Arabia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  