-- 
Bullard Is `Bellwether' as Fed Weighs Duration of Asset Buying

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T17:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/bullard-is-policy-bellwether-as-fed-weighs-duration-of-asset-purchases.html
  James Bullard  was the first Federal
Reserve official to call for another round of asset purchases to
boost the  U.S. economy . He now may be the man to watch as policy
makers consider how long to keep the stimulus.  The St. Louis Fed Bank president “is a bellwether person,
an indicator of where the full committee is headed,” said  Mark Gertler , a New York University professor who has co-written
research with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Bullard, a 49-year-old career central banker, calls himself
the “north pole of inflation hawks.” That’s precisely why he
commands respect among colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  who are skeptical about the need to buy $600 billion
of Treasuries and concerned the policy may stoke inflation, said
former Fed governor  Lyle Gramley .  “His influence on the FOMC is, I would imagine,
substantial, particularly because he was known as a monetarist
and an inflation hawk when he joined the Fed and now he appears
to have joined forces at least temporarily with those in the
dovish camp,” said Gramley, a senior adviser at Potomac
Research Group in  Washington .  With unemployment at 9 percent and inflation at less than 1
percent, the Fed needs whatever policy leeway necessary for
avoiding a deflationary trap, Bullard said in an interview. That
should include the flexibility to pursue so-called quantitative
easing indefinitely, he said.  ‘Japanese-Style Malaise’  “For right now, you have this disinflation trend in the
U.S. and you have some threat of getting into a Japanese-style
malaise,” Bullard said. “The first order of business is to
avoid that.”  For most of his career, Bullard has been more concerned
about rising prices. Fighting inflation is “part of my DNA,”
he said in an interview at the regional bank over a breakfast of
scrambled eggs with Tabasco sauce. “This is the most hawkish of
banks.”  Bullard grew intrigued with economics while studying
economic history at St. Cloud State University in St. Cloud,  Minnesota , where he graduated in 1984. He was struck by the
high-stakes monetary policy of  Paul Volcker , who as Fed chairman
halted inflation exceeding 14 percent by raising the main
interest rate in 1980 to 20 percent, he said. Volcker kept money
tight even as unemployment rose in 1982 to as high as 10.8
percent.  The failure of policy makers to avert the 1970s surge in
prices fascinated Bullard, he said, and he decided to make
economics his profession.  Macroeconomics a ‘Shambles’  “People told me macroeconomics was a shambles, don’t go
into it,” he said. “But to me that sounded like opportunity.”  Bullard earned a PhD in economics from  Indiana University 
in 1990 and joined the research department of the St. Louis Fed,
closely tracking inflation and warning of its hazards. In a 1991
article, he praised the FOMC for restraining growth in the  money
supply , a policy he predicted the prior year would result in
“very low inflation rates” compared with other countries.  In 1998, Bullard said in a paper that the Fed would be
wrong to try promoting financial stability by letting inflation
accelerate. In another paper later that year, he said falling
prices aren’t necessarily harmful.  “The real economy can flourish against a backdrop of
declining prices,” he said.  Bullard’s view changed during Japan’s “lost decade” in
the 1990s, when low  interest rates  failed to spur growth. In
2007, he warned in a lecture that “the Japanese data are
alarming” and low rates could lead to “the possibility of
deflationary spirals.”  Banking Crisis  Bullard sees similarities between Japan and the U.S., with
both nations having endured a “tremendous” drop in property
values and then a banking crisis, he said.  When the Fed cut rates to near zero in December 2008,
Bullard said he feared the U.S. didn’t understand the potential
high cost of sliding into a liquidity trap, where an expanded
money supply and record monetary stimulus fail to spur growth.  “I don’t think the profession really came to grips with
it,” he said. Referring to economists, he said, “I don’t think
we are armed with enough firepower on this.”  Bullard tried to add to his profession’s arsenal by
publishing a paper in July entitled “Seven Faces of the
Peril,” which called on the Fed to buy Treasury notes as a way
to prevent deflation.  “The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-style outcome today than
at any time in recent history,” he said.  Pace of Recovery  Policy makers took Bullard’s advice on Nov. 3, voting to
buy $600 billion in Treasuries through June. They affirmed the
plan in January, saying that the pace of recovery is
“insufficient to bring about a significant improvement in labor
market conditions.”  The stimulus has improved the economic outlook, and the
debate at FOMC meetings on March 15 and April 26-27 may turn to
whether to reduce the size of the purchases, Bullard said today
in a speech.  The central bank could decide to buy $100 billion less in  Treasury securities  or taper off purchases through the third
quarter, he said to reporters after the speech in  Bowling Green ,  Kentucky , when asked about options he was considering.  Policy makers may want to gradually end the purchases
rather than have “the Fed in the market on Friday and out of
the market on Monday,” he said.  ‘Legitimate Concern’  Bullard plays down concerns among some of his colleagues,
including Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , that the
expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet to a record $2.51 trillion
may trigger a hard-to-control surge in prices. While future
inflation is a “legitimate concern,” the central bank should
focus on preventing inflation from slowing and leading to a
broad decline in prices, Bullard said.  The inflation gauge watched by the Fed, which excludes food
and energy costs, increased 0.7 percent in the 12 months through
December, the smallest advance since records began in 1959.
Central bank officials prefer inflation ranging from 1.6 percent
to 2 percent.  “The Bullard view is what I call the ABD policy: Anything
But Deflation,” said  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief
market strategist for Russell Investments, which manages $149
billion. “They are taking out a $600 billion insurance policy
against a Japanese spiral.”  In an interview last month, Bullard said the central bank
should press on with Treasury purchases even amid signs the
outlook for U.S. growth has improved.  ‘Too Early’  “It’s too early to make a judgment on” whether to curtail
asset purchases, he said. The FOMC at each meeting should
reassess the benefits and risks from of the policy, known as QE2
for the second round of quantitative easing, he said.  “You could pause on QE, you could stretch it out” over
time while maintaining the same purchase target, he said.  Bullard has staked out bold positions before. In November
2009, he said history suggested the Fed wouldn’t raise its
target federal funds rate until 2012, two years later than
expected by private economists. The consensus has caught up with
him, with the median of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
this month expecting an increase in the first quarter of 2012.  While Bullard lost his FOMC vote last month in an annual
rotation among Fed presidents, he’ll retain a leading role
shaping policy through speeches, published research and his
comments to colleagues during FOMC meetings, Gertler said.  “Bullard is driving the financial and monetary-policy
debate at the Fed right now,” Wood said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  