-- 
Bundesbank’s Dombret Says Can’t Exclude Second-Round Effects

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-02-24T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/bundesbank-s-dombret-says-can-t-exclude-second-round-effects.html
Bundesbank  board member Andreas Dombret said inflation pressures may become more persistent in
the euro region as higher costs fuel wage demands.  “Faster inflation could very well prove more persistent
than expected to date,” Dombret said at an event in Hamburg
today, according to a text provided by the Frankfurt-based
central bank. “Second-round effects cannot be excluded. Hence,
the medium-term upside risks for  price stability  have
increased.”  European Central Bank Policy makers have signaled that they
are moving toward increasing borrowing costs in the coming
months after inflation exceeded the bank’s 2 percent limit.
Executive Board member Juergen Stark said on Feb. 21 the ECB is
prepared to act “decisively and immediately” if necessary.  Germany’s chemical workers union has demanded up to 7
percent more pay. Volkswagen AG,  Germany ’s biggest automotive
employer, agreed this month to boost workers’ compensation in
the western part of the country by 3.2 percent to avert strikes
as orders surge.  Inflation expectations, as measured by the difference in
yield between five-year German nominal bonds and similar-
maturity index-linked debt, have more than doubled since August
to 1.6 percentage points. Crude oil prices have surged 39
percent since the end of August, breaching $100 a barrel.  “The more difficult price climate and the related decline
in purchasing power are turning out to be a risk for private
consumption and the overall economy,” Dombret said. “For
financial stability, it is indispensable to permanently anchor
inflation expectations.”  The ECB’s Governing Council, which has kept the benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 1 percent for almost two years,
is meeting in  Frankfurt  on March 3. Investors have this week
brought forward expectations for a rate increase to August from
September, Eonia forward contracts show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  