-- 
Buy Kroger Options on Costlier Food, Energy, Goldman Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-02-24T21:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/buy-kroger-options-on-costlier-food-energy-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy  Kroger Co .
options before the largest U.S. grocery-store chain reports
earnings next month, as food inflation and unstable energy
prices will drive volatility, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Derivatives strategists John Marshall and Katherine Fogertey recommended buying July $22 puts and July $23 calls, a
strategy known as a “strangle.” The strategists cited analyst
Adrianne Shapira, who’s had a “buy” rating on Kroger since
December and a price forecast of $25. Cincinnati-based Kroger
dropped 0.6 percent to $22.97 today. The company is scheduled to
report earnings on March 3.  “While Kroger has committed to passing on nominal price
increases, a sharp rise in agriculture inputs and food inflation
could present headwinds to Kroger’s ability to smoothly pass on
pricing, placing margins at risk as the year progresses,” the
strategists wrote in a note today. “We view July options as
attractive” because implied volatility is low given the risks
to the share price, they said.  Kroger will report fourth-quarter profit of 44 cents a
share excluding some items, according to the average of 17
estimates from a Bloomberg survey of analysts. In December, the
grocer tumbled 9.4 percent, the most in a year, after lowering
the top end of its full-year profit forecast. Kroger advanced
4.9 percent in the past year, compared with a 8.1 percent gain
for a gauge of consumer-staples companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  The strategists also said rising energy prices may result
in higher input costs and pressured sales, increasing
uncertainty for demand, according to the note. Oil yesterday
surged to $100 a barrel, a 28-month high, amid growing tensions
in the Middle East.  The trade will profit if shares close above $25.50 or below
$19.50 at expiration on July 15, the note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 