-- 
California Mayors Offer $1.7 Billion Bond Plan to Save Redevelopment Zones

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/california-mayors-offer-1-7-billion-bond-plan-to-save-redevelopment-zones.html
California should borrow from  Wall
Street  to help ease its $25 billion deficit instead of following
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s budget-cutting proposal to eliminate
redevelopment agencies, a group of mayors led by  Antonio Villaraigosa  of  Los Angeles  proposed.  Under the plan proposed by Villaraigosa, the state would
sell $1.7 billion of bonds maturing in 25 years. Redevelopment
agencies would pay $200 million a year in debt service on the
bonds and would hand over 5 percent of their revenue each year
to the state. In exchange, the agencies wouldn’t be abolished.  When the mayors met with Brown in a bid to save the
programs last month, the governor asked for alternate proposals,
according to Sarah Hamilton, a spokeswoman for Villaraigosa.
“The conversation is ongoing,” she said in an interview
yesterday.  Brown, seeking to push spending  back to 2005  levels, wants
to abolish redevelopment authorities and shift their money to
school districts and other local government bodies. He’s said he
wants a budget absent of one-time fixes and gimmicks used in
years past to paper over deficits.  “The governor has made it clear that any plan involving
smoke, mirrors or gimmicks will be dead on arrival,” said Evan Westrup, a spokesman for Brown.  The mayors, such as Villaraigosa and Kevin Johnson of
Sacramento, have said city redevelopment agencies are a critical
economic development tool. California Treasurer Bill Lockyer
opposes the bonding proposal.  ‘Not a Solution’  “It’s not a solution,” said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for
Lockyer, in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s another
gimmick that doesn’t fix the problem and just puts the state
deeper into debt.”  Under a 65-year-old California law, if a city or county
designates a redevelopment area to address urban blight, the
agency receives any increase in property-tax revenue that
results, known as the tax increment. If there were no
redevelopment districts, then schools and local governments
would get those receipts.  Brown’s proposal would use $2.2 billion in revenue freed up
by the move to retire outstanding debt and devote the rest,
almost $3 billion, to schools, health care and the courts. The
state ordinarily sends $1.7 billion to schools to make up for
property taxes now going to redevelopment agencies.  A conference committee made up of members from the Assembly
and the Senate, both controlled by Democrats, began meeting
yesterday to reconcile changes each chamber made in Brown’s
proposed budget to produce a unified spending plan. Both
chambers included the $1.7 billion in savings from abolishing
the redevelopment agencies in their versions, while saying
alternatives would be considered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  