-- 
Cameron Tells Qaddafi to `Stop It,' Apologizes for Slow Libya Evacuation

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T17:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cameron-says-world-may-need-to-act-to-stop-qaddafi-s-repression-in-libya.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  told
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  to give his people a chance at
democracy, while apologizing to Britons for delays in bringing
them home from the violence racking the country.  “My question right now would be to Colonel Qaddafi, ‘What
on earth do you think you are doing? Stop it,’” Cameron said in
a question-and-answer-session on  Al Jazeera television  broadcast
on Google Inc.’s YouTube website today. “Give your people a
chance of freedom, democracy and a better future, which is what
everyone in this world wants and desires.”  Qaddafi has tightened his grip on Libya’s capital, Tripoli,
after eastern cities fell to his opponents in an uprising
against his 41-year rule over the North African country. A plane
sent to pick up Britons from Tripoli yesterday was delayed by
technical faults. “British Rescue Turns to Farce” was the
front-page headline on today’s Daily Mail newspaper.  “Of course I am incredibly sorry,” Cameron said in an
interview with  BBC television  in Oman. Those awaiting evacuation
“have had a difficult time. The conditions at the airport have
been extremely poor.”  Regional Tour  Cameron ended a four-day tour of the Middle East today,
urging the region’s leaders to offer more political and economic
openness in response to the wave of protests against autocratic
regimes from  Algeria  to the  Persian Gulf . The international
community may need to take action to halt attempts by Qaddafi to
crush the revolt against his regime, he said.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  will return early from a
holiday abroad to attend a meeting of the National Security
Council tomorrow, his spokeswoman said.  “The behavior of this dictator can’t be allowed to stand;
that sort of behavior must have consequences,” Cameron told the
BBC. Asked if Qaddafi is sane, the premier replied that the
Libyan leader is “someone who is clearly behaving in a totally
and utterly unacceptable way to their own people. You don’t have
to be a doctor or a medic to know that, it’s just a fact.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the odds are
increasing that Qaddafi’s regime will fall, adding that Britain
and other nations must step up pressure after the Libyan leader
used military force against his own people.  Geneva Meeting  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday the U.S. is examining
all options to end the violence against anti-government
demonstrators. He is dispatching Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to a meeting in Geneva to work with her counterparts
from other nations on a coordinated response.  About 300 people have been killed in the violence,  Human
Rights Watch  said. Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said
there are “credible” reports that 1,000 people have died.  Qaddafi’s government “seems to be determined” to take a
last stand, Hague told  BBC  Radio 4’s “Today” program. “The
odds are stacking heavily against him.”  Hague chaired a meeting of the government’s crisis
committee, known as Cobra, in London today. Overnight, Cameron
ordered a Royal Air Force C-130 Hercules to fly from Malta to
Tripoli to collect remaining British citizens from the city. The
plane has now left Tripoli, following two previous flights,
carrying more than 270 people and one dog, the Foreign Office
and Ministry of Defense said in e-mailed statements.  Desert Areas  That means all the Britons who were at Tripoli airport are
on their way home, though more may yet appear, according to
British officials. About 150 Britons may remain in desert areas
where they’re working for  oil companies , the officials said,
alongside a further 100 in the eastern city of Benghazi.  A Royal Navy frigate, HMS Cumberland, arrived in the port
city to take evacuees to Malta, while 26 Britons are also due to
leave Benghazi on a Turkish ferry, the Foreign Office said.  “We’re expecting to take upwards of 150 on board” the
frigate, Defense Secretary Liam Fox told the BBC. “Some will be
foreign nationals as well as U.K. citizens, but that seems to be
going peacefully and safely. At the moment the weather’s not
very good, but we expect Cumberland to sail before very long.”  “We have to plan very carefully for what we can do, with
the companies concerned, for all those people who are out in the
desert working for various businesses out there,” Cameron told
the BBC when asked about the remaining Britons. “We will try
and get all of those people home and we are working around the
clock to get that done.”  Last night, Hague ordered a review of the government’s
evacuation procedures, following criticism of slowness in
responding to the crisis and the delay to the first rescue
flight.  ‘Serious Questions’  Britain’s Labour Party opposition said the delay called
Cameron’s judgment into question.  “There are very serious questions of ministerial judgment,
as well as the obvious technical issues which meant that the
aircraft they had chartered sat on the runway at Gatwick for 10
hours yesterday afternoon,” the party’s work and pensions
spokesman Douglas Alexander told BBC News television today.
“That means that the British government didn’t act as quickly
as other governments to ensure that there was a chartered
aircraft available to get on the ground in Tripoli and to get
British nationals out.”  The fighting in Libya is the most violent yet in six weeks
of popular uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa,
which have already unseated longtime rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Libya  holds  Africa ’s largest oil reserves and  oil prices 
topped $100 a barrel yesterday for the first time since October
2008 on concern supplies may be disrupted as the unrest spreads.  Sanctions will “have to be looked at” if the violence
continues, Cameron told the BBC. “Britain, with her allies,
should be looking at all of the options for the future.”  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  urged  France ’s European Union
partners to consider sanctions against Libya yesterday. Asked
about the possibility of military action, Cameron said: “I
don’t think we’re at that stage yet.”  The  United Nations Security Council  condemned the Libyan
regime’s use of violence against protesters when it met two days
ago, without taking any further action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Muscat, Oman, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  