-- 
Canadian Dollar Advances as Crude Oil Touches Highest Level in 29 Months

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-02-24T22:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/canadian-dollar-advances-as-libyan-uprising-pushes-crude-oil-prices-higher.html
The Canadian dollar rose to within a
quarter-cent of its highest level versus the greenback in almost
three years as Libya’s uprising reduced supplies from  Africa ’s
third-biggest oil-producing country.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose against most of
its major counterparts and had its biggest advance in nine
trading days against the U.S. dollar. Canada’s currency gained
as New York futures on crude oil, the nation’s biggest export,
touched the highest level since September 2008.  “Finally commodity prices are starting to actually support
the currency even though risk-aversion trading strategies would
not support owning the Canadian dollar,” said  Dean Popplewell ,
an analyst at the online currency trader Oanda Corp. in Toronto.  Canada’s dollar gained 0.8 percent, the most on an intraday
basis since Feb. 11, to 98.17 cents per  U.S. dollar  before
trading at 98.26 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto, up 0.7 percent from
98.95 cents yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0177.  The loonie dropped 0.8 percent on Feb. 22, the most in
three weeks, as Libyan turmoil discouraged demand for assets
related to economic growth. The Canadian currency touched 98.16
cents on Feb. 17, the strongest level since March 2008.  Crude for April delivery dropped 1.3 percent to $96.82 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after advancing as
much as 5.4 percent to $103.41 a barrel, a 29-month high. The
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose to
its highest level since September 2008 before falling.  Libyan Production  As much as 1 million barrels of  Libya ’s daily oil
production may have been shut, Barclays Plc said in a report
yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated disruptions at
500,000 barrels a day.  Libya pumps 1.6 million barrels of oil a day, selling most
of it to  Europe , according to Bloomberg estimates. That’s about
1.8 percent of world supply.  “Because of the tensions in the Middle East, we’re seeing
oil prices rise, and that’s translating to a stronger Canadian
dollar,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain
Capital Group LLC in New York. “Higher growth could potentially
lead to higher interest-rate expectations.”  Investors should start thinking about borrowing in the
Japanese and Swiss currencies to buy the loonie after central
banks including the Bank of  Canada  resumed boosting  interest
rates  last year, said Chris Walker, a foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in  London , in a telephone interview.  BOC Rate  Canada’s central bank, which led the Group of Seven with
three interest-rate increases last year, is expected to boost
its benchmark by 25 basis points in the second quarter,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The  Bank of Canada  will hold its target rate on March 1 at
1 percent, where it has been since September, according to all
of the five economists in a separate Bloomberg News survey.  In carry trades, investors borrow where interest rates are
low and invest where returns are higher. Rapid swings in
exchange rates tend to erode profits. Investors should wait
until turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa ebbs before
pursuing the carry trade, Walker said.    Government bonds  were little changed, with the yield on the
two-year security up less than one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.80 percent. The price of the 1.75 percent
note maturing in March 2013 was unchanged at C$99.91.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  