-- 
Cardinals' Wainwright to Have Season-Ending Reconstructive Elbow Surgery

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-02-24T17:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cardinals-wainwright-to-have-season-ending-reconstructive-elbow-surgery.html
Adam Wainwright, an All-Star
selection and 20-game winner, will miss the Major League
Baseball season because of a pitching-elbow injury that will
require reconstructive surgery.  Wainwright, 29, will undergo so-called Tommy John surgery
to replace ligaments in the elbow, Cardinals spokesman Melody
Yount said in an e-mail.  The runner-up in last season’s National League Cy Young
Award voting for the league’s best pitcher, Wainwright began
feeling soreness this week at spring training in Jupiter,  Florida , and consulted an orthopedic specialist yesterday,
according to the  St. Louis  Post-Dispatch.  The surgery will be performed in St. Louis by team
physician George Paletta at an undetermined date, the newspaper
said. Recovery period for the surgery is typically 12 to 15
months.  Wainwright led the NL with 19 wins and 233 innings pitched
in 2009, and last season won 20 games for the first time in his
career. He is one of four major-league pitchers to record more
than 400 strikeouts and post an earned run average under 3.00
over the past two seasons. The other three --  Roy Halladay  of
the  Philadelphia Phillies ,  Tim Lincecum  of the  San Francisco
Giants  and Felix Hernandez of the  Seattle Mariners  -- all won Cy
Young awards in that period.  The injury may cost Wainwright $21 million dollars, the
Post-Dispatch reported without citing the source of its
information. By finishing in the top five in 2010 Cy Young Award
voting, Wainwright triggered options of $9 million for 2012 and
$12 million for 2013. The Cardinals can void those options if he
finishes this season on the disabled list with an arm or
shoulder injury. Then Wainwright will become a free agent,
according to the newspaper.  The Cardinals were 86-76 last season and missed the
playoffs by five games. The team’s pitching staff, led by
Wainwright and three-time All-Star Chris Carpenter, had a 3.57
ERA, fourth-best in the National League.  Wainwright will be the fourth member of the Cardinals
rotation to have the elbow procedure, joining Carpenter, Jake Westbrook and Jaime Garcia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 