-- 
Carmelo Anthony Says He's Ready for Basketball After Trade Rumor Frenzy

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T00:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/carmelo-anthony-says-he-s-ready-for-basketball-after-trade-rumor-frenzy.html
  Carmelo Anthony  says he’s ready to
focus on basketball after putting to rest the questions about
which side of the Hudson River he’d call his new home.  Anthony, a four-time All-Star, was traded from Denver to
the New York Knicks yesterday after the Nuggets weighed
competing offers from the Knicks and  New Jersey Nets , who play
in Newark,  New Jersey .  “It was a zoo,” Anthony said today at a Madison Square
Garden introductory news conference, hours before his Knicks
debut against the  Milwaukee Bucks . “Friday it was one thing,
Saturday was another thing and Sunday it was something
different. I’m just glad that it’s over with. My mind was
everywhere.”  Thirteen players changed uniforms in the three-team trade
that sent Anthony, 26, to the Knicks along with five-time All-
Star Chauncey Billups.  Anthony, the sixth-leading scorer in the  National
Basketball Association  this season at 25.2 points per game,
joins fellow All-Star Amar’e Stoudemire, the league’s No. 3
scorer at 26.1 points per contest.  Anthony said he and Stoudemire will rely on each other to
lead the team in scoring and rebounding in the final 28 regular-
season games after New York gave up Danilo Gallinari,  Wilson Chandler ,  Raymond Felton  and Timofey Mozgov in the deal.  “I’m pretty sure if any of you guys were GMs or owners,
you would want me and Amar’e on the same team as well,” he
said, drawing laughter. “I really don’t know who would turn
that down.”  Top NBA Worth  The Knicks are sixth in the Eastern Conference with a 28-26
record, pursuing their first playoff berth since 2004 and first
winning season since 2000-2001. The team is worth $655 million,
the most in the NBA, according to Forbes magazine. Its $64
million in operating profit also leads the league.  The franchise is owned by  Madison Square Garden Inc ., which
last year was spun off from New York-area cable television
provider Cablevision Systems Corp.  After welcoming the new players to New York, Knicks owner
James Dolan reiterated a statement made during negotiations that
he, President of Basketball Operations  Donnie Walsh  and coach  Mike D’Antoni  all were on the same page, and that former Knicks
coach and executive Isiah Thomas was not an adviser in the trade
discussions.  “While Isiah Thomas is a very good friend of mine, he was
not at all involved in this process,” Dolan said in the news
conference. “He wasn’t advising me or telling me what to do in
any way, and any reports that imply that he was doing that are
simply untrue and fiction in somebody’s mind.”  Walsh’s Future  Dolan added that he and Walsh will discuss Walsh’s
contract, which expires in June, after the trade deadline passes
tomorrow.  Anthony said his move to the Knicks is a continuation of a
rebirth of the franchise that began with Stoudemire’s signing in
July.  “New York needed a moment like this,” said Anthony, a
Brooklyn native. “When they acquired Amar’e it brought some
excitement back to the city. Now, like Amar’e said,  New York 
basketball is back. Will we win a championship this year? Who
knows. That takes time. But at the end of the day, we’re moving
in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson at Madison Square Garden at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  