-- 
Carry Trades Funded in Yen, Swiss Franc Regaining Profitability, UBS Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-02-24T18:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/carry-trades-funded-in-yen-swiss-franc-regaining-profitability-ubs-says.html
Carry trades funded in the yen and
Swiss franc are becoming profitable as borrowing costs rise in
Europe and  Canada , according to UBS AG.  As central banks resume boosting  interest rates , investors
should start thinking about borrowing in the Japanese and Swiss
currencies to buy the Swedish krona, the Norwegian krone, the
euro and the Canadian dollar, according to Chris Walker, a
foreign-exchange strategist at UBS in  London .  “We favor more upsides in the carry of the Norwegian krone
and even the euro just because the potential move in yields
across the curve is going to be bigger because they’re coming
from a lower base,” Walker said in a phone interview.  In carry trades, investors borrow where interest rates are
low and invest where returns are higher. Rapid swings in
exchange rates tend to erode the carry trade’s profits.
Investors should wait until turmoil in the Middle East and North
Africa ebbs before pursuing the carry trade, Walker said.  Borrowing in yen and selling it to buy the krone, krona,
the Canadian dollar and the euro has returned 33 percent this
year. The same trade, funded by the franc, has returned 17
percent. The carry trade lost 11 percent last year for the yen
and 7.6 percent for the franc.  The  European Central Bank  will raise its main refinancing
rate 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 1.25 percent
in the fourth quarter, according to the average forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists.  Rate Outlooks  Canada’s and  Norway ’s central banks will increase their
rates 25 basis points in the second quarter, according to the
average forecasts in separate Bloomberg News surveys. Sweden’s
Riksbank, which has boosted borrowing costs five times since the
beginning of July, predicted last week that it will raise its
rate by a quarter-percentage point four more times this year.  Japan’s benchmark interest rate has been held at zero to
0.1 percent since October 2010, compared with 0.5 percent in
2007 and 2008. The  Swiss National Bank  has kept its rate at 0.25
percent since March 2009.  The yen appreciated 1 percent to 81.69 per dollar at 1:55
p.m. in  New York . The franc advanced 0.8 percent to 92.59
centimes versus the greenback after strengthening to the record
of 92.34 centimes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  