-- 
Cleveland Cavaliers Acquire Point Guard Davis Ahead of NBA Trade Deadline

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-25T02:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cavaliers-target-guard-baron-davis-ahead-of-today-s-nba-trade-deadline.html
The Cleveland Cavaliers
acquired Baron Davis from the  Los Angeles Clippers , joining
the  New Jersey Nets  and  Atlanta Hawks  in adding new point
guards ahead of today’s National Basketball Association
trade deadline.  The Cavaliers sent guard Mo Williams and forward
Jamario Moon to the Clippers for Davis, who has averaged
16.5 points and 7.3 rebounds over his 12-year NBA career.
Cleveland alvso gets a 2011 first-round draft pick.  “Baron is a very talented player at a position that’s
difficult in this league,” Cavaliers General Manager Chris
Grant said in a statement. “We’ve also created another
very good opportunity for ourselves as we continue to build
this franchise moving forward.”  The Nets acquired point guard Deron Williams from the
Utah Jazz yesterday, while the Hawks got Kirk Hinrich from  Washington  last night in a five-player trade that sent Mike Bibby to the Wizards.  The Charlotte Bobcats sent forward Gerald Wallace to
the Portland Trail Blazers for center Joel Przybilla,
forward Dante Cunningham and two first-round draft picks,
Yahoo Sports said today, citing unidentified league
sources.  The  Houston Rockets  traded forward Shane Battier to
the Memphis Grizzlies for center Hasheem Thabeet and a
first-round draft pick, Yahoo Sports said. The Grizzlies
also thought they had acquired forward Josh McRoberts and a
2011 first-round pick from the Indiana Pacers for guard
O.J. Mayo, a deal that Grizzlies owner Michael Heisley told
NBA.com had fallen apart at the last minute because
“Indiana was not able to get it all together.”  The  Boston Celtics  dealt center Kendrick Perkins and
guard Nate Robinson to the Oklahoma City Thunder for
forward Jeff Green and center Nenad Krstic, Yahoo said.  Anthony Trade  The biggest trade in advance of today’s 3 p.m. New
York time deadline was completed two days ago, when the  New
York  Knicks acquired All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony from
the Denver Nuggets as the centerpiece of a three-team, 13-
player swap.  Anthony made his Knicks debut last night, scoring 27
points in a 114-108 win over the  Milwaukee Bucks  in New
York.  The Nets, after a failed pursuit of Anthony, got  Deron
Williams  from the Jazz for Derrick Favors, Devin Harris and
two first-round draft picks.  Deron Williams, 26, is averaging 21.3 points and 9.7
assists this season and may make his Nets debut tomorrow on
the road against the  San Antonio Spurs . He was introduced
at a news conference today in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Cavaliers Rebuilding  The Cavaliers’ acquisition of Davis and a first-round
pick continues their rebuilding after the departure of two-
time Most Valuable Player LeBron James to the  Miami Heat  as
a free agent. Davis, 31, was averaging 12.8 points and
seven assists for the Clippers this season, and has two
years and $29 million left on his contract.  The trade sends Davis from a team with rookie All-Star
Blake Griffin to a squad that has the worst record in the
NBA at 10-47. Davis threw a pass out of a car’s sunroof to
help Griffin win the NBA’s All-Star slam dunk contest last
weekend.  “This was a difficult decision and I will miss Baron,
but it was the right move for the organization now and for
the future,” Clippers Vice President of Basketball
Operations Neil Olshey said in a statement.    Mo Williams , 28, was an All-Star for Cleveland in 2009
and emerged as a top role player behind James. He’s
averaging 13.3 points and 7.1 assists this season, limited
to 36 games because of injuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  