-- 
CBS Outlines $3 Billion Goal for Additional Revenue to Analysts

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-02-24T23:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cbs-outlines-path-to-3-billion-in-added-revenue-from-cable-international.html
  CBS Corp ., owner of the most-watched
U.S. television network, expects to gain $3 billion a year in
revenue from cable fees and sales of TV shows outside the U.S.,
said Chief Financial Officer Joseph Ianniello.  The growth at New York-based CBS will come from local
online operations, international TV syndication and fees from
pay-TV systems and stations the company doesn’t own, Ianniello
said today in a conference CBS held with analysts and investors.
CBS had $14.1 billion in revenue for 2010.  Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  and other senior
executives at the conference outlined a strategy for making more
money from areas not supported by advertising. Revenue from pay-
TV systems and affiliate stations will likely contribute $1
billion, they said.  Netflix Inc . and other companies that stream
movies and shows online may pay CBS $1 billion for older CBS TV
programs including “Cheers.”  “We feel good about our future here at CBS,” Moonves said
at the conference in  New York . “We are confident CBS will
thrive and grow now and in the future.”  CBS rose 27 cents, or 1 percent, to $22.03 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed
16 percent this year. The company is considering whether to
increase its 5-cent quarterly dividend, though a decision hasn’t
been reached, Moonves said.  The company has 25 agreements with owners of affiliate
stations for reverse compensation, or money paid to the network
for the rights to its programming. As more agreements are
reached, those fees are likely to contribute $225 million a year
by 2014, Moonves said. CBS is on target to meet a goal of $250
million in fees from pay-TV operators.  Using resources of its radio and television stations, CBS
is creating digital operations to compete for the $15 billion in
local online advertising, Ianniello said at the conference. He
said the operation may add $500 million a year in revenue,
without specifying when.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  