-- 
Centamin Says Sukari as Normal, Unrest Caused ‘Disruptions’

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-02-24T17:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/centamin-says-sukari-as-normal-unrest-caused-disruptions-2-.html
  Centamin Egypt Ltd ., a gold company
operating in the North African country, said all employees
returned to work at its Sukari mine after a protest this month,
while political unrest has caused “mild disruptions.”  “The Sukari workforce is back to full strength,” Centamin
said today in a statement. “Process plant operations continued
uninterrupted throughout.”  Workers at the Sukari site staged a sit-in last week to
demand higher pay and a change of ownership, state news service
MENA reported Feb. 18. The company’s shares fell the most in
more than two years that day. Centamin also reported “mild
disruptions” at port authorities and supply lines during the
political unrest, which led to inventories being drawn down.  That, together with the labor dispute, caused “minor and
immaterial disruption to mining operations,” it said.   Centamin rose 1.2 pence, or 1 percent, to 125.3 pence by
the 4:30 p.m. close of London trading.    Egypt  this week appointed Mahmoud Latif Amer as petroleum
minister in its transitional government. Amer said the country
will heed existing agreements with mining and oil companies,
according to an interview in  Al Akbar  newspaper yesterday.  “It is highly important to conform to the articles of the
petroleum agreements with international companies operating in
Egypt and maximize the coordination between the ministry and the
management of these companies,” Amer said, according to the
newspaper.  Centamin maintains its 2011 production guidance of 250,000
to 290,000 ounces at an average cash cost of $450 an ounce, the
Mount Pleasant, Australia-based company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  