-- 
CFTC May Propose Guidance on ‘Spoofing’, ‘Banging the Close’ Ban

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-02-24T14:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cftc-may-propose-guidance-on-spoofing-banging-the-close-ban.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may propose derivatives market guidelines to help
define trading practices such as “spoofing” and “banging the
close” that are prohibited under the Dodd-Frank Act.  CFTC commissioners, as part of the agency’s rulemaking
under the regulatory overhaul, may vote today to seek comment on
proposals for providing greater detail about practices that
would violate bids or offers, or show “intentional or reckless
disregard” for orderly transactions during a closing period.  The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits spoofing, in which a trader
enters a bid or offer with the intent of canceling the
transaction before it is carried out. The law also targets
“banging the close,” in which traders attempt to affect a
settlement price by buying or selling large volumes just before
the day’s end of business.  The CFTC is taking a “middle ground” approach by neither
letting Dodd-Frank stand without additional definition nor
proposing a specific rule that would “bind us all to concepts
that we may not yet appreciate,” Republican Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said in a statement prepared for today’s meeting.  Commissioner  Bart Chilton , a Democrat, said in a statement
the agency must “do more than merely this order” and that the
market needs explicit rules for high-frequency and algorithmic
trading. The guidance would be open to 60 days of public comment
before it is completed.  Representatives for high-frequency trading firms told the
CFTC at a Dec. 2 meeting in  Washington  that without a better
sense of the intent behind transactions, regulators could hamper
liquidity by restricting practices that move markets but aren’t
disruptive.  ‘Notions of Intent’  “What really needs to be there, in my mind, are some
notions of intent,” Cameron Smith, general counsel of Quantlab
Financial LLC, said at the CFTC hearing.  The  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
and  International Swaps and Derivatives Association  Inc. said in
a Jan. 3  letter  to the CFTC that the practices prohibited under
Dodd-Frank aren’t commonly understood in the swaps market.  “These terms lack definition, which makes them susceptible
to being interpreted to sweep in a range of completely
appropriate conduct,” the associations wrote.  The CFTC is also considering a separate proposal for when
swaps must be reported to and processed by clearinghouses. The
law aims to reduce risk in the swaps market by having most swaps
guaranteed by central clearinghouses that stand between buyers
and sellers.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to stocks, bonds,  interest rates  or events, such as the default
of a company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  