-- 
China May Become World’s Top Corn Buyer, Grains Council Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-02-24T22:38:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/china-corn-imports-may-be-world-s-biggest-as-meat-demand-grows-group-says.html
  China  may become the world’s largest
importer of corn “in the near future,” said Rebecca Bratter,
the director of trade development for the U.S. Grains Council.  Chinese demand is rising as the population increases, and
the growing middle class buys more meat produced from corn-
consuming livestock, Bratter said today at the U.S. Department
of Agriculture’s annual outlook conference in Arlington,
Virginia. China became a net importer of corn last year for the
first time in 14 years.  “There is no doubt that China needs to buy a lot of
corn,” Bratter said. “It is not unreasonable to expect that in
the next five years, China may be importing 15 million metric
tons of corn.”  The USDA expects China to  import  1 million metric tons of
corn this year, down from 1.3 percent last year. The country has
a tariff-rate quota of 7.4 million tons, which “may be
completely filled in the next year,” Bratter said. Last year’s
imports were “just the tipping point,” Bratter said. “This is
going to be part of a trend that’s going to continue.”    China’s economy  is forecast to grow by 9.5 percent this
year, according to the median analyst estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. The country’s middle class may increase to 700 million
people in the next five years, with 75 percent living in urban
areas, Bratter said. In the next decade, annual per-capita
incomes may reach as high as $40,000, compared with about $5,000
today, she said.  As livestock herds expand, demand also is increasing for
dried distillers grains with solubles, an ethanol byproduct
known as DDGS, Bratter said. China’s imports of U.S. DDGS rose
from zero to 2.4 million tons over the past three years, she
said. Ethanol is a fuel made from corn.  Japan is now the world’s top buyer of corn, according to
the USDA. China does not rank in the top 10 importers of the
grain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 