-- 
Chinese Steelmakers Should Boost Overseas Investment, CISA Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T06:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/chinese-steelmakers-should-boost-overseas-investment-cisa-says.html
Chinese steelmakers should boost
overseas  iron ore  mine investment to secure supplies, the China
Iron and Steel Association said today in a  statement  at a press
conference in Beijing,  The global supply of iron ore will remain tight in the
first half of 2011,  Luo Bingsheng , former vice chairman and
current special adviser to the steel association, said at the
conference.  China and  India  will lead mergers and acquisitions in metals
and mining in 2011 after global deals rose 89 percent last year
as rivalry for commodities among the fastest growing economies
spurs prices, Michael Lynch-Bell, head of mining and metals at
Ernst & Young, said in an interview in  London  yesterday.  The cash price of 62-percent iron ore arriving at Tianjin
port rose to $191.9 a metric ton Feb. 16, the highest level
since the data became available in November 2008, according to
the Steel Index.  Rio Tinto Group, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Vale SA, which
control three-quarters of the world’s iron ore supply, abandoned
annual pricing last year in favor of quarterly agreements as
spot prices rose. BHP is also seeking monthly pricing, and the
price negotiations between miners and Chinese steelmakers are
“dead” for one year, Luo said.  Stockpiling  China should study building stockpiles of commodities,
including iron ore, Luo said. “China should use its foreign-
exchange reserves to build strategic stockpiles of iron ore.”
He said  China  should buy when prices “are relatively cheap,”
without saying when that will happen.  China, the world’s biggest steel producer, plans to
“control” steel production over the next five years as prices
start to drop after earlier gains prompted steelmakers to
increase output, the association said in the statement.  Domestic steel prices have fallen 2.2 percent to 4,853 yuan
($738) a ton yesterday after reaching 4,961 yuan on Feb. 15, the
highest since Sept. 2008. Private mills have been running at
full capacity on earlier price gains, leading to higher
inventories.  China should push forward the plan to move steel plants to
the coast and control the total steel production, the
association also said, without elaborating.  --Xiao Yu, Helen Yuan. Editors: Alan Soughley, Keith Gosman  To contact the reporter for this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  