-- 
China Blocks U.S. Call for WTO Rulings on Credit Cards, Steel

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-02-24T11:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/china-blocks-u-s-call-for-wto-rulings-on-credit-cards-steel.html
  China  blocked a request by the U.S.
for World Trade Organization judges to rule on the legality of
Chinese anti-dumping duties on steel products and restrictions
on companies that process credit-card payments.  The U.S. made the request today in Geneva, five months
after asking for  consultations  with China aimed at resolving the
two disputes. China can’t block a second request, likely to come
in March.  The U.S. is protesting limits on payment processing by
companies such as  Visa Inc . and  MasterCard Inc . because China
favors a monopoly provider, China UnionPay Data Co. China
prohibits foreign companies from issuing their own bank cards
denominated in its currency, building networks to support such
cards or processing interbank point-of-sale transactions.  Foreign banks must “co-brand” with Chinese operators to
supply these services and execute payments through UnionPay. The
U.S. Trade Representative’s office says the rules run counter to
the pledge China made when it joined the WTO in 2001 to open up
its credit- and debit-card markets to foreign processing
companies by the end of 2006.  The U.S. also wants WTO judges to rule on the legality of
dumping duties China imposed on more than $200 million of
American-made steel products. The complaint involves dumping and
countervailing duties China has placed on flat-rolled steel,
which is produced by companies such as  West Chester , Ohio-based  AK Steel Holding Corp ., the third-largest U.S. steelmaker.  China, the world’s biggest steel market, said in 2009 it
would apply anti-dumping and subsidy levies of as much as 25
percent on flat-rolled electrical steel products, used in
transformers, reactors and electric machines. China said the
duties aim to counter below-cost or “dumped” imports of the
goods.  The U.S. says China didn’t follow WTO procedures by failing
to disclose the facts underlying its legal conclusions and not
explaining its calculations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  