-- 
China Stays Net Importer of Diesel to Build Fuel Inventories

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T09:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/china-stays-net-diesel-importer-for-second-month-in-january-1-.html
  China , the world’s biggest energy
consumer, bought more diesel from overseas than it exported for
a second month in January as the nation built fuel inventories
amid increased demand from drought-hit farmlands.  Net diesel imports reached 87,412 metric tons last month,
according to data from the Beijing-based General Administration
of Customs today. Purchases of the fuel surged 82 percent to
183,298 tons compared with a year earlier.  Farmers in the world’s largest grain-consuming nation
stepped up use of energy-intensive equipment to pump water into
wheat fields as a drought cut production in provinces including
Shandong, Jiangsu, Henan, Hebei and Shanxi. China Petrochemical
Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, said on Feb. 12 it was
producing and storing diesel at a record pace to boost supplies
to dry areas.  “There was demand when they were rebuilding diesel
inventories, but China will probably return to being a net
exporter of diesel next month as that demand starts to come
off,” Brynjar Eirik Bustnes, an oil and gas analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said by telephone from  Hong Kong .  China’s diesel inventories expanded 25 percent as of the
end of January compared with December, China Oil, Gas and
Petrochemicals, published by the official Xinhua News Agency,
reported this month.  Diesel Demand Weakens  Diesel consumption may be damped further as China’s winter
heating demand wanes with warmer temperatures. The high in
Beijing reached 7 degrees Celsius (44.6 degrees Fahrenheit)
today, according to data on the  China Meteorological
Administration ’s website.  China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the
country’s biggest oil trader, said it plans to export 100,000
tons of diesel in February after halting exports for two months.  The profit from producing diesel in  Asia  may decline as
much as 40 percent in the next three months as Chinese refiners
start exporting the fuel, according to industry researchers
FACTS Global Energy and KBC Energy Economics.  In December, China turned a net importer of diesel for the
first time since November 2008 as electricity rationing forced
some factories to turn to their own diesel-fueled generators.
Net diesel imports reached 290,000 tons in that month after
China more than tripled overseas purchases to 460,000 tons
compared with November, customs data showed.  ‘Teapot’ Refineries  Imports of  fuel oil  graded No. 5-7 rose 76 percent to 2.24
million tons in January and exports fell 3.2 percent to 766,723
tons, today’s customs data showed.  China’s independent, or so-called “teapot,” refineries
may have bought more fuel oil to make gasoline and diesel in
anticipation of higher retail fuel prices, Bustnes said.  Asia’s biggest oil consuming nation increased retail
gasoline and diesel prices for the first time this year on Feb.
20, aiding state refiners under pressure from $100 crude.  Brent oil for April settlement rose as much as 7.7 percent
to $119.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange today, the highest since Aug. 21, 2008.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Paul Gordon .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 