-- 
CIBC, National Bank of Canada Top Estimates on Consumer Bank

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-24T21:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cibc-national-bank-of-canada-profits-top-estimates-on-consumer-banking.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
and  National Bank of Canada  reported profits that topped
analysts’ estimates on higher consumer-banking earnings and
lower loan losses. Bank shares gained on the reports.  CIBC, Canada’s fifth-largest bank, said net income for the
first quarter ended Jan. 31 rose 23 percent to C$799 million
($812 million), or C$1.92 a share. National Bank, the No. 6
bank, said profit jumped 45 percent to a record C$312 million,
or C$1.80 a share.  Canadian lenders are benefiting from lower loan losses as
the country’s economic recovery accelerates and  job creation 
rises. Canada’s six banks may report a 14 percent average
increase in profit before one-time items for the quarter, RBC
Capital Markets analyst Andre-Philippe Hardy said.  “This might be as close to a perfect set of earnings that
the banks are going to show,” BCV Asset Management Chief
Investment Officer Tony Demarin said in an interview before
results were announced.   Canada  is doing well.”  Before one-time items, Toronto-based CIBC said it earned
C$1.97 a share, higher than the C$1.77 average estimate of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. National Bank was expected
to earn C$1.61 a share, according to the average estimate of six
analysts.  CIBC led Canadian bank shares higher, rising C$2.73, or 3.4
percent, to C$82.43 at 4 p.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock
Exchange, the biggest one-day gain in about six months. National
Bank climbed C$1.82, or 2.5 percent, to C$73.60. Bank of Nova
Scotia and Bank of Montreal also climbed. CIBC and National Bank
are the first two Canadian lenders to report fiscal first-
quarter results.    Consumer Banking   CIBC set aside C$209 million for bad loans, down 42 percent
from C$359 million a year earlier on lower write-offs in credit
cards and personal loans. The bank’s trading income was C$139
million, down from C$379 million a year earlier on lower
structured-credit trading.  Consumer-banking profit rose 19 percent to C$627 million,
from C$527 million a year earlier, bolstered by a 14 percent
jump in wealth-management sales and higher revenue from personal
and business banking.  “We believe that CIBC’s earnings represent a solid start
to the Canadian banks’ first-quarter earnings and should buoy
valuations for the group,” said  John Aiken , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Toronto.  Canadian Imperial said it expects slower growth in
mortgages and household credit, and modest improvement in
business loans. Delinquencies will improve and personal
bankruptcies will fall, the lender said.    Investment Banking   Canadian Imperial’s investment-banking profit fell to C$136
million, from C$184 million a year ago, after including a C$49
million after-tax loss from a structured-credit business it’s
exiting. Underwriting and advisory fees jumped 13 percent to
C$162 million.  “It’s been a very strong period for equity markets, and
clearly both the investment-banking and wealth-management
operations of CIBC have benefited significantly,” said Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto,
who rates the stock “outperform.”    CIBC World Markets  should benefit from a “healthier pace
of issuance” for equities and bonds, the bank said. Takeovers
should also increase, boosting investment-banking fees.  CIBC, whose Tier 1 capital ratio was 14.3 percent as of
Jan. 31, said it expects to exceed the new requirements drawn up
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Montreal-based National Bank said consumer-banking profit
climbed 15 percent to C$157 million on growth in personal and
commercial loans, while asset-management earnings rose 91
percent to C$44 million. Profit at financial markets, the unit
that includes investment banking, dropped 4.9 percent to C$137
million.  National Bank set aside C$39 million for loan losses,
compared with C$43 million a year ago, the lender disclosed in a
 supplementary filing .  Bank of Montreal, the fourth-biggest Canadian lender,
reports March 1. Royal Bank of Canada, the largest lender, and
Toronto-Dominion Bank, the second-biggest bank, report on March
3. Bank of Nova Scotia reports results on March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 