-- 
Cisco Call Wagers Jump After Stock Plunge Following Earnings

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-02-24T21:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cisco-bullish-options-bets-jump-following-stock-plunge-in-wake-of-earnings.html
  Cisco Systems Inc . option traders
are placing the most bullish bets in almost a year, after the
largest provider of networking equipment plunged this month for
the fourth consecutive time following an earnings report.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell Cisco stock versus
calls to buy dropped to 0.64-to-1 on Feb. 18, the lowest level
since March 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Cisco’s put-
to-call ratio has declined 9.9 percent in the eight days
following its profit report, the second-fastest decline
following an earnings release since 2005, according to the data.
During that time, the put-to-call ratio for the  Technology
Select Sector SPDR Fund , an exchange-traded fund that tracks
technology companies, gained 1.1 percent.  “The ratio becoming better for the company indicates that
investors think that the company has already seen the worst,”
said Sandeep Shyamsukha, an analyst at Auriga USA LLC in  San
Francisco  who’s had a “buy” rating on Cisco since January and
lowered his price estimate for the company to $23 on Feb. 17.
“This is a good entry point. There’s probably potential for
more upside.”  Cisco dropped 25 percent in the past year through
yesterday, compared with a 20 percent gain for the information
technology companies from the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  San
Jose , California-based Cisco plunged 14 percent on Feb. 10 after
its second-quarter report showed higher spending on new products
eroded its profitability. Cisco’s put-to-call ratio in the eight
days following the past four earnings releases dropped a median
of 8.7 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Longer-Term Concerns’  “The shares sold off fairly hard on each of the last three
quarterly conference calls, as longer term concerns have grown
regarding deteriorating margins and market share,” said David Dillon, a  fund manager  at HighMark Capital Management, which
oversees more than $16 billion. “With the shares at current
levels, the risk-reward balance now appears more favorable.”  Cisco shares slid 0.2 percent to $18.36 today.  The options that had the biggest increase in open interest
since Feb. 9 were the May $20 calls, which increased by 161,380
contracts to 165,434 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
They accounted for 4.3 percent of total options open interest,
or existing contracts, for Cisco yesterday. Eight of the 10
contracts with the highest increases in open interest since Feb.
9 were calls.  Price/Earnings Ratios  The networking equipment provider trades for 13.8 times
earnings from the past year, compared with 15.5 times earnings
for the S&P 500. Cisco’s price-to-earnings ratio on Feb. 18 was
the lowest relative to the  S&P 500  since January 2009, Bloomberg
data show.  Cisco on Feb. 22 named Gary Moore chief operating officer,
a new position. Moore, 61, will oversee the engineering,
marketing, operations and services organizations, according to a
company statement. Cisco’s gross margin, the percentage of
profit left after subtracting production costs, slid to 62.4
percent in the period that ended Jan. 29, the company said Feb.
9. That fell short of 63.3 percent, the average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Challenges are there, but the company is already working
to resolve the issues,” Shyamsukha said. “Things will start
turning around toward the end of this year.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on Feb. 2 recommended buying calls
expiring in this month before earnings. Equity derivatives
strategists John Marshall and  Maria Grant  said “sentiment has
moved too negative into the quarter and guidance is
achievable,” citing telecommunication equipment analyst Simona Jankowski. Cisco calls had the biggest losses in the U.S.
options market on Feb. 10, while its puts had some of the
biggest gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  