-- 
City Developments Says Singapore Home Prices to Drop on Government Curbs

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-02-24T09:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/city-developments-says-singapore-home-prices-to-drop-on-government-curbs.html
  City Developments Ltd ., Singapore’s
second-largest property developer, said  home prices  will fall
this year from 2010’s record because of government policies to
cool the market and tackle speculation.  Home prices may decline 3 percent to 5 percent in 2011,
Executive Chairman Kwek Leng Beng told reporters in Singapore.
The company expects sales volume to drop in the short-term after
rising 13 percent to S$2.1 billion ($1.6 billion) in 2010, when
it sold 1,560 homes, it said in an exchange statement today.  Singapore last month applied new curbs including limits on
loans and higher sales taxes after private home prices
climbed to a record in the fourth quarter. Housing values
increased as the economy expanded a record 14.5 percent in 2010,
which probably made the city of 5 million people the fastest
growing in the world after Qatar, according to International
Monetary Fund estimates.  “Residential volumes have started to go down somewhat, but
prices are still not down yet,” Kwek said. “Usually it’s the
volume that is the precursor to prices going up or down. Unless
you have a lot of people coming from overseas to buy, I believe
the prices will go down 3 to 5 percent.”    Singapore ’s January private residential sales fell 11
percent to 1,189 from 1,332 in December, its lowest level in
three months, following the new policies.  More Curbs  The government may impose more curbs if the market
“improves a lot” and prices don’t drop, Kwek said. The
developer plans to market 580 homes in the first half.  The decline in home prices may be limited as “continued
GDP growth and job creation, coupled with rising inflation
exacerbating the negative real interest rate situation, means
property remains a compelling investment choice,” Adrian Chua,
an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a report today.  He predicts so-called mass-market home prices to slip 5
percent to 10 percent this year. Future measures will focus on
the initial purchase stage by “raising the level of equity
required upfront,” Chua said.    CapitaLand Ltd ., Singapore’s biggest property developer,
said this week it plans to put 1,700 homes on sale in the city-
state this year. The government’s steps have “subdued the
market and caused overall sentiment to dip,” it said, though it
expects home sales to remain healthy.    Allgreen Properties Ltd ., the developer controlled by
Malaysian billionaire  Robert Kuok , said today it sold a record
16,292 homes last year.  Transactions to Drop  “Whist the longer-term impact of the January 2011 measures
remains to be seen, what is clear is that the number of
transactions for the first quarter will likely drop,” Allgreen
said in an exchange statement today. “Given that there is still
genuine demand for housing, current prices may well hold.”  City Developments rose 2.1 percent to close at S$10.92 in
Singapore trading. The stock lost 13 percent this year, twice
the 6.8 percent retreat in the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times
Index .  City Developments said today fourth-quarter profit
climbed 41 percent to S$249.2 million, or 26.1 cents per share,
from S$176.7 million, or 18.3 cents, a year earlier. Quarterly
sales fell 25 percent to S$691 million.  Full-year profit increased 26 percent to S$749 million from
S$593.4 million a year earlier, beating the S$686 million
average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company, which relied on New Zealand for 7 percent of
its 2010 hotel revenue, said effects from halted operations in
Christchurch following this week’s earthquake were
“negligible.” Its unit Millennium & Copthorne Hotels  New
Zealand  Ltd. evacuated its employees and guests after the
country’s deadliest quake in 80 years.  City Developments also said it’s not averse to new partners
for its South Beach development, a downtown Singapore hotel,
office, residential and retail project of which it hopes to own
at least 50 percent, Chairman Kwek said. Its partners include
Dubai World and El-Ad Properties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 