-- 
Class War on Janitors Raises Deficit Fever: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/class-war-on-janitors-raises-deficit-fever-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
A good litmus test of how far right
a politician is leaning is the question of President Barack Obama’s place of birth.  Yes, this is still an issue. A recent  survey  of 400
Republican primary voters nationwide by Public Policy Polling
found that 51 percent believed that the president wasn’t born in
the U.S.  Here’s what one prominent Republican figure said on the so-
called birther issue: “It’s distracting. It gets annoying, and
let’s just stick with what really matters.”  A second important Republican, asked to stand up to birther
ignorance, responded, “It’s not my job to tell the American
people what to think.” And, on the canard Obama is secretly a
Muslim: “The president says he’s a Christian. I accept him at
his word.” (Taking the president “at his word” is code to Tea
Partiers. It means, “He’s a liar but there’s nothing I can do
about it.”)  Here’s what’s interesting. The first quote -- the more
reasonable, if we’re grading on a curve -- happens to be from
Sarah Palin, the person we normally think of as holding the pole
position in the Republicans’ daily race to the outer edge of our
political galaxy. The latter quotes are from House Speaker  John Boehner , on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Lapping Palin is one way Boehner can prove himself to his
House freshmen. The insider of insiders, boon companion of
lobbyists, Boehner smoked, drank and wept his way to his gavel.
Now the man who once handed out campaign checks from the tobacco
industry on the House floor finds that his old unsubtle ways
don’t win quite so many friends.  Closing Yellowstone  It must be a strain on the wily veteran to defer so much to
his newbies. They have no patience for history; tourists seeing
the Capitol for the first time from the upper deck of a bus
probably know more about  Washington . Some freshmen seem
practically giddy about shutting down the federal government, a
budgetary D-Day that looms on March 4. Boehner remembers how
that worked out last time, when then-Speaker  Newt Gingrich  got
blamed for closing Yellowstone National Park and furloughing
federal workers.  Just the other day Boehner must have swallowed tears as
funding for a second engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter --
a project that delivers jobs to his home state of  Ohio  -- was
killed by his deficit hawks.  Pander Problem  Boehner is being pulled in different directions by his
freshmen, by the larger  Republican Party , and by his own nature.
Republicans can’t win the presidency in 2012 by ceaselessly
pandering to the Tea Party, a lesson even Palin has absorbed --
as shown by her slight retreat on Obama’s citizenship. To win,
Republicans must appeal to moderates and independents, many of
whom are partial to clean water and Pell Grants.  Already the cutters have shown Boehner who’s boss. His $35
billion in pledged budget cuts quickly morphed into their $100
billion. Where he would trim, they would slash, even if it means
being penny-wise and pound-foolish.  Cut home-heating-oil assistance and you risk sending more
people to emergency rooms and seeing homes flooded by burst
pipes. Demolish neighborhood block grants and you get more
homeless people evicted when because there’s no one to negotiate
rent payments with landlords. Cut food inspections and you get
more E. coli.  More than Ross Perot, the Tea Party has focused the country
on the crazy aunt in the attic, the deficit, so that fighting it
trumps concerns over unemployment, failing schools, crumbling
infrastructure and health care. As long as the supposedly adult
conversation we’re having remains childishly vague, it’s easy to
turn those complaining about cuts into welfare queens who should
toughen up.  Tax Cuts  Even worse is how some supposed budget hawks, on the eve of
battle, made deficits even worse with tax cuts for the haves,
then used mounting deficit projections to justify cuts to
discretionary program that mostly hurt the have-nots. So much
for spreading the pain.  The new austerity-chic is playing out in  Wisconsin , where
Republican Governor  Scott Walker  gave tax cuts to businesses
while demanding give-backs from public employees. He also wants
to strip most public workers of their collective bargaining
rights to make sure they don’t ever get their sweet packages
again.  Analysts say  public pay in Wisconsin is in line with
private pay for similar work. State workers have agreed to
contribute more for their benefits. Walker, refusing to take yes
for an answer, prefers to use the issue as a pretext to cripple
organized labor.  Class Warfare  What an odd chapter in American history we’re living
through. Suggesting that the financial elite might be
responsible for the economic mess we’re in brings cries of
“class warfare.” Meanwhile, congressmen and governors, under
cover of cutting deficits created by congressmen and governors,
wage real class warfare on janitors and on parents trying to pay
their mortgage or send their kids to college.  Blaming nurse’s aides and prison guards for the death grip
this economy has on the middle class is to indulge a fantasy on
par with the fairy tale of an American president born in  Kenya 
and secretly Muslim.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  