-- 
Colombia Traders Doubting Uribe as Floods Push Yields to `Dangerous' Level

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-02-24T21:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/colombia-traders-doubt-uribe-as-yields-at-dangerous-levels.html
Colombian bonds are posting the
biggest selloff in 28 months as concern mounts that central bank
governor Jose Dario Uribe isn’t moving fast enough to contain
inflation after flooding sparked a surge in food prices.  Yields on the government’s fixed-rate peso bonds due in
July 2020 jumped 133 basis points, or 1.33 percentage points, in
the past four months to 8.34 percent, the biggest increase over
such a time period since 2008. The jump sent the yield
difference between the 2020 bonds and the government’s notes due
in 2012 to 315 basis points from 286 on Jan. 12. The gap touched
331 on Feb. 16, the widest since Nov. 30.  Uribe has held benchmark borrowing costs at a record low 3
percent to stem gains in the peso and avoid curtailing an
economic recovery that may be undermined by the country’s worst
floods in three decades. By waiting to increase the rate as
inflation accelerates to a 19-month high, Uribe risks losing
credibility and may need to raise borrowing costs more in coming
years, said Felipe Campos, the head analyst at Bogota-based
brokerage Alianza Valores SA.  “The market doesn’t like uncertainty and wants the central
bank to raise  interest rates  now,” said Camilo Contreras, an
analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA. Peso bonds “are at a dangerous
level,” he said.  All except one of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict the central bank will leave the overnight rate at 3
percent for the 10th straight month at a policy meeting
tomorrow. A survey published yesterday by Citigroup Inc.’s local
unit showed economists predict policy makers will increase the
rate to 3.25 percent in March.  Brazil Spread  Uribe said Feb. 4 that increases in local food prices are
“temporary” and inflation may end both this year and 2012 at
less than 3 percent. Annual inflation was 3.4 percent in
January, the highest rate since June 2009. The central bank
targets annual inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent.  In  Brazil , the yield gap between the country’s fixed-rate
bonds due in 2012 and 2021 reached a seven-month high of 89
basis points in November as traders bet on accelerating
inflation. The gap has inverted, and the 2012 notes now yield 15
basis points more than the longer-maturity bonds after the
central bank increased capital and reserve requirements and
President  Dilma Rousseff  said she would cut 50 billion reais
($30 billion) in spending to help hold down consumer prices.  In Colombia, inflation concerns mounted this month as
truckers blocked roads in a nationwide strike, adding to
expectations for higher food prices after floods that left at
least 300 dead, damaged crops and closed farm roads. On Feb. 18,
truckers agreed to end their two-week strike.  Food Prices  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations known as the
breakeven rate, rose to 423 basis points from 394 two months
ago. It touched 473 on Jan. 7, the widest since March.  Press officials at the central bank and  Finance Ministry 
declined to comment yesterday.  In minutes of the central bank’s Jan. 31 meeting, policy
makers said higher interest rates may be needed should inflation
expectations rise above their target for this year.  “The risk of Banco de la Republica not reaching its target
is very high,” Campos said. “The market wants to see the
central bank change its stance from taking a passive role where
it tells the market to be calm because the increase in prices is
temporary to an active one where it shows firm action that it
will do all it can to keep inflation under control.”  Economic Outlook  Uribe cut the benchmark lending rate from as high as 10
percent in November 2008 to stoke growth amid the global
financial crisis.  Colombia ’s economy may have expanded about 4
percent last year, less than previously anticipated, and may
grow 4.5 percent in 2011 as spending to repair infrastructure
damaged by the floods bolsters output in the second half of the
year, Uribe said Feb. 4.  Colombia’s peso has dropped 1.7 percent this month to
1,898.75 per dollar as the central bank purchases at least $20
million a day to weaken the local currency, which has surged 36
percent in the past two years. The peso will strengthen to 1,825
by the end of the year, according to the median forecast of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Banco de la Republica will probably wait until the second
quarter to raise interest rates to have a better gauge of the
impact that rains and the truckers’ strike had on inflation,
said Felipe Hernandez, a Latin America analyst at RBS Securities
Inc.  ‘Excessive’ Yields  “Inflation expectations are excessively volatile in the
short term, so the bank clearly won’t base a move on what the
market is showing now,” Hernandez said in a telephone interview
from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . He forecasts policy makers will
increase the key rate to as high as 5 percent by year-end.  The increase in yields for the fixed-rate peso bonds, known
as TES, has been “excessive,” according to Daniel Velandia,
head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Correval SA.  German Verdugo, Correval’s head bond trader, says the jump
in yields is creating buying opportunities, “especially” in
fixed-rate peso notes due between 2013 and 2016.  Still, he doesn’t expect a rebound soon.  “The market is way too nervous and it will wait for less
uncertainty” before buying the bonds, Verdugo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  