-- 
U.S. Commercial Mortgage Defaults Decline as Prices Recover

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-02-24T19:36:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/commercial-mortgage-defaults-decline-in-the-u-s-for-first-time-since-2006.html
Defaults on commercial real estate
mortgages held by U.S. banks fell in the fourth quarter from the
previous three months, the first decline in almost five years,
as prices began to recover,  Real Capital Analytics Inc.  said.  The default rate on loans for office buildings, malls and
other commercial properties dropped to 4.28 percent of loan
balances from 4.36 percent in the third quarter, according to
the New York-based real estate research firm. It was the first
such decline since the first quarter of 2006.  The drop “suggests that the sector’s contribution to bank
distress may have reached a plateau,”  Sam Chandan , Real
Capital’s global chief economist, said today in a statement.
“As market conditions improve, particularly in larger metros,
banks are slowly working to charge off more bad loans.”  The rate of defaults is declining as real estate values
start to rise. U.S. commercial property prices gained 5.5
percent in the four months ended December from an eight-year low
in August, according to a Moody’s Investors Service index.  New
York ,  Washington  and other big metropolitan areas are leading
the recovery as well-leased properties attract investors.  Commercial lenders face more potential losses. Over the
next four years, “a significant portion” of the $1.5 trillion
of U.S. commercial mortgages set to mature may not be refinanced
because the underlying real estate is worth less than the loan,
said Thomas Flexner, global head of real estate at Citigroup
Global Markets Inc.  ‘Very Significant Headwinds’  “I don’t think that we have for certain hit the bottom,”
Flexner said today in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday.” There are “still a couple
of very significant headwinds that we are confronted with that
are primarily in the middle-market banking system,” he said.  Defaults on apartment-building mortgages fell to 3.74
percent of outstanding loan balances, from 4.43 percent a year
earlier and a record 4.67 percent in the third quarter,
according to Real Capital.  For commercial mortgages excluding those on apartments,
defaults rose from 3.85 percent a year earlier, the 17th
straight quarter they gained on a year-over-year basis, the
research company said. Loans in default are past due by 90 days
or more or in so-called non-accrual status, meaning the lender
doesn’t expect to make a full recovery.  The drop in the balance of loans in default shows lenders
modified or sold mortgages, or liquidated the underlying real
estate to try to recover part of the debt, Real Capital said.  Shopping Malls, Hotels  About $45.8 billion of loans on office buildings, shopping
malls, hotels and other commercial real estate were in default
in the fourth quarter, up from $41.8 billion a year earlier and
down from $46.8 billion in the third quarter.  Banks held about $1.07 trillion of commercial mortgages and
$214.8 billion of apartment mortgages as of the fourth quarter.
Many banks, particularly smaller lenders who hold more
construction and development loans, “still face serious
challenges” managing distressed financing, Chandan said.  Real Capital bases its analysis on bank filings and data
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  