-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Climbed to Highest Level Since 2008

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-24T16:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-climbed-to-highest-level-since-2008.html
                                
Press Release  Forty-Nine Percent of Those Polled In Index Held Positive Views
on Their Financial Situations  New York, February 24 --  Consumer confidence  climbed last week
to the highest level since April 2008 as Americans grew less
pessimistic about their finances.  The  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index,  formerly the ABC News U.S.
Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.2 in the period to
Feb. 20, compared with minus 43.4 the prior week, a report today
showed. Forty-nine percent of those polled held positive views
on their financial situation, the most in a year.  The biggest two-month drop in the jobless rate since 1958 may be
helping lift households’ spirits, boosting the odds that
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
will keep growing. Higher gasoline prices will remain a hurdle
as political tensions in oil-exporting countries push up the
cost of crude.  For full CCI results, see:   http://www.bloomberg.com/cci   Improving sentiment “may give consumers the shot in the arm they
need to step up spending,” said Joseph Brusuelas, a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Rising gasoline prices
will impact the index with a lag. Consumers will be forced to
adjust spending patterns.”  Less unemployment, a growing economy and increases in stocks are
helping offset negative forces, including higher fuel costs and
a troubled housing market, said Gary Langer, president of Langer
Research Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index
for Bloomberg. Readings of minus 40 have historically been the
threshold indicating Americans think a recovery from recession
has begun, he said.  The index’s gain is “a significant advance in its struggle to
return to levels associated with economic growth,” Langer said
in a statement. “There are still miles to go.”  The four-point gain last week follows a five-point increase in
early January. The gauge dropped five points in the week ended
Feb. 6, the biggest setback since January 2010.  Movements of that magnitude are unusual because the index is
based on a four-week average, Langer said. Nonetheless, the
gauge is mimicking the shifts seen in a 10-week span in mid-
1993, when the economy was also recovering from a recession.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses to
telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over.  Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on the
economy, personal finances and buying climate; the percentage of
negative responses is subtracted from the share of positive
views and divided by three.  The share of households with a positive view of the economy rose
to 15 percent, the most since September 2008, from 14 percent
the prior week. Those saying it was a good time to buy needed
items rose to 27 percent, compared with 25 percent the previous
week.  Macy’s Inc., the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain, is
among companies counting on shoppers to keep spending. The
Cincinnati-based retailer this week reported earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates as it controlled costs and sold exclusive
holiday gifts.  “We are entering the year with building momentum, which gives us
confidence that we should have another strong year,” Karen
Hoguet, chief financial officer, said on a conference call with
investors on Feb. 22.  Women registered the sharpest advance in confidence last week,
gaining 8.5 points, the biggest increase since July 2007, to
minus 42.6. The reading for men was little changed.  Survey respondents’ views varied sharply based on income levels,
today’s report showed. The index for Americans earning less than
$15,000 a year was at minus 68.6 last week, compared with minus
76.6 the week before. For those making more than $100,000, the
index improved to minus 0.3 from minus 4.6.  Confidence improved to minus 24.5 among those holding a full-
time job, compared with minus 52.1 for part-timers.  Fewer Americans filed applications for unemployment insurance
payments last week, figures from the Labor Department showed
today. The number of claims decreased to 391,000 from 413,000
the prior week.  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have moved in the same
direction 98 percent of the time since 2004, according to
calculations by Bloomberg’s Brusuelas. Changes in the four-week
average of claims for jobless benefits have been in sync with
the comfort gauge about 72 percent of the time.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age, income
level, race, region of residence, political affiliation, marital
and employment status.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  Contact:  Meghan Womack, +1 212-617-8514,  mwomack4@bloomberg.net 
