-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. at Highest Level Since ‘08

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-09T21:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-increases-to-highest-level-since-2008.html
(Corrects Feb. 20 index level in second paragraph of
article published on Feb. 24, sub-indexes in paragraphs 13-15,
table at end.)    Consumer confidence  climbed last
week to the highest level since April 2008 as Americans grew
less pessimistic about their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.6 in the period
to Feb. 20, compared with minus 43.4 the prior week, a report
today showed. Forty-nine percent of those polled held positive
views on their financial situation, the most in a year.  The biggest two-month drop in the jobless rate since 1958
may be helping lift households’ spirits, boosting the odds that
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
will keep growing. Higher gasoline prices will remain a hurdle
as political tensions in oil-exporting countries push up the
cost of crude.  “We’re gradually moving in the right direction,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in  New
York . “It’s a combination of the stock market rally and the
labor market, but confidence is still at very depressed levels.
We may see some impact from gasoline prices” in coming weeks.  Less unemployment, a growing economy and increases in
stocks are helping offset negative forces, including higher fuel
costs and a troubled housing market, said Gary Langer, president
of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which compiles
the index for Bloomberg. Readings of minus 40 have historically
been the threshold indicating Americans think a recovery from
recession has begun, he said.  ‘Miles to Go’  The index’s gain is “a significant advance in its struggle
to return to levels associated with economic growth,” Langer
said in a statement. “There are still miles to go.”  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  last week fell more than estimated, a
Labor Department report showed today. Claims decreased to
391,000 from 413,000 the prior week. Economists forecast claims
would drop to 405,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Other reports today showed purchases of new homes fell in
January more than forecast by economists, and orders for durable
goods climbed as demand for aircraft rebounded.  Stocks fell, depressed by concern that rising oil prices
will slow the global recovery. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
dropped 0.4 percent to 1,302.4 at 11:50 a.m. in New York.  Large Moves  The four-point gain in the comfort index last week follows
a five-point increase in early January. The gauge dropped five
points in the week ended Feb. 6, the biggest setback since
January 2010.  Movements of that magnitude are unusual because the index
is based on a four-week average, Langer said. Nonetheless, the
gauge is mimicking the shifts seen in a 10-week span in mid-
1993, when the economy was also recovering from a recession.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over.  Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on the
economy, personal finances and buying climate; the percentage of
negative responses is subtracted from the share of positive
views and divided by three.  The share of households with a positive view of the economy
rose to 15 percent, the most since September 2008, from 14
percent the prior week. Those saying it was a good time to buy
needed items rose to 27 percent, compared with 25 percent the
previous week.  Beating Estimates    Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, is among companies counting on shoppers to keep spending.
The Cincinnati-based retailer this week reported earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates as it controlled costs and sold
exclusive holiday gifts.  “We are entering the year with building momentum, which
gives us confidence that we should have another strong year,”
Karen Hoguet, chief financial officer, said on a conference call
with investors on Feb. 22.  Women registered the sharpest advance in confidence last
week, gaining 8.1 points, the biggest increase since July 2007,
to minus 43. The reading for men was little changed.  Survey respondents’ views varied sharply based on income
levels, today’s report showed. The index for Americans earning
less than $15,000 a year was at minus 68.9 last week, compared
with minus 76.6 the week before. For those making more than
$100,000, the index improved to 0.1 from minus 4.6.  Employment Status  Confidence improved to minus 24.8 among those holding a
full-time job, compared with minus 52.4 for part-timers.  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have moved in the
same direction 98 percent of the time since 2004, according to
calculations by Joseph Brusuelas, a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. Changes in the four-week average of
claims for jobless benefits have been in sync with the comfort
gauge about 72 percent of the time.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age,
income level, race, region of residence, political affiliation,
marital and employment status.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  