-- 
Credit Suisse, Madoff, Cable Fees, Mortgages: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-02-24T12:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/credit-suisse-madoff-epa-cable-fees-mortgages-compliance.html
Four bankers who worked at  Credit
Suisse Group AG  were charged with conspiring to help U.S.
clients evade taxes through secret bank accounts, according to
an indictment yesterday and people familiar with the matter.  Marco Parenti Adami, Emanuel Agustoni, Michele Bergantino
and Roger Schaerer conspired with clients at “one of the
biggest banks in Switzerland,” according to an indictment in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. Zurich-based Credit
Suisse, the second-biggest bank in Switzerland, is the bank,
according to the people who requested anonymity because they
aren’t authorized to speak publicly about the indictment.  The bank’s managers in its cross-border business “knew and
should have known that they were aiding and abetting U.S.
customers in evading their U.S. income taxes,” according to the
indictment. In the fall of 2008, the bank had “thousands” of
accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, according to the indictment.  The scheme included setting up undeclared accounts
protected by Swiss bank secrecy, providing banking and
investment services in New York to holders of those accounts,
and having bankers provide unlicensed banking services to
customers they visited in the U.S., according to the indictment.  “The conspiracy dates back to 1953 and involved two
generations of U.S. tax evaders including U.S. customers who
inherited secret accounts,” according to a Justice Department
statement.  “We are cooperating with the authorities in their
investigation against these four individuals,” Marc Dosch, a
bank spokesman in Zurich, said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Marco Parenti Adami, 11-cr-95, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC’s Top Lawyer Becker Sued for Inheriting Madoff Ponzi Profits  David M. Becker, the departing chief lawyer at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, said he had no detailed
knowledge of how his parents came to earn $1.5 million from an
investment in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Becker and his brothers, who inherited the money upon his
mother’s death in 2004, were sued in bankruptcy court in New
York by the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, Irving H. Picard,
who seeks to recover the funds as a fictitious gain.  “It is true that my brothers and I were designated as co-
executors of my mother’s will, and it is also true that we were
the residual beneficiaries of my mother’s estate,” Becker, 63,
said yesterday in an e-mail. “I have no direct knowledge of any
of the other facts -- how and when the Madoff account was
opened, what was invested, and what was in the account when it
was liquidated.”  Becker, who had been the SEC’s general counsel from 1999 to
2002, returned to that role in 2009. At the time, the agency was
reeling from its failure to uncover the Madoff scandal before it
unraveled in 2008. Asked whether he disclosed his family’s
investment with Madoff when he rejoined the SEC, he said, “I
can’t discuss internal discussions.”  Becker is finishing his last week as general counsel and
senior policy adviser at the agency. A Feb. 1 announcement of
his pending departure from the SEC came eight days before the
date on a pretrial summons from Picard that was served to Becker
and his brothers, William and Daniel.  Picard’s lawsuit against the Beckers earlier was reported
by the New York Daily News.  EPA Overhauls Boiler Rules After Complaints About Cost  The Obama administration issued pollution rules for
industrial boilers that it said are 50 percent less expensive
than regulations proposed last year that drew industry
opposition.  The Environmental Protection Agency’s rules for boilers and
incinerators will provide health benefits while reducing costs
from last year’s proposal, the EPA said yesterday in a
statement.  The EPA lost a bid last month to postpone the rules by 15
months when a federal judge ordered action within 30 days.
Companies and business groups such as the  Council of Industrial
Boiler Owners  in Burke, Virginia, said the previous version may
cost $20 billion and kill 300,000 jobs. EPA Administrator Lisa
Jackson has said the agency will reconsider the rules issued
yesterday and make any necessary changes.  The American Petroleum Institute, the biggest U.S. lobbying
group for the oil and gas industry and a critic of the 2010
proposed boiler rules, said it welcomes EPA’s effort to change
the regulations.  “API is committed to work with the agency during its
reconsideration period to ensure that the final rule protects
the environment while allowing businesses to create jobs and get
Americans back to work,” Howard Feldman, director of science
and regulatory policy at Washington-based API, said in a
statement yesterday before release of the rules.  U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack praised the EPA for
revising the rule to ease requirements for biomass alternative-
fuel producers.  The EPA is “retaining important energy choices such as
biomass that provide heat and power to rural hospitals and
schools,” Vilsack said in a statement.  Visa Europe May Face Another EU Credit-Card Fee Complaint  Visa Europe Ltd., operator of the largest payment-card
network in the 27-nation European Union, may receive a second EU
antitrust complaint on credit-card transaction fees later this
year, regulators said.  The fees Visa charges for cross-border credit-card and
deferred-debit transactions are being investigated by the
European Commission, the EU executive branch, after retailers
said they unfairly raised their costs. Visa reduced similar fees
for debit cards last year to settle an EU complaint from 2009.  “It is intended to issue a supplementary statement of
objections later this year,” EU Competition Commissioner
Joaquin Almunia said in a letter to a Dutch lawmaker in the
European Parliament. “The case will continue to be handled with
priority.”  Visa Europe split from  Visa Inc . before the U.S. card
company’s initial public offering in early 2008. Amanda Kamin, a
spokeswoman at Visa Europe, said the company was aware and
didn’t “have anything further to share at this time.”  MasterCard also settled a similar case by the commission in
2009, agreeing to cut interchange fees to 0.3 percent of a
transaction’s cost for credit cards and 0.2 percent for debit
cards.  SEC Probes Potential Conflicts in Private-Share Trades, WSJ Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining
potential conflicts of interest in the market for shares of
private companies such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc., the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  The regulator is concerned about the “middleman” role
played by market-makers such as SecondMarket Inc. and SharesPost
Inc. that specialize in privately held shares, the newspaper
said.  SEC officials believe the “middleman” role might cause
conflicts of interest, in view of the difficulty of ascribing a
fair value to privately traded shares; they take the view that
some of the firms promoting the buying and selling of shares in
private companies should be registered as broker-dealer
operations, the Journal said.  Porsche Says Investigation May Delay VW Merger; Shares Plunge  Porsche SE’s planned merger with  Volkswagen AG  will
probably be delayed into next year because of German legal
obstacles. As a result, Porsche shares plunged the most in 19
months.  An ongoing probe by Stuttgart prosecutors into allegations
of share-price manipulation by two former board members will
likely push the deal’s completion into 2012, Porsche said,
adding it believes the combination will go ahead.  Volkswagen said last year that the transaction, originally
planned to close in the second half, was also being held up by
U.S. lawsuits and German tax disputes. Porsche and VW, whose
headquarters are in Wolfsburg, Germany, agreed to combine in
August 2009 following a failed attempt by the Stuttgart-based
sports-car maker to acquire its larger rival.  “Legal proceedings are proving to be more complex,” said
Arndt Ellinghorst, a London-based Credit Suisse analyst with
“outperform” ratings on VW and Porsche. “It’s very likely
that it will happen next year because financial risks will then
be more calculable.”  Investigators have expanded the scope of their probe into
former Porsche Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and
former Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter to include
allegations they may have taken risks endangering the carmaker’s
existence, the Stuttgart prosecutors said in a statement today.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Pressed to Give Local Board Members Pass From Adviser Rules  State and city officials are pressing the Securities and
Exchange Commission to scrap a proposed rule that would subject
members of local-government boards to new federal oversight.  The  proposed SEC  rule is part of the agency’s move to craft
regulations for the financial advisers that work for localities
as they sell bonds or invest money, a result of the regulatory
overhaul passed by Congress last year. The rule would cause
people appointed to local boards to be considered advisers, a
step that would subject them to SEC rules.  The proposal drew  dozens of letters  from local government
officials who said it would place a burden on those who
volunteer to work for boards and be an unnecessary intrusion
into their affairs. The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board,
which is tasked with drawing up regulations for advisers, said
the SEC should exempt board members from such rules, as it does
elected officials and government employees.  The regulations “will have a chilling effect on the
ability of local governments to obtain the highest-quality
volunteer participation for municipal authorities,” Donald
Borut, the executive director of the National League of Cities,
wrote in a letter to the SEC Feb. 22.  The SEC proposal is an early move in the effort to regulate
the firms and individuals who sell advice to local officials as
they raise money in the $2.9 trillion municipal-bond market.  The Dodd-Frank law requires such advisers to register with
the SEC and subjects them to regulations drawn up by the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the self-regulatory
organization whose rules are reviewed by the SEC.  Frank Urges CFTC, SEC to Reconcile Swaps-Trading Regulations  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and
 Securities and Exchange Commission  should reconcile differences
in how the agencies would oversee new swaps-trading platforms
under the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. Representative Barney Frank said.  “Differences in the rules that are not required by
differences between various financial products will only serve
to drive up the cost of implementation, without improving the
regulatory structure,” Frank said in a Feb. 18 letter to CFTC
chairman Gary Gensler and SEC chairman Mary Schapiro.  The financial-overhaul law enacted in July requires the two
agencies to define swap-execution facilities as an alternative
to exchanges for the trading of interest rate, credit and other
swaps.  The CFTC proposed a rule in December that would allow
participants in the trading facilities to request price quotes
from a minimum of five possible sellers. The SEC on Feb. 2
proposed a rule that would allow swap buyers to request a quote
from a single seller.  Frank, from Massachusetts, is the highest-ranking Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee. He was co-sponsor of
the financial overhaul law known as the Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFTC and SEC proposals are open to public comment
before they are completed. The CFTC comment period ends March 8;
the SEC comment period ends April 4.  The CFTC has authority under the law to write new
regulations for most of the swaps market, including interest-
rate transactions, while the SEC has authority over swaps tied
to securities or narrow indexes of securities.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to stocks, bonds, interest rates or events, such as the
potential for a company to default.  Fannie, Freddie Preparing Penalties for Mortgage Servicers  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will announce penalties within
weeks on mortgage servicers that submitted flawed paperwork in
foreclosure cases, the companies’ top regulator said.  Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, said the government-owned mortgage companies
also are strengthening standards for loan servicers.  “The enterprises will be moving forward with servicer
penalties for last year in the coming weeks,” DeMarco said in a
speech yesterday at a meeting of the Mortgage Bankers
Association in Dallas. “Our goal is to announce the new set of
requirements, timelines, incentives and penalties by the end of
the first quarter of this year.”  Mortgage servicers drew scrutiny last year after evidence
emerged in court cases that employees and contractors were
providing flawed paperwork in hundreds of thousands of
foreclosure cases. The Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force in
Washington and all 50 state attorneys general are investigating
the so-called robo-signing scandal.  Task force members, including banking and housing
regulators, launched a review of foreclosure procedures and loan
servicers, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America
Corp.,  Citigroup Inc .,  Wells Fargo & Co .,  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc ., U.S. Bancorp and  HSBC Holdings Plc .  For more, click here.  BlackRock, Futures Exchanges Balk at CFTC Block Trading Limit    BlackRock Inc ., CME Group Inc. and Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. are pressing the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to lower a proposed threshold for transactions that
occur on centralized futures markets.  The CFTC proposed that 85 percent of all transactions in a
futures contract must be done through a market’s central limit
order book system, with the remaining 15 percent allowed to be
done off-exchange in block trades. If a contract fails to meet
the threshold it would have to be taken off the exchange. The 
proposal  is meant to protect price discovery for futures by
limiting non-public block trading, according to the CFTC.  “The minimum trading threshold set by the Commission would
allow only the most liquid contracts to remain as futures,”
Audrey Hirschfeld, general counsel for Atlanta-based
Intercontinental Exchange, wrote in a  letter  to the CFTC dated
Feb. 22.  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset management firm,
suggested the CFTC lower the threshold to 75 percent in a Feb.
22  letter . Intercontinental agreed that a threshold of 75
percent would be more reasonable, according to its letter.  For more, click here.  Cablevision May Fall Short in Bid for U.S. Help in Fee Spats  Cablevision Systems Corp. and Time Warner Cable Inc. may
not gain the leverage they seek in fee fights with broadcasters
like the dispute with Fox that blocked World Series baseball
games from New York-area homes last fall.  The  Federal Communications Commission  is considering rules
that would leave out two provisions sought by cable companies:
mandatory binding arbitration of fee disputes and language
requiring broadcasters to keep airing programs on pay-TV systems
during negotiations. The proposed rules, which face an initial
vote next week, were described by two agency officials who spoke
anonymously because the proposal hasn’t been made public.  Cable companies and satellite TV providers Dish Network
Corp. and  DirecTV  want federal help after a year in which TV
blackouts reached the highest level in at least a decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three million viewers
in the New York and Philadelphia markets missed World Series
games during a two-week dispute between Cablevision and  News
Corp .’s Fox.  Broadcasters led by Fox,  CBS Corp .,  Walt Disney Co .’s ABC
and  Comcast Corp .’s NBC are set to increase the programming fees
they charge pay-television providers to $1.63 billion by 2015,
from $214.6 million in 2006, according to a study conducted for
satellite companies and for the National Cable &
Telecommunications Association. The Washington-based trade
group’s members include Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company.  For more, click here.  Boutiques Set to Capitalize on Del Monte ‘Slap’ at Wall Street  A Delaware judge’s public rebuke of Barclays Plc over
conflicts of interest in the sale of Del Monte Foods Co. may
become a calling card for boutique advisory firms such as
Rothschild and Greenhill & Co.  Barclays, which represented the fruit-juice and pet-food
company on its $5.3 billion sale to a KKR & Co.-led group,
deceived its client by failing to disclose until late in the
process plans to provide financing for the purchaser, Chancery
Court Judge J. Travis Laster said in a Feb. 14 opinion. Del
Monte would probably have hired another bank if it knew
Barclays, the U.K.’s third-largest bank, planned to “double-
dip” for fees by working for the buyers, he wrote.  Wall Street’s independent advisory firms may seize on the
judge’s conclusions, which Barclays denies, to woo clients from
the larger banks that advise on, structure and finance
takeovers. Laster’s opinion will probably spur company boards to
hire independent advisers earlier in the sale process and could
make it more difficult for banks that try to work for both
buyers and sellers, academics and dealmakers said.  “This is a real slap in the face for the industry,” said
Roy Smith, a finance professor at New York University’s Stern
School of Business in Manhattan. “It says the directors need to
ask more about what their bankers are doing than in the past.”    Lazard Ltd ., Greenhill & Co., and  Evercore Partners Inc .
are the largest publicly traded advisory firms that don’t have
big businesses underwriting stocks and bonds or lending money.
Closely held rivals include Rothschild North America Inc.,
Perella Weinberg Partners LP, and Moelis & Co. The firms are all
based in New York.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Winifred Jiau Pleads Not Guilty to Insider-Trading Charges  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant to Primary Global
Research LLC, pleaded not guilty to conspiracy and securities-
fraud charges as part of an insider-trading investigation.  Jiau, 43, passed inside information on to an unnamed hedge
fund portfolio manager and to Noah Freeman, the Boston hedge
fund manager who pleaded guilty Feb. 7 to securities fraud,
prosecutors said in an indictment made public yesterday in
federal court in New York.  Jiau passed tips on  Nvidia Corp . and  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd . to the two men, according to the indictment. She was
paid as much as $10,000 a month in return. Jiau, who is being
held in a federal jail in Manhattan, was originally charged Dec.
29 in a criminal complaint.  Her lawyer, Frederick Hafetz, declined to comment on the
indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 10-mj-02900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  MERS Can Foreclose in California, State Appeals Court Rules  Merscorp Inc., operator of the electronic-registration
system that contains about half of all U.S. home mortgages, has
the right to foreclose on defaulted borrowers in California, a
state appeals court ruled.  U.S. courts have differed in recent years on whether
Merscorp’s Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, or MERS,
unit has the right to bring a foreclosure action.  “Under California law MERS may initiate a foreclosure as
the nominee, or agent, of the noteholder,” California Court of
Appeal Justice Joan K. Irion in San Diego wrote in a Feb. 18
ruling.  Merscorp, based in Reston, Virginia, and owned by Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and other mortgage-
industry companies, said in a Feb. 16 announcement that it will
propose a rule change to stop members from foreclosing in its
name.  “It’s incorrect,” Ehud Gersten, the San Diego lawyer who
brought the suit on behalf of the borrower, Jose Gomes, said of
the ruling in a phone interview yesterday. “I disagree with it
completely.”  Gersten said he will appeal the decision.  The case is Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc., D057005,
California Court of Appeal (San Diego).  For more, click here.  Appeals Court Upholds Lower Court Ruling on Finra Damage Suits  An appeals court ruled that the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and present and former officers including
Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Mary Schapiro are
immune from lawsuits in connection with the creation of the
brokerage industry regulatory body.  The 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals let stand a district court
ruling related to the consolidation in 2007 of the National
Association of Securities Dealers Inc. with the regulatory arm
of the New York Stock Exchange to form Finra, according to a
decision filed Feb. 22 in Manhattan.  Standard Investment Chartered Inc. had appealed the lower-
court ruling, charging that officers of the NASD, of which it
was a member, had made misstatements related to a proxy
solicitation in 2006. NASD was amending its bylaws at the time
to make them conform with the New York Stock Exchange’s.
Standard claimed that the defendants misrepresented on the proxy
solicitation that a payment of no more than $35,000 could be
given to each member.  “We are pleased with the decision,” Nancy Condon, a
spokeswoman for Finra, said in an e-mail.  George Hill, chief executive of Costa Mesa, California-
based Standard Investment, didn’t immediately respond to
messages seeking comment.  The district court dismissed the lawsuit last March, ruling
that the defendants as “quasi-governmental organizations” and
their officers were entitled to immunity relating to the proxy.  Defendants in the suit included the NASD, the NYSE, Finra,
Schapiro, Richard Brueckner, chairman of Pershing LLC, and
Howard Schloss, a senior vice president at Finra. Schapiro was
CEO of the NASD in 2006 when it combined with the NYSE’s
regulatory body.  The case is Standard Investment Chartered Inc. v. NASD,
10-945, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  Bank of America Sued by Investors Seeking to Unload Loans    Bank of America Corp ., the biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
sued by investors in mortgage-backed bonds who are seeking to
force the bank to buy back loans underlying their securities.  Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit breached
representations and warranties about the loans, which it
originated, the investors said in the complaint filed yesterday
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Each of these breaches of representations and warranties
materially and adversely affected the interests of both the
trust and plaintiffs in those mortgage loans,” they said.  Defaults on mortgage loans have soared and mortgage
investors have demanded that banks buy back poorly performing
loans. So-called mortgage putbacks may cost banks and lenders as
much as $90 billion, JPMorgan bond analysts said in an October
report.  A separate group of mortgage-bond investors is fighting
with Bank of America over $47 billion of securities. The group,
which includes Pacific Investment Management Co., MetLife Inc.
and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said in October it was
considering declaring Bank of America in default of its loan-
servicing duties.  “There hasn’t been a lot of repurchase activity recently
in terms of lawsuits being filed but there’s been a lot more
activity going on behind the scenes with loan files being turned
over and looked through,” Isaac Gradman, a San Francisco-based
consultant and formerly a lawyer at Howard Rice Nemerovski
Canady Falk & Rabkin, said yesterday.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, declined to comment
immediately. Jerry Dubrowski, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t return a call seeking
comment. Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 650497-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  LaBranche Shareholders Sue to Stop Sale to Cowen Group  LaBranche & Co. shareholders sued to stop the market-
maker’s planned sale to financial services firm  Cowen Group
Inc ., saying they’re not getting fair value.  The deal is structured to deter competing bids and will
result in LaBranche stockholders ceding control for less than
the company’s true value, the investors said in a complaint
filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court.  “The proposed transaction is the product of a flawed
process that is designed to ensure the sale of LaBranche to
Cowen on terms preferential to Cowen, but detrimental” to
LaBranche shareholders, Stanley and Barbara Moskal said in their
complaint, which seeks class-action status.  Under the proposed deal announced Feb. 17, Cowen will
acquire LaBranche in an all-stock transaction. LaBranche
shareholders will receive 0.998 share of Cowen common stock for
each LaBranche share. LaBranche is a market-maker in options,
exchange-traded funds and futures.  Jeffrey McCutcheon, LaBranche’s chief financial officer,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Dan Gagnier, a
Cowen spokesman, declined to immediately comment. Both
companies, which are based in New York, were sued.  The case is Stanley Moskal v. LaBranche & Co. Inc.,
650472-2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 