-- 
Kissel, Assange, Credit Suisse, Goldman, J&J in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-02-24T13:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/credit-suisse-goldman-google-mazda-mers-j-j-in-court-news.html
  Nancy Kissel , accused of murdering
her banker husband, broke down in a Hong Kong court today after
saying that she wasn’t able to help their daughter and said she
tried to protect herself from abuse by spiking his drinks.  “I couldn’t do anything to help her,” she said after
telling the nine-member jury that Robert Kissel, then head of
the Asian distressed asset business of Merrill Lynch & Co.,
locked himself in their daughter’s room after the then 9-year-
old failed to make her bed. “It’s all my fault, everything. I
wasn’t strong enough.”  Kissel, whose guilty plea to manslaughter has been rejected
by prosecutors, was describing how her relationship with her
husband was “spiraling down” in the months before she killed
him in November 2003. Prosecutors say she deliberately drugged
and then bludgeoned him to death. She was the main beneficiary
of his $18 million estate and was having an affair at the time
of the killing, the jury has been told.  After talking about her daughter this morning Kissel looked
over her left shoulder at her mother in the public gallery and
apologized for not telling her, saying nobody would have
believed her.  Jane Clayton, Robert’s sister who had testified earlier in
the retrial for the prosecution, then walked out of the court.  Kissel’s lawyer  Edward Fitzgerald  then tried to ask her
about the electrical technician in Vermont that she had an
affair with, but Kissel continued to talk about her daughter.
Judge Andrew Macrae then adjourned the hearing for a recess.  Fitzgerald said in his opening statement on Feb. 22 that
the Michigan-born mother of three suffered from depression and
was provoked into the killing after years of abuse.  Kissel, 46, was convicted of murder in 2005 and sentenced
to life in prison. Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal ruled in
February 2010 the conviction was unfair and ordered a new trial.
The retrial began Jan. 11.  A manslaughter conviction may mean a sentence of eight to
12 years, Kissel’s lawyers have said. She has already served
more than six years in prison.  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in Hong
Kong’s High Court of First Instance.  New Suits  U.S. Indicts Four Swiss Bankers in Tax-Evasion Conspiracy Case  Four bankers who worked at  Credit Suisse Group AG  were
charged with conspiring to help U.S. clients evade taxes through
secret bank accounts, according to an indictment yesterday and
people familiar with the matter.  Marco Parenti Adami, Emanuel Agustoni, Michele Bergantino
and Roger Schaerer conspired with clients at “one of the
biggest banks in Switzerland,” according to an indictment in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. Zurich-based Credit
Suisse, the second-biggest bank in Switzerland, is the bank,
according to the people who requested anonymity because they
aren’t authorized to speak publicly about the indictment.  The bank’s managers in its cross-border business “knew and
should have known that they were aiding and abetting U.S.
customers in evading their U.S. income taxes,” according to the
indictment. In the fall of 2008, the bank had “thousands” of
accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, according to the indictment.  The scheme included setting up undeclared accounts
protected by Swiss bank secrecy, providing banking and
investment services in  New York  to holders of those accounts,
and having bankers provide unlicensed banking services to
customers they visited in the U.S., according to the indictment.  “We are cooperating with the authorities in their
investigation against these four individuals,” Marc Dosch, a
bank spokesman in Zurich, said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Marco Parenti Adami, 11-cr-95, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Bank of America Sued by Investors Seeking to Unload Loans    Bank of America Corp ., the biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
sued by investors in mortgage-backed bonds who are seeking to
force the bank to buy back loans underlying their securities.  Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit breached
representations and warranties about the loans, which it
originated, the investors said in the complaint filed yesterday
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Each of these breaches of representations and warranties
materially and adversely affected the interests of both the
trust and plaintiffs in those mortgage loans,” they said.  The lawsuit against Bank of America was filed as defaults
on mortgage loans soar and mortgage investors demand that banks
buy back poorly performing loans. So-called mortgage putbacks
may cost banks and lenders as much as $90 billion, JPMorgan bond
analysts said in an October report.  The plaintiffs in the New York lawsuit are a group of
limited liability companies with variations of the name Walnut
Place, according to the court filing. They also claimed in the
lawsuit that  Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the trustee for
investors, “unreasonably failed” to sue Bank of America to
force it to repurchase the loans.  The plaintiffs are suing on behalf of the trust that holds
the loans and which issued the mortgage bonds, according to the
court filing. The original balance of securitization involved in
the case was $2.8 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, declined to
immediately comment. Jerry Dubrowski, a spokesman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 650497-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  CVS Unit Sued by IMS Health Over Drug-Data Contracts  A unit of  CVS Caremark Corp ., the largest U.S. provider of
prescription drugs, was sued by market-intelligence firm IMS
Health Inc. for allegedly violating contracts to supply drug-
sales data.  IMS, based in Norwalk, Connecticut, is asking a Delaware
Chancery Court judge to force the CVS unit to comply with the
agreements. The contract terms weren’t disclosed in the
complaint, filed under seal in Wilmington on Feb. 7.  “IMS has suffered and is suffering injury, which can be
only incompletely compensated through a later award of
damages,” the company said in redacted court papers made public
yesterday.  More than 4 billion prescriptions are dispensed in the U.S.
annually, IMS said. It collects data from pharmacies for use by
drug companies, marketers and government agencies for research,
sales, compliance, safety and tracking disease.  CVS fills about 1 billion prescriptions a year, IMS lawyers
said in a filing. CVS, based in Woonsocket, Rhode Island, has
7,000 affiliated stores.  “We are aware that IMS Health has filed a breach of
contract action against various CVS Caremark entities,”
Christine Cramer, a spokeswoman for CVS, said in an e-mail.
“The company believes that the lawsuit is without merit and
intends to vigorously defend against IMS Health’s claims,”
Cramer said.  The case is IMS Health v. Caremark LLC, CA6174, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  LaBranche Shareholders Sue to Stop Sale to Cowen Group  LaBranche & Co. shareholders sued to stop the market-
maker’s planned sale to financial services firm  Cowen Group
Inc ., saying they’re not getting fair value.  The deal is structured to deter competing bids and will
result in LaBranche stockholders ceding control for less than
the company’s true value, the investors said in a complaint
filed Feb. 22 in New York State Supreme Court.  “The proposed transaction is the product of a flawed
process that is designed to ensure the sale of LaBranche to
Cowen on terms preferential to Cowen, but detrimental” to
LaBranche shareholders, Stanley and Barbara Moskal said in their
complaint, which seeks class-action status.  Under the proposed deal announced Feb. 17, Cowen will
acquire LaBranche in an all-stock transaction. LaBranche
shareholders will receive 0.998 share of Cowen common stock for
each LaBranche share. LaBranche is a market-maker in options,
exchange-traded funds and futures.  Jeffrey McCutcheon, LaBranche’s chief financial officer,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Dan Gagnier, a
Cowen spokesman, declined to immediately comment. Both
companies, which are based in New York, were sued.  The case is Stanley Moskal v. LaBranche & Co. Inc.,
650472-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  WikiLeaks’s Assange Should Be Extradited to Sweden  Julian Assange, founder of the anti-secrecy website
WikiLeaks, should be extradited from Britain to Sweden to face
questioning over sexual-assault allegations by two women, a U.K.
judge ruled.  District Judge Howard Riddle in London made the ruling
today and said Assange had seven days to appeal. Geoffrey
Robertson, one of Assange’s lawyers, said at the court hearing
he would appeal the ruling.  “It does not seem unreasonable to me” that the Swedish
prosecutor would request Assange’s presence in Sweden for
questioning “in a matter as serious as this,” Riddle said.  Assange was arrested in December after Sweden issued a so-
called European arrest warrant. The alleged sexual misconduct,
which two Swedish women claim took place in August, was revealed
as WikiLeaks drew condemnation for posting thousands of
classified U.S. military and diplomatic communications.
Assange’s lawyers are fighting the extradition and claim the
case may be politically motivated.  Winifred Jiau Bail Package Will Be Approved, U.S. Judge Says  A U.S. judge said he will approve a bail package for
Winifred Jiau, after saying the former consultant to  Primary
Global Research LLC  is a “flight risk” because of ties to her
native Taiwan.  U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson said yesterday he
would agree to release Jiau if she posts $50,000 cash and a
parcel of real estate worth an estimated $25,000 in addition to
a total of $500,000 assets to be posted by friends.  “I think that if the defendant puts up a sufficient amount
of cash in addition to the parcel of land that I would approve
the bail application,” Patterson said in a hearing yesterday.
“I do think that there is a risk of flight and therefore there
has to be a bond.”  In the hearing, Jiau, 43, pleaded not guilty to conspiracy
and securities-fraud charges contained in a federal indictment
made public yesterday. Jiau has been in custody since her arrest
in December on a criminal complaint with similar charges to
those contained in the indictment.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman argued against bail
for Jiau, telling Patterson she is likely to flee to Taiwan,
which Weitzman said doesn’t have an extradition treaty with the
U.S. Jiau has family in Taiwan and none in the U.S., he said.
Jiau lived in that country until she was 23 and again from 2004
to 2005, according to Weitzman.  Prosecutors claim that from 2006 to 2008 Jiau passed inside
information to an unnamed hedge fund portfolio manager and to
Noah Freeman, the Boston hedge fund manager who pleaded guilty
Feb. 7 to securities fraud.  Jiau passed tips on  Nvidia Corp . and  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd . to the two men, according to the indictment. She was
paid as much as $10,000 a month in return. Weitzman told
Patterson yesterday that Jiau received a total of $208,000 from
Primary Global in two years.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 10-mj-02900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Basis Seeks Order to Save Greywolf Documents in Goldman Suit  Basis Capital, an Australian hedge fund suing  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . over losses related to credit default swaps, sought a
court order to preserve documents held by Greywolf Capital
Management LP, a New York firm that advised on the investments.  Goldman Sachs had pitched Greywolf as “responsible for
initial asset selection” of mortgage securities making up the
“Timberwolf” collateralized debt obligation purchased by
Basis, according to documents filed in federal court in
Manhattan. Goldman Sachs actually had the right to reject any
security suggested by Greywolf, Basis said in the documents,
which refer to the hedge fund by its acronym BYAFM.  Basis “believes that Greywolf is likely to be in
possession of documents probative of BYAFM’s claims,” the
company said in the Feb. 17 filing, which was posted on the
court’s website Feb. 22.  Greywolf, based in Purchase, New York, is reducing the size
of its operation, as funds under management declined to $956
million in January from $3.5 billion in 2007 and the number of
investment professionals the firm employs dropped to 16 from 27
over the same time period, Basis said.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones had ordered a halt to
examination of documents in the case until she decides whether
the lawsuit should proceed. Goldman Sachs asked the judge in
September to throw out the lawsuit, claiming Basis made the deal
in Australia and can’t sue in the U.S. Jones’s decision is still
pending.  The case is Basis Yield v. Goldman Sachs, 1:10-cv-04537,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Abramovich Loses Bid to End Berezovsky’s Suit Over Sibneft  Roman Abramovich, the Russian billionaire who owns Chelsea
Football Club, lost a bid to dismiss a lawsuit filed in London
by his former business partner Boris Berezovsky over shares of
oil company OAO Sibneft.  The Court of Appeal in London upheld a March ruling saying
Berezovsky’s $3.5 billion lawsuit can go to trial. The three-
judge panel rejected all but one of Abramovich’s grounds for
appeal.  Berezovsky claims in the suit that Abramovich used
“threats and intimidation” to force him to sell Sibneft shares
at a fraction of their value. Berezovsky sold Abramovich the
Sibneft stake for $1.3 billion between 2001 and 2003. Then in
2005, Abramovich sold Sibneft to state-run OAO Gazprom for $13.1
billion. Berezovsky claims he lost as much as $4 billion on the
deal.  John Mann, a spokesman for Abramovich, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on yesterday’s ruling.
Efforts to reach him by phone weren’t successful.  “This is the second unsuccessful attempt by Mr. Abramovich
to stop this case,” Berezovsky’s lawyer Mark Hastings said in
an e-mailed statement. “It is another significant judgment and
we are all delighted with the result.”  The case is: Berezovsky v. Abramovich, 07-942, High Court
of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Google Belgian Copyright Appeal Could Decide European Policy    Google Inc . is fighting a Belgian ruling blocking it from
publishing links to local newspapers on its online news service
at a hearing yesterday that could decide the fate of search
engines and referencing services in Europe.  Google is appealing a 2007 Belgian court ruling that its
news search breached copyright laws, forcing it to remove links
and snippets of articles from French- and German-language
newspapers. The judge in that case “seemed to have badly
understood” the functioning of Internet search services,
Google’s lawyers said.  “This case will have serious consequences to the way
information is searched and managed” on the Internet, Eric
Valgaeren, one of the lawyers representing Google, told the
Brussels Court of Appeal yesterday. “A negative ruling would
put at risk all referencing services or even cause them to
disappear.”  The court should “put an end to the hypocritical
position” of the claimants and the “astronomical sums”
they’re seeking, Valgaeren, who works in the Brussels office of
law firm Stibbe, said at the hearing.  Copiepresse, a group that represents French and German-
language newspapers, and an association that represents
journalists on copyright issues, were among those that filed the
original lawsuit after Google News was introduced in Belgium in
2006. Newspapers lose advertising revenue when Google uses
snippets of their stories and direct links, said Flip Petillion,
a Brussels-based partner with Crowell & Moring LLP, who isn’t
involved in the matter.  For more, click here.  Roche Gave Accutane Warning, Lawyer Says in Actor’s Trial    Roche Holding AG  properly warned users that its Accutane
acne drug could cause inflammatory bowel disease, a lawyer told
a  New Jersey  jury hearing a Hollywood actor’s claims over the
medicine.  Roche included warnings in Accutane’s label that some users
suffered rectal bleeding, diarrhea and other indications of
bowel disease, Rod Richmond, one of the drugmaker’s lawyers,
said in opening statements yesterday in the trial of a lawsuit
brought by James Marshall, who played U.S. Marine Louden Downey
in the 1992 hit movie “A Few Good Men.”  “The warning was accurate,” Richmond told a state court
jury in Atlantic City, New Jersey. “The credible evidence will
show” that Roche properly warned Marshall and his doctors about
the drug’s health risks, he said.  Marshall, 44, a New Jersey native, is seeking at least $11
million in damages. The actor’s suit has been combined with
those of two other former Accutane users for trial.  Marshall’s portion of the case will feature testimony from
Hollywood celebrities such as Martin Sheen, Brian Dennehy and
Rob Reiner. They will testify that Marshall was headed for
stardom before bowel ailments allegedly caused by Accutane
forced doctors to remove his colon, Michael Hook, one of the
actor’s lawyers, said in his open statement Feb. 22.  The case is Greenblatt v. Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., ATL-
l-1246-06, New Jersey Superior Court, Atlantic County (Atlantic
City).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  U.S. Supreme Court Opens Automakers to Seatbelt Lawsuits  The U.S. Supreme Court opened the auto industry to new
lawsuits over seatbelt design, ruling that  Mazda Motor Corp .
must defend against claims pressed by the family of a woman
killed while riding in an MPV minivan.  The justices unanimously  said  yesterday that compliance
with a 1989 federal seatbelt regulation doesn’t shield a company
from claims that it should have installed a safer type of belt.
Justice Stephen Breyer wrote for the court that regulators
intended to set only a minimum standard.  The ruling, which directly applies to cars made prior to
2007, marks a change in the law in much of the country. Every
lower court to consider the issue had concluded that the federal
rules preempted suits by accident victims over seatbelt design.  The ruling scales back a 2000 decision that said federal
law insulates automakers from claims under state product-
liability law that they should have moved more quickly to
install air bags. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said in a concurring
opinion that lower courts had been reading too much into that
opinion.  The case is Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, 08-1314,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  MERS Can Foreclose in California, State Appeals Court Rules  Merscorp Inc., operator of the electronic-registration
system that contains about half of all U.S. home mortgages, has
the right to foreclose on defaulted borrowers in California, a
state appeals court ruled.  U.S. courts have differed in recent years on whether
Merscorp’s Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, or MERS,
unit has the right to bring a foreclosure action.  “Under California law MERS may initiate a foreclosure as
the nominee, or agent, of the noteholder,” California Court of
Appeal Justice Joan K. Irion in San Diego wrote in a Feb. 18
ruling.  Merscorp, based in Reston, Virginia, and owned by Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and other mortgage-
industry companies, said in a Feb. 16 announcement that it will
propose a rule change to stop members from foreclosing in its
name.  “It’s incorrect,” Ehud Gersten, the San Diego lawyer who
brought the suit on behalf of the borrower, Jose Gomes, said of
the ruling in a phone interview yesterday. “I disagree with it
completely.”  Gersten said he will appeal the decision.  The case is Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc., D057005,
California Court of Appeal (San Diego).  Abbott Wins Reversal of J&J’s $1.67 Billion Patent Victory    Abbott Laboratories , maker of the arthritis drug Humira,
succeeded in a bid to overturn a $1.67 billion patent-
infringement verdict won by  Johnson & Johnson .  The 2009 verdict, the largest patent-related damages award
in U.S. history, was  reversed yesterday  by the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, according to the
court’s website. The three-judge panel ruled the patent, co-
issued to New York University and J&J’s Centocor unit, is
invalid.  J&J, which sells the competing arthritis medicine Remicade,
had convinced a jury that Abbott infringed the patent, which J&J
said covered the human antibodies used in Humira. The appeals
court ruled that J&J’s patent application never described fully
human antibodies and said at most the claims “constitute a wish
list of properties” that such an antibody would have.  “The opinion confirms that you can’t claim what you didn’t
invent,” said William Lee of WilmerHale in Boston, who
represented Abbott in the case.  Rob Bazemore, president of the Centocor unit, said in a
statement the company is considering whether to ask the panel to
reconsider its decision or request that the case be heard by all
active judges of the court.  The case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, 10-1144,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories,
07cv139, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  For more, click here.  LabCorp Can Complete Purchase of Westcliff, Judge Rules  Laboratory Corp. of America can complete the purchase of
rival clinical-testing company Westcliff Medical Laboratories
Inc., a U.S. judge ruled, rejecting a challenge by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission.  U.S. District Judge Andrew J. Guilford in Santa Ana,
California, denied Feb. 23 the FTC’s request for a preliminary
injunction. The agency argued in court papers that the
transaction would harm competition in Southern California.  LabCorp, the second-largest independent clinical laboratory
in the U.S., agreed to buy Santa Ana-based Westcliff Medical for
$57.5 million in May.  “Based on the applicable facts and law concerning the
relevant markets and other issues, the court cannot conclude
that the FTC is likely to succeed on the merits,” Guilford
wrote in his 40-page decision.  The FTC in December filed for an injunction to prevent
Burlington, North Carolina-based LabCorp from merging with
Westcliff, claiming it would lead to higher prices and lower
quality in the Southern California market for clinical
laboratory-testing services sold to physician groups.  The FTC filed a motion to appeal the decision yesterday and
another request to prevent the transaction from being completed
until the appeal is decided, FTC spokesman Mitchell Katz said.  “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling,” FTC Bureau
of Competition Director Richard Feinstein said in an e-mailed
statement.  Steve Anderson, LabCorp’s director of investor relations,
didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Laboratory
Corporation of America, 10-cv-1873, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Santa Ana).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  SEC’s Top Lawyer Becker Sued for Inheriting Madoff Profits  David M. Becker, the departing chief lawyer at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, said he had no detailed
knowledge of how his parents came to earn $1.5 million from an
investment in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Becker and his brothers, who inherited the money upon his
mother’s death in 2004, were sued in bankruptcy court in New
York by the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, Irving H. Picard,
who seeks to recover the funds as a fictitious gain.  “It is true that my brothers and I were designated as co-
executors of my mother’s will, and it is also true that we were
the residual beneficiaries of my mother’s estate,” Becker, 63,
said yesterday in an e-mail. “I have no direct knowledge of any
of the other facts -- how and when the Madoff account was
opened, what was invested, and what was in the account when it
was liquidated.”  Becker, who had been the SEC’s general counsel from 1999 to
2002, returned to that role in 2009. At the time, the agency was
reeling from its failure to uncover the Madoff scandal before it
unraveled in 2008. Asked whether he disclosed his family’s
investment with Madoff when he rejoined the SEC, he said, “I
can’t discuss internal discussions.”  Becker is finishing his last week as general counsel and
senior policy adviser at the agency. A Feb. 1 announcement of
his pending departure from the SEC came eight days before the
date on a pre-trial summons from Picard that was served to
Becker and his brothers, William and Daniel.  Becker said the summons came in the mail “sometime late
last week” and that he had “no idea” when the case was filed.
He said his departure from the SEC post is “not remotely”
related to the Madoff lawsuit. It reflects the end of his “two-
year deal” with SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , he said.  Mark D. Cahn, a deputy general counsel, was promoted to
replace Becker. Cahn said he is set to start work on Feb. 28.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 