-- 
Cyprus Government Bond Ratings Downgraded to A2 at Moody’s

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T15:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/cyprus-government-bond-ratings-downgraded-to-a2-at-moody-s.html
Cyprus’s government bond ratings
were cut two steps to A2 from Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
citing the size of  government spending  and the affect of the
financial crisis on its debt.  “Given the rigid structure of government spending in
Cyprus, the deterioration in the government’s fiscal metrics
since the financial crisis is likely to be a lasting one,”
Moody’s said today in an e-mailed statement.  Wages for public workers and social transfers account for
two thirds of state spending and without reform, longer-term
deficit and debt reduction will be very difficult to achieve,
said Moody’s.  Moody’s placed Cyprus’s local and foreign currency bond
ratings on review on Jan. 13, citing issues including a
deterioration in government finances. The Cyprus government
forecasts the  budget deficit  will fall below 4 percent of gross
domestic product this year from about 5.5 percent in 2010, and
the ratio of public debt to GDP will peak at 61.6 percent before
dropping to 61.1 percent in 2012 and 59.4 percent in 2013.  “The government will continue its actions to resolve the
structural problems facing the economy, including the
continuation of its policy of reducing the number of civil
servants and constraining the state payroll,” the Nicosia-based  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement today after the
downgrade.  Cut Wages  Cyprus needs to cut wages of government workers immediately
and reduce their number by 1,000 a year to avert downgrades of
the country’s sovereign credit rating, Central Bank Governor
Athanasios Orphanides, who’s also a member of the European
Central Bank governing council, said Feb. 2.  “We certainly see debt levels rising fairly significantly
in some scenarios,” Sarah Carlson, vice president-senior
analyst in the sovereign-risk group of Moody’s said today in a
telephone interview. “Over the long-term the debt levels could
go quite a bit higher towards 70 or even 80 percent of GDP.”  Standard & Poor’s Rating Services cut Cyprus’s sovereign
rating by one notch, to A from A+, on Nov. 16, citing increased
vulnerability of the island’s financial system to Greece. In
May,  Greece  got a 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) rescue from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Greek Stress  If problems with the country’s exposure to Greece were to
“materially increase,” or public-sector payroll or social
transfers rise more quickly than they have in the past, Moody’s
said it could implement a further downgrade.  Moody’s said its decision to downgrade Cypriot bonds was
also influenced by Cypriot banks’ exposure to the
“macroeconomic stress of Greece,” which is “substantial.”  Although the banks’ current capital and liquidity levels
“are not a source of concern, the country’s credit profile is
affected by the banking sector’s large size relative to the size
of the economy,” according to the statement.  Cypriot bank assets are equivalent to about 650 percent of
the country’s GDP, while the three largest lenders have more
than 40 percent of their total lending in Greece, Moody’s said.  Moody’s also cited concerns over long-term competitiveness,
with wage rises in Cyprus outstripping productivity gains over
recent years and the key  tourism industry  facing heightened
competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  