-- 
Czech Property Investments Has Open Field in Foreigners’ Absence

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-02-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/czech-property-investments-has-open-field-in-foreigners-absence.html
Czech Property Investments AS  became
the country’s biggest acquirer of offices and retail buildings
last year. In most cases, it was the only bidder.  CPI, a Prague-based company owned by financier Radovan Vitek, accounted for 45 percent of all commercial-property
investments in the  Czech Republic  by volume, according to U.K.
broker  DTZ Holdings Plc . These acquisitions led to a 48 percent
surge in the value of transactions to 664 million euros ($915
million), up from a seven-year low of 450 million euros in 2009.  “Competition among buyers is very, very thin,” CPI Chief
Executive Officer Zdenek Havelka said in an interview. “The
limited pool of buyers looks rather carefully at each deal,
keeping prices from being driven up.”  CPI and investors such as Czech savings bank Ceska
Sporitelna AS’s Reico unit are taking advantage of the void left
by international buyers to purchase assets cheaply as the Czech
economic recovery and record-low interest rates increase the
appeal of higher-yielding assets. The share of commercial-
property acquisitions made by non-Czech companies fell to 32
percent last year from 82 percent in 2008, DTZ estimates, as
stagnant office rents made the market less attractive than
neighboring  Poland .  German investment funds Deka Immobilien and Degi, which in
2009 accounted for 42 percent of all deals by volume, made no
purchases last year, said Lenka Sindelarova, a Prague-based
analyst at the broker.  CPI started focusing on the real-estate market in 1998. The
company reported operating profit of 295 million koruna ($17
million) for the first half of 2010, down from 650.7 million
koruna a year ago, according to the company’s website.  Vitek offered to pay 1 billion koruna for Prague-based
lottery company Sazka AS, Hospodarske Noviny reported on Feb.
21, citing CPI’s owner.  Prime Rents  Rents for the best office properties in Prague and Budapest
were unchanged in 2010, while those in Warsaw climbed about 9
percent as foreign investors helped the proportion of empty
space drop to the lowest in the region, according to  CB Richard
Ellis Inc.  Prague’s rents have potential for “moderate
growth,” the Los Angeles-based broker said earlier this month.  CPI spent 10 billion koruna last year on 14 Czech purchases
including a building in the country’s capital occupied by  Siemens AG . In 2009, it made only one acquisition.  The Czech economy will expand by 1.75 percent this year,
the International Monetary Fund’s estimates. Benign inflation
would enable the country’s central bank to keep its main
interest rate at 0.75 percent until later this year, Danske Bank
A/S wrote in a Feb. 9 report.  Lower borrowing costs for local investors and the prospect
of a market rebound make real estate an attractive asset for
buyers, said Ales Michl, an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS.  ‘Lingering Risks’  “It’s a good buying opportunity now for insiders with a
good knowledge of the market,” Michl said in an e-mail.
“Still, there’re some lingering risks linked with a high  unemployment rate  and the possibility of forced sales which may
result in a double dip in prices.”  The prime initial yield, a measure of the relationship
between property prices and rental income, on Prague offices has
fallen to 6.5 percent from 7 percent in 2009, when property
prices slid as much as 20 percent, according to DTZ.  “Our clients, who invest in London and Paris, come to
Prague and expect a premium because the region is perceived as
riskier,” said Tomas Picha, Prague-based property acquisitions
manager for emerging  Europe  at U.S. investment company  Invesco
Ltd . “They only want absolute no-brainers here.”  Invesco manages $817 billion of assets globally and owns
Czech properties including Slovansky Dum, the glitzy five-story
shopping mall and office space in the Prague’s tourist center.
Invesco has made no acquisitions in the country since 2008 and
sold a 29 million-euro office building to CPI last year.  Investment Plans  By contrast, CPI plans to invest about 12 billion koruna in
Czech real estate this year, according to Havelka. Other Czech
real estate buyers include  Reico  and  Prazska Sprava Nemovitosti .  Real estate may offer better value than domestic bonds,
said Stepan Mikolasek, who helps oversee 140 billion koruna ($8
billion) as chief portfolio manager at  Investicni Spolecnost
Ceske Sporitelny AS  in Prague. The yield on benchmark 10-year
bonds has risen to 4 percent from a five-year low of 3.2 percent
in September.  ISCS, the Czech investment arm of Vienna-based  Erste Group
Bank AG , has tripled its exposure to real estate in the past two
years to about 3.75 percent of all holdings in mixed-asset
funds, Mikolasek said in an e-mail.  “Even if prices stay flat, this still makes properties an
attractive investment,” he said.  CPI, Reico and other Czech investment firms are cherry-
picking Prague’s prime projects including  Melantrich , the 1913
building on Prague’s Wenceslas Square from which Vaclav Havel
spoke to crowds during the 1989 Velvet Revolution.  Still, last year’s sales of commercial real estate had
about half the average transaction volume between 2004 and 2008
and will probably be little changed this year, according to DTZ.  ‘Lack of Quality’  “There is only a limited number of high-quality projects
available on the market now,” said Jan Kovarinsky, an
investment associate at  King Sturge LLP  in  Prague .  That may change in a year or two, when the economic
recovery and corporate activity pick up, industry executives
including CPI’s Havelka said.  “When the German funds return, we will be in a standard
environment where properties trade on the market and new
projects are being built,” Havelka said. “But that’s not going
to happen this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 