-- 
Daimler, Audi Hire Thousands of Workers on `Sustainable' Luxury-Car Demand

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-02-24T11:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/daimler-audi-bmw-hiring-to-meet-expected-sustainable-demand-for-luxury.html
  Daimler AG , Audi AG and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG , the three largest luxury-car makers, will hire
thousands of workers this year as they develop electric vehicles
and expand factories to meet growing U.S. and Chinese demand.  Daimler will recruit more than 10,000 people in 2011 to
staff a new Mercedes-Benz car factory in Hungary and expand
truck capacity in  North America , the Stuttgart, Germany-based
company said today. Audi will add 2,000 employees and BMW will
hire 1,300, spokesmen for the carmakers said.  Mercedes, BMW and Audi are targeting record deliveries this
year on recovering U.S. spending and growing Chinese wealth.
Daimler, also the world’s largest truckmaker, forecasts 2011
heavy truck sales will increase as much as 25 percent in North
America and 20 percent in Europe.  “It’s a signal of confidence in the sustainability of the
recovery,” said  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst with Commerzbank in
Frankfurt. “You don’t hire people for two-to-three months.”    Volkswagen AG ’s Audi is adding the employees to develop
electric vehicles and roll out new models, spokesman Juergen De Graeve said by phone from Ingolstadt, Germany. BMW plans to hire
the people to support development, purchasing and sales, said  Mathias Schmidt , a BMW spokesman in Munich.  Daimler, which employs 260,100 people, will start producing
two new compact Mercedes models in 2012 at a plant in Kecskemet
in central Hungary and plans to hire 1,500 people for the 800
million-euro ($1.1 billion) factory this year.  Daimler Expansion  The company, the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty
vehicles, is also opening a truck factory near Chennai, India,
and will expand production at plants in  Mexico  that make
Freightliner models. Daimler will hire 1,300 people for U.S.
truck factories. About 400 people are being hired in  China  to
support sales growth after deliveries more than doubled last
year, spokeswoman Dominique Albrecht said.  “We are growing in many regions of the world and want to
compete for the best personnel everywhere,” Wilfried Porth,
Daimler’s human resources chief, said in the statement.  Audi, which plans to add six models in the next five years,
will offer 200 temporary workers at German facilities in
Neckarsulm and Ingolstadt permanent contracts, the company said.  “Never in our history have so many new models rolled out
in such a short time frame,” Thomas Sigi, Audi’s personnel
chief, said in a statement.  The VW unit, which aims to overtake BMW as the world’s top
high-end carmaker by 2015, is hiring about 1,200 engineers and
computer specialists as well, chiefly to support electric-car
development, De Graeve said. The company, which employs 46,700
people, also typically takes on 700 trainees a year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 