-- 
De Villiers's Run-a-Ball 107 Propels South Africa to Cricket World Cup Win

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-02-24T21:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/de-villiers-s-run-a-ball-107-lifts-south-africa-to-cricket-world-cup-win.html
AB  de Villiers  hit 107 off 105 balls
to propel South Africa to a seven-wicket victory over West
Indies in the teams’ opening game at the Cricket World Cup.  West Indies made 222 all out in 47.3 overs after being sent
in to bat yesterday as leg-spinner Imran Tahir took four wickets
on his one-day international debut. South Africa finished on
223-3 in 42.5 overs in the Group B match in New Delhi.  “I’m very, very happy with my innings,” De Villiers said
at the post-match presentation ceremony. “I wasn’t timing it in
the nets the last week but luckily it came together.”  West Indies, which won the first two editions of cricket’s
four-yearly championship in 1975 and 1979, suffered an early
setback when Chris Gayle was caught by Jacques Kallis off Johan
Botha on the third ball of the match.  Devon Smith and Darren Bravo took the score to 113 when
Bravo, on 73, was trapped leg-before-wicket by Botha. Tahir then
struck twice to dismiss Smith, on 36, and Ramnaresh Sarwan (2)
to reduce West Indies to 120-4.  Dwayne Bravo hit 40 in 37 balls before he was run out with
the score at 178-5. Shivnarine Chanderpaul made 31 and the last
four wickets fell for 9 runs. Tahir claimed 4-41 and fast bowler
Dale Steyn 3-24.    South Africa  lost Hashim Amla and Jacques Kallis within
five overs to fall to 20-2 in its run chase. Captain Graeme Smith and De Villiers then shared 119 for the third wicket
before Smith was bowled by Kieron Pollard. De Villiers and JP
Duminy, who hit an unbeaten 42, guided the Proteas to the
victory target after a brief interruption for rain.  Sweet Striker  “We haven’t played in like 19 days, so today was good for
us,” Smith said. “AB hit the ball incredibly sweetly, he
controlled the game incredibly well for us.”  Fourth-ranked South Africa, which has never won the
competition, next plays the Netherlands in Mohali on March 3.
West Indies, ranked eighth, also meets the Dutch next, in  New
Delhi  on Feb. 28.  “We’ll go back, look at the drawing board and come back
against the Netherlands,” West Indies captain Darren Sammy said.
“Any time we seemed like we were getting on top we lost wickets
in clusters. We have to correct that.”  Two matches are scheduled today. Top-ranked  Australia  faces  New Zealand  in Nagpur,  India , before Ireland plays its first
game of the tournament against co-host  Bangladesh  in Dhaka.  The top four teams from each of the two seven-team groups
advance to the quarterfinals after a round-robin competition.
The tournament, co-hosted by India,  Sri Lanka  and Bangladesh,
ends April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  