-- 
Deron Williams Says He's Not Ready to Make Long-Term Commitment to Nets

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T21:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/deron-williams-says-he-s-not-ready-to-make-long-term-commitment-to-nets.html
  Deron Williams  said he is unwilling
to give any assurances about signing a long-term contract with
the  New Jersey Nets , although he’s excited to be the newest
member of the franchise.  Williams, a two-time All-Star point guard, was traded
yesterday from the Utah Jazz for rookie Derrick Favors, the No.
3 pick in the 2010 National Basketball Association draft; guard
Devin Harris; and first-round draft selections in 2011 and 2012.  Williams can opt out of his contract before the 2012-13
season, when the Nets are scheduled to move to a new arena in
the  Brooklyn .  He said today that he was impressed New Jersey would give
up so much to acquire him and that there is a “strong
possibility” he’ll be with the franchise in the long term. He
said he plans to see how the next season unfolds before making
any decisions.  “I’m just looking forward to the opportunity right now,”
Williams said today at his introductory news conference at the
Nets’ training facility in East Rutherford,  New Jersey . “I
can’t really give any assurances or say that I’ll be here, when
I don’t know what the future holds.”  Williams said he found out about his trade to the Nets the
same way many fans did, by watching television. Initial media
reports suggested he wasn’t happy about the move.  “It wasn’t that I wasn’t happy, I was just shocked,”
Williams said. “It was very unexpected. You don’t hear any
rumors and then all of the sudden you’re getting treatment with
your teammates and you learn that you just got traded.”  Missing Anthony  The move came after New Jersey lost out on acquiring Denver
Nuggets’ All-Star forward  Carmelo Anthony , who instead was
traded to the  New York Knicks , the Nets’ rivals who play at
Madison Square Garden in  Manhattan .  New Jersey responded with the acquisition of Williams,
while surrendering less than they were offering for Anthony.  Nets General Manager Billy King said he talked to Kevin O’Connor, the vice president of basketball operations for the
Jazz, the day after missing out on Anthony. Discussions for
Williams began then and by the following morning the teams had
agreed to terms.  “He was the one guy I knew we needed to have on our
roster,” King said.  Williams will make his debut for the Nets -- wearing No. 8
-- tomorrow at the  San Antonio Spurs . His first game at the
Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, is Feb. 28 against the  Phoenix Suns .  Williams is averaging 21.3 points and 9.7 assists per game
this season. The assist total ranks third in the NBA behind the
Boston Celtics’ Rajon Rondo and Suns’ Steve Nash.  ‘Nervous’ About Nets  The Nets, 17-40 this season, last made the playoffs in
2007.  “I’d be lying if I didn’t say that I was a little nervous
going to a team that was 17-40,” Williams said. “That was my
first process. Once I talked to Billy, it reassured how
committed they were and got me excited.”  Anthony signed a contract extension before his move to New
York. Williams, 26, would be owed $17.8 million for 2012-13 if
he doesn’t terminate his contract after next season,, according
to the  New York  Times. He’s not eligible to sign a contract
extension until after the NBA’s collective bargaining agreement
with its players union expires on June 30. The next labor accord
may include financial incentives to players or protections for
teams such as a “franchise tag” to keep star players from
opting for free agency.  “I’m going to wait and see how the next season goes, and
from there I’ll decide,” Williams said.  Williams, selected third in the 2005 draft out of the
University of  Illinois , has averaged 17.3 points and 9.1 assists
a game during his NBA career. He was named to the past two All-
Star Games.  Williams said he had yet to speak to Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov , who King said was heli-skiing in  Vancouver .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  East Rutherford , New Jersey, at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 