-- 
SEC Lawyer’s Role in Madoff Case Questioned by Lawmakers

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-24T21:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/details-on-sec-lawyer-s-role-in-madoff-case-sought-by-lawmakers.html
U.S. House Republicans asked
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to
disclose details of the participation of the agency’s chief
lawyer in the investigation of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  The SEC said today that the agency’s departing general
counsel, David M. Becker, didn’t recuse himself from the Madoff
probe after he and his brothers inherited about $2 million in
2004 from their mother’s investment with the jailed financier.  Becker sought an opinion from the SEC’s ethics office
“shortly after his return to the agency in 2009” about the
family Madoff account,  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a
statement. The ethics office told Becker he didn’t need to
disqualify himself from “participation in certain Madoff-
related matters,” Nester said.  Becker said yesterday that he learned through a summons
last week that he and his two brothers were sued in  bankruptcy
court  in  New York  by Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s firm, who seeks to recover $1.5 million of the
inheritance as a “fictitious” gain.  House Financial Services Chairman  Spencer Bachus  and three
senior members of his panel sent Schapiro a letter today
requesting information on any meetings between Becker and
Madoff, as well as whether he prepared “any legal memoranda, or
provided counsel to any SEC employees about any matters”
involving Madoff’s firm.  No Meetings  “Mr. Becker is not aware of ever having met with Madoff,”
Nester said, declining to comment on any other specifics in the
Republicans’ letter.  The lawmakers also asked for information and documentation
about Becker’s involvement in the Madoff case, including “all
meetings with the  Department of Justice , the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation, Mr.  Irving Picard  or any Madoff
victims.”  Becker and his brothers inherited the money upon their
mother’s death in 2004. Becker, who previously announced he
would be leaving the SEC at the end of this week, said yesterday
he had no detailed knowledge of his parents’ investment with
Madoff and didn’t learn of the lawsuit before receiving the
summons last week.  His departure from the SEC isn’t connected to Picard’s
lawsuit, Becker said yesterday. He declined to discuss his
conversations with SEC officials about the matter.  Becker, who had been the SEC’s general counsel from 1999 to
2002, returned to that role in 2009. At the time, the agency was
reeling from its failure to uncover the Madoff scandal before it
unraveled in 2008.  The congressional letter was co-signed by Representatives
Randy Neugebauer of Texas and  Scott Garrett  of New Jersey, two
subcommittee chairmen on the panel, as well as panel Vice-
Chairman Jeb Hensarling of Texas. The lawmakers requested a
response by March 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  