-- 
Dish Network Slumps After Losing More Subscribers Than Analysts Predicted

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-02-24T21:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/dish-net-income-rises-41-in-fourth-quarter-beating-analysts-estimates.html
  Dish Network Corp ., the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, declined in Nasdaq
trading after losing more customers than some analysts
predicted.  The number of subscribers fell by 156,000 in the fourth
quarter, Dish’s worst quarterly performance ever. Marci Ryvicker, an analyst at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  New York ,
predicted the company would lose 30,000 customers.  Chief Executive Officer Charlie Ergen is trying to lure
budget-conscious consumers away from rivals by projecting his
company as the lowest-cost pay-TV provider. The worst economic
crisis in more than 70 years and a resulting increase in
unemployment hurt Englewood, Colorado-based Dish more than
larger rival DirecTV, which targets affluent customers through
its credit checks and premium offerings.  “Results reported by  Dish Network  bear almost no
resemblance to the stellar quarterly performance reported by
peer DirecTV just a day ago,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. “They are operating in
different customer segments --  DirecTV  the high end and Dish low
-- but might as well be operating on different planets.”  DirecTV added 289,000 U.S. users last quarter, more than
analysts predicted, while beating profit and sales estimates.  Dish fell 31 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $22.62 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have risen
15 percent this year.  The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 9 percent in January
from 9.4 percent in December. Still, it has been at 9 percent or
higher since May 2009, the longest period of elevated
joblessness since monthly records began in 1948.  Fee Dispute  Ergen blamed the subscriber losses on a combination of a
sluggish economy, a blackout of some News Corp. channels,
heightened competition and poor execution by the company’s
management. In October, Dish got into a program-fee dispute with  News Corp . that resulted in Fox’s local sports networks, FX, and
National Geographic going dark on the satellite-operator’s
systems for about a month.  “The programming interruptions clearly are a factor not
only on churn but also gross adds and new activations,” Ergen
said today on the company’s conference call. “Secondly, I would
say we continue to operate in a challenging competitive and
economic environment.”  EchoStar, TerreStar  Dish agreed to buy DBSD North America Inc. for about $1
billion this month after fighting that company’s bankruptcy plan
in court.  Meanwhile, another satellite company whose chairman Ergen
is,  EchoStar Corp ., is trying to gain ownership of TerreStar
Networks Inc. for its spectrum. Ergen could lease the spectrum
Dish owns, along with TerreStar and DBSD, to wireless-service
providers or use it to offer service packages that could compete
with cable operators like  Comcast Corp .  Dish’s offer to buy DBSD and Echostar’s bid on TerreStar
are independent of one another, Ergen said on today’s call. Dish
bought DBSD because spectrum is an "attractive asset," he said.  Ergen "views spectrum as a high value asset -- it sounds
more like an investment that can be used to add strategic value
versus any big buildout," Ryvicker said. Ryvicker had previously
speculated that Dish could build a wireless network with the
companies’ combined spectrum assets.  Separately, EchoStar agreed to purchase satellite-broadband
provider Hughes Communications Inc. for about $1.32 billion on
Feb. 14, making it the second satellite deal for Ergen in two
weeks and giving Dish the ability to offer broadband services as
soon as the deal closes.  Dish’s net income rose to $252 million, or 56 cents a
share, from $178.9 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey projected 53 cents on average.  Sales advanced 8 percent in the quarter to $3.21 billion,
compared with analysts’ $3.2 billion average estimate.  (Dish held a conference today to discuss its results. To
listen to a replay, go to  http://dish.client.shareholder.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  