-- 
Hollywood Studios Lose Appeal on Australian Piracy Lawsuit

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-02-24T06:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/disney-viacom-lose-bid-to-hold-internet-provider-liable-for-users-piracy.html
  Walt Disney Co . and Viacom Inc.’s  Paramount Pictures  are among Hollywood’s biggest movie studios
that lost a piracy lawsuit in Australia as an appeals court
upheld a ruling that a local internet provider wasn’t
responsible for customers illegally downloading films.  The Federal Court of Australia Full Court, in a two-one
decision, today upheld Judge  Dennis Cowdroy ’s Feb. 4, 2010,
verdict that vindicated  iiNet Ltd . The studios can appeal the
ruling to the country’s High Court and a notice must be filed
within 28 days, unless an extension is sought.  Village Roadshow Ltd.’s Roadshow Films led the companies
trying to stop iiNet customers from using BitTorrent software to
illegally download copyrighted films, in a precedent-setting
case for all Internet providers in  Australia . A ruling in the
studios’ favor would have made all Internet providers liable for
their customers’ conduct.  “The evidence supports a conclusion that iiNet
demonstrated a dismissive and, indeed, contumelious, attitude to
the complaints of infringement,” Judge Arthur Emmett wrote.
“Its conduct did not amount to authorization of the primary
acts of infringement on the part of iiNet users.”  iiNet rose 2 percent to A$2.55 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading on the Australian Stock Exchange, reversing an earlier
decline of 1.6 percent. The stock has slid 12 percent this year,
compared with a 1.4 percent gain for the S&P/ASX 200 index.  Also appealing Cowdroy’s ruling were  Time Warner Inc .’s
Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Film
Corp., a unit of  News Corp ., and 30 other entities who owned or
had exclusive licenses to commercially released films.  Future Lawsuits  Today’s victory for iiNet doesn’t protect Internet
providers from future lawsuits and that they may be found
liable, Emmett said.  “It does not necessarily follow from the failure of the
present proceeding that circumstances could not exist whereby
iiNet might in the future be held to have authorized primary
acts of infringement,” Emmett wrote.  The  case  is Roadshow Films Pty. Ltd. v iiNet Ltd.
NSD179/2010, Federal Court of Australia (Sydney.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at  