-- 
DnB NOR, NordLB, UniCredit Will Increase Shipping-Finance Deals

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/dnb-nor-nordlb-unicredit-will-increase-shipping-finance-deals.html
  DnB NOR ASA ,  Norway ’s largest
lender, Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale and  UniCredit SpA 
will increase shipping finance to meet demand for more vessels
as the industry recovers from the global financial crisis.  The shipping portfolio for NordLB, based in Hanover,
Germany, may increase between 8 percent and 9 percent this year,
Oliver Faak, managing director for the bank’s German shipping
unit, said in an interview in Hamburg yesterday. UniCredit’s
German division is likely to expand its portfolio by 5 percent
to 10 percent, Holger Janssen, head of global shipping at
UniCredit Bank AG in Hamburg, said. Oslo-based DnB also plans an
increase.  “We expect even more this year,” than in 2010, Susanne
Mertens, a Hamburg-based vice president of DnB’s Shipping,
Offshore & Logistics unit said, adding it had 150 shipping-
financing deals with a total value of $6 billion last year.
“The container market is more or less out of the crisis and
demand is going up in other sectors too,” she said. “We see a
few challenges in tanker and bulk, as supply is still higher
than demand.”  Shipping companies struggled during the global financial
crisis as cargo volumes slumped, cutting charter rates and asset
values, and hurting banks. The economic decline caused NordLB
and HSH Nordbank AG,  Germany ’s largest shipping lender, to
restructure shipping activities in the past two years.  NordLB is expanding in Hamburg and Asia to capture an
increase in demand, Faak said. The Hamburg office, with five
employees in shipping finance, will hire two people by the end
of the third quarter and may add more employees, he said. The
bank also will expand its Singapore operations, Faak said.  NordLB’s Portfolio  NordLB’s shipping portfolio was reduced by 10 percent
during the global financial crisis as customers repaid loans and
the bank stopped new lending to shipping companies, Faak said.  “That represents the capacity we have for new business and
we are now moving from a restructuring mode into a more
business-related mode, as we have seen the peak of the
reorganization,” Faak said. “We’ll concentrate on new business
opportunities, and are looking to acquire new customers.”  The bank, which sees its shipping portfolio expanding 6
percent to 7 percent in 2012, will focus on specialized tonnage,
mainly in the offshore industry, and also sees lending
opportunities in the container market, he said. There may also
be “selective cases” in the dry-bulk and tanker industries,
Faak said.  Stronger ‘Footprint’  “We are underrepresented in Hamburg and want to strengthen
our footprint here, and we are also underrepresented in Greece
and in  Asia ,” Faak, whose unit has a shipping portfolio of 11.2
billion euros ($15.4 billion), said. “Clearly, demand for
shipping finance is picking up again. We have seen the worst,
although the sector has not recovered fully yet.”  Ship construction, purchases of older vessels and money
needed for mergers and acquisitions is driving the demand for
financing, Andreas Oestern, a vice president at DnB’s shipping
division in Oslo, said in an interview in Hamburg. Banks’
capacity to finance the building of new ships has increased, as
many loans given in the past few years have now been repaid,
Oestern said.  The offshore market will “drive a lot of the activity”
this year, as it did last year, and DnB sees potential for deals
anywhere there is oil, including in  Brazil ,  Vietnam , west
Africa,  China , western  Europe  and the U.S., DnB’s Mertens said.  ‘Strong Deal Activity’  There has been “strong deal activity” in Greece in 2010
and early this year as shipowners purchase new and, in
particular, second-hand vessels, Janssen of  UniCredit Bank AG 
said. Asia and the offshore industry are active markets, he
said.  “We’re not going to go out to grab market share, but what
we will do is replenish our portfolio, which in the last couple
of years has come down naturally from amortization, refinancing
and relatively little new lending activities,” Janssen said.  HSH Nordbank is ready to start lending again after a
restructuring in the past two years, Robin Das, the bank’s head
of global shipping, said yesterday in an interview in Hamburg.  “We’re open for new business and we have started talking
to our customers,” Das said. “In the short-term we will focus
on existing clients -- we owe it to them, because we have not
been able to serve them the way we wanted to during the
restructuring and they have been a bit neglected, so we’ll start
a dialogue with them first. We will also look at new clients.”  The bank will finance deals in Asia, where it has hired a
new head of Asian shipping, and in markets where it is “well-
established,” including  Greece , the  Nordic countries , the U.S.
and Germany, said Das. Nordbank, whose shipping portfolio
represents about 20 percent of the lender’s core balance sheet,
doesn’t plan to increase the portfolio’s size and will “keep it
roughly where it is now,” said Das.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  