-- 
Dubai Shares Drop a Fourth Day This Week as Arab Unrest Worsens

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-24T14:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/dubai-shares-drop-a-fourth-day-this-week-as-arab-unrest-worsens-du-falls.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
retreated for a fourth time this week as unrest in the Middle
East escalated, driven by violence in Libya. Tunisian stocks
slid for a fourth day.    Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co ., the United Arab
Emirates’ second-biggest phone company known as Du, declined to
a five-week low.  Emirates NBD PJSC , the country’s largest bank
by assets, dropped 3.2 percent. The  DFM General Index  retreated
1.3 percent to 1,479.61 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai, bringing
the loss for the week to 7.2 percent. Bahrain’s measure fell 2.7
percent, the most since April 2009, led by Ahli United Bank BSC.  “Investor worries are increasing as the situation worsens
and naturally they won’t want to enter markets in a region as
politically unstable as this one,” said Waleed Al Khateeb,
senior finance manager at Dubai-based Daman Securities LLC.
“The impact the unrest will have on the Gulf Cooperation
Council is still unclear” after protests spread to  Bahrain .  With Qaddafi employing more force to quash revolts than
leaders in other Arab countries engulfed by mass demonstrations,
analysts said the nation could descend into civil war. Oil
surged to $100 a barrel in New York for the first time in two
years yesterday on concern violence may spread to other
producers in the region.  Anti-government protests, ignited by the ouster of
Tunisia’s president last month and Egypt’s president on Feb. 11,
also have spread to Yemen, Algeria, Iran and Morocco. Credit-
default swaps on Bahrain’s government debt dropped 12 basis
points to 304, according to London-based data provider CMA.  Boosting Spending  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah yesterday boosted spending on
housing by 40 billion riyals ($10.7 billion) and the social
security budget was raised by 1 billion riyals. The budget
increases came after analysts warned of the risk of unrest
spreading to the kingdom, the world’s biggest oil exporter. The
bourse is closed today for the weekend and will remain shut Feb.
26 to mark the king’s return.  Crude rose as much as 5.4 percent to $103.41 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Ahli United, which makes up more than a fifth of Bahrain’s
benchmark index, lost 7 percent to 73 cents.  Standard & Poor’s 
said Feb. 22 the credit rating of the island nation’s largest
bank by market value may be lowered.  Du retreated 3 percent to 2.96 dirhams, the lowest since
Jan. 16. Emirates NBD dropped the most since Feb. 20 to 3.05
dirhams.  Egypt GDRs  Egypt’s stock exchange, closed since the end of trading on
Jan. 27, will decide on Feb. 27 when it will resume trading,
Chairman Khaled Seyam said in a telephone interview today. The
North African country’s dollar bonds rose. The yield on the 5.75
percent debt due April 2020 fell 7 basis points to 6.84 percent,
at 1:57 p.m. in  London .  Global depositary receipts of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE ,
the biggest mobile phone network operator in the Middle East by
subscribers, retreated 3.9 percent, the most since Feb. 11, in
London trading. GDRs of Orascom Construction Industries, Egypt’s
largest publicly traded builder, slid 7 percent.  “We’re seeing continued protests here, which is making
people nervous,” said Ashraf Akhnoukh, senior equity sales
trader at Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.
“In Libya, it’s a disaster and it’s weighing heavily on
everyone in the region, especially Egypt because of the shared
border.”  Tunisia’s Tunindex retreated 2.5 percent in Tunis, bringing
the drop since this week to 7.4 percent. Morocco’s stock index
advanced 1.1 percent, paring the decline for the week to 1.1
percent.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index  lost 0.1 percent. Benchmark measures in  Kuwait  and  Abu Dhabi  rose 0.2 percent, while Qatar’s  QE Index 
gained 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  