-- 
Hedge Fund Born in Senator's Basement After Son Has D.E. Shaw Internship

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/hedge-fund-born-in-senator-s-basement-after-son-has-d-e-shaw-internship.html
U.S. Senator Ron Wyden has a new
hedge fund in his basement. That doesn’t mean he’s getting in on
the ground floor.  His son, Adam, started a fund under the name ADW Capital
Partners LP that he runs from the Wyden family’s residence in
Washington, according to a private placement  notice  filed last
month with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund
is modeled after the investment partnership billionaire  Warren Buffett  ran in the 1950s and 1960s before acquiring  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc ., Adam Wyden said in an interview.  The younger Wyden, whose father hasn’t invested in the
fund, is among the first generation of post-crash money
managers, many of whom must keep a lid on expenses in the face
of a difficult money-raising environment. Before graduating last
year from  Columbia University ’s business school in New York with
a master’s degree, Adam Wyden worked as an intern at the $19
billion hedge fund founded by David Shaw, a Democratic
fundraiser who backed Ron Wyden’s campaigns in 2004 and 2010.  “Right now it’s just me,” Adam Wyden, 26, said when
reached at the Wydens’ house in the Palisades neighborhood of  Washington , from where he’s been running his $3 million fund
since September. “I am the CEO, I am the secretary, and I am
the chief marketing officer.”  Ron Wyden, a Democrat from  Oregon  who serves on the tax-
writing finance committee, moved to Washington after winning a
seat in the  House of Representatives  in 1980. Wyden, elected to
the Senate in 1996, said that while he hasn’t invested in the
new fund, he supports his son’s career choice.  ‘Conservative’ Investing  “I just want my kid to be happy,” the 61-year-old Senator
said in a telephone interview. “If this is the career he wants,
I am all for it.”  ADW seeks to produce high risk-adjusted returns through
“conservative equity investing” in small, under-followed
businesses in the U.S.,  Canada  and Western Europe, according to
an investor presentation. The fund, modeled after the philosophy
and structure of Buffett Partnership Ltd., will charge the
standard management fee of 2 percent a year along with 20
percent of profits, according to the presentation.  The number of hedge-fund start-ups shrank to 715 during the
first nine months of 2010 from a peak of 2,073 in all of 2005,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The industry
lost $131.2 billion to net redemptions in 2009 in the wake of
the global financial crisis, then took in $55.5 billion of new
capital last year, still below the high of $194.5 billion added
in 2007, HFR said.  Best Trade  Wyden’s best personal trade last year was an investment in  IDT Corp . starting in February, when the  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
telecommunications company traded at an average of $4.84 a
share, he said. IDT now is at $23.90.  Adam Wyden, a self-described “serial entrepreneur” with  office space  in the basement and second floor of the family
home, began trading stocks for his own account while attending
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School as an
undergraduate from 2002 to 2006, where he earned degrees in
economics and management. In 2005, he landed a paid summer
internship at D.E. Shaw & Co., working as an analyst on what he
described as a $700 million long-short fund that bet on and
against media, technology and telecommunications stocks.  “Not many college kids get to intern on a D.E. Shaw
portfolio for the summer,”  Brian Marshall , who ran the D.E.
Shaw fund and now works as a senior analyst in the San Francisco
office of investment bank Gleacher & Co., said in an interview.  ‘Rigorous Vetting’  Kari Elassal, a spokeswoman for New York-based D.E. Shaw,
confirmed in an e-mail that Adam Wyden worked there as a stock
analyst during his internship. While Wyden was the only intern
that summer in D.E. Shaw’s long-short technology group, the firm
had a number of paid interns in other departments that year,
Elassal said. It has hired about 160 interns to date, she said.  “Adam went through the same rigorous vetting and interview
process as all other D.E. Shaw group interns,” Elassal said.    David Shaw , who is no longer active in day-to-day
operations, lent $100,000 to the Presidential Inauguration
Committee for  Bill Clinton  in 1993, the Center for Public
Integrity  reported  in 2000. He and other D.E. Shaw employees
ranked third among hedge-fund donors last year with $569,049 in
campaign contributions, 97 percent going to Democrats, according
to OpenSecrets.org and the Center for Responsive Politics.  Ron Wyden received contributions totaling $9,600 from Shaw
and his wife, Beth, during 2009, with each giving the maximum
$4,800 that individuals are allowed to donate for any election
cycle,  OpenSecrets.org  said. Shaw gave $5,000 last year to
Holding Onto Oregon’s Priorities, a political action committee
set up by Wyden to help other Democratic candidates, and $33,500
to the party’s senatorial and congressional campaign committees.  Shaw, 59, didn’t respond to a telephone request for
comment. He now works as chief scientist at D.E. Shaw Research
laboratory in  New York , in the field of computational
biochemistry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  