-- 
Egypt’s Prosecutor Calls for Former Officials to Be Put on Trial

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-24T15:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/egypt-s-prosecutor-calls-for-former-officials-to-be-put-on-trial.html
  Egypt ’s public prosecutor has asked
that former officials including ex-Housing Minister Ahmed El Maghraby and former Trade and Industry Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid be put on trial.  The officials, along with steel tycoon Ahmed Ezz, are
suspected of squandering public funds and profiteering, the
public prosecutor’s office said in a statement that cited a
spokesman. Others referred to trial include businessman Yasseen
Mansour and an Emirati businessman, Waheed Metwally Youssef.  Investigations found that El Maghraby sold a piece of
state-owned land in violation of regulations preventing selling
before the full price has been paid, according to the statement.
The deal eventually earned him and a company with which he is
associated more than 159 million Egyptian pounds ($27 million)
in profit and meant the loss of more than 272 million Egyptian
pounds that could have gone to the state, the prosecutor said.  El Maghraby sold the land to a company, which then sold it
to another business that was later acquired by Palm Hills
Development SAE, in which El Maghraby holds shares, according to
the statement.  Investigators also found that Rachid and Amr Mohammed Assal, who headed the Industrial Development Authority, in
agreement with Ezz issued licenses for companies owned by Ezz in
violation of ministerial decisions, the prosecutor said. The
public prosecutor has issued decisions to freeze the suspects’
assets but not those of the companies in which they hold shares
so as not to disrupt their economic activities.  Corruption allegations against officials and businessmen
close to the regime of former President  Hosni Mubarak  have
fueled 18 days of mass protests that led to Mubarak’s Feb. 11
ouster after 30 years in power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  