-- 
Fleeing Egyptians Tell of Qaddafi’s ‘Bloodbath’ Across Libya

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-24T10:43:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/egyptians-fleeing-libya-tell-of-massacre-after-qaddafi-hits-back-at-rebels.html
“It’s a massacre in there,” said
Mohamed Yehia after he crossed into  Egypt  at the northwestern
town of Salloum, speaking of the deadly crackdown by Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi . “He is crazy. The world must know what
he’s doing to his people.”  Yehia, 23, is one of thousands of Egyptians working in
Libya who gathered their belongings and left the oil-rich
country yesterday after Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, this week
accused foreigners, including Tunisians and Egyptians, of
inciting the ongoing revolt. Popular uprisings are spreading
across the Arab world after mass protests in Tunisia and Egypt
ousted their two long-serving presidents.  Egyptians drove from across Libya, from such cities as
Benghazi, al-Bayda and Derna. Some came on foot, carrying
blankets, suitcases, small pieces of furniture and even ovens.
Vans brought men in their 20s and 30s who had worked at manual
labor jobs, including construction. A few families with small
children also crossed the border.  Egyptian vans drove straight through the checkpoint, while
those who arrived in Libyan vehicles had to get out and walk
across while carrying all their belongings.  They were met by dozens of buses sent by the Egyptian
military, whose officials declared via speakers that the
vehicles would drive them to major Egyptian cities for free.
About 100 private minivans also lined up at the border, and more
waited at two other military checkpoints farther away.  At least 300 people have been killed in the 10 days of the
violent crackdown on the protests in  Libya ,  Human Rights Watch 
says.  Mercenary Soldiers  Many of those arriving said they had seen mercenaries from  Africa  and elsewhere, some dark-skinned and some fair, some
speaking French. They had been deployed to attack anti-
government protesters in Libyan cities, including the capital,
 Tripoli , and Benghazi, which has seen some of the worst violence
since the uprising began last week, the eyewitnesses said.  Pro-Qaddafi supporters, largely mercenaries, were
indiscriminately attacking anyone in Tripoli who was on the
streets, said Nabil Abdel Raouf, 35, an Egyptian construction
worker who lived in Derna about 240 kilometers (150 miles) from
the border.  “My brother and cousins have been trying to leave Tripoli
for four days, but they’re not able to,” Abdel Raouf said.
“The mercenaries are in the streets and they’re killing anyone
who leaves his house.”  Yehia said he saw 26 corpses at a hospital near his home in
al-Bayda on the eastern coast. Several of the people who
participated in the protests, which started as peaceful, were
killed by live bullets in the chest and the head, he said.  Police, Army  “First the police attacked the protesters, but after they
saw many of their people being killed, they sympathized and
joined them. The army too,” said Yehia.  Mercenaries were brought in the following day but were
repelled by the protesters, he said. He attended several mass
funerals, he said.  “We were hearing automatic machine guns and explosions,”
said Yehia. “I don’t know where those loud noises were coming
from. Everyone was terrified, it was like a war.”  Similar protests were witnessed in Sabratha on the western
border, said Hany Khalifa, 26, also a carpenter, who was living
in al-Bayda and had friends in Sabratha.  Before reaching the coastal city of Benghazi on the way to
Salloum, pro-Qaddafi policemen stopped a van carrying Egyptians,
said Hany Abu El Einein, the 32-year-old driver. The passengers
were ordered to sit on the ground and look down as the police
pointed guns at the back of their heads, he said after reaching
Salloum.  ‘Destroying the Country’  “They told us Egyptians and Tunisians are responsible for
the problems, that we’re destroying the country,” Abu El Einein
said.  After Qaddafi’s Feb. 22 speech, in which he vowed to fight
the uprising until his “last drop of blood,” thousands of his
supporters took to the streets in the city of Sirte. They closed
off the city and attacked anti-government protesters, said
Yasser al-Badri, a 26-year-old construction worker who resided
in Tripoli and was in Abu El Einein’s van.  The roads became safer between Benghazi and Salloum because
armed opposition popular defense committees were in control of
the eastern region, the passengers said.  “They helped us and showed us the road,” said Mohamed
Hassan, 26, also a construction worker. “Since Benghazi, the
people have been great with us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen at the Libyan-Egyptian border at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net  