-- 
Egyptian GDRs Slide; Debt Insurance Gains on Protests, Libya

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-02-24T14:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/egyptian-gdrs-slide-debt-insurance-gains-on-protests-libya.html
Egyptian global depositary receipts
fell and the cost of insuring government debt climbed as
opposition groups called for a mass demonstration against the
interim government and clashes in neighboring  Libya  intensified.  GDRs, or local shares traded abroad, of  Orascom
Construction Industries , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
builder, headed for the lowest London close since June 2009.
Egyptian government debt insurance climbed 8 basis points to
373, according to CMA credit default swaps prices in  London , the
highest since Feb. 4.  Egypt  sold 6 billion Egyptian pounds ($1
billion) of treasury bills, paying the highest yields in more
than two years on the six-month and one-year notes.  “We’re seeing continued protests here, which is making
people nervous,” said Ashraf Akhnoukh, senior equity sales
trader at Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.
“In Libya, it’s a disaster, and it’s weighing heavily on
everyone in the region, especially Egypt because of the shared
border.”  Egyptian opposition groups, including the  Muslim
Brotherhood , have called for a demonstration tomorrow to demand
the removal of Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq’s government after a
cabinet reshuffle this week replaced 10 ministers. In Libya,
fighters loyal to the country’s leader  Muammar Qaddafi  cracked
down on dissenters in the capital Tripoli as army units defected
to join the opposition in eastern parts of the country,
according to the local newspaper Quryna.  Egypt’s stock exchange will remain closed through at least
Feb. 28 and will meet on Feb. 27 to assess its readiness to
resume trading, bourse spokesman Hisham Turk said. The market,
closed since Jan. 27 after the onset of protests that toppled
President Hosni Mubarak’s 30-year-old regime on Feb. 11, needs
time to implement changes aimed at limiting losses when trading
starts, Turk said.  Orascom Construction lost 6.8 percent to $32.73 at 1:58
p.m. in London.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE , the
country’s biggest publicly traded lender, fell for a second day,
declining 1.2 percent to $6.105. The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 10-
year dollar bonds retreated 4 basis points to 6.86 percent after
reaching its highest level in almost a month yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  