-- 
Bernabe Might Keep Chief Executive Job at Telecom Italia, Bernstein Says

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-02-28T09:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/telecom-italia-2010-net-income-doubles-on-argentina-unit-brazilian-tax.html
  Telecom Italia SpA  Chief Executive
Officer Franco Bernabe will likely be reconfirmed at the head of
Italy’s biggest phone company when his term expires in April,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “In the current very unstable political environment in
Italy it is possible, but unlikely that the current CEO will be
unseated,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a Sanford Bernstein analyst
in  London , wrote in a note today. She added that the “status
quo seems a more likely outcome.”  Bernabe, who was appointed to the job in December 2007,
said last week that investors will soon decide on whether to
reappoint him for another term. Spain’s  Telefonica SA  and
partners  Mediobanca SpA ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA  own about 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia through an
entity called Telco SpA, and are among shareholders who will
determine his fate.  Bernabe, 62, and the heads of  Europe ’s other former phone
monopolies including Telefonica are struggling to revive growth
in domestic markets as sluggish economies and rivals’ price cuts
take their toll. Telecom Italia’s sales at home fell 7.4 percent
to 20.1 billion euros ($27.8 billion) last year, as mobile
revenue dropped 11 percent.  “Telecom Italia’s current management can legitimately be
criticized for their poor handling of the domestic wireless
business,” Bienenstock wrote. “However, Bernabe in particular
has done a fairly remarkable job at changing the regulatory
environment and reducing labor costs while improving union
relationships for Telecom Italia.”  Dividend  A better-than-expected dividend for 2010 and the pledge of
higher payouts have boosted shares since Telecom Italia reported
results on Feb. 24. Shares have risen 5.5 percent since then,
giving the company a market value of 20.4 billion euros. They
were 0.7 percent higher at 1.11 euros as of 10:22 a.m. in Milan.  Telecom Italia forecast a 15 percent annual growth in the
dividend payout through 2013. The board on Feb. 24 proposed
dividends for 2010 of 5.8 cents and 6.9 cents per ordinary and
savings share, respectively, compared with 5 cents and 6.1 cents
a year earlier.  Telecom Italia  said  last week that net income almost
doubled to 3.12 billion euros. Profit benefited from a one-time
gain of about 266 million euros from the consolidation of Sofora
Telecomunicaciones SA, which controls Telecom Argentina SA,
after Telecom Italia increased its stake to 58 percent from 50
percent. It also had a one-off benefit of more than 600 million
euros from deferred tax gains in Brazil.  Telecom Italia said it will “focus on strategic markets --  Italy , Brazil and Argentina -- with the aim of stabilizing
consolidated revenues thanks to the contribution of Latam.”
Bernabe said the company may increase its stake in Argentina
“if and when the opportunity arises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  