-- 
Elite St. Paul’s Students Read ‘Beowulf,’ Prep for Ivies: Books

-- B y   R o b i n   D .   S c h a t z
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/elite-st-paul-s-students-read-beowulf-prep-for-ivies-books.html
Twice a week, the girls and boys of
 St. Paul’s School  happily escape after a formal dinner with
faculty to the Upper Common Room, where seniors hold court while
younger students stand carefully at the edge of, never touching,
the “senior rug.”  “Finding one’s place at St. Paul’s means learning the
relentlessness of hierarchical relations, ... the endless and
often obscure rules that have forever been a part of elite
institutions,”  Shamus Rahman Khan  writes in “ Privilege: The
Making of an Adolescent Elite at St. Paul’s School .”  Khan, an assistant professor of sociology at  Columbia
University , is an alumnus of St. Paul’s who returns 10 years
after graduation to the Concord,  New Hampshire , boarding school,
one of the most selective in the U.S.  His goal is to conduct ethnographic research into the very
heart of privilege. Spending a year working as a teacher,
adviser, tennis and squash coach, he doesn’t make real inroads
until he steps down from his pedestal and lets himself get
closer to these future masters of the universe.  In many respects, St. Paul’s seems as he left it. The high-
ceilinged chapel, where students have assigned seats in the
carved wooden pews, looks as it did in Kahn’s youth.  “The pews were bursting with the weight and the promise of
monumental success,” Khan writes. “The seniors closest to me
knew that next year the college they were most likely to attend
was Harvard -- almost a third of them would be at the  Ivy
League , and nearly all of them at one of the top colleges in the
nation.”  ‘Ease of Privilege’  And yet, in profound ways, Khan finds a changed St. Paul’s.
In the ‘90s, minority students were housed together -- for their
own comfort. Today’s St. Paul’s is more racially and
economically diverse.  Kahn also discovers a new meritocracy that stresses
individual accomplishment, and the “arrogance of entitlements”
is replaced by “an ease of privilege.”  Khan’s year in the trenches coincides with a hazing scandal
on campus, in which the new girls of Barclay House were locked
in a closet by the senior girls, forced to wear adult diapers
and made to play “a game of deep throat with bananas --
simulating oral sex and competing to see who could put the
banana the farthest down her throat” while boys looked on.  It’s one indication that everything isn’t perfect in
paradise: girls learn here, as in many settings, to wield their
sexuality to get ahead. Though girls outperform the boys
academically, they hold few leadership positions, Khan reports.  Pondering ‘Jaws’  Academics at St. Paul’s are ambitious, with an emphasis on
how to relate disparate materials. In Humanities III, the young
elites compare “ Beowulf ” to  Steven Spielberg ’s “Jaws,”
learning to be true cultural egalitarians. In a world where
everyone has access to information, what distinguishes elites
from the rest of us is the way they connect the dots, Khan
argues. Never mind that many of the kids don’t bother to read
“Beowulf” and go for the SparkNotes.  In his conclusion, Khan bemoans the inequities of an
educational system where the rich are overrepresented in the
nation’s most elite universities, though he really hasn’t
figured out what to do about it. Getting rid of St. Paul’s,
which lavishes more than $80,000 a year on each student,
probably wouldn’t change anything. And it did, after all, help
make the sociologist who he is today.  “Privilege” is published by  Princeton University Press 
(232 pages, $29.95).  (Robin D. Schatz is the education editor for Bloomberg News
in  New York . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Robin D. Schatz at   rschatz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 