-- 
Emanuel Names Transition Team That Includes Past Daley Aides

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-24T18:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/emanuel-names-mayor-transition-team-including-past-aides-of-richard-daley.html
  Rahm Emanuel , the mayor-elect of the
third-most-populous U.S. city, named a transition team of
business and community leaders as well as former aides to the
current mayor.  The group includes David Mosena, a former chief of staff to
Mayor Richard M. Daley, who is retiring after 22 years; Steve Koch, a vice chairman at Credit Suisse and a presidential
appointee to a  federal panel  overseeing the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act of 2009; and Sarah Pang, a senior vice
president at Chicago-based CNA Financial Corp.  “This group of individuals is comprised of both
experienced hands and people with new energy, new ideas, who are
in touch with Chicago’s neighborhoods and represent the breadth
that I am looking for,” Emanuel said.  Other members are Byron Brazier, pastor of Apostolic Church
of God; Felicia Davis, vice president of administration at
Kendall College; Judy Erwin, a former state legislator; and
Rebecca Gonzalez, a vice president of programs at Casa Central,
a social service network.  Emanuel, 51, a former congressman who served two Democratic
presidents in the White House, won 55 percent of the vote on
Feb. 22 to become his hometown’s mayor in May. He will be  Chicago ’s first Jewish mayor and the first former top aide to
President  Barack Obama  elected to office.  He will face a declining population, a 2012  budget deficit 
forecast at more than $600 million and shortfalls in the pension
funds for city workers. Repeated use of reserve funds to balance
budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit rating on
Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth-highest grade.  Chicago must address its fiscal challenges, Emanuel said,
in order to persuade companies to invest in the city.  “We will show Chicago is on the move and people will want
to invest in this city,” he said.  Emanuel said he is already talking to business leaders
about ways to create more jobs by encouraging expansion by
existing companies.  “I talked to the CEO of Ford yesterday about the plant on
the south side,” he said, without providing details.  Emanuel raised $10.6 million through Jan. 19 for his
campaign, four times as much as his nearest competitor, campaign
disclosure  records show . Since then, he has raised at least $1.4
million more.  He told reporters today that he didn’t know how much
remained in his campaign fund to help aldermanic candidates --
potential future allies -- who still face an April 5 runoff
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  