-- 
Eni Likely to Reduce Libyan Output Further as Tanks Fill

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-24T15:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/eni-said-likely-to-reduce-its-libyan-output-further-as-storage-tanks-fill.html
  Eni SpA  will probably cut Libyan oil
production further and may halt it altogether because storage
tanks at export terminals are filling up, said two people with
knowledge of the situation.  While Eni, the largest foreign oil producer in Libya, is
still pumping oil and natural gas at 50 percent of usual levels,
storage space for crude is running out because of difficulty
loading tankers to export the oil, the people said, declining to
be identified because the information is private.  Eni Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  told Ansa news
agency today the company’s oil and gas output has dropped to
120,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day. The company on Feb. 22
shut down its Greenstream pipeline that exports gas from Libya
to Sicily and has evacuated all but 34 of its expatriate staff
in the country.  An Eni press officer declined to comment.  “The country is slipping into civil war and clearly that
impacts infrastructure, transport and the like, which is just as
important as actual ability to produce,” said Fabrizio Spagna,
head of Axia Financial Research. “Unfortunately there’s no
telling when things will stabilize.”  Foreign  oil companies  including Eni,  Total SA ,  OMV AG , and  Repsol YPF SA  have stopped or reduced production as violence
spreads in Libya. Muammar Qaddafi has tightened his grip over
the capital Tripoli while eastern cities have fallen to his
opponents.  Logistics, Personnel  OMV head of Exploration and Production Jaap Huijskes said
yesterday during a conference call with analysts that they
expected production to head toward a shutdown due to lack of
personnel and problems with logistics.  Libya pumped 1.6 million barrels a day last month,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Barclay Capital estimates as
much as 1 million barrels a day has been halted while Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. puts the disruption at 500,000 barrels a day.    Saudi Arabia  and other oil-producing nations have said they
are ready to replace any lost Libyan oil should companies
request it, a Saudi official said by telephone today.  OPEC nations collectively pumped 29.4 million barrels a day
last month, according to Bloomberg estimates. They also have
about 5 million barrels a day of spare capacity, mostly located
in Saudi Arabia, according to the  International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  