-- 
Henkel Drops Most Since May as Profit Misses Analyst Estimates

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-02-24T09:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/henkel-drops-most-since-may-as-profit-misses-analyst-estimates.html
Henkel AG, the German maker of
Loctite glues and Persil detergent, fell the most in more than
nine months after fourth-quarter profit missed analysts’
estimates.  The preferred shares fell as much as 4.3 percent, the
biggest intraday drop since May 7. They were down 1.86 euros, or
4.2 percent, to 42.31 euros at 9:33 a.m. local time.  Net income gained 46 percent to 249 million euros ($343
million), or 58 cents a preferred share, from 170 million euros,
or 39 cents, a year earlier, Dusseldorf-based Henkel said today
in a  statement . That missed the 309 million-euro average of
eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Price pressure is high for Henkel’s consumer business,”
Heiko Feber, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf, said in
an interview. He has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  Earnings before interest and taxes at the laundry division
fell 17 percent to 115 million euros as sales rose 3.7 percent.
Earnings at the beauty-product unit, which makes cosmetics and
toiletry items, declined 11 percent to 86 million euros even as
sales advanced 8.3 percent. The consumer units’ earnings fell
because of rising raw material costs and price pressure from
retail markets, Henkel said.  Net income for the full year jumped 86 percent to 1.12
billion euros. Adjusted earnings per share growth in 2010
amounted to 48 percent, in line with Henkel’s forecast of an
increase exceeding 45 percent. Henkel also said today that
earnings will continue increasing in 2011 after growth in
adhesives sales to industrial customers helped fourth-quarter
profit rise.  ‘Challenging’ Conditions  “The economic conditions remain challenging, especially in
view of the highly competitive environment in which we operate,
and rising raw material costs,” Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said in the statement. “We are confident that we will
once again outperform our markets.”  Almost half of Henkel’s revenue comes from industrial
adhesives, where demand is increasing as manufacturers recover
from the global recession. The IVK adhesive-manufacturers
association in  Germany   estimates  industry sales last year rose 6
percent, and is forecasting comparable growth in 2011, driven by
exports.  Earnings per preferred share this year will probably rise
by about 10 percent after adjustment for one-time items as the
company reduces costs, Rorsted said.  ‘Best Year Ever’  “The 2010 recovery will probably be remembered as Henkel’s
best year ever as the business exhibited outstanding top-line,
margin and earnings-per-share growth,”  Andrew Wood , a New York-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a report to
investors before Henkel released figures. The analyst, who has
an “outperform” recommendation on the stock, added that he
expects further improvements this year.  The adhesives division, the world’s biggest gluemaker and a
supplier of bonding tape to Airbus SAS’s A380 superjumbo plane,
reported that fourth-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
more than tripled to 202 million euros as sales rose 18 percent.
The fourth-quarter return on sales was 11.1 percent, widening
from the 3.8 percent Ebit margin of a year earlier.  Fourth-quarter profit was burdened by allowances of 30
million euros related to a cash incentive program for some 3,000
employees. Managers will receive a special reward in 2012 if
Henkel reaches a profitability target for adjusted Ebit of 14
percent in the year. Revenue climbed 11 percent to 3.73 billion
euros in the fourth quarter.  Sales rose most rapidly in the Asia-Pacific region, where
Henkel recorded a 31 percent gain. Revenue advanced 4.3 percent
in western  Europe .  The company proposed raising its dividend for last year’s
earnings by 36 percent to 72 cents per preferred share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 