-- 
Europe Economic Confidence Reaches Highest Since Late 2007 on German Boom

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-24T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/europe-economic-confidence-rises-more-than-forecast-propelled-by-germany.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook improved more than economists forecast to the highest in
3 1/2 years in February, led by surging optimism in  Germany .  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
region advanced to 107.8 from 106.8 in January, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the highest since
August 2007. Economists had forecast a February reading of
106.8, the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.
A gauge of German economic confidence rose to 116.8 from 115.5.  The euro-area economy is showing signs of gathering
strength after expanding less than economists forecast in the
fourth quarter. German business confidence jumped to a record
this month and the region’s services and manufacturing growth
accelerated.  BASF SE , the world’s largest chemical company, said
today that it is “optimistic” about this year.  “Confidence indicators have continued to surprise on the
upside and the region’s recovery remains very much on track,”
said Simon Barry, chief economist at  Ulster Bank  in Dublin.
“There’s still uncertainty, but we ended 2010 with some
reasonable momentum and indicators have continued to build on
that.”  A gauge of sentiment among euro-region manufacturers rose
to 6.5 this month from 6.1 in January, today’s report showed.
Services confidence jumped to 11.1 from 9.9 and an index of
consumer confidence advanced to minus 10 from minus 11.2.
Sentiment among builders rose to minus 24.3 from minus 26.  Economic confidence also improved in Spain and the
Netherlands while declining in France, Italy and Belgium.  Investor Confidence  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, may continue to drive
the region’s expansion this year after unusually cold
temperatures sparked a construction slump in the fourth quarter
and eroded economic growth. German investor confidence rose in
February and output accelerated. Unemployment dropped to the
lowest in almost two decades last month.    Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-biggest
chipmaker, on Feb. 17 forecast higher full-year sales. Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  said on that day that the company
is “firing on all cylinders” and that the “volume of orders
is excellent.”  PPR  SA, the French owner of Gucci, the same day
reported 2010 profit that beat analysts’ estimates on surging
fourth-quarter sales.  Faster-growing Asian economies have helped spur companies’
orders as governments from  Greece  to Ireland toughened austerity
measures. The  International Monetary Fund  last month forecast  China’s economy  will grow 9.6 percent this year with  India 
expanding 8.4 percent. The euro region may grow 1.5 percent.  ‘Major Boon’  BASF said today that fourth-quarter profit more than
doubled, beating analysts’ estimates. The Ludwigshafen, Germany-
based company is “optimistic for the first quarter and the year
as a whole,” CEO Juergen Hambrecht said in a statement.  “Euro-zone manufacturers will be hoping that global growth
holds up well in 2011 and that the euro trades at a relatively
competitive level,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “Certainly, foreign
demand is currently a major boon” for them.  An indicator of manufacturers’ order books rose to minus
1.4 in February from minus 2.7 in the previous month, today’s
report showed. An indicator of employment expectations rose to
6.6 from 5 and a gauge of selling-price expectations jumped to
22.7 from 17.3 in January. A gauge of households’ willingness to
purchase big-ticket items such as cars over the coming year rose
to minus 23.7 from minus 24.2 and an indicator of price
developments rose to 25.7 from 20.9.  ECB Concerns  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has
already signaled concern about faster prices feeding into wage
demands and leading to more protracted inflation. ECB Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said on Feb. 21 that the central bank
is prepared “to act decisively and immediately” if needed to
maintain  price stability .  The Frankfurt-based central bank, which aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent, will publish its latest economic
projections on March 3. ECB council member Yves Mersch said in
an interview on Feb. 21 that he expects the bank’s economists to
lift their 2011 inflation forecast to more than 2 percent from
1.8 percent predicted in December. Inflation accelerated to 2.4
percent last month.  “Interest rates are at an exceptionally low level, which
was warranted by an environment where there was anemic growth
and even negative growth over a prolonged period, and therefore
no inflationary pressures,” Mersch said. “This situation has
now changed and this would mean that inevitably we also have to
rebalance our monetary policy stance.”  The ECB’s main lending rate is currently at a record low of
1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  