-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Governments Blocking Food Solution

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-02-24T06:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/europe-commodity-day-ahead-governments-blocking-food-solution.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  
EXCLUSIVES:  Governments Wary of Business Block Food Solution, Olam Says  Governments need to overcome their suspicion of food
companies to tackle record prices that are fueling global
instability, Olam International Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
Sunny Verghese said.    Palm Oil  Output in Malaysia to Gain in 2011, Yusof Predicts  Palm oil production in Malaysia, the second-biggest grower
after  Indonesia , may advance this year as weather conditions
improve, boosting yields and hurting prices, an industry group
said. Futures plunged, reversing earlier gains.  Insurers Buy Gold Over Sukuk to Boost Returns: Islamic Finance  Indonesia’s Islamic insurers are starting to favor gold
over bonds amid the fastest inflation in almost two years,
seeking to boost returns following a ruling that allows them to
invest in the precious metal.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper in London,  New York  Pares Gains as Investors Avoid Risk  Copper in London and New York pared gains in Asian trading
on concern that geopolitical tension in the Middle East and  Africa , including the revolt in Libya, may hamper global growth.
Futures erased an advance in  Shanghai .  China to Control Steel Production in Next Five Years, Group Says  China plans to “control” steel production over the next
five years and increase  iron ore  mine investment overseas, the
China Iron & Steel Association said in a statement at a news
briefing.  Baoshan Steel Raises April Tin Plate, Chromium Plate Prices  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. raised tin plate prices by 350 to
500 yuan a ton and chromium plate prices by 300 yuan a ton for
April delivery, according to a statement on the steelmaker’s
website today.  Global Iron Ore Supply to Be Tight in First-Half of 2011  The global supply of iron ore will remain tight in the
first half of 2011, Luo Bingsheng, former vice chairman and
current special adviser to the  China  Iron and Steel Association,
said in Beijing today.  MINING:    Russia ’s Alrosa, Biggest Diamond Miner, Prepares to Offer Stock  The board of ZAO Alrosa has approved the transformation of
the world’s second-biggest diamond mining company into a public
entity and a potential stock offering.  Bathurst Plans Coal Acquisitions Next Year, CEO Says  Bathurst Resources Ltd., which is developing a coking coal
mine in  New Zealand , said it will be ready for acquisitions next
year after production starts.  Xstrata Unit, Philippine Local Officials in Talks on Tampakan  Xstrata Plc’s Philippine venture and officials of South
Cotabato province are in talks to resolve a ban on open-pit
mining, which may affect a $5.2 billion copper and gold project
in the area, Philippine Interior Secretary Jesse Robredo said in  Manila  today.  Rio Tinto’s Bid for Riversdale Extended by Fourteen Days  Rio Tinto Jersey Holdings 2010 Ltd. extended the offer
period for its takeover bid for all of the shares in Riversdale
Mining Ltd. by a period of 14 days. The offer is now due to
close on March 18.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Fluctuates as  Libya  Unrest Fans Demand, Some Investors Sell  Gold fluctuated amid speculation that a surge to a seven-
week high prompted some investors to sell, while heightened
geopolitical tensions in the Middle East and North Africa
boosted safe-haven demand.    Vietnam  to Gradually Restrict Non-Jewelry Gold Trading  Vietnam’s central bank will “gradually” restrict and
abolish trading of gold in non-jewelry form in the “free
market,” according to a copy of Prime Minister Nguyen Tan
Dung’s resolution being presented today to ministers in Hanoi.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Drops to Lowest in Three Months on Output Forecast  Palm oil tumbled to the lowest in almost three months on
expectation that output in  Malaysia , the second-largest producer,
may grow this year and on speculation unrest in Libya and the
Middle East may continue.  Malaysia’s Palm Oil Exports May Be Better This Year, Dompok Says  Malaysia’s palm oil exports may be better this year
compared to 2010 if prices are “right,” Plantation Industries
and Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok told reporters in
Putrajaya, outside  Kuala Lumpur , today.  Coffee May Jump 48% as Demand Can’t Be ‘Satisfied:’ Chart of Day  Coffee prices, which have doubled in the past year, may
rally another 48 percent to the highest since at least 1972 as
demand outpaces supply, according to Hackett Financial Advisors
Inc.  Wheat Gains as Frost in Russia, Drought in China Threaten Crops  Wheat futures advanced for a second day, extending a
rebound from the steepest decline in six months, as importers
seek supplies amid frost in Russia and drought in China that are
threatening crops. Corn also rose.  New Zealand Wool Sales Canceled After Christchurch Earthquake  Wool auctions in New Zealand, the world’s second-largest
shipper, have been canceled this week after the country’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years hit Christchurch, according to
an exporter.  Rubber Reverses Gains as Shanghai Market Drops Amid Libya Unrest  Rubber declined, reversing earlier gains, after the
Shanghai market slumped amid concern higher energy costs may
threaten the global economic recovery as Libya’s violent
uprising cut oil shipments.  Vietnam’s Rubber Exports Rose 175% in February, Government Says  Vietnam’s rubber exports rose 175 percent in February,
according to a statement on the government’s website, citing the
General Statistics Office. The statement did not give dollar
figures.  SHIPPING:  Lyttelton Port Plans to Resume Limited Operations Within Days  Lyttelton Port of Christchurch, New Zealand’s largest coal-
exporting hub, plans to resume limited operations within days
following the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  ECONOMIES:  Geithner Says Financial System Stronger Than Before Crisis  The U.S. financial system is in better shape than it was
before the recession and is well placed to provide the funding
needed for the economic expansion, Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner said.  Australian Fourth-Quarter Business Investment Climbs to Record  Australian business investment climbed to a record in the
fourth quarter as a mining investment boom driven by Chinese and
Indian demand for natural resources capped a year of
unprecedented job growth.  Faster  Singapore , Vietnam Inflation Signal Tighter Policy  Accelerating inflation from Singapore to Vietnam is set to
spur higher  interest rates  and currency gains in Asian economies.  Fed May Increase Rates Before ECB, Japan, Sumitomo’s Okuda Says  The  Federal Reserve  may raise interest rates before its
counterparts in Europe and Japan as the U.S. automobile and
energy industries boost the nation’s recovery, according to the
research unit of Sumitomo Corp.  OTHER MARKETS:  Oil Surges on Libya Disruption; Goldman Sachs Sees ‘Upside Risk’  Oil surged to the highest in almost 30 months in  London  as
Libya’s violent uprising cut supplies from Africa’s third-
biggest producer.  Yen, Franc Rise as Libya Concern Spurs Stock Drop, Safety Demand  The yen and Swiss franc rose against most of their major
counterparts as continuing violence in Libya drove energy prices
higher and stocks lower, spurring demand for safe-haven
currencies.  Treasuries Snap Decline as Investors Seek Safety, Fed to Buy  Treasuries snapped a decline from yesterday as violence in
Libya bolstered demand for the safest assets and the Federal
Reserve prepared to buy  government securities  today.  China Stocks Rise for Second Day as Commodity Producers Gain  China’s stocks rose for a second day as higher  oil prices 
bolstered the outlook for the nation’s energy producers and
investors speculated recent declines for copper companies were
excessive given the demand outlook.  Asian Stocks Fluctuate as Oil Producers Rise; Airlines Drop  Asian stocks fluctuated as oil surged to $100 a barrel for
the first time in two years, boosting shares of oil producers
and dragging down airlines.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  