-- 
Mexican Army Detains Six Suspects in U.S. Customs Agent Killing

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-02-24T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/mexican-army-detains-six-suspects-in-u-s-customs-agent-killing.html
Mexican army personnel detained a
main suspect and five others tied to the Feb. 15 killing of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Special Agent Jaime Zapata
in San Luis Potosi state.  The suspects, led by Julian Zapata Espinoza, were captured
in a safe house and belong to the organized-crime gang known as
the Zetas, said Ricardo Trevilla, a spokesman for the Defense
Ministry, in a televised news conference yesterday in  Mexico 
City.  Zapata Espinoza said the killing of the U.S. agent and the
wounding of another, Victor Avila, resulted from confusion that
the two belonged to a rival gang because of the armored sports
utility vehicle they drove, Trevilla said.  Along with Zapata Espinoza, the military arrested Armando
Alvarez, Mario Dominguez, Jesus Ivan Quezada, Martin Barcenas
and Ruben Dario Venegas, who is Honduran, Trevilla said. Three
women, one of whom is Zapata Espinoza’s wife, were also taken in
custody.  At the safe house where the arrest was made, authorities
confiscated five long firearms and a handgun as well as five
vehicles, one of which was armored. Trevilla said a payroll list
was also found. Zapata Espinoza, who has a criminal record, was
chief of a Zetas cell that operated in the state, he said.  President  Barack Obama  spoke with Mexican President Felipe Calderon late yesterday and thanked him for the efforts to
investigate the case and the arrest of suspects, the White House
press office said in a  statement . Calderon is scheduled to meet
Obama in  Washington  during a trip March 2-3.  The investigation into the shooting incident will continue,
said Ricardo Najera, a spokesman for Mexico’s Attorney General
Office at the news conference.  Jaime Zapata was driving an armored sports-utility vehicle
along Mexico’s Highway 57 when 12 to 15 armed men in two
vehicles forced him to stop, according to Michael McCaul, a U.S.
congressman who chairs a Homeland Security committee and was
briefed on the incident. After Zapata and Avila identified
themselves as U.S. agents, the gunmen opened fire and fled, said
McCaul, a Texas Republican.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  and  Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  