-- 
Exxaro’s Profit Surges on Increased Coal, Iron Ore Prices

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-24T07:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/exxaro-s-full-year-headline-earnings-per-share-excluding-items-jumped-105-.html
  Exxaro Resources Ltd ., the second-
largest coal producer in  South Africa  and owner of 20 percent of
the Sishen  iron ore  mine, said profit last year jumped as
commodity prices gained and as a write-off wasn’t repeated.  Net income rose fivefold to 5.21 billion rand ($732
million) from 1.02 billion rand a year earlier, the Pretoria-
based company said in a statement today. Profit more than
doubled if the 2009 impairment on the company’s KwaZulu-Natal
Sands project is excluded, it said. While the company doesn’t
produce iron ore itself, it benefits from higher prices because
of its stake in  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd .’s Sishen operation.  Exxaro, with the capacity to produce 45 million metric tons
of coal a year, is expanding output to meet the rising needs of
Eskom Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s main power utility. It’s
also looking for iron-ore projects and setting up an energy unit
to develop its own  power plants . The price of coal shipped from
South Africa’s Richards Bay, site of the continent’s biggest
coal terminal, rose 43 percent to an average $91.93 a ton last
year, according to IHS McCloskey data on Bloomberg.  Diluted earnings excluding one-time items increased to
14.37 rand a share from 7.02 rand a share, Exxaro said.  Iron ore export prices almost doubled in 2010, Kumba said.  Anglo American Plc  owns 9.8 percent of Exxaro, the third-largest
producer of mineral sands, which include zircon, ilmenite and
titanium, used to make products from cosmetics to rubber.  Coal export volumes, at higher international prices, are
expected to remain in line with the tonnage achieved in 2010,
Exxaro said. The company will decide by June 30 whether to
develop the proposed Fairbreeze mineral sands mine, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  