-- 
Exxaro Approves Fairbreeze, Plans Threefold Spending Surge

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-24T16:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/exxaro-approves-338-million-fairbreeze-mine-to-boost-spending-threefold.html
  Exxaro Resources Ltd ., South
Africa’s second-biggest coal producer, approved construction of
the Fairbreeze mineral-sands mine and said 2011  capital spending 
will jump threefold as demand for its output grows.  “We’ve got a very impressive project pipeline,” Sipho Nkosi, chief executive officer of the Pretoria-based company,
told investors in Johannesburg today.  Capital investment  will
increase to 8.2 billion rand ($1.2 billion) this year from 2.7
billion rand last year, his  presentation  showed.  Exxaro, which produced 46.7 million metric tons of coal in
2010, is expanding output to meet the rising needs of Eskom
Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s main power utility, and benefit
from the commodity price rally. It’s also investing in mineral
sands such as ilmenite, used in paints and plastics, and zircon,
used in insulation and as a gemstone, as demand climbs.  Earnings from mineral sands may increase “significantly”
this year, Finance Director Wim de Klerk told investors. Exxaro
is the world’s third-largest producer of the sands.  The Fairbreeze mine in  South Africa ’s KwaZulu-Natal
province will cost about 2.4 billion rand and construction will
start in the second quarter, according to the presentation. The
mine will produce about 500,000 tons of ilmenite and 60,000 tons
of zircon on average a year, the company said.  Grootegeluk Project  Most of Exxaro’s planned investment will be focused on the
Grootegeluk coal mine that it’s expanding to feed Eskom’s Medupi
complex, a power station being built in the north of the
country. Exxaro is also setting up an energy unit to develop its
own electricity plants.  Exxaro fell 3.50 rand, or 2.3 percent, to 147.50 rand by
the 5 p.m. close of Johannesburg trading. The FTSE/JSE Africa
Mining Index declined 0.2 percent.  Exxaro today posted a fivefold increase in full-year profit
as commodity prices gained and a write-off wasn’t repeated. Net
income rose to 5.21 billion rand in 2010 from 1.02 billion rand
a year earlier, Exxaro said in a statement.  The price of coal shipped from South Africa’s  Richards Bay ,
the continent’s biggest coal terminal, advanced 43 percent to an
average $91.93 a ton last year, according to IHS McCloskey data
on Bloomberg.  Exxaro also benefits from rising iron-ore prices through
its 20 percent stake in  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd .’s Sishen mine.
Export prices for the steelmaking ingredient almost doubled in
2010, according to Kumba.  Diluted earnings excluding one-time items increased to
14.37 rand a share from 7.02 rand a share a year earlier, Exxaro
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  