-- 
Exxon, Shell, BP Said to Have Been Hacked Through Chinese Internet Servers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-02-24T08:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/exxon-shell-bp-said-to-have-been-hacked-through-chinese-internet-servers.html
Computer hackers working through
Internet servers in  China  broke into and stole proprietary
information from the networks of six U.S. and European energy
companies, including  Exxon Mobil Corp .,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc 
and  BP Plc , according to one of the companies and investigators
who declined to be identified.    McAfee Inc ., a cyber-security firm, reported Feb. 10 that
such attacks had resulted in the loss of “project-financing
information with regard to oil and gas field bids and
operations.” In its report,  Santa Clara , California-based
McAfee, assisted by other cyber-security firms, didn’t identify
the energy companies targeted. The attacks, which it dubbed
“Night Dragon,” originated “primarily in China” and occurred
during the past three years.  The list of companies hit, none of which disclosed the
attacks in filings with regulators, also includes  Marathon Oil
Corp ., ConocoPhillips and  Baker Hughes Inc ., according to the
people who worked on or are familiar with the companies’
investigations and asked not to be identified because of the
confidential nature of the matter.  Chinese hackers broke into the computer network of Baker
Hughes, said Gary Flaharty, spokesman for the Houston-based
provider of advanced drilling technology. Baker Hughes concluded
the incident didn’t need to be disclosed because it wasn’t
material to investors, he said, declining to comment further.  Undetected Access  In some of the cases, hackers had undetected access to
company networks for more than a year, said Greg Hoglund, chief
executive officer of  Sacramento , California-based HBGary Inc., a
cyber-security company that investigated some of the security
breaches at  oil companies . Hoglund, who was cited by McAfee as a
contributor to its report, declined to identify his clients.  “Legal information, information on deals and financial
information are all things that appear to be getting targeted,”
Hoglund said, summing up conclusions his firm made from the
types of documents and persons targeted by the hackers. “This
is straight up industrial espionage.”  Hackers targeted computerized topographical maps worth
“millions of dollars” that show locations of potential oil
reserves, said Ed Skoudis, whose company, Washington-based
InGuardians Inc., investigated two recent breaches of U.S. oil
companies’ networks. He declined to name his clients or the
origin of the hackers.  ‘Unsophisticated’ Techniques  The McAfee report described the techniques used to get into
the energy company computers as “unsophisticated” and commonly
used by Chinese hackers. The attacks began in November 2009,
McAfee said. Two cyber investigators familiar with the probes
said the attacks began even earlier -- in 2008 -- and involved
several well-financed groups. The investigators asked not to be
identified because the company investigations are private.  McAfee based the report on information gathered from its
own work on the breaches and from others who were directly
involved in investigating them. The report, produced on the
condition that the affected companies not be identified, was
done to “educate the community,” said Ian Bain, a McAfee
spokesman.  The thefts of oil company data like those in the McAfee
report match the profile of industrial espionage operations that
have the backing or consent of the Chinese government, said Joel Brenner, former head of U.S. counterintelligence during the Bush
and Obama administrations and now a lawyer with Cooley LLP in  Washington . In his former post, one of Brenner’s jobs was
tracking spying efforts against U.S. companies from foreign
countries.  ‘On the Hunt’  “The Chinese are on the hunt for natural resources to fuel
this massive economic leap forward,” Brenner said.  Ma Zhaoxu, spokesman for China’s Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs , said he had no information about the attacks on the oil
companies when asked about the issue at a regular briefing today.  “The Chinese government opposes hacking activities,” Ma
said. “China falls victim to hacking itself. We will step up
efforts to crack down on hacking crimes.”  The thefts might trigger legal liability for companies that
chose not to disclose them to investors, said Blair Nicholas, a
San Diego-based partner at law firm Bernstein Litowitz Berger
and Grossman.  “To the extent that there aren’t adequate procedures in
place to protect the companies’ crown jewels and somebody gets
the key to jewelry box, there is certainly potential for
shareholder derivative liability,” Nicholas said.  Securities Laws  Investors might also argue they had a right under U.S.
securities laws to be informed of the thefts, which a judge
might construe as a “material” fact that should have been
disclosed, Nicholas said.  John Roper, a spokesman for Houston-based  ConocoPhillips ;
Lee Warren, a Marathon Oil spokeswoman at its Houston
headquarters, and  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Irving, Texas-
based Exxon, said in e-mail messages that their companies don’t
comment on security-related issues. David Nicholas, a spokesman
for London-based BP, and Kim Blomley, a spokesman in  London  for
Shell, which is based in The Hague, declined to comment.  Jenny Shearer, an FBI spokeswoman in Washington, said she
couldn’t comment on whether the agency was investigating the
attacks.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
the department can’t comment on a possible investigation.  Hacker Activists  Some aspects of the attacks were disclosed in internal e-
mails made public after a February security breach at HBGary.
The e-mails were stolen from HBGary’s computer network by the
group of hacker activists called Anonymous, which posted them on
the Internet.  “I’ve been able to confirm that the same attackers are
conducting coordinated IP thefts against Baker Hughes and Shell
Oil, going after bid data and operational reporting, as well as
projects/plans and related financial information,” according to
an e-mail written on Jan. 13 by an independent security
consultant working on the cases.  “I reached out to some friends at Conoco and Exxon and
they also experienced similar breaches,” the consultant wrote
in the e-mail. “This is of course client confidential,” he
added under the subject line “coordinated Chinese attacks on
oil companies.”  In a separate e-mail, an HBGary investigator discussed the
analysis of malware designed to steal data in the computers of a
drilling rig working on a ConocoPhillips project.  Marc Zwillinger, an attorney representing HBGary, declined
to comment on the e-mails’ content.  ‘Stolen E-Mails’  “Those are stolen e-mails and they contain confidential
information relating to clients,” Zwillinger said.  The McAfee report, which cites several attacks connected to
the Chinese hacking underground, doesn’t link the “Night
Dragon” attack directly to the Chinese government.  Analysts who assessed the attacks on energy companies said
the source of the breaches was easier to pinpoint than in
previous hits by Chinese hackers, including an attack against  Google Inc . that that company disclosed in January 2010.  The hackers used tools prevalent in China’s underground
hacking forums, the McAfee report said, and they appeared to
work from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Beijing time. McAfee traced the
hackers’ command-and-control operations to servers operated by a
company in China’s Heze City in Shandong province.  The owner of the company, Song Zhiyue, said he wasn’t aware
of any hacking taking place from his servers and that he always
seeks to verify the activities of customers who rent server
space from him.  “There are so many servers in the world,” Song said.
“This has nothing to do with me. This is very unfair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  