-- 
Exxon Reports Compressor Trips at Beaumont, Texas, Refinery

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-02-24T22:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/exxon-mobil-releases-gas-from-beaumont-refinery-nrc-filing-says.html
  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the largest U.S.
oil company, reported a compressor trip and flaring at the
Beaumont, Texas, refinery, according to a filing with the U.S.
National Response Center.  “Operations has restarted the compressor and is working to
normalize operations,” the company said in another  filing  with
the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality today. The
compressor trip was associated with a coker unit, the filing
showed.  “Production was not impacted,” Kevin Allexon, a company
spokesman based in Fairfax,  Virginia , said today in an e-mail.
The compressor was restarted, he said.  Flaring associated with the trip began yesterday at about 2
p.m. local time and lasted until almost 8 a.m. today, according
to the filing.  Refinery outages can increase prices for refined products
as refiners turn to spot markets to help them meet supply
contracts. Operational disruptions can also depress prices for
crude oil because less feedstock is needed.  The Irving, Texas-based company had a release of hydrogen
sulfide and sulfur dioxide from a flare stack at the refinery,
according to an earlier filing with the U.S. National Response
Center.  U.S. refineries must notify the National Response Center if
they release hazardous substances in excess of reportable
quantities, according to the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
Superfund.  The plant can process 359,100 barrels of crude a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  