-- 
Farm Commodities Rise on Biofuels, EU Policy, German Group Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-02-24T18:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/farm-commodities-rise-on-biofuels-eu-policy-german-group-says.html
Agricultural commodities are rising
on a combination of increasing speculation, promotion of
biofuels and the European Union’s sugar policy, according to the
 Association of the German Confectionery Industry .  Margins are under pressure at most medium-sized
confectioners in the country because of “huge” price gains for
commodities and competition in retail, the industry group said
in a statement on its website today.  “It is very difficult for confectionery producers to
calculate their margins because of volatility in the markets,”
Torben Erbrath, the association’s managing director, said by
phone from Bonn today.  The group also called for more transparency on commodity
exchanges. It was among 16 cocoa traders and industry groups
that wrote to NYSE Liffe last July to say that having data
similar to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders reports would help to make the  London 
market more transparent.  NYSE Liffe started a trial on Feb. 14 taking information on
speculator trading in the London cocoa, sugar and coffee markets
and Paris wheat similar to reports released by the U.S.  Tightness in the European Union sugar market may be eased
if the EU were to allow sales of so-called out-of-quota sugar in
the bloc, the association said. EU member states today backed a
plan to release 500,000 metric tons of out-of-quota sugar into
the domestic market to increase supplies.  The association also called for subsidies for biofuels to
be abolished. It speaks for companies including Alfred Ritter
Gmbh & Co. KG, the maker of  Ritter Sport  chocolate bars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Graham in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 