-- 
Faster Horses, Younger Women, Money; Kneeling Koh: Chelsea Art

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/faster-horses-younger-women-money-kneeling-koh-chelsea-art.html
“Here’s the meaning of life,” said
art dealer  Leo Koenig . “Faster horses, younger women, older
whiskey, more money.”  He was reading a text made with hundreds of tiny golden
disks by artist  Vincent Szarek . Titled “This Is the Meaning of
Life,” the work drew on lyrics from a song by Grammy-winning
country singer  Tom T. Hall .  Displayed on a black wall at Koenig’s project space, the
sequins quivered gently with the help of two small fans. The
motion created a shadowy glow on the opposite white wall, adding
a diaphanous quality to this glitzy, ironic work.  Nearby, a pair of oversized, glossy black cherries slowly
rotated in midair on a gold stem, reflecting the room and
spoofing  Jeff Koons .  Black Canvases  Olivier Mosset’s exhibition next door at Koenig’s main
 gallery  also examines surface and texture. The walls are covered
with 40 identical black canvases. Each is a 4-by-4-foot square
coated with glossy, stinky industrial paint.  Their sameness and blackness are oddly meditative. One
black canvas, measuring 7-by-21 feet, has a whole room to
itself.  Mosset, who at 67 resembles a disheveled Santa with long
gray beard and messy tresses, began making abstract monochromes
more than four decades ago.  At Leo Koenig’s, nothing distinguishes one black grainy
deadpan canvas from the next, a gesture that mocks the Western
idea of paintings being unique, precious objects.  Prices range from $25,000 for square canvases to $75,000
for the large painting. Prices for Szarek’s work range from
$12,000 to $40,000.  The exhibitions run through March 19 at 545 and 541 W. 23rd
St.; +1-212-334-9255;  http://www.leokoenig.com/   Terence Koh  For the opening of his new exhibition at  Mary Boone gallery 
in Chelsea, performance artist Terence Koh installed a small
white-light projector, filling the space with intense glare and
dramatic shadows.  Dressed in his signature monochrome white shirt and pants,
Koh moved around an 8-foot-tall salt heap on his knees as if in
a trance. At one point he was joined by his mother, also clad in
snow-white. His father, wearing a white fur of some shaggy
animal, looked on, as did about 50 people.  When I returned on a sunny afternoon a few days later, Koh
was alone and still moving slowly in circles on his knees. He
had a dazed, pained expression on his face. His white socks were
dirty. The endurance performance suddenly seemed absurd and
uncomfortable to watch.  Koh plans to stay on his knees during the gallery’s open
hours for five weeks. He won’t say a word. He won’t get up to
relieve himself or eat. When the light fades, he’ll be moving in
the dark.  Perhaps Koh is trying to one-up Marina Abramovic, the
performance-art diva who spent more than 700 hours in the course
of 75 days on a chair at the  Museum of Modern Art  last year.  I hope he has bought some white knee pads.  The performance, “nothingtoodooterencekoh,” is not for
sale. It runs through March 19 at 541 W. 24th St.; +1-212-752-
2929;  http://www.maryboonegallery.com   (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 