-- 
Fed May Need to Reduce $600 Billion Asset-Purchase Program, Bullard Says

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/fed-may-need-to-reduce-600-billion-asset-purchase-program-bullard-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s planned $600
billion in Treasury purchases helped improve the U.S. economic
outlook and the policy debate may turn to whether to reduce the
program scheduled through June, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said.  “The natural debate now is whether to complete the
program, or to taper off to a somewhat lower level of asset
purchases,” Bullard said in the text of a speech today in
Bowling Green,  Kentucky . “Quantitative easing has been an
effective tool, even while the policy rate is near zero. The
economic outlook has improved since the program was announced.”  Bullard has warned since last July about a rising risk of
Japanese-style deflation in the U.S. while calling for purchases
of  Treasury securities  to reduce the threat. The Fed announced
the purchase program last November.  Fed policy makers raised their estimates for growth at
their meeting last month, while continuing to “express
disappointment” in improvements in the labor market, according
to minutes of the Jan. 25-26 meeting released Feb. 16. The Fed
was divided over whether further evidence of a strengthening
recovery would warrant slowing or reducing the Treasury
purchases.  Bullard told the  Bowling Green  Area Chamber of Commerce
that global inflation could pull U.S. prices higher than would
be expected by looking at the U.S. economic conditions,
including a high unemployment rate.  Drive Prices Higher  “The Fed is charged with controlling U.S. inflation, but
perhaps global inflation will drive U.S. prices higher or cause
other problems,” Bullard said.  “U.S. policymakers often say the U.S. output gap is
large,” Bullard said, referring to the amount of slack in the
economy caused by high unemployment and spare capacity. “This
is interpreted as putting downward pressure on U.S. inflation.
The global output gap is probably much narrower or even
positive; this would then be interpreted as putting upward
pressure on inflation.”  At the same time, Bullard described current inflation as
“quite low” and he reiterated his view in favor of a formal
inflation target.  The Fed’s most closely watched inflation gauge, the
Commerce Department’s core personal consumption expenditures
price index excluding food and energy, rose 0.7 percent in
December from a year earlier, the smallest advance since records
began in 1959.  Non-Voting Position  Bullard, 49, voted in favor of the Treasury purchase
program in November and has rotated this year into an annual
non-voting position. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research
department in 1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  The  unemployment rate  fell to 9 percent last month from as
high as 10.1 percent in October 2009. The  U.S. economy  expanded
at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, as  consumer
spending  climbed by the most in more than four years, figures
from the Commerce Department showed on Jan. 28.  The Fed’s presidents and governors raised their forecasts
for growth this year and expect the economy to grow between 3.4
percent and 3.9 percent, according to minutes of their Jan.
25-26 meeting. Forecasts increased from November predictions of
3 percent to 3.6 percent as household spending picked up and
recent economic data showed a “stronger tenor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  