-- 
Feuding Irish Politicians Unite to Keep Viagra in EU Corporate Tax Battle

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-02-24T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/feuding-irish-politicians-unite-to-keep-viagra-in-eu-tax-fight.html
One issue unites Irish politicians
as they jostle ahead of tomorrow’s election: standing up to
Germany and France over a corporate  tax rate  all parties say is
vital to reviving the country’s battered economy.  Enda Kenny , who polls signal is on course to become the
next prime minister, flew to Berlin last week to tell German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  the 12.5 percent rate is non-
negotiable. The trip was a month after French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said Ireland can’t afford to maintain a rate that’s half
the European-Union average after it sought an 85 billion-euro
($117 billion) international rescue in November.  “Any move away from 12.5 percent would be disastrous for
Ireland,” said Aidan Brady, country manager at  Citigroup Inc .,
which employs about 2,200 people in Dublin’s financial district
on the banks of the River Liffey. “It’s the thing that reduces
costs to the level that make it worthwhile being here.”  Ireland used low taxes to win investment from  New York- 
based Citigroup along with Google Inc.,  Microsoft Corp ., the
world’s largest software maker, and Pfizer Inc., the biggest
drug producer and maker of Viagra. They fueled an export-driven
economic boom that turned to bust when the  property market 
collapsed in 2008 and sank the country’s banks.  The corporate tax rate led to “misallocations” that
helped cause the Irish banking crisis, Merkel said. While EU
countries should set their own rates, they should be limited to
a certain range, she told an audience in Freiburg, Germany,
yesterday after an economic-policy speech.  Historically Low  The current corporate rate dates back to a zero tax on
exports, first introduced in the 1950s, and a 10 percent levy on
manufacturing and internationally traded financial services from
1980 to 1998, according to a study by Sean Dorgan, a former
official in the Irish Trade Ministry.  “We are an island on the northwest of  Europe  so were not
necessarily the first port of call,” said Barry O’Leary, chief
executive officer of the  Industrial Development Authority  in
Dublin, which is charged with attracting overseas investors to
Ireland. “So tax is very important.”  The tax rate on corporate profits compares with an EU
average of 23 percent, according to data from the group’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg. In Germany, the rate is 30
percent and France’s is 34 percent.  The pressure for change to the Irish tax system has been
building since the government was forced to seek a bailout from
the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU.  French ‘Obsession’  “Ireland cannot afford to say ‘come and help us,’ while
having a tax on business that is half that of its neighbors,”
Sarkozy said on Jan. 13 in southern  France . Earlier this month,
he said that while Ireland didn’t necessarily have to have the
same rate, Europe needs a common tax base.  The French have an “obsession” with Ireland’s tax rate
and any increase would threaten an export-driven recovery,
according to Ruari Quinn, a lawmaker for the opposition  Labour
Party  and finance minister from 1994 to 1997.  “In the politics of tax, we’re in the frontline,” Quinn,
whose party may form a coalition with Kenny’s Fine Gael, said on
Feb. 17 at a meeting with company executives. “I believe we’ll
be successful” in defending the current rate.  EU leaders will meet on March 11 to discuss Merkel’s and
Sarkozy’s competitiveness pact, which includes harmonization of
Europe’s corporate tax base. Under an EU plan, companies would
pay tax in the countries where they make sales rather than where
they are based, a move that would hit Ireland.  “We’re against it,” Micheal Martin, leader of Fianna
Fail, the Irish governing party, said in an interview on Feb. 9.
“It would be enormously complex. It’s not feasible.”  Viagra, Botox  Exports offer the biggest hope for Ireland, as it seeks to
escape its worst recession on record. Overseas sales of
everything from the ingredients used in Pfizer’s impotence
treatment Viagra to Allergan Inc.’s Botox will climb 5.9 percent
this year, the country’s central bank forecasts.    Consumer spending  will decline 2.2 percent and government
spending will plunge 4.7 percent.  “It is vital that the next government does not bow to any
pressure from  Germany  and France,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Dublin-based Bloxham Stockbrokers. The rate is
“the cornerstone of attracting investment into Ireland and is
key to the country’s recovery prospects.”  Google, which employs 2,000 people in Dublin, last week
agreed to buy the 15-story Montevetro building, the tallest  office tower  in the city, as it expands its operations.  Allergan makes its entire Botox anti-wrinkle drug in
Westport in Western Ireland. The Irvine, California-based
company has invested $750 million in Ireland in the past five
years, and now employs about 860 people there.  Any increase in Irish taxes would make the company “very
unhappy,” Doug Ingram, European president of Allergan, said in
an interview on Feb. 1. “Ireland understands the importance of
its pro-business policies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  