-- 
Firth Warbles Abba Tunes, Shares Bening’s Bathtub: Rainer File

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-02-24T03:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/firth-warbles-abba-tunes-shares-bening-s-bathtub-rainer-file.html
  Colin Firth  is the heavy favorite to
win the best-actor Oscar for his unglamorous performance as
stuttering British monarch George VI in “The King’s Speech.”  It’s an atypical role for Firth, who for much of his career
has been pigeonholed by his matinee-idol looks. With a face
suitable for a medallion and Byronic hair, Firth certainly looks
the part of a great English actor. Until recently, though, he’s
been an underachiever.  The turnaround started in 2009 with his Oscar-nominated
turn as a gay professor grieving over the death of his lover in
“A Single Man.” Firth played the character with exquisite
integrity, notably in a scene where he restrains his rage over
being excluded from his partner’s funeral.  Other roles haven’t been so successful.  Firth, 50, may have been the spitting image of Mr. Darcy in
the 1995 television adaptation of “Pride & Prejudice,” but his
performance in that iconic role doesn’t measure up to Laurence Olivier’s in the 1940 movie version or even Matthew Macfadyen’s
in the 2005 adaptation. (Asked to name the most important women
in his life by a French magazine, Firth replied, “My mother, my
wife and Jane Austen.”)  For an actor of his standing, Firth has appeared in
remarkably few memorable movies, especially in lead roles.  He made an impressive breakthrough in 1984 co-starring with
Rupert Everett in “Another Country,” adapted from a play he
had previously performed on the London stage about the early
days of British spies Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean.  Bathtub Scene  He was effective as a battle-scarred World War I veteran in
a remote Yorkshire village in “A Month in the Country” (1987).
In the ultra-creepy “Apartment Zero” (1989), he played with
manic precision a British film buff beleaguered by his Buenos
Aires roommate.  He shared a frisky bathtub scene with  Annette Bening  in
“Valmont” (1989), a softer version of the same material that
was the basis for Stephen Frears’s “Dangerous Liasions” the
previous year.  With the exception of “The  English Patient ” (1996) and
“Shakespeare in Love” (1998), both of which featured him in
supporting roles of modest distinction, the bulk of Firth’s
subsequent work was for British television. This included “The
Deep Blue Sea” (1994), an adaptation of the Terence Rattigan
play about an affair between a former military pilot and an
older woman, and “Nostromo” (1997), a mini-series based on the
Joseph Conrad novel.  Firth also became a regular in ensemble comedies like
“Love Actually” (2003),  Oscar Wilde ’s “The Importance of
Being Earnest” (2002) and the two “Bridget Jones” movies,
where he plays a boyfriend named --- ahem -- Mark Darcy.    Mamma Mia !’  I was about to give up on Firth right about the time he
warbled Abba tunes on a Greek isle in “Mamma Mia!” (2008).
Then he broke through his smooth facade in “A Single Man,”
portraying an emotionally drowning man who uses good manners as
a life raft.  In “The King’s Speech,” where George VI overcomes his
speech impediment with the help of an eccentric therapist played
by  Geoffrey Rush , it would have been easy for Firth portray the
king as a regular guy underneath all the royal pomp. But Firth
never once winks at the audience or sentimentalizes the
monarch’s misery.  It’s a royal performance worthy of an Oscar.    Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1l2E@aol.com   To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  