-- 
Food Inflation Quickens, Adding Pressure on Government Before India Budget

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-02-24T06:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/food-inflation-quickens-adding-pressure-on-government-before-india-budget.html
  India ’s food inflation accelerated
for the first time in three weeks, adding pressure on the
government to unveil steps in next week’s budget to ease prices.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables rose 11.49
percent in the week ended Feb. 12 from a year earlier, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. It
gained 11.05 percent the previous week.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee may boost spending on
agriculture and irrigation in the Feb. 28 budget to spur
production and curb prices in the world’s second-most populous
country. Rising food costs have sparked protests and prompted
the central bank to raise  interest rates  the most in  Asia .  “The government could use the budget to boost investment
in agriculture, improve the supply chain and allow foreign
retailers into the food sector,”  Abheek Barua , chief economist
in New Delhi at HDFC Bank Ltd., said before the report.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has increased its benchmark
repurchase rate seven times in the past year to 6.5 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this month that India’s 399
billion-rupee ($9 billion) plan to create jobs for the rural
poor is pushing up food costs by strengthening consumer demand
in the countryside.  The wholesale-price index for food articles averaged
approximately 17.2 percent in the past year as spending under
the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act of 2005 surged
almost fourfold. The program provides 100 days of work in a year
to 41 million families in India, according to government data.  Milk, eggs, fish and meat were the main contributors to
food inflation in recent years as rising incomes prompted
consumers to buy more protein-based products, Goldman Sachs said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s office in a Jan. 13
statement blamed the late arrival of rains for disrupting
supplies of fruits and vegetables, and said higher prices of
milk, eggs, meat and fish are “the effect of several
inclusiveness program which put greater income in the hands of
the relatively poor whose food consumption increases.”  The statement said the “only lasting solution” to curbing
food prices in India is to increase productivity.  Thousands of workers from across India marched toward the
country’s parliament in New Delhi yesterday protesting rising
food costs, low wages and job insecurity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 