-- 
Ford TV Ads Save 70% by Touting Touchscreens, Sonar-Parking

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-02-24T20:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ford-plays-up-focus-s-tech-features-in-single-global-ad-campaign.html
  Ford Motor Co .’s ads for the
revamped Focus compact play up its touchscreen stereo controls
and sonar-assisted parking in a technology-centered global
campaign that replaces the automaker’s traditional, and
costlier, regional strategies.  The 15-second television commercials will debut in  North
America  on March 1 during Fox’s   American Idol ,” Jim Farley,
group vice president of global marketing, sales and service,
said at a New York event announcing the campaign’s launch. Using
a single campaign saved about 70 percent in production costs,
Farley said.  The new Focus, which goes on sale in March, and the Fiesta
subcompact that debuted in June are the foundation of Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s bet that U.S. buyers will pay
more for small cars equipped with amenities typically found in
larger models. The Focus starts at about $17,000, and more
expensive versions can be as much as $29,000.  “The one area we see as an opportunity to differentiate
ourselves, it’s democratizing technology,” Farley said. The
marketing teams “all agree if technology is what we want to get
across, why do we need all this diversity?”  The campaign’s 50 ads were filmed in one South African
shoot with studio elements added in Belgium and  England . The
spots will begin airing in  Europe  next month and in  Australia ,  New Zealand  and  South Africa  later this year. With past models,
the automaker has used as many as eight regionally targeted
campaigns.  Grille Shutters  Features shown in the commercials include sonar-assisted
parking, which can steer the Focus into a parallel-parking slot
without the driver turning the steering wheel. Other ads show
shutters that seal the car’s grille, improving aerodynamics at
high speeds, and “start-stop” technology that shuts off the
engine when the Focus is at rest.  For the commercials, “our vision was for this car to feel
premium if you turn off the sound on TV,” Farley said.  The 15- and 20-second spots last about half as long as
typical TV commercials. Ford plowed the savings from filming the
ads at one location at one time into increasing the frequency
with which the commercials will be aired. The company ran a six-
month pre-launch digital and social media campaign that included
inviting auto bloggers to  Madrid  for a test-driving event.  ‘From A Friend’  The automaker’s goal was for prospective customers to learn
about the Focus, and Ford’s bet on technology, “from a friend,
not necessarily from the company,” Farley said.  By 2012, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker is
targeting worldwide sales of 2 million for the Focus and its
global variants, which will cut costs by having more than 80
percent of parts in common, the automaker has said.  Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy in
2009, earned $6.56 billion in 2010, the most since 1999. New
models such as the Fiesta subcompact and redesigned Taurus sedan
helped the Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s 2010 U.S. sales
rise 17 percent, outpacing the industrywide gain of 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  