-- 
Ex-Taylor, Bean Official Admits Guilt in $1.9 Billion Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-24T22:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/former-taylor-bean-official-pleads-guilty-to-fraud-in-1-9-billion-scheme.html
The former treasurer of Taylor, Bean
& Whitaker Mortgage Corp., once the 12th largest mortgage lender
in the U.S., admitted helping run a $1.9 billion fraud scheme
that targeted the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and
contributed to the failure of  Colonial Bank .  Desiree Brown, 45, pleaded guilty in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia , to conspiring to commit  wire fraud ,  securities fraud  and bank fraud, and agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors bringing  Lee Farkas , former chairman of Taylor,
Bean, to trial on April 4. Brown also settled civil charges with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC said.  Until today, Farkas, 58, was the only person charged in
what the government said was a massive scheme to deceive
financial firms and TARP by covering up shortfalls at Taylor,
Bean, once the largest non-depository mortgage lender in the
U.S., according to the SEC’s statement on the case. Farkas was
indicted on 16 counts in June and faces the possibility of
spending the rest of his life in prison, according to a Justice
Department statement.  “Were there other people besides Mr. Farkas who were
involved in this scheme,” U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema asked Brown at the plea hearing?  “Yes ma’am,” Brown answered.  Brown, of Hernando,  Florida , faces a maximum penalty of 30
years in prison, a $250,000 fine and an order to pay restitution
to more than 250 victims. Brown, who is to be sentenced on June
10, was released on a $50,000 unsecured bond.  Hidden Overdrafts  The crime included conspiring to transfer funds between
closely held  Taylor Bean  and Colonial Bank, a unit of Colonial
BancGroup Inc., to hide overdrafts, prosecutors said. The bank
was one of the 50 largest in the U.S., according to the
government.  The SEC’s complaint alleges Brown violated antifraud,
reporting, books and records and internal controls provisions of
federal securities laws. She agreed to an injunction against
future violations without admitting or denying the SEC’s
allegations.  In the criminal case, Brown admitted that from late 2003
through August 2009, she, Farkas and other unidentified
individuals conspired to defraud Colonial Bank,  Colonial
BancGroup Inc ., shareholders of Colonial BancGroup, TARP, and
investors in Ocala Funding LLC, which included  Deutsche Bank AG 
and BNP Paribas SA, according to Brown’s statements in court and
a Justice Department statement.  Scheme to Defraud  One of the goals of the scheme was to obtain funding for
Taylor, Bean to help cover expenses for operations and
“servicing payments owed to third-party purchasers of loans
and/or mortgage-backed securities,” the department said in the
statement.  The U.S. said the scheme contributed to the failures of
Colonial Bank and Taylor, Bean, which was based in Ocala,
Florida.  William Cummings, a lawyer for Farkas, attended today’s
hearing. In an interview, he said he expected more guilty pleas
before his client goes to trial. He said his client, who has
pleaded not guilty, has had some settlement discussions with the
government though “nothing has come out of it yet.”  Brown said in court that she has been talking with the
government for the past six months. Brown was vice president of
special projects at Taylor, Bean starting in October 2002. In
2004, she was named controller and then treasurer.  Fake Mortgage Assets  Brown, Farkas and unnamed conspirators sold Colonial Bank
more than $400 million in fake mortgage assets in a scheme they
called “Plan B,” according to the  Justice Department 
statement.  The conspirators sent mortgage data to Colonial Bank for
loans that didn’t exist or that Taylor, Bean had already
committed or sold to other third-party investors, the Justice
Department said.  “As a result, the Plan B loan data was recorded in
Colonial Bank’s books and records, and gave the false appearance
that Colonial Bank had purchased legitimate interests in  mortgage loans  from TBW,” the department said.  Brown, Farkas and the conspirators diverted more than $1
billion from Ocala Funding, a mortgage lending facility
controlled by Taylor, Bean & Whitaker to cover its losses,
according to the statement.  Ocala Funding sold asset-backed commercial paper to
financial institutions including Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s
biggest bank, and Paris-based  BNP Paribas , according to Farkas’s
indictment.  Operating Losses  In 2008, when Taylor, Bean’s operating losses mounted,
Farkas and his conspirators allegedly tried through Colonial
BancGroup, Colonial Bank’s Montgomery, Alabama-based holding
company, to obtain about $553 million through TARP, prosecutors
said.  The application for funding included false information, and
investigators detected irregularities before any TARP money was
released, according to the Justice Department.  Alabama regulators seized Colonial Bank in 2009 and the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . was appointed as receiver.
Colonial BancGroup filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  The Brown case is USA v. Brown, 1:11-cr-00084, and the
Farkas case is USA v. Farkas, 1:10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 