-- 
Former Arkansas Governor Huckabee `Seriously' Weighing Presidential Run

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-24T06:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/former-arkansas-governor-huckabee-seriously-weighing-presidential-run.html
Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee says he thinks about running for president every day.  Yet the 55-year-old media commentator and former Baptist
preacher, leading many other prospective Republican contenders
in public opinion polls, also says he is in no rush to jump into
the still-unformed race for 2012.  Huckabee said his name recognition, along with his
popularity, “puts me in a very different position” than in
2008, when he won the Iowa Republican caucuses in January before
dropping out of the race that March. “It doesn’t mean that I
can wait indefinitely, but it certainly means that I’d be smart
to wait for not only the field to develop, but to not walk away
from a platform where I get to determine what I want to talk
about,” he said.  Huckabee, in Washington to promote his new book, “A Simple
Government,” spoke about his presidential ambitions yesterday
at a session with reporters hosted by the Christian Science
Monitor.  While he said he is “seriously contemplating” a
presidential bid, Huckabee described his reticence as “based on
the personal experience of having been there, done that.”  A  Gallup Poll  conducted Feb. 18-20 showed Huckabee leading
the Republican pack in a statistical tie with two other former
governors,  Mitt Romney  of  Massachusetts  and Sarah Palin of  Alaska , the only other prospective candidates whose support
registered in the double digits. The survey put support for
Huckabee at 18 percent, a six-point increase from September
2010, with Romney at 16 percent and Palin at 12 percent. The
margin of error was plus or minus three percentage points.  Gingrich, Thune  The shape of the Republican field may become clearer in the
coming weeks. Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  has
said he will decide by the end of this month, while South Dakota
Senator John Thune announced Feb. 22 that he doesn’t plan to
enter the race.  Huckabee criticized President  Barack Obama  for the
adminstration’s decision, announced yesterday, to stop defending
the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act, which bars
the federal government from recognizing  same-sex marriages .  “I’m deeply disappointed, and they’re clearly out of sync
with the public,” Huckabee said, adding that 33 states have
similar laws. “What does the president believe he knows that
citizens in all these other states don’t?”  He also dismissed a proposal presented to Obama’s debt-
reduction commission last year that called for a mix of tax
increases and spending cuts to rein in the deficit. Huckabee
said the focus should be on spending cuts first.  “Don’t even bring it up,” he said regarding tax
increases. “We have to take this incrementally, in steps, and
the first step is to cut spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  