-- 
France Telecom Sees 2011 Margin Drop on Domestic Competition

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-24T17:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/france-telecom-profit-falls-less-than-expected-on-more-broadband-customers.html
  France Telecom SA  said it sees a
drop in profit margins this year as it gears up for a new
mobile-phone rival in its home market in 2012.  France’s biggest phone company, which today reported 2010
profit that was slightly better than analyst expectations, said
it sees a 1 percentage point slide in 2011 margins for earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  The “risk profile in both fixed and mobile is increasing”
in the French market, Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales
specialist at  Societe Generale  in  London , wrote in a note.  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is looking to
guard market share and margins at home, where Iliad SA will
start offering mobile services next year.  France  accounted for
more than 51 percent of revenue for the former state-owned
monopoly last year.  “The preparations for the fourth entrant will put some
pressure on mobile prices in France” in 2011, Chief Financial
Officer Gervais Pellissier said on a call with reporters.  In 2010, Ebitda declined to 15.6 billion euros ($21.5
billion) from 15.8 billion euros a year earlier, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. Analysts had predicted Ebitda of
15.4 billion euros, according to the average of 30 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 1.5 percent to 45.5 billion
euros.  France Telecom shares fell 1.45 percent to 15.96 euros in
Paris trading, valuing the company at about 42.3 billion euros.  Competitors  Along with rivals  Vivendi SA  and  Bouygues SA , France
Telecom’s Orange brand will contend with a new competitor next
year when Iliad becomes the fourth French mobile operator.  Iliad founder Xavier Niel has pledged to drag down prices
for mobile services.  In 2010, the company clawed back ground at home in the
broadband market, picking up 36 percent of new customers in the
fourth quarter, Pellissier said.  “2011 will be mostly comparable to 2010, although we are
slightly more optimistic,” he said.  Revenue -- excluding the impact of regulation -- will
“increase slightly” in 2011, the Paris-based company said. It
plans to spend about 13 percent of revenue on capital
expenditure. The company confirmed its target for organic  cash
flow  in the year of 8 billion euros.  The free cash flow target is “on the aggressive side,”
SocGen’s Baradar said, adding that there are likely to be some
downgrades to the forecast.  France Telecom today said it is proposing a 2010 dividend
of 1.40 euros a share and reiterated its goal of a matching
dividend for 2011 and 2012.  Emerging Markets  Richard has been taking France Telecom’s Orange brand
further into fast-growing emerging markets, including  Africa  and
the Middle East. He has pledged to spend as much as 7 billion
euros on emerging markets deals by 2015, part of an effort to
double revenue from those regions in the period.  The company’s customer base expanded 6 percent last year to
209.6 million. Mobile services customers reached 150.4 million,
rising 9.1 percent as it signed up users in Africa and the
Middle East.  Those regions have presented complex questions for France
Telecom as its operations in  Egypt ,  Tunisia , and the  Ivory Coast 
are affected by political crises.  In the Ivory Coast, a former French colony, a standoff
between presidential candidates and freezes on the financial
system have hurt France Telecom, which hasn’t yet sent back
expatriate staff evacuated last year, Pellissier said.  Meanwhile, Richard has led calls from European operators
for a new relationship with technology providers such as  Google
Inc . and  Apple Inc ., who the phone companies say are flooding
their networks. France Telecom won government backing for the
effort in December, when Industry Minister Eric Besson said the
French state would study ways in which heavy generators of
Internet content might contribute to network costs.  France Telecom’s financial results no longer include the
performance of its Orange U.K. unit, which merged with Deutsche
Telekom AG’s British operations in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 