-- 
Fusion-Io Said to Hire Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs for $100 Million IPO

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-02-24T18:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/fusion-io-is-said-to-hire-banks-for-potential-100-million-inital-offering.html
Fusion-io Inc., a startup that aims
to replace hard drives with flash memory, hired  Morgan Stanley 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . to handle its initial public
offering, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The Salt Lake City-based company plans to raise about $100
million, said the people, who declined to be named because the
talks are private. Fusion-io also has hired Wilson Sonsini
Goodrich & Rosati as its legal adviser for the IPO, another
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Founded  in 2006, Fusion-io is benefiting from a shift to
flash memory from traditional storage drives. Flash has no
moving parts and can access data more quickly than disks, which
rely on spinning platters to hold information. The company has
raised more than $110 million in venture capital, and it counts
Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Wozniak among its top executives.  Fusion-io joins a growing crop of technology companies
planning IPOs now that the  Nasdaq Composite Index  is approaching
its highest level in a decade. Kayak Software Corp., LinkedIn
Corp. and Pandora Media Inc. have all filed to go public in the
past four months.  Shannon McPhee, a Fusion-io spokeswoman, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation. “We’re focused on
building our business and doing what’s in the best long-term
interest of our stockholders,” she said.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, and  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, also declined to
comment, as did Wilson Sonsini’s Courtney Dorman.  Venture Funding  Wozniak, Fusion-io’s chief scientist, has discussed plans
to go public, according to a  story  this week in the U.K.’s
Register. The company last raised funding in April, when
Meritech Capital Partners led a $45 million investment. Accel
Partners, Andreessen Horowitz, New Enterprise Associates and
Lightspeed Venture Partners also are backing Fusion-io.  The company said last month that it’s shipped more than 15
petabytes of flash memory to corporations in the past year --
enough to hold more than 199 years’ worth of continuously played
high-definition video. Fusion-io combines software and memory
chips to speed the rate that server computers can access data.
Its products are sold through  Hewlett-Packard Co .,  International
Business Machines Corp . and  Dell Inc .  Technology companies worldwide are turning to IPOs to raise
funds. Yandex, a Moscow-based Internet search provider;
Renren.com, the largest social-networking site in China; and
Austin, Texas-based HomeAway Inc. are all planning IPOs this
year, people briefed on the proposals said last week. The
offerings may raise a total of $1.8 billion.  The Nasdaq, which gets more than 45 percent of its value
from technology companies, has jumped 22 percent in the past
year. Last week, the index came within 1 percent of its 2001
high. Still, it remains 46 percent below its record from the
dot-com era in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 