-- 
Heating Oil Retreats as Saudis, IEA, U.S. Assure Oil Supplies

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-02-24T22:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/gasoline-heating-oil-reach-29-month-highs-on-libya-revolt.html
Heating oil sank and gasoline was
little changed as  Saudi Arabia , the U.S. and the  International
Energy Agency  said they would replace supplies lost because of
Libya’s political unrest.  Futures retreated from 29-month highs as President Barack Obama said the U.S. will be able to ride out a disruption in oil
supplies and the IEA said it stands ready to release emergency
stockpiles. Saudi Arabia and other OPEC nations are willing and
can replace any lost Libyan oil as soon as companies ask for it,
a Saudi Arabian oil official said.  “What took us off the highs initially was the attempts by
the Saudis to reassure they would supplement supply,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Heating oil for March delivery lost 2.76 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $2.8773 a gallon, after touching $3.0625,
the highest level for the contract closest to expiration since
Sept. 24, 2008.  The statements from the IEA, Saudi Arabia and the U.S.
don’t represent actual oil made available,  Harry Tchilinguirian ,
London-based head of commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas
SA, said in an e-mail.  Today’s price pullback, “given that no real new
development hit the markets, and considering the large gains
that have been posted since Monday, you are probably looking at
some profit-taking off the rally,” Tchilinguirian said.  IEA Supplies  The IEA, a Paris-based adviser to 28 oil-consuming nations,
said that its member governments have enough emergency
inventories to cover 145 days worth of imports.  Carney declined to directly respond to calls from three
Democratic members of Congress for President  Barack Obama  to
consider tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  “To me that’s a short-term way to relieve prices but long-
term can come back to bite you,” said Ray Carbone, president of
Paramount Options Inc. in  New York  and a trader at the Nymex.
“In the meantime, the market is going to be led around by news
and rumors.”  Futures have risen 5.4 percent since anti-government
protests began Feb. 15 in Libya, a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  ‘What-if?’  “We’re looking at a strong market picture because people
are looking forward and playing the what-if game,” said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “What if this conflict spreads?”  Gasoline and heating oil surged earlier as Libya’s
political uprising increased concern that unrest will spread
across North Africa and the Middle East. Foreign governments
began discussing intervention as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
lost control over cities in the oil-rich east.  “We’re pricing in worst-case scenarios minus Saudi
Arabia,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida . “The Saudis are taking all
the right steps to keep calm in their country and if it stays
quiet for one week, that will take some of the premium out of
the market.”  The rebellion in Libya may have shut 1 million barrels of
daily output, according to  Barclays Capital .    Brent crude  for April settlement on  London ’s ICE Futures
exchange rose 11 cents to $111.36 a barrel, after touching
$119.79, a 30-month high. The April contract for West Texas
Intermediate crude fell 82 cents to $97.28, after earlier
reaching $103.41.  Gasoline Demand  The Energy Department reported today that gasoline demand
in the week ended Feb. 18, as measured by deliveries to
wholesalers, rose 3.3 percent to an average 9.1 million barrels
a day, an eight-week high. Total product demand in the U.S. fell
1.1 percent to 19.8 million barrels a day.  Gasoline stockpiles dropped 2.8 million barrels to 238.3
million, the first decline in eight weeks. Supplies are 3.1
percent above a year earlier.  Gasoline for March delivery gained 0.18 cent to settle at
$2.7167 a gallon on the exchange, the highest close since Sept.
12, 2008. Prices touched $2.856 before retreating near the close
of floor trading.  Inventories fell as refiners reduced rates 1.8 percentage
points to 79.4 percent, the lowest level in more than a year,
after shutting units for planned and unplanned repairs.  “There’s a real conflict between what the fundamentals are
saying and the market is saying,” Cohan said. “Demand is good
but nothing special. There’s a draw in inventories but expected
because so much production was offline.”  Stockpiles of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, dropped 1.33 million barrels to 159.9 million, a 12-week
low. Demand fell 8.2 percent to 3.65 million barrels a day, the
least in five weeks.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 3.4
cents to $3.228 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 