-- 
Geithner Butt of Jokes No More as Obama's Money Man Now on Top

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-02-24T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/geithner-butt-of-jokes-no-more-as-obama-s-money-man-now-on-top-of-economy.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
says the  U.S. economy  is in a “much stronger position” than it
was two years ago.  The same could be said of him.  Once the focal point for criticism of the administration’s
struggle to resolve the financial crisis, opposed by almost all
Senate Republicans for confirmation, and the butt of jokes by
late-night comedians, Geithner has emerged as President Barack Obama’s most powerful economic policy maker. His influence on
everything from overhauling housing finance to remaking the
corporate tax code is reminiscent of the clout that  Robert Rubin 
and  James Baker  enjoyed when they ran Treasury.  “Many would have faltered during those tough days at the
beginning, but he didn’t,” said  Roger Altman , founder of the
investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc . and a former deputy
Treasury secretary under President  Bill Clinton . “And, between
the success of the TARP investments, the auto rescues, and the
overall recovery in the banking system, he’s now on top.”  At a Bloomberg Breakfast yesterday, the 49-year-old
Geithner parried with leading reporters from nine news
organizations on a variety of subjects, from budget battles with
Republicans to U.S. differences with China over its currency
policy.  He outlined a two-pronged approach to closing the federal
budget gap: lowering the record $1.6 trillion deficit to more
manageable levels over the next five years, and then tackling
the longer-term peril posed by entitlement programs such as the
Medicare health-insurance system.  Avoiding Shutdown  He voiced hopes that Congress would avoid a government
shutdown in the standoff between Republicans and Democrats over
this year’s budget, even as he reiterated his criticism of the
Republican spending-reduction plans as unrealistic.  And he said the U.S. has picked up support over the last
six months for its campaign to pressure  China  for a stronger
yuan to help ease global trade imbalances.  Two years ago, it was Geithner who was feeling the
pressure. Tarred by an uproar over his underpayment of federal
taxes, he won Senate confirmation as Treasury secretary by the
slimmest margin since World War II. His rollout of a bank-rescue
plan on Feb. 10, 2009, triggered a 4.9 percent drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index as investors dismissed his
proposal as inadequate.  A lot has changed since, for the economy, the financial
system and for Geithner himself. After contracting at a 4.9
percent annual clip in the first quarter of 2009, the economy
has righted itself, helped by Obama’s $814 billion stimulus
package, and is on course to rack up its fastest growth in seven
years, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “By really almost any measure you look at, the economy is
just gradually getting stronger,” Geithner said.  S&P Surge  So is the financial system. U.S. banks had net income of
$87.5 billion in 2010, the highest since 2007, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. said yesterday.  The  S&P 500 index  has jumped more than 90 percent since
March 9, 2009, and corporate bond spreads have narrowed. The
extra yield investors demand to own high-risk securities instead
of Treasuries narrowed to 4.66 percentage points on Feb. 22,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “The core of the American financial system is in a much
stronger position than it was before the crisis,” Geithner
said.  The Treasury chief deserves much of the credit, said
Douglas Elliott of the  Brookings Institution  in Washington and a
former managing director of JP Morgan Securities Inc.  “The administration handled the crisis quite well and
Secretary Geithner played a key role,” he said.  ‘Longer-Term Vision’  Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. In  Newport Beach ,  California , agreed.  “Geithner has done very well in tackling the difficult
problems that confronted the country when he took office,
including a battered banking system and an economy in virtual
freefall,” said El-Erian, who is also co-chief investment
officer of Pimco, which manages the world’s largest bond fund.  “His major challenge now is to articulate and mobilize
broad-based support for a longer-term vision,” he said.  A lot of that revolves around the budget.  Obama aims to reduce the deficit by $1.1 trillion over a
decade. His budget, his first since Republicans took control of
the  House of Representatives , includes cuts to energy,
transportation, housing and other programs popular with
Democrats. Republicans have attacked the budget as inadequate,
saying it doesn’t go far enough to address long-term deficits.  ‘Multiyear Strategy’  “You have to look at things that have a multiyear strategy
so that you can phase in the deficit reduction as the economy
recovers,” Geithner said, “And you have to make sure you’re
giving a lot of care and attention to sustaining the ability to
invest in things that matter for the future.”  He is skeptical that Republicans can carry through with
promises to cut the deficit more deeply than the administration
does while eschewing tax increases and repealing a health-care
program that the  Congressional Budget Office  said will save the
government money.  “I don’t think there is a realistic prospect they can do
it politically,” he said.  Congress needs to enact a new spending plan by March 4 to
avoid a government shutdown, and congressional Republicans and
Democrats are preparing competing plans to prevent that outcome.  “Both sides have an interest in working to avoid this, in
part because of the risks it would hurt the recovery,” Geithner
said.  Corporate Taxes  He sees a chance the administration and Congress can agree
this year on a plan to overhaul the corporate  tax code .  “There’s a lot of interest in doing it,” Geithner said.  Obama said in his Jan. 25 State of the Union address that
the corporate code is riddled with “loopholes” because of the
influence of a “parade of lobbyists.” He hasn’t offered
details on what changes he’s seeking except to say any reforms
shouldn’t result in lost revenue for the government.  Businesses are clamoring for relief from a top 35 percent
corporate tax rate that is among the developed world’s highest.  Geithner also put forward this month a series of proposals
for attracting private capital back into the $11 trillion
mortgage market while shrinking the role played by  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored enterprises that have
been sustained by U.S. aid since September 2008.  “I’m very encouraged by the reaction so far,” Geithner
said, while adding that it will take a couple of years to reach
a consensus with Congress.  Cajoling China  On the international front, Geithner is trying to reorient
the world economy to avoid the imbalances that helped contribute
to the financial crisis. At the heart of the effort is his
attempt to cajole China into accepting a faster appreciation of
its currency.  He said the U.S. has gained backing for its campaign for a
stronger yuan, pointing to growing concern in Brazil and  India 
about China’s policies.  “People want to see them move faster,” he said.  China has allowed the yuan to appreciate about 3.8 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  since June, or at a 10 percent annual
rate in real terms, Treasury Assistant Secretary Charles Collyns
said in a speech this week in  San Francisco .  While Geithner’s role in helping settle these issues has
grown since his rocky start in the administration, he still
jokes that he doesn’t get enough respect.  Told that he was the second policy maker to appear at a
Bloomberg Breakfast -- White House chief of staff William Daley
was first -- he feigned umbrage.  “I’m so offended that I’m number two,” he said. “You
know, the story of my life.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Rich Miller in
Washington   rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  