-- 
German Exports, Company Spending Drove Fourth-Quarter Growth

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-02-24T07:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/german-exports-company-spending-drove-fourth-quarter-growth-1-.html
Exports drove German economic growth
in the fourth quarter, assisted by company investment and
private consumption, a detailed breakdown of the data shows.  Foreign trade contributed 0.7 percentage points to growth
in the final three months of the year, investment in plant and
machinery added 0.2 percent points and private consumption added
0.1 percentage point, the  Federal Statistics Office  said in
Wiesbaden today. Gross domestic product gained 0.4 percent from
the third quarter, when it grew 0.7 percent, the office said,
confirming a Feb. 15 estimate.  The German economy may gather strength in the current
quarter after the coldest winter since 1969 curbed construction
activity in the final three months of 2010. Business confidence
jumped to a record high this month and unemployment is the
lowest in almost two decades. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
last night indicated the central bank has raised its 2011 growth
forecast to 2.5 percent from 2 percent. The economy expanded a
record 3.6 percent in 2010.  “Confidence in the economy is overwhelming, companies’
capacity utilization is remarkable and export expectations are
on the rise,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank
in Frankfurt. “The conditions for growth are excellent.”  Exports rose 2.5 percent from the third quarter and imports
increased 0.9 percent, today’s report showed. Construction
output dropped 3.9 percent. From a year earlier, the economy
grew 4 percent.  ‘Brutal Slump’  “The brutal slump in construction investment at the end of
last year means that we’ll see a catch-up effect -- we just
revised our GDP forecast for the first quarter to 0.9 percent,”
said Jens Kramer, an economist at Nord LB in Hanover.   Germany 
remains the growth locomotive in the euro region.”  Growth in  Europe ’s service and manufacturing industries
accelerated to the fastest pace in more than four years in
February, led by stronger output in Germany. Plant and machinery
output growth may accelerate to 10 percent this year, the
Frankfurt-based machine makers’ association said on Feb. 10.  Demand from within the euro area, Germany’s biggest export
market, may suffer as governments from  Spain  to Ireland struggle
with a debt crisis. Euro-region economic growth will ease to 1.5
percent this year from 1.7 percent in 2010, the  European Central
Bank  forecast in December.  German Cars  Still, Germany’s Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Daimler AG
and Volkswagen AG, which have added about 67 billion euros ($90
billion) in market value since the end of the 2009, are poised
for 2011 profits exceeding pre-financial crisis highs amid U.S.
and Chinese demand, analysts forecast.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 25 raised its
global growth forecast for this year to 4.4 percent from the 4.2
percent predicted in October. Developing economies will grow 6.5
percent, while advanced economies may expand 2.5 percent, the
Washington-based fund said.  Siemens AG, Europe’s largest engineering company, won its
largest order for onshore  wind turbines  to date in the fourth
quarter. Infineon Technologies AG, Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker “is firing on all cylinders,” Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Bauer  said on Feb 17. “The volume of orders is
excellent, providing plenty of fuel for the coming quarters.”  Unemployment dropped to 7.4 percent last month, encouraging  consumer spending , even as rising food and energy prices boost
inflation. Crude  oil prices  have surged 39 percent in the last
six months to close to $100 a barrel.  “Prospects for consumer spending are definitely favorable
and the propensity to buy should rise further,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “But inflation
is a relatively big risk, especially when we look at oil-price
developments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  