-- 
GIC's Tan Says Mideast Momentum Rallies to Persist, Driving Oil Volatility

-- B y   L i n u s   C h u a
-- 
2011-02-24T05:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/gic-s-tan-says-mideast-momentum-rallies-to-persist-driving-oil-volatility.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp., manager of more than $100 billion of the city’s reserves,
said the “momentum” of popular uprising in the Middle East and
North  Africa  could drive volatility in oil markets.  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak stepped down earlier this
month after protesters crowded central Cairo for three weeks
demanding his ouster, while loyalists of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi sought to crush dissent in the capital of Tripoli as his
opponents tightened control of eastern cities.  “Geopolitical and global policy risk is higher, and
perhaps more unpredictable, than it has been for some time,”
Tony Tan, GIC’s deputy chairman, said in a speech at the Foreign
Policy Association in New York yesterday. “The risk premium in  oil prices  and volatility in oil markets could thus continue to
be high.”  The risk of political disruption may increase in oil-rich
states and countries that control key shipping routes like  Algeria ,  Bahrain , Libya and Yemen, Tan said. GIC is ranked the
world’s seventh-largest state investment company by  Sovereign
Wealth Fund Institute , which estimates it manages $247.5 billion.  The fighting in Libya, which holds Africa’s largest oil
reserves, is the most violent yet seen in six weeks of popular
uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa, which have
already unseated longtime rulers in Tunisia and Egypt.  Bahrain, Yemen  Bahrain’s King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa, who met with the
monarch of neighboring Saudi Arabia in  Riyadh , freed as many as
308 prisoners yesterday in a concession after more than a week
of Shiite-led protests. In Yemen, nine lawmakers quit the ruling
party over the government’s crackdown on pro-democracy
demonstrations that left at least seven people dead.  Crude oil futures for April delivery rose on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange today by as much as $1.39, or 1.4 percent,
to $99.49 and traded at $98.66 at 1:13 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, it touched $100, the highest level since Oct. 2, 2008.
Futures are up 25 percent from a year ago.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said oil may jump to $220 a barrel if
exports in Libya and neighboring Algeria are shut down.  Other risks Tan raised include accelerating inflation and
asset bubbles in China and  India , two economies he said could
expand 7 percent to 9 percent.  China  also needs to deal with an
expected rise in non-performing loans with increasing credit in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy, he said.  Emerging markets, especially the four biggest developing
nations that also include Brazil and  Russia , gained importance
following the 2008 financial crisis, he said.  “Some rebalancing in economic power will happen, and
indeed is a good thing,” he said, adding that as the  U.S.
economy  recovers, “America is likely to remain the single-most
important source of global prosperity for many years to come.”  The company, which has a third of its investments in the
U.S., said the country remains a “prime destination” for the
fund. Tan’s biggest worry about the U.S. is that the country is
“becoming increasing insular” because of concerns over jobs or
reactions to terrorism, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  