-- 
Google Says Searches From Africa Grow Faster at Its Local Language Pages

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-02-24T08:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/google-says-searches-from-africa-grow-faster-at-its-local-language-pages.html
  Google Inc .’s search requests from
sub-Saharan  Africa  are growing more quickly on African language
pages than those in English, French, or Portuguese, Program
Manager for African Languages Denis Gikunda said.  Google, the internet’s most-used search engine, offers its
homepage in 32 African languages and will add the Ghanaian
tongues of Ewe and Ga “roughly this week,” Gikunda said in a
Feb. 22 interview in Dakar,  Senegal . Those pages are helping the
company expand its services to people whose lack of familiarity
with a European language would normally be a barrier to internet
use, he said.  “For so many people in Africa, with technology, there’s
this idea that I have to master English first, and then I can be
good at it,” he said. “But if you see a user interface in
Swahili, you feel like you understand the product more, and
understand what you can do with  Google search .”  Sub-Saharan Africa is the world’s most expensive place for
internet connectivity, with home internet connections averaging
$45 a month, according to Google statistics presented Feb. 22 at
a conference in Dakar. Africa has about 110.9 million internet
users, representing 11 percent of the continent’s population,
according to Internet World Stats’  website . That compares with a
penetration rate of 32 percent in the rest of the world, it
said.  To reach those often less educated and less affluent
segments of the population, in which semi-literacy rates are
high and mobile phones are commonly the only regular Internet
access point, Google is experimenting with voice-activated e-
mail and web search applications for African language speakers,
Gikunda said.  It offers services in the South African languages of Zulu
and Afrikaans and hopes to expand those services into “as many
African languages as possible,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  