-- 
Gordhan Says Surge in Oil Price is `Serious' Risk to South African Economy

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 
2011-02-24T09:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/gordhan-says-oil-to-have-serious-impact-on-south-africa-1-.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the political turmoil in North  Africa  poses
risks for the economy and  oil prices  at $110 a barrel is a
“serious issue.”  “North Africa is already having an impact on us and the
rest of world,” Gordhan told lawmakers in Cape Town today. “If
oil continues increasing, that’s going to have a significant
impact for us. It’s something that has to be managed
carefully.”  Oil climbed to the highest in 30 months in  London  as
Libya’s violent uprising reduced supplies from Africa’s third-
biggest producer.  Brent crude  rose above $119 a barrel on
estimates the revolt caused Libya to lose as much as two-thirds
of its oil output. While the rand’s 11 percent gain against the
dollar last year helped to keep price pressures in check, the
currency has slumped 6.9 percent since the beginning of January.  “The environment now is very different,” National
Treasury Director-General Lesetja Kganyago told lawmakers in  Cape Town . “The weaker currency may boost import prices again.
The currency is weakening and that is feeding itself into food
and petrol prices. It’s a volatile environment.”  Inflation, which eased to a five-year low of 3.2 percent in
September, accelerated to 3.7 percent in January, the national
statistics office said on Feb. 16. Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on Feb. 4 that inflation may climb to the top end of
the 3 percent to 6 percent target range sooner than expected if
food and gasoline costs continue to climb.  The government raised the price of gasoline by 3 percent on
Feb. 2 to the highest since October 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Gordon Bell in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  