-- 
Governors Plan to Meet `Rising Star' Zhou as U.S.-China Trade Ties Deepen

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/governors-plan-to-meet-rising-star-zhou-as-u-s-china-trade-ties-deepen.html
Before U.S. governors head to the
White House, where President Barack Obama’s struggle with
mounting budget deficits mirrors fights in fiscally strapped
states, they’ll meet a counterpart from  China , the nation’s
biggest creditor.  The governors, some of whom have traveled to China with
local business leaders in tow, seek to foster deeper ties with
the fast-growing economy that is America’s largest overseas
trading partner. China is rivaled only by Japan as a source of
financing for Washington’s record budget deficits.  As a meeting of the  National Governors Association  begins
in Washington on Feb. 26, Zhou Qiang, a former governor of Hunan
Province who is now a Communist Party leader there, is set to
speak at the opening forum. Zhou heads a delegation of Chinese
officials “interested in establishing a subnational dialog”
with the association, according to a statement from the group.  “They are a rising economic power, so I think this is
important to do,” said Ray Sheppach, the Washington-based
association’s executive director.  The meeting illustrates the expanding economic ties between
the U.S. and China, the world’s most-populous country. China,
which held $891.6 billion in U.S. Treasury securities at the end
of December, overtook Japan, with $883.6 billion, as the second-
largest economy in the world last year.  The inclusion of Chinese officials in the meeting of U.S.
state chief executives was first broached by Ambassador Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah governor and U.S. trade official,
Sheppach said. Huntsman, the nation’s envoy to Beijing,
suggested the delegation’s participation last year.  State Visit  As  Hu Jintao , China’s president, visited Obama in
Washington last month, both leaders agreed to  encourage more
meetings  between local officials from the two nations. The
meetings may help governors seek entry for their states’
products into China or solicit investment by Chinese companies,
Sheppach said.    Job creation , economic development, those kinds of
things, it’s hard to do at a national level,” Sheppach said.  Zhou, 50, climbed from the ranks of the Chinese Communist
Youth League, a base of support for Hu, to become governor in
Hunan before securing his present post last year, said Cheng Li,
a China analyst with the  Brookings Institution , non-profit
research organization in Washington.  Unlike U.S. governors, who are popularly elected to wield
authority in their states and face off against political
opponents in legislatures, China’s provincial governors are the
second-highest ranking regional officials after party chiefs --
and their power is ultimately circumscribed by superiors in
Beijing, Li said. He said Zhou is one of three officials from
his generation who have a chance of joining the nation’s
Politburo Standing Committee, its top ruling body, next year.  ‘Rising Star’  “He is one of the rising stars of his generation,” Li
said in a telephone interview.  Hunan, Zhou’s home since 2006, has a population that
exceeds 68 million people, more than the two most-populous U.S.
states, California and  Texas , combined.  Mao Zedong , who led the
creation of the People’s Republic of China, was born there.
Hunan is among central provinces that lag behind coastal regions
in wealth. In 2010, Hunan’s gross domestic product per capita
was 20,226 yuan ($3,075).  Part of the grooming process for future Chinese leaders
involves letting them gain overseas experience, especially in
Washington, said  Huang Jing , a professor at the  National
University  of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy
who focuses on China’s politics.  Required Grooming  “For the leaders that have potential, No. 1, they have to
go to the  United States , to Washington,” Huang said in a Feb.
15 interview.  Meetings between the governors and their overseas
counterparts aren’t unprecedented. Two decades ago, it was
common for the association to meet with officials from Japan,
Sheppach said. During the 1980s, the island nation’s economy
grew in 33 out of 38 quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and its carmakers built U.S. plants.  The dialog to begin at this week’s meeting is set to
continue in April, when local officials gather in  Seattle  for a
meeting of the  National League of Cities . The gathering will
include a delegation of Chinese municipal officials, according
to a  statement  posted on the group’s website.  Some city officials have already had the chance to exchange
views with their Chinese counterparts.  Meeting the Mayors  Last month, while in Washington for a meeting of the U.S.
Conference of Mayors,  Los Angeles  Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  was
among those who met with officials from China, including the
China Investment Corp., a government-controlled fund with $300
billion in assets.  The meeting focused on opportunities in U.S. infrastructure
projects, a facet of the economy that’s being threatened by
state and national budget deficits.  “They have a very substantial amount of capital available
for projects like this,” Villaraigosa said in an interview last
month. Chinese companies have invested more than $59 billion in
Los Angeles, Qiu Shaofang, China’s consul general in the city,
said last month, according to Xinhua, the country’s official
news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:  William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 