-- 
Qaddafi Urges End to Violence as Foes Increase Control in East

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y ,   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-02-24T17:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/libya-is-split-as-qaddafi-loyalists-hold-tripoli-rebels-organize-in-east.html
Libya’s  Muammar Qaddafi , who has
lost control of much of the country’s oil-rich east, appealed to
citizens to end violence as his forces stepped up a crackdown on
opponents and more than 100 people were reportedly shot dead.  Qaddafi blamed the uprising against his 41-year rule on
“drugged kids” and al-Qaeda, speaking by telephone on state
television today for the first time since a Feb. 22 speech in
which he vowed to fight “until his last drop of blood.” He said
he regretted the deaths during the unrest.  “You want to change the government -- you can do it any
day through the revolutionary committees,” Qaddafi said,
referring to his own state structures. He said protesters had no
demands of their own and were echoing those of  Osama bin Laden .  As he was speaking, anti-government opponents were
consolidating their control over eastern cities, while foreign
governments began discussing possible actions and advanced
efforts to extract their citizens from what fleeing Egyptians
said was a bloodbath.  The unrest in Africa’s third-biggest oil producer sent
crude advancing for a sixth day.  Brent crude  reached a 30-month
high of almost $120 a barrel in London. Crude for April delivery
rose to $103.41 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008. The Stoxx 600 capped its
longest losing streak in almost five months.  Markets are responding to concern that crude supplies may
be further affected if the struggle against Qaddafi becomes more
protracted or violent, possibly leading to civil war.  Barclays
Capital  estimated that about 1 million barrels of daily oil
production may have been cut.  ‘A Massacre’  More than 100 people were killed in the western town of Az-
Zawiyah as forces loyal to Qaddafi attacked protesters, Al
Jazeera television said.  Egyptians returning home through a Libyan checkpoint that
had fallen to Qaddafi’s opponents said today that his
supporters, most of them foreign mercenaries, were attacking
anyone out on the streets of the capital, Tripoli.  “It’s a massacre in there,” Mohamed Yehia, 23, said after
entering the Egyptian border town of Salloum. “He is crazy. The
world must know what he’s doing to his people.”  Protesters calling for regime change in  Libya  and elsewhere
in the region have been driven by a combination of economic
complaints such as high prices and scarce jobs, and the
repression of political and civil rights by leaders in power for
decades. In the past month, the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt 
have been toppled through popular revolts.  Civilian Committees  In the east, Qaddafi’s opponents organized committees of
civilians to run and defend their cities with the help of troops
who deserted his forces. In Benghazi, the country’s second-
largest city, anti-Qaddafi militias in front of the courthouse
were collecting weapons from people who had seized them from
army supplies, a local resident said by phone, declining to be
identified due to concern over reprisals.  Anti-government protesters appeared to be in control of the
entire eastern coastline, Al Jazeera reported today, as clashes
between pro- and anti-government forces broke out in other
cities, including Sabha in the southwest, and Sabhatha and Az-
Zawiyah, both west of Tripoli.  Major General Suleiman Mahmoud, commander of the Libyan
army in Tobruk, told Al Jazeera that his forces have deserted
Qaddafi and are siding with local residents. “We are supporting
the Libyan people,” he said in a phone interview with the
channel. He said Tobruk was peaceful and that residents were
organizing themselves.  Civil War  “The possibility of civil war only exists if Qaddafi
stays,” Mohammed Ali Abdallah, deputy head of the National
Front for the Salvation of Libya, the main exiled opposition
group, said today.  Qaddafi has led Libya since coming to power in a military
coup in 1969, making him the world’s longest-serving non-royal
leader. He refers to himself as “leader and guide of the
revolution,” saying in the Feb. 22 speech that because he isn’t
a president or head of state, he can’t step down.  Qaddafi “has always been an ‘unusual’ person: erratic,
unpredictable and unconventional,” George Lane, a former U.S.
ambassador to Yemen who had headed the U.S. Embassy’s office in
Benghazi, said today by e-mail. Lane said he met Qaddafi during
the 1969 coup. “In some ways he was ‘crazy like a fox.’ Now he
sounds like he may be out of control,” Lane said.  The border crossing at Salloum swelled with people trying
to escape the growing violence, including thousands of Egyptians
as well as 400 Chinese citizens transported by their government
from Libya in buses.  ‘Killing Anyone’  “The mercenaries are in the streets and they’re killing
anyone who leaves his house,” said Nabil Abdel Raouf, 35, an
Egyptian construction worker who lived in the eastern Libyan
town of Derna, about 240 kilometers (150 miles) from the border.
“My brother and cousins have been trying to leave Tripoli for
four days, but they’re not able to.”  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini told parliament
yesterday there are “credible” reports that 1,000 people have
been killed. Human Rights Watch says at least 300 people have
died in the 10 days since the crackdown on protesters began.  “The danger is Qaddafi refuses to go, holes up somewhere,
and a bloody struggle ensues to dislodge him,” said Fawaz Gerges, director of the Middle East Center at the  London  School
of Economics.  The violence in Libya quickly surpassed unrest in other
Arab countries engulfed by demonstrations. In his speech this
week, the Libyan leader called the protesters “rats” and
“cockroaches,” warning them to stay off the streets and
reading a litany of offenses that would justify the death
penalty.  Envoys Quit  Outside the capital, and in Libyan diplomatic missions
around the world, cracks in the regime were widening. More than
a dozen Libyan envoys have resigned since the uprising began on
Feb. 17, including its chief diplomats to the  United Nations  and
to the U.S. World leaders have begun to join Libyans defecting
from the regime in calling for international intervention.  Nuri al-Mismari, Qaddafi’s former protocol chief, told Al
Jazeera today that Qaddafi “is trying to divide us so that he
can be in power but this will not happen.”  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, Qaddafi’s second-oldest son, denied
on state television today reports that warplanes had been used
in attacks. One of his brothers, Saadi, in an interview in the
London-based Financial Times, contradicted him, saying ships and
aircraft had been used to bombard ammunition depots in Benghazi.
The New York Times cited an officer as saying three Libyan naval
ships were ordered to sail to Benghazi and attack it, and that
the crews were torn over what to do.  Al-Qaeda ‘Emirate’  Deputy Foreign Minister Khalid Kayem warned on state
television late yesterday that al-Qaeda was behind killings in
Benghazi. He said the group had established an “emirate” in
the city of Derna and would attack  Europe  if not stopped.  The  SITE  Monitoring Group, which checks the websites of
Islamic militant groups, said yesterday that al-Qaeda’s North
African arm, Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, expressed
solidarity with anti-government forces in Libya and urged
Muslims everywhere to support the uprising. “We will do
whatever we can to help,” SITE quoted the group as saying.  Libya, with a population of about 6.3 million, pumps 1.6
million barrels of oil a day, selling most of it to Europe,
according to Bloomberg estimates. That’s about 1.8 percent of
world supply. It’s the third-biggest producer in  Africa  after
Nigeria and Angola, while Libyan reserves of 44.3 billion
barrels are the continent’s largest, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Bloodshed ‘Outrageous’  President  Barack Obama  said he’s sending Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to the  UN Human Rights Council  in Geneva on Feb.
28 to meet with other foreign ministers to work on a coordinated
response.  “The suffering and bloodshed is outrageous” and those
responsible must be held accountable, Obama said after meeting
with Clinton at the White House.  Sanctions will “have to be looked at” if the violence
continues, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told the BBC today.
“Britain, with her allies, should be looking at all of the
options for the future.”  Evacuations have been complicated by the closing of all
airports in Libya except Tripoli’s and by obstruction by Libyan
authorities, who have denied requests for extra flights and
prevented evacuees from boarding ships. Rough seas delayed the
departure of a U.S.-chartered ferry to evacuate Americans from
Tripoli, which was due to leave port yesterday.  Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said that Libya
denied requests for extra flights to evacuate Turks from the
country, prompting Turkey to begin the biggest sea evacuation in
its history.  Turkey  has repatriated 5,516 of its estimated
25,000 citizens from Libya so far, his ministry said today.  Ships Chartered    China  chartered four passenger ships from Greece and Malta
and 100 buses from Egypt to move 4,600 of its estimated 30,000
nationals away from the violence, its Foreign Ministry said.  Overnight, Cameron ordered a Royal Air Force C-130 Hercules
to fly from Malta to Tripoli to collect remaining British
citizens from the city. Two planes left Tripoli, with a third to
follow, carrying at least 260 people, the Foreign Office said. A
Royal Navy frigate was taking Britons from Benghazi to Malta.  Libya is the latest regime in the region to experience a
popular uprising following the toppling of governments in
Tunisia and Egypt. Demonstrations have also occurred in Yemen
and Bahrain, prompting  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil
exporter, to introduce moves intended to increase  living
standards . King Abdullah yesterday announced at least $11
billion in spending increases on social security and housing.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Salloum, Egypt, at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 