-- 
ICE to Flag Unusable Carbon Credits to Rebuild Confidence

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-24T19:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ice-to-publish-serial-numbers-for-unusable-emission-credits-1-.html
ICE Futures  Europe , trying to
restore investors’ trust after online thieves targeted emission
permits, will publish a list of credits considered unacceptable
for delivery.  ICE, the largest exchange for carbon trading, is seeking
advice from members through March 4 on which permits or credits
for quarterly and next-day delivery should be on the list, the
company said today in an e-mailed document. ICE also is
proposing that permits delivered for use in exchange contracts
can come only from accounts in the U.K., German or Dutch
registries or others to be named later.  Spot carbon trading in Europe has been disrupted since Jan.
20 after the EU regulator closed all 30 national registries that
track ownership of emission permits. The move followed hacking
attack by online thieves who illegally transferred permits
valued at around 60 million euros in the past months. While
Paris-based BlueNext SA, last year’s biggest exchange for spot
contracts, reopened earlier this month, trading in next-day
permits on ICE remains halted.  “These restrictions are designed to help maintain market
confidence,” ICE said in a circular today. “Any EU allowances,
Certified Emission Reductions or Emission Reduction Units that
are delivered to the clearing house in the future will be
reviewed in order to indentify whether any of them are included
on the prohibited list.”  36 Hours  ICE said in the circular it will give at least 36 hours
notice before reopening spot trading. Contracts for quarterly
delivery weren’t affected by the suspension of registries, and
benchmark permits for December rose 0.7 percent at 15.40 euros
today in London.  ICE’s plan to publish the blacklist comes as the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, tries to speed up work on
regulations to protect the world’s biggest carbon market from
fraud. The commission plans to meet with emitters and traders
next month to discuss how to handle allowances stolen in the
computer-hacking attacks.  The commission has so far allowed 10 carbon registries to
reopen, including  Belgium ,  Estonia ,  France ,  Germany , Luxembourg,
the Netherlands,  Portugal , Slovakia,  Spain  and the U.K. The
remaining 20 have yet to get EU approval for their independent
reports showing they meet the minimum security requirements.  The EU regulator plans modification to the regulation on
registries and will discuss with member states the idea of a 48-
hour delay for delivery of spot carbon allowances. That would
provide extra time for the transfer of permits between user
accounts, a person with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  The commission also may classify carbon allowances as
financial instruments. An analysis by the EU regulator in
December showed that while trading in carbon derivatives already
falls under financial-markets regulation, spot trading requires
further examination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London  at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  