-- 
Michigan Foreclosures-by-Advertising Catch Homeowners Off Guard

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/michigan-foreclosure-method-catches-homeowners-as-they-seek-new-financing.html
Chuck and Alicia Krantz fell behind
on their mortgage payments last year and sought to modify the
loan to save their three-bedroom ranch home in Westland,
Michigan, just outside Detroit, from foreclosure.  Two payments in April brought them current, they said in a
lawsuit filed in Detroit federal court. In May, CitiMortgage
Inc., a unit of  Citigroup Inc ., told them they were in
foreclosure and would be refunded the $3,129.96 they sent the
month before. While the foreclosure proceeded, they continued to
pursue a modification, Chuck Krantz said in an interview.  CitiMortgage sent a modification package in May, requesting
documents. Even as they discussed the modification with
CitiMortgage, an ad announcing the foreclosure was published,
said Adam Alexander, the Krantzes’ lawyer. The home was sold at
a sheriff’s auction in June.  “We sent all the paperwork via e-mail,” Chuck Krantz, 39,
a disabled former casino dealer, said in an interview. “On the
phone, they told us everything was all right.” He said he and
his wife, who works for a transport company, were never formally
denied a modification.  Homeowners nationwide claim that banks and loan servicers
are pushing through foreclosures, or arbitrarily rejecting or
ignoring loan-modification requests. As the  auto industry 
crumbled,  Michigan , with a  jobless rate  of 11.7 percent, saw its
foreclosure rate climb to as high as second in the nation in
2007, according to  RealtyTrac Inc. , which compiles housing data.  Federal Program  CitiMortgage denied the Krantzes’ claims. The company
“admits only that it sent plaintiffs a notice under the ‘Making
Home Affordable’ Program on May 26, 2010,” its lawyers said in
court papers.  Making Home Affordable  is the federal home-loan
modification program.  After the Krantzes provided documents, they “were
repeatedly advised that their modification application was
incomplete,” the lawyers said in the Feb. 3 filing.  “We believe the case is without merit,” Robert Julavits, a
Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We plan to defend our
position vigorously.”  “All of us at Citi recognize the hardship that can be
suffered by a family losing its home,”  Mark Rodgers , a
Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Since 2007, we have
helped more than a million distressed borrowers in their efforts
to avoid potential foreclosure.”  The company participates in the federal Home Affordable
Modification program and has created “additional, proprietary
Citi modification programs,” he said. “We actively identify
eligible borrowers and conduct extensive outreach to contact
them and guide them through the process of applying for trial
modifications and obtaining permanent modifications.”  Newspaper Announcements  Michigan is one of 27 states where banks don’t have to
get a court’s permission to seize a property, meaning homeowners
have to bring their own lawsuit to halt a foreclosure. The
state, where foreclosures are announced in newspaper ads, passed
a law in 2009 to make it easier for homeowners to renegotiate
mortgage terms. That law expires in July.  “There is no oversight,” said Karen Tjapkes, an attorney
with  Legal Aid of Western Michigan  in  Grand Rapids . “There has
been an explosion of cases here, as a result of bad predatory
lending practices, the bad  unemployment rate  and a bad
foreclosure system.”  One in every 272 housing units in Michigan is in
foreclosure, compared with a national average of one in 497,
said Daren Blomquist, a spokesman for  Irvine , California-based
RealtyTrac. In January, the state ranked sixth-highest in the
nation, he said. “It’s in the top 10 pretty consistently.”  Foreclosure Claims  Legal aid lawyers in the state have seen foreclosure claims
rise to 3,642 new cases in 2009 from 203 in 2008, said Lorray
Brown, director of the  Michigan Foreclosure Prevention Project .  Michigan also differs from other states because it allows
loan servicers to foreclose without providing documents, such as
affidavits verifying who owns the mortgage or default details,
Tjapkes said. “I spend every day telling homeowners that it’s
different here.”  While all 50 U.S. states are investigating whether banks
and loan servicers used false documents and signatures to
justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures, Tjapkes said that
bogus paperwork typically isn’t the focus of homeowner
litigation in Michigan.  “There’s nothing even false to attack,” she said. “They
don’t even have to lie.”  To deal with the crisis, the  Michigan Foreclosure Task
Force , an organization of lawyers, legislators, bank
representatives and community leaders, was formed in 2007.  Homeowner Opportunity  “The average homeowner in a judicial foreclosure state has
the opportunity to show up in court to contest the claim,” said
Steve Tobocman, co-director of the  task force .  The burden of proof is on the lender in judicial
foreclosure states; it’s on the borrower in Michigan, said
Tobocman, a Democrat who is a former majority floor leader in
the Michigan House of Representatives. “It’s much more
difficult to exercise your legal rights here.”  Michigan law lets mortgage lenders or servicers foreclose
after advertising a default in a newspaper for four consecutive
weeks. The ad describes the property, including the address,
names of homeowners and total balance of the mortgage. It also
announces the date for a sheriff’s sale.  After four weeks, the bank formally forecloses, allowing
the sale to go forward. After the auction, the homeowner has six
months to attempt to rescind, or redeem, the sale.  Little Notice  Some homeowners first learn of a pending foreclosure from
this advertisement, according to complaints in lawsuits filed in
Michigan. Some say they didn’t know their homes were scheduled
for auction until after the sale.  “You have very little information,” said Fred Miller of
the  United Auto Workers legal services plan  in  Detroit , which
represents union members in foreclosure proceedings and other
litigation. “It’s not an easy mechanism to find out who owns
the mortgage, who owns the note or has the note been
transferred? They say a certain amount is owed, but is it?”  A homeowner can sue to prevent foreclosure or rescind a
sale, said Lansing, Michigan, attorney Paul Grant, who
represents borrowers. “If they can’t pay the mortgage, how are
they going to get money to pay a lawyer?” he asked.  In 2009, the state added a mandatory mediation period.
Homeowners must be notified they’re in default and given 14 days
to request a meeting with the lenders to begin negotiating a
modification. The homeowner’s request for a meeting stops any
foreclosure for 90 days, while a modification is considered.  Bank Option  After the 90-day period, the bank can run a foreclosure ad
if a loan modification is rejected by either side, said Brown,
of the Michigan Foreclosure Prevention Project, a partnership of
legal aid offices and housing counselors.  The lender can opt out of the 90-day process, she said. A
lender that doesn’t participate can’t foreclose by advertising,
she said. “The bank would have to foreclose through the
court.”  Legal services lawyers in Michigan filed multiple suits on
behalf of homeowners, claiming lenders are foreclosing by
advertising without giving a good-faith offer of modification,
she said.  “The homeowners will get a proposal that’s
unsustainable,” she said. “Sometimes the monthly payment has
been increased.”  Fewer than half the homeowners in Michigan sent the 14-day
notices asked for meetings with the banks, said Murray Brown,
legislative consultant to the  Michigan Mortgage Lenders
Association . “Of those that responded, a significant number
didn’t provide the proper documentation,” he said.  Homeowner Complaints  Homeowner complaints of problems with banks’ responses to
loan modification requests have occurred in the federal Home
Affordable Modification Program, Brown said. This hasn’t been a
problem with Michigan’s foreclosure prevention law, he said. “I
haven’t heard of those situations.”  The law allows banks to foreclose based on their own
standards, Tobocman said. Banks are supposed to inform borrowers
of their standards, he said. “The banks have ignored that.”  The 2009 law didn’t require banks to modify loans, said
Professor  Laura Bartell , who teaches bankruptcy and creditors’
rights at  Wayne State University  in Detroit. “Without a
mechanism to compel banks to modify loans, the banks don’t feel
compelled to do so,” she said. “The banks just have to wait a
bit longer.”  The Krantzes said they were never offered a modification
and never formally denied one before the sheriff’s sale was
scheduled. CitiMortgage’s debt collectors are attempting to
evict the Krantzes from the house, Alexander said.  They sued CitiMortgage in January seeking to rescind the
sheriff’s sale, alleging violations of Michigan’s foreclosure
law.  Worried About Home  “I am worried that if the court doesn’t hear us at this
time, we will lose our home forever,” Chuck Krantz said in a
Dec. 28 affidavit filed with the suit.  The 2009 law did increase the chances that homeowners would
be offered loan modifications, Tobocman said.  The law expires in July. A bill to repeal the sunset
provision was introduced in the state senate last year and
referred to committee in September.  The bill died at the end of the last session and has to be
reintroduced, said Brown, the Michigan Mortgage Lenders
Association consultant. The industry doesn’t oppose renewal of
the 2009 law and expects it to pass, he said.  “The expectation is that the law will be extended for
another year or so,” he said. Lenders may seek a reduction in
the six-month redemption period, feeling that this combined
with the 90-day provision in the reform, delays foreclosures too
long, he said. If a loan modification “is not going to happen,
six months is too long,” Brown said. “It’s a contribution to
neighborhood blight.”  “We’re hoping it will be renewed, given that the crisis
hasn’t abated,” Tobocman said.  The lawsuit is Krantz v. CitiMortgage, 2:11-cv-10371, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 