-- 
Middle East Tensions May ’Depress’ Chinese Stocks, UBS Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T09:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/middle-east-tensions-may-depress-chinese-stocks-ubs-says-1-.html
China’s stocks may struggle to gain
as worsening tensions in the Middle East spur fund outflows on  risk aversion , according to  UBS AG .  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.6 percent on Feb. 22 as
violence escalated in Libya, driving up  oil prices . Crude
reached $100 a barrel in  New York  overnight as Libya’s uprising
cut shipments from Africa’s third-biggest producer. The Shanghai
gauge advanced 0.6 percent to 2,878.60 at the 3 p.m. close.  Fund outflows will “somewhat depress A share index
momentum,” Li Chen, an analyst at UBS, wrote in a report. Tanker
and construction companies with business in the Middle East and
North Africa will face “limited” short-term impact, the report
said.  The Shanghai Composite has advanced 2.5 percent this year,
after plunging 14 percent in 2010, on signs monetary tightening
weren’t hurting the economy. The government raised banks’
reserve requirements for a second time this year on Feb. 18,
adding to an interest-rate increase on Feb. 8. Inflation
accelerated to a 4.9 percent annual pace in January, exceeding
the government’s 2011 target for a fourth month.    China  Railway Construction Corp. has contracts valued at as
much as $4 billion to build railways and roads in North Africa
and the Middle East including Libya, UBS said. The stock fell
0.1 percent to 7.43 yuan.  Political unrest that has swept from  Tunisia  to  Yemen ,
Algeria, Bahrain and  Iran  in the past four weeks is fanning
oil’s advance at a time when the world economy is emerging from
the deepest recession in more than 50 years.  Jasmine Revolution  China has blocked phone messages and Web sites to stamp out
any movement toward pro-democracy revolts that have toppled two
leaders in the Middle East and sparked bloody crackdowns in
Libya and Bahrain.  The chance for major social unrest in China is “extremely
small” because of the country’s “high” economic and wage growth,
according to Ting Lu, economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.  “Many participants in the Jasmine Revolutions in the
Middle East and North  Africa  are unemployed youth equipped with
better education and access to modern media; they need jobs, an
they loathe the ever widening income inequality,” Lu wrote in a
report to clients. “The lesson for China is that growth is
still the predominant priority for China because growth both
creates jobs and narrows income inequality.”  Premier Wen Jiabao convenes the annual National People’s
Congress March 5, where delegates will approve a five-year plan
designed to elevate the role of domestic demand. Part of that
strategy is endorsing higher pay, with all 31 Chinese provinces
and regions likely to boost their minimum wages in 2011 for the
second consecutive year, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  