-- 
IDFC Andrade Says India Stocks Reacting to ‘Worst Case Scenario’

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-02-24T13:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/idfc-andrade-says-india-stocks-reacting-to-worst-case-scenario-.html
Kenneth Andrade, head of investments
at IDFC Asset Management Co., which had $3.99 billion in assets
at the end of December, comments on the decline in  India ’s stock
market today and on the outlook. He spoke in a phone interview
in Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
slumped 3 percent to 17,632.41 in Mumbai, its steepest decline
since November 2009. An index of wholesale farm-product prices
measuring India’s food inflation, accelerated for the first time
in three weeks, adding pressure on the government to unveil
steps in the Feb. 28 budget to ease prices.  Oil surged to the highest in 30 months in  London  as  Libya ’s
violent uprising cut supplies from  Africa ’s third-biggest
producer.  “The market is reacting to the possibility of the worst-
case scenario, which is of  oil prices  staying above $100 a
barrel.  ‘‘At the same time, the geopolitical events that are taking
place are not really the best things to happen for a developing
economy. They put a lot of pressure on inflation.  ‘‘To control inflation, we will have to compromise on
growth.’’  On fund flows:  ‘‘In the near-term, a lot of money that is targeted for
India will play more of a wait-and-watch approach, and the money
that is already here will try to head for some kind of a
cover.’’  On valuations:  ‘‘As far as valuations are concerned, we are cheaper than
last year. Fundamentals will deteriorate if things remain status
quo.’’  On his investment strategy:  ‘‘We will be looking for opportunities to deploy cash.’’  On the budget:  ‘‘I would rate the international environment a higher
priority than the budget.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 