-- 
Miles Says Bank of England Shouldn't Rush to Raise Rates to Prove `Tough'

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-24T08:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/miles-says-boe-forecasts-warrant-very-gradual-rate-increases.html
  Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  said officials shouldn’t rush to raise  interest rates  to
prove they are “tough” on inflation, and the bank’s forecasts
warrant a “very gradual” tightening.  The upside risk from inflation expectations are
“reflected” in the projections published last week, Miles said
in a speech late yesterday in London. “It is a risk that I
don’t think is most effectively handled by tightening policy at
a rate faster than those” forecasts “suggest is desirable.”  Bank of  England  officials have been setting out their
policy arguments this week after inflation soared to 4 percent,
twice the bank’s target.  Adam Posen  downplayed the risk from
consumer-price growth two days ago. Minutes from the bank’s Feb.
10 policy decision published yesterday showed his colleague  Andrew Sentance  wanted to increase the rate to 1 percent from a
record low 0.5 percent.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said in a BBC
radio interview on Feb. 22 that policy makers face a “real
dilemma” on inflation, which has become a “worry.”  While Miles described inflation as “deeply worrying,” he
said he agrees with the bank’s forecast for it to slow to the 2
percent goal in 2012. He also said the surge is largely due to
tax increases and higher commodity costs and not to a loose
monetary policy, adding that risks to the “central view” on
growth are “skewed to the downside.”  The pound fell against the dollar, and was down 0.3 percent
to $1.6156 as of 8:43 a.m. in  London . It declined for a fifth
day against the euro, trading 0.3 percent weaker at 85.06 pence.  Opposing Views  Posen, who voted on Feb. 10 to add 50 billion pounds ($81
billion) to the bank’s 200 billion-pound bond-purchase plan,
according to the minutes, said two days ago that price
expectations remain “anchored.”  “We must make policy based on the best available
forecast” and “not be tyrannized by popular fears or specters
of expectations,” he said.  Sentance laid out the opposing position on Feb. 17, saying
one of the “benefits” from higher interest rates may be a
“modest appreciation of sterling, which would mitigate the
impact of global inflationary pressures in the short term and
help to steer inflation back to target.” Policy makers can’t be
“relaxed” about the level of the pound, he said.  Inflation Report  BOE rate-setter  Martin Weale , who voted to increase the key
rate by 25 basis points for a second month on Feb. 10, will
address an audience in Oxford, England at 3:30 p.m. today, while
Sentance will speak in London three hours later. Posen is
scheduled to speak again tomorrow in Mumbai, while Deputy
Governor Charles Bean will take part in the U.S. Monetary Policy
Forum in  New York  later that day.  The central bank projected in its  Inflation Report  on Feb.
16 that consumer-price growth will accelerate to about 4.5
percent this year before easing to the target. The forecasts are
based on the market’s view for the key interest rate to rise to
1 percent by the end of this year and 2 percent by end-2012.  The outlook “is all conditional on  bank rate  following a
path implied by market rates, which would mean a very gradual
removal of the current very accommodative stance of monetary
policy,” Miles said. “If one knew that the outcomes would
evolve in line with those central profiles for activity and
inflation, I don’t see a strong case now for significantly
accelerating the process of tightening relative to that.”  Skeptical  Inflation might return to target quicker, with a sharp
tightening in monetary policy, Miles said, “but I am very
skeptical about whether it is desirable.”  It could lead to a “substantial appreciation” of the
pound, adding to volatility, create additional slack in the
economy, and “would quite likely mean easing policy again
aggressively next year.”  Among members pushing for the first rate increase since
July 2007 this month, Chief Economist Spencer Dale also voted
for a 25 basis-point move. The other five members voted for no
policy changes.  The minutes of the meeting hinted at a growing concern
among the policy makers about the inflation risk.  “For three members, the case for removing some monetary
stimulus at this meeting was compelling,” the  document  showed.
“Of those members not favoring a rise in bank rate, some
thought that the case for an increase had nevertheless grown in
strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  