-- 
IndiGo to Limit Fleet Age With Leasebacks, CFO Says

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-02-24T21:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/indigo-to-limit-fleet-age-with-leasebacks-finance-chief-says.html
(Corrects name of engine consortium in ninth paragraph.)  IndiGo , the Indian low-cost airline
that committed in January to buying 180 Airbus A320 planes, aims
to keep its fleet age at less than six years by using leaseback
agreements, its chief financial officer said.  IndiGo financed all the 100 Airbus A320s that it ordered in
2005 through sales-leasebacks rather than bank loans, enabling
the carrier to return the planes to financiers to focus on
flying the newest planes that offer lower operating costs, CFO
Riyaz Peer Mohamed said today in an interview at the ICBI Geneva
aircraft-finance conference.  Under a leaseback agreement, a third party takes ownership
of a plane ordered by an airline and rents it to the carrier
under lease. The deals allow airlines to avoid burdening balance
sheets, eliminate the need to tap commercial bank finance and
protect them from a potential drop in used-plane prices.  “Doing sale leasebacks is more expensive than loan
financing,” the CFO said. Even so, “this way, we’re assured
the planes go back after six years. It keeps the fleet young,
and keeps the planes fuel-efficient.”  Traditional aircraft-leasing companies, such as  General
Electric Co .’s GECAS division, engage in sale leaseback
transactions as well as buying planes directly and leasing them
out. New lessors such as Avolon Leasing Group, backed by private
equity and offering leasebacks, have formed in the past three
years. The transactions are also safer for lessors, as they can
choose the airlines they want to work with.  Operating Strategy  IndiGo operates 35 planes currently and aims to have a 72-
aircraft fleet by 2014, when some of the older planes from the
2005 order will already be returned to the deals’ backers, Peer
Mohamed said. New Delhi-based Indigo plans to add 14 planes this
year, all of which are already financed, and has agreements on
10 entering service in 2012, he said.  The airline hasn’t used export-credit finance, in which the
governments of planemakers’ home countries offer guarantees on
bank debt, though IndiGo won’t rule out such transactions in the
future, he said.  The airline’s pledge to buy another 180 A320s includes a
possible order for 150 of the A320neo model, to be equipped with
engines offering 15 percent more  fuel efficiency . The planes
would be delivered from 2016 through 2025. The two suppliers of
the A320neo’s powerplants are  United Technologies Corp .’s Pratt
& Whitney Inc. unit and the CFM International joint venture of
GE and  Safran SA .  The Indian carrier is seeking offers from both engine
manufacturers, Peer Mohamed said. IndiGo’s current fleet uses
engines built by International Aero Engines, a partnership that
includes Pratt, Rolls-Royce Group Plc,  Germany ’s MTU Aero
Engines Holding AG and some Japanese companies.  Newer Industry Fleet  The average age of commercial planes operating in India is
eight years, compared with 10 years in  Asia  overall, 11 years in  Europe  and 15 years in the U.S., according to Ascend, a London-
based aviation consulting company.  While passenger traffic in India is growing at 10 percent
to 12 percent annually, making it one of the world’s fastest-
expanding markets, there are still only 400 commercial jetliners
operating in the country today. Peer Mohamed said. That compares
with about 400 new planes that were delivered into the Chinese
market just last year, he said.  IndiGo is using reduced fares to change travel habits in  India , where more people take a train daily than fly in an
entire year, Peer Mohamed said. A flight from Delhi to  Mumbai  on
IndiGo costs about $70, or 10 percent less than fares on
competing carriers, he said.  The airline, which said on Jan. 12 that it plans to start
routes abroad in August, has flying rights to serve Dubai,
Bangkok, Singapore and Katmandu, Nepal, among other
destinations, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  