-- 
India’s Bonds Decline for a Second Day as Oil Prices Increase

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-02-24T13:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/india-s-bonds-decline-for-a-second-day-as-oil-prices-increase.html
  India ’s 11-year bonds declined for a
second day on concern a surge in oil prices will push up
inflation and damp demand for fixed-income securities.  Yields rose to the highest level since Feb. 18 after crude
climbed to a 30-month high in  London  as Libya’s violent uprising
reduced supplies. Brent rose above $119 a barrel on estimates
the revolt caused  Africa ’s third-biggest producer to lose as
much as two-thirds off its oil output. India imports about 70
percent of its crude. The  finance ministry  will unveil the
 budget  for the fiscal year beginning April on Feb. 28.  “Keeping inflation in check will again become a challenge
for the central bank if higher  oil prices  spur increases in fuel
costs,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, Mumbai-based treasurer at
FirstRand Ltd. “Investors are also waiting for the government’s
fiscal deficit and borrowing numbers in the budget to take
positions.”  The yield on the 8.13 percent bond due September 2022, the
most-traded government debt, rose three basis points to 8.13
percent at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  India’s food inflation accelerated for the first time in
three weeks, adding pressure on the government to unveil steps
in next week’s budget to ease prices.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables rose 11.49
percent in the week ended Feb. 12 from a year earlier, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. It
gained 11.05 percent the previous week.  RBI’s Challenge  The challenge faced by India’s central bank is to curb
inflation without hurting economic growth that is essential to
lift  living standards , Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said today.  “Our biggest challenge has been to manage the tension
between the demand of growth and inflation,” he said in a
speech to the graduating students at a university in the eastern
state of Orissa. “We are sensitive to the need for supporting
growth as economic growth is a necessary condition for poverty
reduction.”  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
rose two basis points to 7.49 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  