-- 
Indonesia’s Rupiah Falls as Demand for Riskier Assets Wanes

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-02-24T09:32:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/indonesia-s-rupiah-falls-as-demand-for-riskier-assets-wanes.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped the most
in six weeks and bonds fell as a political uprising in  Libya 
pushed up oil prices, raising concern global economic growth
will slow and sapping demand for emerging-market assets.  The  Jakarta Composite Index  fell to a one-week low after
overseas funds sold $28.6 million more local stocks than they
bought yesterday, according to exchange data. Crude oil reached
$100 a barrel yesterday in  New York  for the first time since
October 2008 and has jumped 18 percent this week. Libya is
Africa’s third-biggest oil producer and holds the continent’s
largest reserves.  “The rupiah weakened, in line with other Asian
currencies,” said Lindawati Susanto, head of foreign-exchange
trading at PT Bank Resona Perdania in Jakarta. “What’s
happening in the Middle East will affect  oil prices  and that
will impact investor demand for assets from this region.”  The rupiah dropped 0.3 percent to 8,883 per dollar as of
4:15 p.m. in Jakarta, its biggest loss since Jan. 10, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is still up 1.1 percent this
year, the best performance among the 10 most-traded Asian
currencies.  Indonesia should delay a plan to limit sales of subsidized
fuel because of the current high oil prices, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said in Jakarta today.  The government will discuss a possible delay with
parliament before making any decision, Rajasa said. Indonesia
initially planned to gradually curb sales of subsidized fuel
starting from April 1, he added.  The plan to curb subsidized fuel consumption may help  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy cut that portion of the state
budget by 8.9 percent to 184.8 trillion rupiah ($20.5 billion)
this year, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said in August.  Ten-year  government bonds  snapped a seven-day run of gains
that drove their yield to the lowest level in a month. The rate
on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 rose one basis point to
8.69 percent, according to prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  