-- 
Indonesia Should Delay Fuel-Subsidy Limits, Rajasa Says

-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o
-- 
2011-02-24T05:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/indonesia-should-delay-fuel-subsidy-limits-rajasa-says-1-.html
  Indonesia  should delay a plan to
limit the sale of subsidized fuel because of current high  oil
prices , Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said.  The government will discuss a possible delay with
parliament before making any decision, Rajasa said. Indonesia
initially planned to gradually curb sales of subsidized fuel
starting from April 1, he added.  “We have to be realistic and find the best solution for
our economy and the people,” Rajasa told reporters in Jakarta
today. The Energy Ministry “is conducting a comprehensive study
including the impact to the economy and inflation.”  The plan to curb subsidized fuel consumption may help  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy cut that portion of the state
budget by 8.9 percent to 184.8 trillion rupiah ($20.5 billion)
this year, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said in August.  Oil surged to the highest in almost 30 months in  London  as
Libya’s violent uprising cut supplies from Africa’s third-
biggest producer. Futures for April in  New York  gained for a
sixth day, after rising to $100 a barrel yesterday, amid
estimates the revolt has resulted in the loss of as much as two-
thirds of  Libya ’s oil output.  The government had planned to ban owners of private cars
from buying subsidized gasoline and diesel in Jakarta and
surrounding areas from April, Evita Legowo, director general of
oil and gas at the Energy Ministry said in December. The
prohibition would be in effect throughout Indonesia in 2013.  The program would help the government to cut subsidized
fuel quotas in the 2011 budget by 40 percent to 22.16 million
kiloliters,  Karen Agustiawan , president director of the
Indonesia’s state oil company PT Pertamina, said Dec. 2.  Preparations  The energy ministry has been preparing for limiting the
sales of subsidized fuel since January, Legowo said in a
telephone interview today.  “Our preparation is almost complete and we believe we are
ready to implement it in April,” Legowo said. The ministry
introduced yesterday “a barcode sticker on 409 units of public
transportation, which will allow them to buy subsidized fuel.”  About 85 percent of Pertamina’s 790 fuel stations in
Jakarta areas are ready to sell only Pertamax and Pertamax Plus
to private cars, Legowo said, referring to the brands for RON 92
and RON 95 gasoline.  The Indonesian government allows only Pertamina and PT AKR
Corporindo to sell subsidized diesel and RON 88 gasoline in the
country.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Petroliam Nasional Bhd and  Total
SA  are allowed to sell non-subsidized diesel as well as RON 92
and RON 95 gasoline.  “No Price Increase”  Pertamina sells subsidized gasoline at 4,500 rupiah (51 U.S.
cents) a liter, compared with non-subsidized gasoline of between
7,950 rupiah to 10,300 rupiah this month, according to statement
on its website.  The rally in crude price is temporary and the government
has no plan to raise the price of subsidized fuel, Rajasa said
responding to questions from reporters.  The price of oil is entering a “dangerous zone” that
threatens global economic growth and increases inflationary
pressure in oil importing countries including Indonesia,
according to Fatih Birol, chief economist at the  International
Energy Agency .  “The high price is definitely not good news for anybody,”
Birol said Feb. 22. “We may see higher prices if the turmoil in
key countries in the Middle East and North  Africa  continues.”  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest crude producer, pulled
out of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 2008
as aging fields and declining output turned the nation into a
net importer.  Consumer prices accelerated to a 21-month high to 7.02
percent last month from a year earlier, after a 6.96 percent
gain in December, Indonesia’s Central Bureau of Statistics said
Feb. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agus Suhana at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net ;
Bambang Djanuarto in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  