-- 
Indonesia Investment Grade Rating Looms as Fitch Raises Outlook

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-02-24T17:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/indonesia-s-credit-rating-outlook-revised-to-positive-from-stable-by-fitch.html
  Indonesia  moved closer to attaining
an investment grade rating, its first since the Asian financial
crisis more than a decade ago, after  Fitch Ratings  raised its
outlook on the sovereign to positive from stable.  The company affirmed its BB+ grade on Indonesia’s local and
foreign-currency debt, one step below investment grade, it said
in a statement yesterday. An upgrade will put Indonesia on par
with India and  Brazil .  Rising consumer spending is driving expansion in the
world’s fourth-most populous nation, increasing pressure on
 policy makers  to restrain price gains and protect purchasing
power. Indonesia’s economy grew at the fastest pace in six years
last quarter, and the central bank increased its benchmark  reference rate  this month from a record low to curb inflation.  “The positive outlook reflects Fitch’s view that
Indonesia’s favorable macroeconomic prospects are likely to see
the credit profile strengthen further over the next 12 to 18
months, despite near-term risks from inflation and potentially
volatile capital flows,” said  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-
Pacific Sovereign Ratings at Fitch in  Hong Kong .  Emerging-market nations from  China  to Brazil and Turkey are
winning upgrades or positive outlooks on their sovereign ratings,
highlighting the relative strength of developing economies amid
soaring debt burdens in advanced nations from  Greece  to Japan.  Moody’s Action  Moody’s Investors Service last month raised Indonesia’s
credit rating to the highest level since the 1997 Asian
financial crisis, citing the nation’s “economic resilience”
and improving public debt position. Moody’s Ba1 rating is also
one step below investment grade.    Standard & Poor’s  on March 12 lifted Indonesia’s sovereign
credit rating to BB from BB-, two levels below investment grade,
with a positive outlook.    Bank Indonesia  on Feb. 4 unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time in more than two years after
inflation climbed to a 21-month high. It had previously resisted
higher rates to avoid attracting more foreign capital inflows,
while opting to increase lenders’ reserve requirements and
tighten rules on banks’ foreign-exchange holdings to help curb
price advances.  Consumer-price growth accelerated to 7.02 percent in
January from 6.96 percent in December.  Inflation Risk  “Inflation poses a near-term risk to economic prospects,”
Fitch said in yesterday’s statement, estimating inflation to
average 6.5 percent in 2011. “A more severe inflation shock
than the agency expects, that is sufficient to damage economic
and financial stability, would weaken the case for positive
rating action.”  Gross domestic product increased 6.9 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau
of Statistics  said Feb. 7. The economy grew 6.1 percent in 2010.  “The economy is fundamentally strong but vulnerable to
inflation,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “The fiscal condition is
good. As long as Indonesia can survive the inflationary
pressures, then the sooner it can get investment grade.” He
predicts the country will reach that ranking by 2012.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono seeks to expand the
economy at an annual average rate of 6.6 percent and create 10.7
million jobs by the end of his second term in 2014, including
through attempts to boost investment in the country’s
infrastructure.  “Faster progress in tackling long-standing weaknesses in
economic and credit fundamentals including the low tax take,
infrastructure deficiencies and corruption, would further
support the case for an upgrade,” Fitch’s Colquhoun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  