-- 
LinkedIn Site Inaccessible in China After `Jasmine' Pro-Democracy Posting

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T09:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/linkedin-unavailable-in-parts-of-china-web-monitors-show-1-.html
LinkedIn Corp., operator of the
largest networking site for professionals, became inaccessible
in  China  after a user posted comments that Tunisia’s Jasmine
Revolution should spread to the Asian country.  The blockage of the service “appears to be part of a
broader effort in China going on right now, involving other
sites as well,” Hani Durzy, a spokesman for  Mountain View ,
California-based LinkedIn, said in an e-mail. The company will
continue to monitor the situation, he wrote.  Since 2009, the world’s largest Internet market by users
has shut out sites such as those operated by Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. that don’t comply with Chinese rules to self censor
information on politically sensitive subjects. A LinkedIn user
identified as “Jasmine Z” last week set up a discussion group
to post opinions on whether the revolutions that brought down
the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  should be brought to China.  “Often, this is done as a sort of a warning signal -- sort
of a shot across the bow,” said Doug Tygar, professor of
computer science at the  University of California  at Berkeley.
“A portion of that is symbolic.”  The problems accessing the site are “likely” connected to
the creation of the LinkedIn group, Tygar said. Chinese citizens
can use Internet services to work around blocked sites, he said.  Li Wufeng, chief of the State Council Information Office
Internet Affairs Bureau, didn’t immediately return calls today.  On Feb. 23, Jasmine Z set up the “Jasmine Voice”
discussion group to post opinions on the pro-democracy protests
currently spreading through the Middle East.  ‘Democracy, Freedom, Justice’  “After years of independent thinking, I am becoming a
critical dissent dying for democracy, freedom and justice in my
homeland,” Jasmine Z wrote in the first of three posts.  A second post said China’s Communist Party members fail to
“realize the crisis of the autocratic one-party system” and a
third post referred to the party as “a power and elite club.”  Earlier this month, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
vowed the U.S. will step up support for global Internet freedom,
as citizens using social networking sites run by Facebook and
Twitter organize demonstrations spreading across the Mideast and
North Africa.  The U.S. will help “people in oppressive Internet
environments get around filters, stay one step ahead of the
censors, the hackers, and the thugs who beat them up or imprison
them for what they say online,” she said in a speech in  Washington .  U.S. Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman Jr. was filmed at a
protest in Beijing last week. The U.S. Embassy in a statement
said that Huntsman and his family were “passing through” the
shopping district and his presence was “purely coincidental.”  After a video of Huntsman at the event began to circulate
on the Internet, Huntsman’s Chinese name is no longer searchable
on micro blogs like Sina.com. A search on Sina’s micro blog
produces a Chinese message which translates as “According to
relevant laws, regulations and policies, the search results have
not been shown.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  