-- 
Investors Fleeing India Complicate Singh’s Push for Asset Sales

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-02-24T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/investors-fleeing-india-complicate-singh-s-push-for-asset-sales.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who’s halfway to his fiscal-year target for share sales
with 35 days to go, may have to set a more ambitious goal for
the next 12 months even as investors shun the country’s stocks.  India’s government may seek a record 500 billion rupees
($11 billion) in the year starting April 1 as it tries to shrink
the fiscal deficit, said  Anubhuti Sahay , an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee will propose the fiscal budget on Feb. 28.  Singh’s administration delayed at least three sales of
shares in state-owned companies in 2010 even as foreign
investors poured a record $29 billion into Indian stocks. With
few options for mending government finances, Singh may turn to
banks including  Citigroup Inc . to accelerate privatizations -- a
process made tougher as persistent inflation and unrest in the
Middle East dents demand for emerging-market equities.  “Last year was one of the best for the market and they
couldn’t meet their target,” said Rakesh Arora, head of India
research at  Macquarie Group Ltd . in Mumbai. “There is no way
foreign investors will be able to match the money they put into
India in 2010,” Arora said in an interview on Feb. 22.  India’s Sensitive Index has fallen 14 percent this year,
the worst performance among Asian benchmarks in local currency
terms, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge fell 3
percent yesterday, the most in more than 15 months, as food-
price gains accelerated. Foreign investors have sold a net $1.58
billion of Indian shares since Jan. 1, the data show.  Pending Sales  Singh, 78, raised 227.6 billion rupees since the start of
this fiscal year through shares of companies including  Coal
India Ltd ., the world’s biggest producer of the fuel. The sale
of a 5 percent stake in Oil & Natural Gas Corp., scheduled for
next month, may add another 113 billion rupees to state coffers,
based on New Delhi-based ONGC’s closing price yesterday.  That would still leave the government 15 percent short of
its fiscal-year target of 400 billion rupees.  Proposed sales of stakes in Indian Oil Corp., the country’s
biggest refiner, and  Steel Authority of India Ltd ., its second-
largest producer of the alloy, may help raise about 104 billion
rupees next fiscal year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Department of Disinvestment has also hired
bankers for Power Finance Corp., a lender to Indian utilities,
and  Hindustan Copper Ltd ., India’s only miner of the metal.  India’s cabinet in November 2009 approved a plan requiring
the government to reduce its stake in profitable state-run
companies to a maximum 90 percent. That made about 60 state-run
companies eligible for sales, the  finance ministry  said at the
time, including miner and power producer Neyveli Lignite Corp.,  National Fertilizers Ltd . and  MMTC Ltd ., the nation’s biggest
state-run trading company.  Telecom Reprieve  The government has also been considering an initial share
sale for former phone monopoly Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. since
at least 2003. A 10 percent stake would raise $10 billion, the
company’s finance director estimated in January 2008. The
government hasn’t decided on the initial share sale,
Telecommunications Secretary P.J. Thomas said in July.  Singh’s administration won a reprieve on meeting its
privatization target in the current financial year because of
the 1.06 trillion rupees it raised from the sale of wireless
permits and spectrum, said Sahay. Tax revenue also climbed 20
percent in the first 10 months of the fiscal year, driven by  India ’s economic growth.  The push to meet asset-sale targets may be “much
stronger” in the new financial year, Sahay said.  India’s budget deficit may drop to 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product by March 2012, from an estimated 5.2 percent by
the end of next month, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of
Singh’s Economic Advisory Council, said this month. That
compares with 2.7 percent for the year to March 2008.  Diminishing Demand  A renewed push by Singh to sell state companies could be
complicated by diminished demand for emerging-market equities.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 6 percent this year, even
as the MSCI World Index rose 4 percent through yesterday.  Indian companies raised 41 billion rupees in share sales
since Dec. 31, less than a fifth of the amount collected in the
same period of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Citigroup is the top-ranked arranger of stock offerings in the
country this year, maintaining the lead it had in 2010, followed
by  Deutsche Bank AG  and HSBC Holdings Plc, the data show.  Intensified efforts to sell state-backed companies may
spell trouble for private firms seeking to go public, said
Abhishek Saraf, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in Mumbai. State
companies paid underwriters near-zero fees in 2010, while
commissions for private share sales averaged 3.5 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  Government-owned companies also typically sell shares at
lower valuations than private enterprises, said Jagannadham Thunuguntla, an analyst at SMC Global Securities Ltd.  “Disinvestment deals are more likely to go through than
private paper,” said Saraf. That’s because the government may
be more willing to ease up on pricing than company owners, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  