-- 
Investors Stretch for Yield Amid ‘Collapsing’ CMBS Spreads

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-02-24T20:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/investors-stretch-for-yield-amid-collapsing-cmbs-spreads.html
Buyers are snapping up newly issued
bonds tied to real estate, driving yield-starved investors
toward riskier debt sold during the lending boom.  “Collapsing new issue spreads have helped to spur further
tightening in legacy securities” as the market is “on track
for a strong resurgence” this year, Morgan Stanley analysts led
by Richard Parkus said in a report today.  Banks have arranged about $5 billion in commercial-
mortgage-backed bond sales this month, and a $1.5 billion
offering from JPMorgan Chase & Co. is currently being marketed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Spreads have tightened
“dramatically” with each successive deal, creating more demand
for older bonds, according to New York-based Morgan Stanley.  “The problem with new issue is it’s scarce,” Parkus said
in a telephone interview. “There are just not enough bonds,
which means investors are left looking for additional bonds in
the legacy universe.”  Legacy securities are those sold before the credit market
seized up in 2008, when underwriting standards were looser and
as property values soared. Relative yields on so-called
mezzanine and junior AAA securities sold prior to the financial
crisis, many of which have had their ratings cut, have narrowed
as much as 1.1 percentage points during the past month,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Top-rated commercial-mortgage backed bonds are cheap to
comparable corporate debt, though significantly less so than six
weeks ago, the analysts wrote. “After the furious rally year to
date, CMBS appears to be approaching a more normalized trading
relationship to corporates,” according to the report.  Supply Issues  Still, several technical factors “may well allow AAAs to
continue to outperform corporates,” with the most significant
being supply, the analysts wrote.  Sales of commercial-mortgage-backed bonds are constrained
compared with the deluge of supply of corporate debt this year,
they wrote. Issuance of securities tied to commercial real
estate is forecast to reach $45 billion in 2011, down from a
record $234 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show. About $11.5
billion was sold in 2010 and $3.4 billion in 2009.  “Even with the resurgence of the new issue market, the
CMBS market is likely to contract yet again in 2011,’ the
analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  