-- 
IPad Gets Competition at Last From Pricy Xoom: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-02-24T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ipad-gets-competition-at-last-from-pricy-xoom-rich-jaroslovsky.html
The tablet wars have finally begun
for real.  Ten months after  Apple Inc .’s iPad established the market
for large-display touchscreen mobile devices, it finally has a
worthwhile competitor: the Xoom, from Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc., which went on sale yesterday from  Verizon Wireless  and at
Best Buy Co. stores.  The Xoom falls short of the iPad in some respects, and the
gap may widen when Apple unveils its next-generation model on
March 2. Still, the Motorola tablet gives consumers a viable
choice in a marketplace that so far has been characterized more
by manufacturers’ vaporware announcements than by products you
can actually take home.  Motorola’s tablet also marks the debut of Honeycomb,  Google
Inc .’s tablet-optimized version of its successful Android mobile
operating system. Previous Android tablets, such as  Dell Inc .’s
Streak and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab, used Android
flavors that were intended for mobile phones, providing a less-
than-satisfying experience. Honeycomb, by contrast, proves to be
intuitive and flexible, raising the likelihood that the Xoom is
just the first of what will be a wave of capable Android-based
tablets from a variety of manufacturers in varying shapes,
configurations and price points.  No Flash  That’s a good thing, partly because the Xoom could stand
some competition itself. The tablet is pricy and is missing, for
the moment, one of its key promised features, the ability to run
videos and animations using  Adobe Systems Inc .’s Flash
technology. Apple has refused to allow Flash onto iPads, iPhones
and iPods, citing security and battery-life concerns. Motorola,
Adobe and Google now say Flash support will come via an over-
the-air update sometime this spring.  That omission notwithstanding, there are a lot of other
things to like about the Xoom. Start with its looks, a sleek
all-black case with an all-glass front and a matte-black back
that feels good in the hand. Or hands, as the case may be: Like
the 3G version of the iPad, the  Xoom  weighs 1.6 pounds (0.73
kilogram), which may make it too heavy for some folks to wield
one-handed.  The screen measures 10.1 inches (25.7 centimeters)
diagonally but actually covers about the same area as the 9.7-
inch iPad because it isn’t as deep. In general, I found the
Xoom’s dimensions worked better for watching HD video than for
reading or Web-surfing, where the iPad feels more natural.  Battery Life  The Xoom, like the  iPad , claims battery life of about 10
hours of continuous video playback, which seems plausible given
my overall experience with it. Although the display is higher-
resolution than the iPad’s, I didn’t like it as much. Even at
the maximum setting, it seemed less bright and more prone to
show fingerprints.  There are no buttons on the front of the device; everything
is controlled on-screen except for the power button, which is on
the back in a location that makes it too easy to accidentally
depress if you’re holding the tablet horizontally.  Behind the screen, the Xoom packs a lot of punch. The
combination of its powerful dual-core  Nvidia Corp . processor and
the Honeycomb user interface makes it swift and responsive, and
Android’s standard applications have been revamped to take
advantage of the tablet environment. The browser now allows for
tabbed windows and introduces a new “incognito” option that
leaves less evidence of where you’ve been surfing. And you can
easily customize your home screen by adding, for instance,
widgets that provide a window onto your e-mail in-box or
calendar.  Hit or Miss  While the Xoom runs existing Android apps, the results may
be hit or miss. The popular game “Angry Birds,” for instance,
runs beautifully, filling the entire screen, and  Amazon.com
Inc .’s Kindle app is functional, though not elegant. But the
popular Epicurious recipe app is a phone-sized window floating
in a sea of empty black space. Apps specifically tailored for
Honeycomb are no doubt on the way.  The Xoom’s principal advantage over the iPad is that it
comes with both a 2-megapixel, front-facing camera for video
calls and a 5-megapixel rear camera that takes still photos and
captures high-definition video. I even made a brief film of the
family dog using an included app called Movie Studio.  Video can take up a lot of space on a device, which brings
up the Xoom’s biggest drawback compared with the iPad. The sole
model available now, with 3G and Wi-Fi connectivity, has only 32
gigabytes of onboard storage, half the top-of-the-line iPad’s.
Yet it costs $799.99, just $29 less.  No Bargain  You can bring the Xoom’s price down to $599.99 if you’re
willing to sign a two-year data contract. Here again, though,
the Xoom is no bargain. Verizon’s cheapest data plan is $20 for
a gigabyte of data; AT&T offers a 250-megabyte plan at $14.99,
and has a $25 plan with double Verizon’s limit.  Sometime in the second quarter, Verizon and Motorola will
offer, via a slot on the tablet, an upgrade to Verizon’s new,
much faster 4G network. There’s no word yet on how much more the
service might cost.  For all the Xoom’s appeal, my advice is to hold off for
now. You might want to let Motorola, Google and Adobe get their
act together on Flash, or even put off a choice until  Research
in Motion Ltd .’s PlayBook and  Hewlett-Packard Co .’s TouchPad
finally show up in stores.  At the very least, wait until Apple announces its next-
generation iPad next week, so you can make a comparison.
Whatever you decide, though, be thankful that there’s finally a
tablet worth comparing.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  