-- 
Abu Dhabi IPIC Plans Bond Sale as Cost Rise on Mideast Risk

-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 
2011-02-24T10:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ipic-may-need-to-pay-higher-yields-on-bonds-as-middle-east-unrest-spreads.html
International Petroleum Investment
Co., an  investment company  owned by Abu Dhabi, may have to offer
higher relative yields on bonds it plans to sell this month to
lure investors as unrest escalates in the Middle East.  IPIC will sell bonds in euros and British pounds following
investor meetings in  Europe  starting next week, the company said
in a statement today. The holding company may have to offer a
premium of about 50 basis points over its existing debt to
attract buyers, according to Exotix Ltd. The yield on the 3.125
percent five-year securities due November 2015 rose 21 basis
points this month to 3.92 percent today, according to Bloomberg
composite prices.  IPIC’s planned sale comes as demonstrations spread across
the Middle East and North Africa, raising borrowing costs and
sending regional stock markets plummeting. The extra yield
investors demand to hold emerging-market debt gained 18 basis
points this week to 280, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index. The spread has climbed from a three-year low of
221.5 points on Jan. 5.  “Even though IPIC is from  Abu Dhabi , the emirate is
geographically close to hot centers like Yemen and Bahrain,”
said Sergey Dergachev, a money manager who helps oversee the
equivalent of $9.6 billion of emerging market debt at Union
Investment in  Frankfurt . “Investors will demand a premium for
this geographic proximity to the crisis region.”  Meeting Investors  The company may have to offer about 180 basis points over
the benchmark five-year euro swap rate were it to sell similar
maturity debt, according Sergey. That’s an absolute yield of
about 4.59 percent.  IPIC which invests in the oil and gas industry is owned by
the government of Abu Dhabi, the richest sheikdom in the United
Arab Emirates and home to one of the world’s largest sovereign
wealth funds. It plans to meet investors in cities including  London , Amsterdam and Paris starting Feb. 28. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  Banco Santander SA ,  BNP Paribas  SA, Credit Agricole
CIB, Deutsche Bank AG and UniCredit SpA are arranging the
meetings.  IPIC raised $2.5 billion in a debut offering of five- and
10-year dollar bonds in November. The $1.5 billion of 10-year
notes were priced to yield 245 basis points over similar-
maturity Treasuries. The rate on the 5 percent securities due
November 2020 rose 22 basis points in the month to 5.573 percent
today, according to Bloomberg composite prices.  “On balance it will have to pay a bit more,” said Gabriel
Sterne, an emerging-market economist at brokerage Exotix in
London. “It will benefit from the higher  oil prices , but this
will be more than offset by regional concerns about
instability.”  Lower Ratings  Anti-government protests, ignited by the ouster of
Tunisia’s president last month and energized by the fall of
Egypt’s president on Feb. 11, have spread to Libya, Yemen,  Algeria ,  Iran  and Morocco.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered  Libya ,
Bahrain and Egypt’s credit ratings this month.  Bonds sales in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
which includes the U.A.E. and Bahrain, have reached $623 million
this year, down 20 percent from the same period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors
Service has rated IPIC’s debt Aa3, the fourth-highest investment
grade ranking and one step lower than Abu Dhabi.  The average yields on securities in the GCC rose 42 basis
points in February to an eight-month high of 5.6 percent on Feb.
23, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional US Dollar Bond Index
shows. The average yields on U.A.E. bonds gained 36 basis points
in the period to 5.76 percent on Feb. 23, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai UAE Conventional US Dollar Bond Index.  IPIC on Feb. 16 agreed to take control of Cia. Espanola de
Petroleos SA,  Spain ’s second-largest oil company, through a 3.97
billion-euro ($5.5 billion) offer that will buy out Cepsa
shareholder  Total SA . It will buy the French oil company’s 48.8
percent stake and bid for the remaining Cepsa stock at 28 euros
a share in cash. The company already has a 47 percent holding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  