-- 
Iran Says Senegal’s Cutting of Diplomatic Ties Not ‘Logical’

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-02-24T12:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/iran-says-senegal-s-cutting-of-diplomatic-ties-not-logical-.html
  Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said
Senegal’s decision to end diplomatic relations over concerns
that the Persian Gulf state is undermining its security “has no
logical justification.”  The government cut ties with Iran over arms shipments to
Gambia that it says have led to the deaths of Senegalese
soldiers, state-owned le Soleil said yesterday, citing Foreign
Minister Madicke Niang. Gambia borders the southern Senegalese
region of Casamance, where separatists are fighting for
autonomy. A shipment of weapons seized in Nigeria last year was
also destined for Gambia, Niang said.  In December, Senegal withdrew its ambassador from Iran,
saying the arms may “deeply undermine the peace and security of
the sub-region.” The envoy returned five weeks later after a
visit by Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi , who pledged
as much as $200 million for economic projects.  Iran is pursuing closer relations in  Africa  as the U.S.,
the European Union and the  United Nations  enforce economic
sanctions against the country over its nuclear program. The
Iranian effort worries the U.S., where Ed Royce, the ranking
Republican on the Congressional subcommittee on nuclear
proliferation, warned African nations to shun Iran if they want
additional aid.  “Transparent and clear discussions were held with the
highest Senegalese authorities” during Salehi’s trip, according
to an Iranian Foreign Ministry statement published today by the
 Iranian Labour News Agency . “All misunderstandings were cleared
and respect for each other’s national security and both parties’
will to strengthen ties in all fields were underlined.” The
conflict over weapons wasn’t mentioned in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in  Beirut  at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 