-- 
Iron Ore to China Falls as Buyers Use Stocks, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-02-24T09:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/iron-ore-to-china-falls-as-buyers-use-stocks-deutsche-bank-says.html
Prices for iron ore delivered to  China  are falling as buyers turn to stockpiles of the
steelmaking ingredient, eroding demand for new supplies,
Deutsche Bank AG said.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content has slid 3.6
percent since Feb. 17 to $184.90 a metric ton, according to
Steel Business Briefing Commodities Research. That cut the past
year’s gain to 41 percent. China made 44 percent of the world’s
crude steel in January, according to the World Steel
Association.  “Any material bought by  steel mills  seems to be out of
lower-priced port stock,” Thomas Baldwin, an iron-ore, freight
and steel trader with Deutsche Bank in London, said in a note e-
mailed late yesterday. He predicted that the market will
“remain relatively quiet over the next week as traders are
taking a ‘wait and see’ approach, and as a result, we will see a
gradual price decline.”  Chinese steelmakers should boost overseas  iron-ore  mine
investment to secure supplies, the China Iron and Steel
Association  said  today at a press conference in Beijing. Global
iron-ore supply will remain tight in the first half of 2011,  Luo Bingsheng , former vice chairman and current special adviser to
the association, told the conference.  Quarterly Pricing  Rio Tinto Group, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Vale SA, which
control three-quarters of the world’s iron-ore supply, abandoned
annual pricing last year in favor of quarterly agreements as
spot prices rose. BHP is also seeking monthly pricing, and price
negotiations between miners and Chinese steelmakers are “dead”
for one year, Luo said.  More iron ore is hauled at sea than any other dry-bulk
commodity. It accounted for 26 percent of the fourth-quarter
total, according to estimates from  Drewry Shipping Consultants
Ltd.  in  London . Demand to ship the ore will rise 6 percent this
year, about a third of the 17 percent increase in the fleet of
capesize vessels, Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker,
estimates. Iron ore is the main capesize cargo.  “The market is just oversupplied,” Deutsche Bank’s
Baldwin said. “Dry-freight is no longer a demand-driven trade,
but rather a supply-driven trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 