-- 
Lithuania Municipal Vote May Punish Deficit-Cutting Government

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-02-24T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/lithuania-municipal-vote-may-punish-deficit-cutting-government.html
Lithuanian voters will probably
punish the government in municipal elections this weekend as
people grow fatigued of budget-deficit cuts.  Prime Minister  Andrius Kubilius ’ Homeland Union-Christian
Democrats party has 8.2 percent support, compared with 19.7
percent in parliamentary elections in 2008, according to a Jan.
13-23 poll for the newspaper  Lietuvos Rytas . Independent
candidates lead the poll with 14.3 percent support and three
opposition parties ranked higher than the  Homeland Union .  In his 2.5 years in power, Kubilius marshaled a deficit-
cutting package equivalent to 14 percent of gross domestic
product, slashing spending and raising taxes to keep the country
afloat without the help from the  International Monetary Fund .
The economy plunged into  Europe ’s second deepest recession in
2009 and unemployment tripled.  “It’s typical for the ruling parties to lose mandates on
the municipal level, when the economy is unstable or
unemployment is high,” Tomas Janeliunas, a political scientist
at the  Vilnius University , said by phone. “It’s doomed to be a
painful defeat for the Homeland Union.”  On Feb. 27, the nation of 3.2 million people will elect 60
city councils and mayors. Kubilius’ party now has 13 mayors,
including in the capital of Vilnius and the second-largest city
of Kaunas.  Recession Ends  The economy contracted 14.7 percent in 2009, when the brunt
of Kubilius’ budget cuts hit  consumer spending  at a time when
export demand also dried up. GDP returned to growth last year,
expanding 4.6 percent in the fourth quarter, the fastest pace in
more than two years.  The OMX-NASDAQ Vilnius stock index rose 56 percent last
year. Credit-default swaps on Lithuanian five-year debt, which
investors use to protect against default or speculate on a
borrower’s credit worthiness, fell below Irish, Portuguese or
Spanish CDS.  Debt evaluators including Moody’s Investor Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings backed the government’s
budget cuts, saying the economy stabilized faster than
previously anticipated.  All three companies raised their rating outlooks to stable
from negative last year on steps to curb the  budget deficit ,
which will help the country qualify for the planned euro
adoption in 2014 and keep rising debt in control.  Unpopular Decisions  “The government is blamed for drastic and unpopular
decisions but this strategy is one of the best outcomes anyone
could have expected,” said  Violeta Klyviene , a chief Baltic
economist with Danske Bank A/S.  For most Lithuanians, the prospect of a brighter future
isn’t appealing enough to make the present sacrifices worthwhile
as wages and pension drop, according to Klyviene.  Unemployment was 17.1 percent in the fourth quarter last
year, compared with 5.9 percent in the third quarter of 2008,
before Kubilius took power. Pensions were lowered by an average
5 percent and wages fell about 9 percent.  Kubilius is bearing most of the blame, which pushed his
approval rating to 6 percent, the lowest on record for any
premier since independence from the  Soviet Union  two decades
ago, a Jan. 25-31 poll by Baltijos Tyrimai for the  ELTA  news
service showed.  Failure at the municipal election may increase pressure on
the four-party coalition government as a single defection would
end Kubilius’ majority, said Algis Krupavicius, a political
science professor at the  Kaunas University of Technology .  Tumbling support for Kubilius’ policies also risks delaying
pushing ahead with the overhaul, including changes in social
security, Klyviene said. That may open the door for the
opposition’s more “populist” promises, she said.  ‘Cause Disarray’  “This will cause disarray with higher financial costs,” she
said. “The markets may punish again for having no clear plan on
how to cut the deficit.”  Emboldened by its growing popularity, the opposition is
planning to test the resilience of the Kubilius’ majority in
parliament with no-confidence votes against Energy Minister
Arvydas Sekmokas, Environment Minister Gediminas Kazlauskas and
Economy Minister Dainius Kreivys.  Still, the prospect of having to push through further
budget cuts may keep the opposition from pressuring the
government into a collapse before the next general election,
Krupavicius said.  “The pressure on the government is likely to increase but
it won’t be strong enough to cause a government collapse,” he
said. “It’s no benefit for the opposition to go into power in
this economic and social environment, ahead of general
elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  