-- 
Ivory Coast Violence Rises as Ouattara Loyalists Say They Attacked Army

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-02-24T10:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ivory-coast-group-claims-attack-on-army-as-violence-escalates.html
Violence is escalating in  Ivory
Coast  as an armed group claimed responsibility for its first
attack on government troops in the commercial capital, Abidjan.  The Liberation Movement of the Population of Abobo-Anyama
said 27 people were killed in the assault late on Feb. 22. The
army put the figure at eight, including one soldier and seven
people it described as rebels.  The attack by the group, which is named after two
neighborhoods of Abidjan that support President-elect  Alassane Ouattara , represents a new twist in violence that has marked the
world’s top cocoa producer since a disputed election on Nov. 28
left it with two rival administrations. While the international
community recognizes Ouattara as the winner, incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  refused to resign, citing alleged voter fraud.  Security forces returned to Abobo yesterday afternoon in a
large-scale operation, residents said.  “Police came into the neighborhood around 4 p.m.,” Ladji
Soumahoro, who lives in Abobo, said by phone yesterday. “They
were firing everywhere. Everybody was scared, they stayed at
home, scared of being hit by a random shot.”  Mediation Attempt  An African Union-sponsored mission to  Ivory Coast ,
including the presidents of  South Africa , Tanzania, Mauritania
and  Chad , completed a two-day visit to the country on Feb. 22.  The mission could be the “final attempt” by the regional
bloc for a peaceful resolution to the crisis, said Kenyan Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga , who tried at least twice previously to
mediate in the impasse.  The Economic Community of West African States is holding
planning meetings and “marshaling forces” to remove Gbagbo
from power if sanctions and talks fail to convince him to step
down, Odinga told reporters yesterday in Nairobi, the Kenyan
capital.  “If all these measures don’t result in a change of regime,
force will be used,” he said. “As to when, I cannot say.”  At least 300 people have been killed in clashes since the
political struggle began almost three months ago, according to
the  United Nations . In the west of the country,  Amnesty
International  estimates 70,000 people have fled their homes amid
ethnic tensions that have been exacerbated by the impasse.  The country’s financial system has come under increasing
pressure as at least 10 lenders have closed their doors. The
West African regional central bank ordered lenders to halt
transactions with its agencies in Ivory Coast after Gbagbo
seizer their offices.  Cocoa Ban  Ouattara, who on Jan. 23 told cocoa and coffee shippers to
halt exports for a month, this week extended the ban until March
15. May-delivery cocoa climbed for the fourth straight day in  London  yesterday, adding 19 pounds, or 0.8 percent, to 2,357
pounds per metric ton.  In the 14 days to Feb. 17, exports of  cocoa beans  and
processed cocoa products fell to 8,645 tons, according to an
official with access to the data. In the two weeks previous,
shipments were 71,457 tons, said the official, who declined to
be identified because the data are confidential.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baudelaire Mieu, Olivier Monnier and Pauline Bax in Abidjan via
Accra at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 