-- 
Ivory Coast's Army, Rebels Clash in West of Country as Violence Escalates

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-02-24T18:27:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/ivory-coast-army-rebels-clash-in-west-of-country-near-liberia-un-says.html
Ivory Coast ’s army clashed with
rebels in the western part of the country as violence that has
gripped the commercial capital, Abidjan, since a disputed
presidential election spread.  The fighting erupted near the town of Danane, which is
close to the Ivorian border with  Liberia , said Hamadoun Toure,
spokesman for the United Nations mission in the country. It
marks a “new escalation,” as previous conflicts were between
security forces and protesters,” Toure said by phone today.
“Now we have two armed forces fighting each other.”  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
divided between a government-controled south and a rebel-held
north since a 2002 uprising of mutinous army soldiers. The
rebels support  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized
winner of the Nov. 28 election. Incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  refuses
to cede power to him, alleging voter fraud in parts of the
north.  The rebels, called the New Forces, were attacked in the
west along the north-south border around 4 a.m., said Lass Com,
a spokesman for the group in the 18 Montagnes region, by phone.  Death Toll  “Security forces loyal to Gbagbo attacked us with the help
of militias,” he said, adding that the fighting had stopped.
“It’s a zone with dense forest and it’s hard to communicate
with the area, so we don’t have a death toll yet.”  Canadian gold miner La Mancha Resources Inc. halted
operations at its Ity mine in the western part of the country,
saying production is “vulnerable to the country’s current
political situation,” according to a statement. The site
previously stopped for two weeks in December, it said.  As many as 315 people have been killed in fighting since
the election, according to the UN mission. Internally displaced
Ivorians number 40,876 in the west, while another 39,685 people
have fled to neighboring Liberia, according to an e-mailed
statement. Another 800 people went to  Guinea  and 252 Ivorians
went to Togo, it said.  The fighting had mainly been concentrated in Abidjan, the
country’s biggest city. Sustained gunfire and heavy artillery
was heard for a third day in the Abobo neighborhood.  Today’s fighting centered around a local military barracks,
according to residents. “There is fighting around the camp
commando. It’s serious. We can hear rocket-propelled grenades,”
said Ahmed Sylla, a resident of the area.  An armed group called the Liberation Movement of the
Population of Abobo-Anyama claimed responsibility for an attack
on government troops in Abobo, saying 27 people were killed on
Feb. 22. The areas voted in favor of Ouattara.  Rights Violations  Since the election,  Ivory Coast  has seen a “continuous
pattern of serious human rights violations,” said Navi Pillay,
the UN’s High Commissioner for Human Rights, in an e-mailed
statement. The violations include “extrajudicial killings,
abductions, enforced disappearances, excessive use of force by
security forces and destruction of property,” according to the
statement.  Leaders from the  African Union  tasked with mediating in the
conflict “need to step in to find a just and accountable way
out of this stand-off before the violence gets any worse,” said
Daniel Bekele, Africa director at New York-based Human Rights
Watch, in an e-mailed statement dated yesterday.  The presidents of  South Africa , Tanzania, Mauritania and  Chad  completed a two-day visit to the country on Feb. 22.  The mission could be the “final attempt” by the regional
bloc for a peaceful resolution to the crisis, said Kenyan Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga , who tried at least twice previously to
mediate in the impasse.  Cocoa for May delivery rose for the third straight day,
adding $9, or 0.3 percent, to $3,640 per metric ton by 1:26 p.m.
in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax and Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 