-- 
Japan Consumer Prices Fall at Slowest Pace Since 2009 as Oil, Food Climbs

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-02-25T02:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/japanese-deflation-slowed-in-january-as-energy-prices-food-costs-climb.html
Japan’s deflation eased to the
slowest pace in 21 months in January as increases in global
energy and food prices prompted companies to pass on costs to
shoppers.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food declined 0.2 percent
from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo.
That compared with a median 0.3 percent drop predicted by 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Price drops eased for a
fourth consecutive month.  Japanese companies including coffee roaster  Key Coffee Inc .
have started to raise prices in response to higher raw material
costs, helping moderate deflation. Still, the Bank of Japan will
probably judge that higher costs due to commodities may damage
the economy and don’t justify ending its easy monetary policy,
Daiwa Institute of Research said.  “Price increases caused by costlier commodities will only
have a negative effect on the economy, eroding corporate profits
and discouraging consumption,” said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior
economist at DIR in Tokyo. “The Bank of Japan won’t consider
tightening unless prices resume rising for an appropriate reason,
which is the economy’s recovery.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose 1.5 basis
points to 1.235 percent as of 10:58 a.m. in Tokyo. Yields
yesterday fell to 1.22 percent, the lowest since Feb. 2. The yen
traded at 81.96 to the dollar compared with 81.89 yen in  New
York  yesterday.  Passing on Costs    Oil prices  have climbed 10 percent this year amid concern
political unrest in the Middle East may disrupt supplies. Food
prices are soaring as demand among emerging markets increases
and weather changes push up costs.  “Companies that can’t absorb all cost increases would have
to pass them on to consumers, which in turn may damp spending
and weigh on  consumer confidence ,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , a
senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
He expects Japan’s core prices may start rising as early as
April.  Starbucks Coffee Japan Ltd., the local unit of the world’s
biggest coffee-shop chain, this month raised prices of some of
its coffees.  Nestle Japan Ltd. and Key Coffee already announced plans to
increase instant coffee prices in response to more expensive
beans. Coffee futures surged to a 14-year high this month on
concern that supplies will drop in Colombia and  Brazil , the
world’s biggest grower.  ‘Twists and Turns’  Japan’s agriculture ministry this week proposed boosting
wheat prices to flour millers by an average 18 percent in April,
according to Takahiro Sasaki, a ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan
lawmaker who had been briefed by the ministry.  That would be the biggest increase since April 2008.
Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. and Yamazaki Baking Co. raised prices
of bread and noodles that year.  Japan’s core consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in 2008,
peaking at 2.4 percent in July and August of the year. Core
prices resumed declining in March 2009, reflecting the global
economic slump following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  There will “still be twists and turns” before Japan can
overcome deflation, even if price declines are moderating as the
economy improves,  Bank of Japan  Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said this week. He said gains in commodity prices are
a major risk for the Japanese economy.  Escaping Deflation  Consumer prices are also likely to be revised downward
later in the year when the government conducts a review of its
data to reflect current costs. That may lower the inflation
index by about 0.5 percentage point, reflecting lower prices of
products such as flat screen televisions, said Akio Makabe,
professor of economics at  Shinshu University  in central Japan.  “It will remain difficult for the Japanese economy to
escape deflation any time soon -- it likely won’t happen in the
next fiscal year” which starts in April, Makabe said.  The BOJ last month raised its core consumer price forecast
for next fiscal year to 0.3 percent from a previous estimate of
a 0.1 percent rise.  Japan’s central bank has pledged to keep the key interest
rate between zero percent and 0.1 percent until it can expect
stable price gains, which board members see at about 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  