-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for February (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-02-24T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-february-text-.html
Following is the text from the Kansas
City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Survey of Tenth District Manufacturing  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity matched an all-
time survey high in February, and firms expected strong activity
in the months ahead. Prices for raw materials continued to rise,
and more firms were raising finished goods prices.  The month-over-month composite index was 19 in February, up from 7
in January and 14 in December. This reading matched all-time
survey highs reached several times from late 2003 to early 2005.
The composite index is an average of the production, new orders,
employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory
indexes. Growth in factory activity increased strongly at both
durable and non-durable goods producing plants. Most other month-
over-month indicators also improved markedly in February. The
production index rose to 23, its highest level since early 2006,
and the shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes also
increased. The employment index jumped from 8 to 23, a ten-year
high, and the new orders for exports index also edged higher. Both
inventory indexes fell slightly this month, but were still in
positive territory.  Growth in year-over-year factory indexes generally increased from
the previous survey. The composite year-over-year index eased
slightly from 23 to 21, while the new orders, shipments, and order
backlog indexes inched higher. The capital expenditures index
rebounded after falling last month, and the new orders for exports
index continued its upward climb. In contrast, the employment
index inched slightly lower after recording a four-year high last
month, and the order backlog index also eased somewhat. Both
inventory indexes edged down.  Future factory indexes rose considerably in February. The future
composite index climbed from 20 to 30, and the future production,
shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes also increased
considerably. The future employment index recorded its highest
level since mid-2006, and the future new orders for exports index
jumped from 11 to 25. The future capital expenditures index rose
from 17 to 23, a four-year high. The future finished goods
inventory index increased from 2 to 5, while the future raw
materials inventory index was relatively unchanged.  Price indexes generally increased, or remained elevated from last
month’s record high. The month-over-month raw materials price
index eased a bit, while the finished goods price index had a
marked increase. The year-over-year raw materials price index
increased from 73 to 80, and the finished goods price index also
rose. The future raw materials price index edged higher, and the
future finished goods price index jumped from 28 to 39, indicating
a higher number of firms plan to pass recent cost increases
through to customers  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  