-- 
Kenyan Tea Output Fell 4.5% in January Amid Lack of Rainfall

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-02-24T10:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/kenya-s-january-tea-production-fell-4-5-exports-slump-on-egypt-demand.html
Tea production in Kenya, the world’s
biggest exporter of the black variety of the leaf, fell 4.5
percent in January because of a drought, according to the Tea
Board of  Kenya , which oversees the industry.  Output of the leaf fell to 35.9 million kilograms (79.1
million pounds) during the four week period, said the board,
based in the capital, Nairobi. Tea sales fell 3 percent to 22
million kilograms during the month while exports dropped 14
percent, largely because  Egypt  bought less of the crop, it said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Kenya is experiencing a prolonged dry spell following
“extremely poor” rainfall during its short October to December
rainy season. The dry conditions are expected to last until at
least April, the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, known as
Fewsnet, said yesterday.  The poor rainfall, especially in the tea-growing East and
West Rift regions, has disrupted both smallholders and
plantation farmers, the board said. Tea production from small-
scale farmers fell by 800,000 kilograms to 20.8 million
kilograms in January, while plantations saw output slip 900,000
kilograms to 15.1 million kilograms, it said.  The three weeks of political unrest in Egypt affected sales
at the weekly tea auction in the Kenyan port city of  Mombasa ,
where total sales dropped 3 percent to 22 million kilograms.
Egypt, traditionally the biggest importer of Kenyan tea,
accounts for about a quarter of tea sales in the East African
nation.  With Egypt recovering after President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped
down, the Tea Board of Kenya now expects to ship more tea to the
North African nation this month, it said.  Tea is Kenya’s biggest foreign-exchange earner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  