-- 
Kier First-Half Net Income Triples on Construction Orders

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-02-24T09:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/kier-says-first-half-net-income-tripled-on-construction-orders.html
  Kier Group Plc , a U.K. construction
company that helped to build the Channel Tunnel rail link, said
first-half net income more than tripled as order books at its
construction and support-services divisions surged.  Net income for the six months ending Dec. 31 increased to
22.3 million pounds ($36.2 million), or 59.6 pence a share, from
7.4 million pounds, or 20 pence a share, for the same period a
year earlier, the Sandy, Bedfordshire, England-based company
said in a statement today.  “We are pleased with results overall, which are perhaps
bucking the trend, driven by increased revenues in our
construction division,” Chief Executive Officer Paul Sheffield
said an interview today.  Kier, which unlike other builders focuses on both
homebuilding and non-residential construction, last year
suffered from the housing slump and the prospect of the biggest
government budget squeeze since World War II hurting public
spending.  Construction revenue increased 7 percent to 728 million
pounds “despite an uncertain market,” particularly in the
education sector where the government has slashed its school-
building program, Sheffield said.  “We’ve worked closely with government to review the cost
base for new schools, targeting a 25 percent reduction,” the
CEO said. “The government has now released an extra 800 million
pounds to build academies -- we’ll be disappointed if we didn’t
get a sixth of it.”  Government Outsourcing  Kier added as much as 0.8 percent to 1,289 pence, and
traded 0.5 percent higher at 1,285 pence as of 9 a.m. in London,
against a backdrop of sliding stocks pinned to political unrest
in the Middle East and North Africa. The stock has lost 6.3
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 487
million pounds.  The commercial  property market  is showing signs of
recovery, according to Kier. U.K. mortgage approvals last month
stayed close to their lowest level since January 2009 when the
economy was in the depths of the credit crunch, the  British
Bankers Association  said yesterday.  “There is a very strong area of work ahead of us in
infrastructure, especially power, waste, and transport,”
Sheffield said. “A huge power station building program is about
to kick off. We can see over 10 billion pounds of construction
work on power stations in the next five to six years, and that’s
going to be an exciting area.”  Spending Cuts  Sheffield said Kier’s support services division is poised
to benefit from government spending cuts “in the medium term.”
Local authorities “are scratching their heads as to how to meet
the cuts imposed on them, and inevitably there will be political
tensions between the parties before they decide how much they
will outsource.”  The company’s net cash position of 144 million pounds means
that it is looking at acquiring U.K. companies to expand its
market share, the CEO said.  “The two areas where we are most focused are growing our
support services business and infrastructure,” Sheffield said.
“Last year services was 25 percent of our revenue and we’ve
still got a relatively small market share, so there’s a definite
opportunity to expand that business organically and by
acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  