-- 
Nancy Kissel Alleges Her Banker Husband Was Abusive With Their Daughter

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-02-24T12:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/kissel-says-she-spiked-her-banker-husband-s-drinks-couldn-t-help-daughter.html
  Nancy Kissel , accused of murdering
her banker husband, told a Hong Kong court today he was abusive
with her and one of their daughters.  Kissel told the nine-member jury that Robert Kissel, then
head of the Asian distressed asset business of Merrill Lynch &
Co., once locked himself and their daughter in a room after the
child failed to make her bed.  “He picked her up, threw her over his shoulder and threw
her into her room,” she said through tears. “She couldn’t come
out until she made her bed. He was in there with her, he’d
locked the door. I couldn’t do anything. It’s all my fault,
everything. I wasn’t strong enough.”  Kissel, 46, then turned to her parents and said: “I
couldn’t tell you, I couldn’t tell anybody. I’m so sorry. I
could never tell you. Nobody would believe me.”  Her lawyer  Edward Fitzgerald , who had been asking about the
state of the marriage in the months before she killed him in
November 2003, then asked her what she did to protect herself.
Kissel said she spiked Robert’s drinks, before sobbing again and
talking incoherently about her daughter. Judge Andrew Macrae
then adjourned the hearing for a recess.  Prosecutors have rejected Kissel’s guilty plea to
manslaughter and alleged she planned his drugging and
bludgeoning to death. She was the main beneficiary of his $18
million estate and was having an affair at the time of the
killing, they said.  Conviction Overturned  Kissel was convicted of murder in 2005 and appealed all the
way to  Hong Kong ’s top court. It ruled last year the verdict was
unfair, ordering a retrial.  Kissel today described a marriage that was “spiraling
down” in the months before she killed her husband. On a visit 
to the family home in  Vermont , where she and the children were 
living during Hong Kong’s severe acute respiratory syndrome 
epidemic outbreak, her husband took cocaine “like aspirin” to 
work all night because of time zone differences, she said.  She said he increasingly demanded anal sex from her before
saying he had been abusive toward their daughter.  Jane Clayton, Robert’s sister who testified earlier for the
prosecution, rose and walked out of the courtroom following
Kissel’s allegations.  After the recess Kissel recounted being “terrified” of
Robert, and incidents where she said he slammed her against a
wall, knocked her face into a glass panel, and caused her to
bleed after anal sex. When she brought up divorce in September
of 2003, her husband threw a chair in the office of their
marriage counselor, Ceilidh Halloran, she said.  Suicidal Feelings  Kissel said the deteriorating marriage and physical
exhaustion from relocating her family in 2003 caused suicidal
feelings. She described an instance in which she swallowed
sleeping pills before changing her mind.  “I wanted to shut down, to not feel anything. But I was
afraid to leave my children so I stuck my fingers and my hand
down my throat and threw it all up.”  On the prosecution’s evidence that she had searched for
“medications causing heart attack” on the Internet, Kissel
said the drugs would have been for herself because her children
might have accepted her death by heart attack more than suicide.
“I’m not proud of this,” she said.  Kissel said her husband knew about her affair in the summer
of 2003 with Michael Del Priore, an electrical technician who
worked on the family’s vacation home in Vermont, whom Kissel
said was “gentle” and “understanding.”  She wrote in a personal log for their marriage counselor,
admitted into evidence, that  Robert Kissel  told her he could
“never trust her again” after learning about the affair.  A manslaughter conviction may mean a sentence of eight to
12 years, Kissel’s lawyers have said. She has already served
more than six years in prison. The trial continues on Friday.  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in Hong
Kong’s High Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  