-- 
Kotak Commodities’ Shah Says India May Increase Food Subsidies

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T04:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/kotak-commodities-shah-says-india-may-increase-food-subsidies.html
Shripal Shah, director of brokerage
 Kotak Commodities Services Ltd. , comments on expectations for  India ’s next federal budget.  The nation is scheduled to announce the budget, which
covers the fiscal year from April 1, on Feb. 28. Shah spoke in
an interview in Mumbai yesterday.  On inflation, budget expectations:  “Government is worried about inflationary conditions in
the country. Fortunately for India at least, for a lot of
commodities still, they are self-dependent in terms of producing
their own consumption. For the commodities which they have to
import, yes they are not immune from the global volatility.  “It is also politically sensitive issue, so apart from it
actually affecting the people, it affects the government
politics as well.  “I am sure in this budget, the government is going to take
care of those kinds of concerns that people have, about the
government not taking care of the poor people in the country and
they might actually announce some of the steps related to
agriculture reforms.  “It is likely that the food subsidy, which is around 5
percent of the current Indian budget, might go up to around 6 or
7 percent. That is the step they will have to take if they were
to satisfy the current Indian concerns.”  On the outlook for inflation,  interest rates :  “Everything is going up which can go up.  “Interest rates, which will affect the bottom line of the
corporate, are going up.  “The  oil prices  are shooting new highs and, of course, all
commodities prices which are generally used are going up.  “At least for the next quarter or so, there will be
pressure on the interest rate and inflation, but hopefully after
that it should come under check.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  