-- 
Nets Get All-Star Deron Williams From Jazz for Harris, Favors, Draft Picks

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-02-24T03:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/nets-get-all-star-deron-williams-from-jazz-for-harris-favors-draft-picks.html
The  New Jersey  Nets acquired two-
time All-Star point guard  Deron Williams  from the  Utah Jazz ,
days after failing to land forward  Carmelo Anthony .  Williams, 26, comes to New Jersey in exchange for forward
Derrick Favors, the No. 3 pick in the 2010 National Basketball
Association draft; guard Devin Harris; and first-round draft
picks in 2011 and 2012, General Manager Billy King said in a
news release.  “He is one of the premier point guards in the NBA, and his
skill and talent level will bolster our franchise as we continue
to build towards our goal of becoming a championship-caliber
team,” King said.  The Nets also acquired forward Brandan Wright and center
Dan Gadzuric from the  Golden State Warriors  for forward Troy Murphy and the Nets’ second-round draft pick in 2012, King said.  The  New York Knicks  acquired Anthony, a four-time All-Star,
in a three-team deal completed yesterday. Last week the Nets
were reported by the Record of Bergen County, New Jersey, to
have a tentative deal to acquire Anthony that would have
included Favors, Harris and four first-round draft picks. The
Knicks also were interested in Williams, the New York Times
reported without saying where it got its information.  Williams was drafted by the Jazz with the third pick in
2005. An All-Star in 2010 and 2011, he has finished in the top
four in assists each of the past five seasons and this year is
averaging 9.7 assists and a career-high 21.3 points per game.  Williams’s displeasure in  Utah  was a factor in the
midseason resignation of Jazz coach Jerry Sloan, according to
reports in the  Salt Lake Tribune . He has 2 1/2 years left on the
four-year, $70 million contract  extension  he signed with the
Jazz in 2008, and can opt out of the deal after next year and
become a free agent.  The Nets are 17-40, nine games behind the Indiana Pacers
for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference.
The team is scheduled to move into Brooklyn’s new Barclays
Center before the start of the 2012-13 season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 