-- 
New Zealand May Reduce Rate With Quake Damage Estimate Up to NZ$12 Billion

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-02-25T00:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/new-zealand-may-reduce-rate-with-quake-damage-estimate-up-to-nz-12-billion.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  will
cut its benchmark interest rate, swaps traders and some
economists say, as ANZ National Bank Ltd. estimated this week’s
earthquake will cost as much as NZ$12 billion ($9 billion).  Investors see a 100 percent chance RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard will lower the official cash rate by 25 basis points at
the March 10 policy meeting, according to a Credit Suisse AG
index based on swaps trading. Four of eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News predict a cut of at least 25 points. A central
bank spokesman yesterday declined to comment on speculation an
unscheduled meeting would be held to consider a rate change.  New Zealand’s second-largest city, Christchurch, was struck
by the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years, a disaster ANZ
said will cut gross domestic product by at least half a
percentage point and may trigger a credit downgrade. The local
currency approached a decade low against its Australian
counterpart on concern the fallout in a region that accounts for
about 15 percent of GDP may tip the country into a recession.  “At a time of national crisis, when the underlying economy
is already proving frustratingly weak, a rate cut would
potentially be very helpful,” said  Jane Turner , an economist at
ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “We expect the RBNZ to deliver a 50
basis-point rate cut at the March 10 meeting, if not sooner.”  Currency Trading  The  New Zealand dollar , which has fallen about 4 percent
against its U.S. counterpart this year and is the second-worst
performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
traded at 75.04 U.S. cents at 1:21 p.m. in Wellington from 74.74
cents yesterday.  Hundreds of international rescue workers arrived in the
South Island region of Canterbury to search for survivors and
bodies among the rubble of buildings brought down by the
magnitude 6.3 quake. The death toll has climbed to 113, more
than 200 people are missing and dozens of aftershocks have
followed the Feb. 22 temblor.  Christchurch’s second quake in six months may cost more
than double the one that struck the region Sept. 4, damage from
which the RBNZ has estimated at NZ$5 billion.  Bollard, who has kept rates unchanged at 3 percent since
July, said at the bank’s Jan. 27 meeting that underlying
inflation is “comfortably” within its target range and any
rise in borrowing costs will depend on a strengthening recovery.  Third-Quarter Contraction  The country’s economy was hobbled before the quake. New
Zealand’s retail sales fell 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter,
matching the decline during the previous quarter in which GDP
shrank 0.2 percent. The government’s GDP report for the final
three months of 2010 is scheduled to be released March 24.    Consumer confidence  slumped to a 19-month low this month,
weighed down by more pessimism about personal finances and the
economy’s performance in the next year, a private survey showed
last week. The ANZ-Roy Morgan confidence index fell to 108.1
from 117.1 in January, Wellington-based ANZ National Bank Ltd.
said in a monthly survey.  In a statement released Feb. 23, Bollard said the RBNZ is
working quickly to assist in the recovery of access to the
financial system and ensure markets “remain stable.”  “The Reserve Bank is ready and able to supply any cash
required by banks,” Bollard said. “We have ample cash reserves
and will issue cash to banks on any day required during this
emergency situation.”  Recession Odds  Earlier this month, Finance Minister Bill English said the
nation’s economy may have entered its second recession in two
years by contracting in the fourth quarter of last year.  “We had been expecting the recovery effort from the
previous earthquake in Christchurch to be ramping up about now
and starting to have a positive impact on GDP,” English said
this week on Bloomberg Television. “This more severe earthquake
will now delay the recovery.”  Two straight quarters of shrinking GDP -- a standard
definition of a recession -- would make New Zealand the first
country with a Group of 10 currency to slide back into a
contraction since the end of 2009.  Before this week’s earthquake struck, English expected a  budget deficit  projected to be NZ$15.6 billion in the year
ending June 30 would start to narrow, with a surplus targeted by
2015.  “The financial burden of the earthquake will be massive.
The government will return to surplus much more slowly,” ANZ
economists said. “A credit downgrade seems inevitable.”  ANZ’s estimate of as much as NZ$12 billion in damage
represents 6.5 percent of the nation’s GDP, which was about
NZ$185 billion at the end of 2009. Tourism accounts for almost 9
percent of the economy.  The New Zealand census, due to take place March 8, was
canceled after disruption to the statistics department’s
operations in Christchurch, Minister of Statistics Maurice
Williamson told reporters today.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  