-- 
Carmelo Anthony Scores 27 in Winning New York Knicks Debut, Exciting Fans

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-02-24T05:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/new-york-knicks-fans-get-caught-in-excitement-of-carmelo-anthony-s-debut.html
Stephen Burnett said he’s feeling a
long-overdue sense of optimism now that  Carmelo Anthony  is in
the lineup at the  New York Knicks .  Burnett, who said he jumped off his bed when he heard about
the trade that brought Anthony to New York from the  Denver
Nuggets , was at Madison Square Garden last night to see Anthony
score a team-leading 27 points in his debut as New York won 114-
108 against the  Milwaukee Bucks .  “For a long time, when I’d tell people I was a Knicks fan,
they’d laugh at me,” said Burnett. “Now we’re respectable. Now
we’re a contender.”  Burnett, a 29-year-old service agent for Delta Airlines
Inc. from Brooklyn, arrived at the Garden at noon -- nearly
eight hours before tipoff -- and was the first fan in the ticket
cancellation line.  The Knicks (29-26) are seeking their first winning season
since 2000-01. New York hasn’t made the playoffs since 2003-04,
and last won a postseason series in 1999.  Even with that record, the franchise is the most valuable
in the  National Basketball Association , according to  Forbes
magazine , at $655 million. The team’s $64 million in operating
profit last season also led the league, Forbes said. The Knicks
are owned by  Madison Square Garden Inc ., which was spun off from
New York-area cable television provider  Cablevision Systems
Corp . last year.  The Knicks got Anthony in a three-team trade that included
13 players, three draft picks and a $3 million payment. Anthony,
26, and five-time All-Star guard Chauncey Billups, 34, made
their Knicks debuts in front of a raucous crowd of 19,763 that
almost completely drowned out the pregame introduction of
Anthony.  Anthony and Billups  Anthony, who went 10-for-25 from the field, grabbed 10
rebounds. Billups, who scored 21 points, went 12-for-12 from the
free throw line. Amar’e Stoudemire added 19 points before
fouling out and Toney Douglas scored 23 off the bench for New
York. The Bucks remained close until Anthony’s fall-away 12-
footer with 26.8 seconds remaining gave the Knicks a six-point
cushion that forced  Milwaukee  to begin fouling.  “I’m just glad I got this game out of my system,” Anthony
said at a postgame news conference. “These last two days have
been crazy for me. I have been working on no sleep, just the
excitement of this whole thing going down. Getting this ‘W’
really meant a lot to me.”  There were dozens of blue and orange Anthony jerseys and t-
shirts in the Garden. Outside the arena, fans also showed off
new No. 7 Anthony jerseys. Earlier in the day, fans lined up for
more than three hours at Manhattan stores such as Modell’s
Sporting Goods to buy the new jerseys.  ‘There’s a Buzz’  “There’s a buzz in the Garden, you can feel it out
here,” Brian Levine, a 30-year-old Long Island resident, said
in an interview outside the arena. “I really feel like it’s
going to be like the ‘90s again, a lot of electricity, a lot of
buzz, a lot of roaring.”  Ticket prices for last night’s game tripled on the
secondary market in anticipation of Anthony’s debut. By 5 p.m.,
the ticket cancellations line had swelled to more than 200
people.  About 25 television cameras and an equal number of
photographers captured Anthony’s introductory news conference.
The 6-foot-8 forward, who lived in  Brooklyn  until he was 8 years
old, said he was “ready to rock” and relieved to have put
trade negotiations behind him.  The excitement surrounding the game wasn’t lost on the
Bucks. Visiting players get two free tickets to games and Bucks
guard Brandon Jennings said he had to buy six additional seats
because friends wanted to see Anthony’s debut.  Odds Cut  Anthony, who is averaging 25.2 points per game this season,
is expected to bolster a Knicks offense that scores a
conference-high 106.2 points per game.  Las Vegas Sports
Consultants , which helps  Nevada ’s sports books establish betting
lines, lowered the Knicks’ odds of winning the NBA title to 15-1
from 20-1 after the trade.  “With Melo and Amar’e Stoudemire together, I’d say we’re
bringing a ring back real quick,” James Patierno, 21, a student
at the University of Rochester, said in a pregame interview
outside the arena.  Patierno was attending with Doug Hoch, a 21-year-old
student at the C.W. Post campus of Long Island University.
Patierno woke up Hoch three nights ago when reports surfaced
that Anthony would be coming to  New York . The friends, who said
they intend to buy Anthony jerseys, already had tickets for last
night’s game.  “I didn’t believe him at first, and then I turned on the
TV and realized that I really had tickets to see Melo’s debut in
the Garden,” Hoch said. “It doesn’t get much better than
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  