-- 
New Zealand Quake Death Toll Expected to Climb as Rescuers Search Rubble

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-24T20:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/new-zealand-police-say-76-bodies-recovered-from-earthquake-hit-buildings.html
The death toll from the earthquake
that struck Christchurch this week will likely rise as rescuers
search for more than 200 missing people among the rubble of
buildings brought down by the nation’s deadliest earthquake in
80 years,  New Zealand  authorities say.  “You’ve now got what is looking like a very significant
fatality toll,” Prime Minister John Key said in an interview
with  Television New Zealand  today. “That is really unnerving
people and rightfully so.”  Rescuers have recovered 103 bodies following the 6.3-
magnitude temblor that rocked the nation’s second-largest city
on Feb. 22, and say that figure is likely to rise. Some 228
people are missing, according to the  Civil Defense department ’s
website. Police yesterday released the names of victims for the
first time. Of the four local residents, two were infants.  About 500 search and rescue personnel are working in
Christchurch, including teams from  Australia , U.S.,  Taiwan ,
Japan and  Singapore , Michael Mead, a spokesman for Civil Defense,
said in a telephone interview. A team of 57 rescuers from the
U.K. will arrive in the South Island city today to help search
for victims trapped in business district office buildings. No
survivors have been located in the last 24 hours.  ‘Utter Devastation’  “It was just a scene of utter devastation,” New Zealand
Police Minister Judith Collins said yesterday after visiting the
ruins of the Canterbury Television building, where police say as
many as 120 bodies could be recovered. “I have never seen
anything like it. If you saw it on a movie or a news screen,
you’d think someone’s made it up.  Hospital emergency departments have admitted 594 patients
following the earthquake, and 11 people are in intensive care,
said Mead.  Christchurch  residents are bracing for more aftershocks,
which threaten to topple buildings already weakened. The city
has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks since the initial quake,
and may experience more temblors greater than magnitude 5 in the
coming days, according to the Civil Defense website.  New Zealand straddles the boundary between the Australian
and Pacific tectonic plates, making it susceptible to
earthquakes. As the plates grind against each other, stress
builds along fault lines, or cracks in the earth’s crust. The
country has as many as 15,000 temblors each year, with about 250
strong enough to be felt, according to  www.geonet.org.   Theatre Crumbled  On the edge of  Cathedral Square , the dome of the 105-year-
old Regent Theatre crumbled. Parts of the facade of the 108-
year-old Clarendon Hotel are on the footpath and lie behind
emergency tape. Streets are quiet other than the sound of ducks
on the Avon River snaking through Christchurch’s city center.  Beside the river, the 1917 statue of Robert Falcon Scott,
the second man to reach the  South Pole , snapped off its plinth
and lies on the ground.  The ground floor windows of Rydges Hotel on Oxford Terrace
are broken while nearby bars are strewn with overturned tables
and smashed glass. Further south, verandas lining the city’s
Cashel Street shopping strip have collapsed.  Police imposed a nighttime curfew in some areas of
Christchurch on Wednesday amid concerns that more buildings may
collapse. Members of the public within the center’s four main
avenues after 6:30 p.m. local time faced arrest, police said.  The death toll from the quake, the strongest since
September when the city was shaken by a 7.0 magnitude temblor,
is the worst since the  Napier earthquake  in 1931 killed 256.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  