-- 
New Hope Profit Rises Fourfold After Selling Arrow Stake

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-02-24T06:22:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/new-hope-first-half-net-profit-rises-fourfold-on-sale-1-.html
  New Hope  Corp., an Australian coal
producer that this week won support to buy Northern Energy Corp.,
said first-half profit rose almost fourfold after the sale of
its stake in Arrow Energy Ltd.  Net income was between A$400 million ($401 million) and
A$407 million in the six months to Jan. 31, the Ispwich,
Queensland-based company said today in a production report. This
compares with profit of A$111.6 million a year earlier.  New Hope now owns 59 percent of Northern Energy, whose
directors this week said shareholders should accept the A$238
million ($239 million) cash bid after talks with alternative
bidders failed. Noble Group Ltd. and Cockatoo Coal Ltd. ended
talks on Feb. 21 for a rival offer, the Australian Financial
Review today reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  New Hope rose 0.2 percent to A$4.86 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of Sydney trading, taking gains over the past twelve months to
7.05 percent.  Second-half earnings will be “significantly” affected by
a likely three-month rail outage in Queensland as a result of
recent flooding, the company said.  “The size of this impact will be a function of when the
rail system recovers to full capacity with significant income
likely to be deferred into the next financial year,” it said.  The Western Rail System was damaged as a result of flooding
down the Toowoomba Range and across the Lockyer Valley, New Hope
said. Repairs are progressing, with an expected reopening date
of early to mid April 2011, it said.  Second-quarter coal output fell 11 percent to 1.3 million
metric tons after record rainfalls in central Queensland and the
Surat Basin, New Hope said. “This resulted in localized
flooding around the New Acland and West Moreton operations,” it
said. “However, the mines were not flooded, did not incur any
significant damage and were only impacted by lost time due to
extended wet weather.”  The first-half result includes a profit after tax of A$326
million from the sale of New Hope’s stake in Arrow Energy, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  