-- 
NFL, Union Have `Strong Differences' as Talks Adjourn, Mediator Cohen Says

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-02-24T17:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/nfl-union-end-talks-today-schedule-session-with-u-s-mediator-next-week.html
The  National Football League  and its
players union retain “strong differences” on basic issues
after making some progress in seven days of talks that adjourned
a week before their contract expires, a U.S. government mediator
overseeing the discussions said today.  The two sides suspended negotiations after their seventh
consecutive session in Washington and agreed to resume talking
March 1, according to George H. Cohen, director of the Federal
Mediation & Conciliation Service.  The current collective bargaining agreement ends March 3.
The union, the  National Football League  Players Association, has
said it expects the owners of the $9 billion-a-year league to
lock them out once the deal expires.  “Some progress was made, but very strong differences
remain on the all-important core issues that separate the
parties,” Cohen said in a  statement . “Nonetheless, I
recommended and the parties have agreed to resume the mediation
process in my office commencing next Tuesday. During the
intervening weekend, the parties have been asked by us to assess
their current positions on those outstanding issues.”  NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the labor contract
after this season, saying it didn’t account for costs such as
those of building stadiums. Talks have included topics such as
what share of revenue players should get, expanding the season
to 18 games from 16, a rookie salary cap and health care.  Money, Conditions  Cohen said the NFL and the  union  held constructive talks on
issues covering both economics and player-related conditions.  “The tenor of the across-the-table discussions reflected a
noteworthy level of mutual respect even in the face of strongly
held competing positions,” Cohen said. “The parties met both
in full committee and in subcommittees where discrete, technical
issues lent themselves to smaller groups.”  Cohen’s office asked both parties to refrain from public
comment while the mediation continues. League spokesman  Greg Aiello  referred all requests for comment to Cohen’s statement.
Union spokesman George Atallah didn’t immediately return e-mails
seeking comment and linked to Cohen’s statement on the Twitter
social-networking website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  