-- 
NFL, Union Argue Television Revenue Advance as Judge Pledges Quick Ruling

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 
2011-02-24T21:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/nfl-players-union-argue-television-revenue-advance-before-u-s-judge.html
A U.S. judge said he will rule
quickly on the legal fight between the  National Football League 
and its players union over some $4 billion in television money.  The  NFL Players Association  wants U.S. District Judge David Doty      in  Minneapolis  to overturn an arbitrator’s decision
allowing the league to keep the broadcast rights fees that the
union says were improperly negotiated so owners would receive
money from networks even if there’s a work stoppage that cancels
games in the 2011 season.  Tom Heiden, a lawyer for the union, said in court in
Minneapolis today that the television deals provided owners with
a “$4 billion war chest, every dollar of which is available to
them to finance their 2011 lockout.”  “This plan was so important that those TV deals would
never have been done without these lockout provisions,” Heiden
said.  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the league’s labor deal
with players, which expires next week, saying it didn’t account
for costs such as those of building stadiums.  The league says the television deals were negotiated in
good faith. Gregg Levy, a lawyer for the NFL, said in court that
the league also earned hundreds of millions of dollars in new
broadcast money by redistributing some digital rights.  “There’s no evidence at all that the NFL traded dollars,
or the potential for dollars, in 2010 for rights in 2011,” he
said.  The case is White et al v. NFL et al, 4:92-cv-00906, U.S.
District Court, for the District of  Minnesota  (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in  St. Paul , Minnesota, at 
 hawkins@visi.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 