-- 
Nigeria's Amcon Will Encourage Short-Selling of Its Securities, CEO Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-02-24T14:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/nigeria-s-amcon-will-encourage-short-selling-of-its-securities-ceo-says.html
Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria , a
state-owned company set up to buy bad debts from banks, will
encourage short-selling by lending its assets to traders who
want to do so, Chief Executive Officer Mustapha Chike-Obi said.  “If they want to short-sell and want to borrow the assets,
I can lend them the securities,” he said in an interview in
Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital. “Short-selling has its
negative connotations,” Chike-Obi said, adding it’s done in
most developed capital markets.  Nigeria should promote short-selling, which involves
borrowing a security in the hope that the price will fall so the
investor can buy it back at a lower price and profit from the
difference, to develop more financial products to boost the
stock market, he said earlier in a speech in Lagos.  Amcon, as the company is known, on Dec. 31 signed debt
purchase agreements with 21 of Nigeria’s 24 banks and issued
1.04 trillion naira ($6.8 billion) of so-called consideration
bonds that are not tradable to buy non-performing loans from
them.  The debt purchases are expected to help resume credit
extension by banks, some of which almost collapsed in 2008 after
lenders extending billions of dollars in loans to stock
speculators who were unable to repay them. The  central bank 
fired the chief executive officers of eight lenders in 2009 and
bailed out the industry with 620 billion naira.  Amcon will hold the assets for at least two years before
selling them, and when it wants to sell, “it will be announced
and publicized so that nothing untoward happens,” Chike-Obi
said on Johannesburg-based CNBC Africa television on Nov.9. The
corporation has asked the  Central Bank of Nigeria  to approve a
second round of debt purchases, Chike-Obi said Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 