-- 
Nigeria Stocks Fall to Six-Week Low, Sparked by Libya Unrest

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-02-24T16:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/nigeria-stocks-fall-to-six-week-low-sparked-by-libya-unrest-1-.html
  Nigeria ’s broadest stocks measure
declined to a six-week low, led by  Dangote Cement Plc  and  Nigerian Breweries Plc , as unrest in Libya curbed demand for
higher-yielding, frontier-market assets.  The 213-member Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index
retreated 1.9 percent to 26,217.28 by the 2:30 p.m. close in
Lagos, according to an e-mailed statement from the bourse.
Dangote Cement, which comprises 25 percent of the gauge, fell
for the first time since Feb. 8, losing 3.1 percent to 124
naira. Nigerian Breweries retreated the most since Oct. 7,
slumping 4.9 percent to 77 naira.  Crude in New York surged to the highest level in 29 months
as an uprising in Libya, Africa’s third-largest oil producer,
reduced supplies. Opponents of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
consolidated control over cities in the oil-rich east while he
clamped down on Tripoli, using tanks to block highways and
security forces to attack residents, witnesses said.
Demonstrators encouraged by the ouster of authoritarian regimes
in Egypt and Tunisia have taken to the streets of Algeria,
Bahrain, Libya, Iran, Jordan and Yemen.  “Our preliminary suspicion is that some foreign hedge
funds are exiting as a result of the escalation of the crisis in
North Africa,” David Adonri, chief executive officer of Lambeth
Trust and Investment Co., a Lagos-based brokerage, said by phone
today. “They believe it could affect us negatively.”  Foreign investors currently hold 68 percent of stocks on
the exchange,  Africa ’s second-biggest, Emmanuel Ikazoboh,
interima of the bourse, said today at a conference in Lagos. The
major foreign investors in the market are hedge funds, Adonri
said.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos via Accra at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 