-- 
New Zealand Police Say Little Hope 26 Missing Japanese Survived

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   G e a r o i d   R e i d y
-- 
2011-02-24T07:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/no-survivors-in-japan-students-building-after-new-zealand-quake.html
Twenty-six Japanese studying in New
Zealand may have died when the Christchurch building housing
their language school collapsed in  New Zealand ’s deadliest
earthquake in 80 years, according to local police.  As the death toll from the 6.3-magnitude quake climbed to
at least 98, police said 47 bodies were recovered from the
rubble of the Canterbury Television building where the King’s
Education school was located, adding it’s unlikely more
survivors will be found. Police haven’t disclosed the
nationalities of those victims.  About 550 rescuers and 12 dogs will be working in New
Zealand’s second-largest city by the end of today, said Iona
Wassilieff, a spokeswoman for the Civil Defence department.
Japan sent a team of 70, who are working with Australian
rescuers, Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told
reporters today.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan yesterday asked his New
Zealand counterpart John Key to “keep up the relief efforts
until the very end” to find the missing Japanese, Edano said.  There are 226 people unaccounted for in Christchurch, New
Zealand Police Minister Judith Collins told reporters today. As
many as 120 bodies may be recovered from the Canterbury
Television site, she said.  King’s Education confirmed there have been fatalities and
said 72 students remain missing, without giving details in a
statement on its website.  Twenty-one Chinese students are missing, with eight
believed buried under the Canterbury Television building,  China
Central Television  reported.  The 26 missing Japanese students include 10 from a language
school in  Toyama  who arrived in Christchurch for a one-month
study program five days before the quake hit, according to
Kazushi Maeda, a spokesman for the port city on Japan’s western
coast.  Christchurch  residents are bracing for more aftershocks
threatening to topple buildings already weakened by Tuesday’s
quake and 38 aftershocks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Gearoid Reidy in Tokyo at 
 greidy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 