-- 
Norway’s Oil Minister Says Producers Can Compensate for Libya

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-02-24T14:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/norway-s-oil-minister-says-producers-can-compensate-for-libya.html
  Norway ’s Oil Minister Terje Riis- Johansen said other crude oil producers could compensate for a
drop in supplies from  Libya  caused by the violent unrest against
Muammar Qaddafi’s rule.  “It is possible for various petroleum provinces to make
oil available,” Riis-Johansen said today in an interview in
Oslo, adding that Norway was “producing as normal.”  Oil rose above $119 a barrel in  London  today, the highest
in 30 months, as Libya’s violent uprising reduced supplies from  Africa ’s third-biggest producer. The  International Energy
Agency ’s member governments, which includes Norway, hold enough
crude oil to provide 4 million barrels a day from inventories to
the market for a year, David Fyfe, head of the IEA’s oil
industry and markets unit, said earlier this week.  Riis-Johansen declined to comment on whether Norway would
be providing crude from its inventories.  The world’s seventh-biggest oil producer is struggling with
declining output from its aging North Sea fields and is expected
to pump 6 percent less oil this year, its 11th annual drop,
according to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate . The government
is urging producers operating North Sea fields to invest more in
field recovery to maintain production rates.  Ekofisk Plans    ConocoPhillips  today submitted plans to the Norwegian
authorities to invest 65 billion kroner ($12 billion) to prolong
production from the Eldfisk and Ekofisk South fields. The plans
will bring the recovery rate at Ekofisk to 52 percent from 38
percent and will add 40 years of production to the oil field,
which is Norway’s first, Steinar Vaage, Conoco’s Norway chief,
said at a press conference at the Oil Ministry.  The greater Ekofisk area in the North Sea is composed of
the Ekofisk, Eldfisk, Embla and Tor fields. Ekofisk, which began
production in 1971, produced 59 million barrels of oil last
year, according to the directorate. Eldfisk produced about 19
million barrels.  Conoco will be increasing its investments in Norway for the
next three years because of the projects, Vaage said in an
interview. He declined to specify how much Conoco was investing.  “We’re interested in continuing exploration in Norway, if
we get interesting areas,” Vaage said. “In the 21st licensing
round we looked quite closely at the northern areas.”  The company is drilling an exploration well in the first
quarter called Peking Duck, located north of Ekofisk, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset at   mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  