-- 
Obama Tells Panel U.S. Recovery Is Challenged by Jobless Rate

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/obama-says-jobless-rate-remains-challenge-for-u-s-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  told the
first meeting of his panel of outside economic advisers that the
U.S. must deal with stubbornly high unemployment even as the
recovery from the recession is well under way.  “The biggest challenge that we’re seeing right now is that
unemployment is way too high,” Obama told the 23-member
President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness yesterday. The
advisory group, led by  General Electric Co . chief executive
officer  Jeffrey Immelt , replaces the President’s Economic
Recovery Advisory Board, which was headed by former  Federal
Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker .  In the month since he delivered his  State of the Union
address , Obama has sought to make the case that investments in
education, infrastructure and innovation will help create more
jobs. He reiterated that message yesterday, telling members of
the panel, “We’re going to have to up our game in this newly
competitive world.”  Obama told the group that he wants them to provide “some
concrete deliverables” that will help lower the 9 percent  unemployment rate .  Today the president is scheduled to meet at the White House
with 14 Democratic governors -- including  Deval Patrick  of
Massachusetts,  Martin O’Malley  of Maryland and Dan Malloy of
Connecticut -- to discuss ways Washington can work with states
to help spark  job creation , according to a White House
statement.  Regional Cooperation  During a visit to  Cleveland State University  on Feb. 22,
the president encouraged governors to form a group of “regional
innovation clusters.” He cited the example of the technology
industry in Silicon Valley and said state executives should
reach across state lines to put together groups of industries
and universities to support specific areas of innovation.  During yesterday’s meeting in the Eisenhower Executive
Office Building next to the White House, the president was
flanked by Immelt and UBS America chairman Robert Wolf on his
right and by his chief of staff, Bill Daley, and the president
of the AFL-CIO,  Richard Trumka , on his left.  Immelt said he wants the group to put a “laser-like
focus” on jobs, including the impact of education and
immigration policy, global trade, research and development, and
energy.  He told reporters afterward that members of the council
would be talking to other corporate executives about creating
jobs. “We know that the private sector has to lead the way,”
Immelt said.  Growing Confidence  He said the biggest factor in job creation will be
continued improvements in the economy and in the confidence of
business leaders.  “The economy is getting better every day,” Immelt said.
“It’s just belief in the future. As confidence gets better,
more will be invested.”  Confidence was a recurring theme yesterday. The chief
executive officer of  American Express Co ., Kenneth Chenault,
told the president that he is seeing growth in small businesses
and across industries, yet he is concerned that consumers aren’t
spending and using their credit cards because of “uncertainty”
in the economy.  “They’re being very rational, but that is alarming that 75
percent of the credit out there is not being used,” Chenault
said.  DuPont Co.’s CEO Ellen Kullman said she doesn’t think 2011
will be as high a growth year for her business as 2010 was. She
said a “dark spot on the horizon is construction.”  Training and Education  As he ended his remarks to the panel, the president said
that many traditional jobs, such as those in retail sales, are
“going the way of the bank teller” because of new technology.
That’s why training and education are important, he said.  A degree from a four-year college is not always necessary,
Obama said. He said that at a private dinner with technology
company executives last week, Apple Inc. CEO  Steve Jobs  told him
that the cost of wages isn’t the only reason the Cupertino,
California-based company has so many employees in  China .  Obama said Jobs told him that while Apple can hire top
engineers in the U.S., the problem is finding mid-level workers
who are “on the ground in the factory, who’s constantly
tweaking and making sure that operations are functioning.”  The administration has forecast that the unemployment rate
will average 9.3 percent for all of 2011, declining to an
average of 8.6 percent next year. The jobless rate has been at 9
percent or higher since May 2009, the longest period of elevated
unemployment since monthly records began in 1948.  Executives, Economists, Labor  Like its predecessor, the jobs and competitiveness advisory
board is made up of business executives, economists and
representatives of organized labor. Among those named to it by
Obama are Richard D. Parsons, chairman of  Citigroup Inc .; Roger Ferguson, CEO of TIAA-CREF and a former vice chairman of the
Federal Reserve; and  Laura D’Andrea Tyson , a professor of
economics at University of California-Berkeley who was an
economic adviser to President  Bill Clinton .  Obama created the council to offer “nonpartisan advice”
on strengthening the  U.S. economy  and ensuring competitiveness
while creating “jobs, opportunity and prosperity for the
American people,” according to the executive order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  