-- 
Offices House Stray Dogs as Indian Justice Drives Away Investors

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-02-24T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/office-towers-house-stray-dogs-as-indian-law-logjam-drives-away-investors.html
A squatter in a ragged shirt chases
stray dogs from his home, a half-built tower block in New Delhi.
For businessman Manish Jain, the concrete shell is all that
remains of an investment trapped in  India ’s judicial maze.  Jain has been trying since 1994 to be compensated after
putting down a deposit for an office for his yarn-processing
company, space he says developer Skipper Towers Ltd. sold to
others. The case, one of  28 million  before judges in India, will
have its 99th Supreme Court hearing on March 10.  Law Minister Veerappa Moily, 71, plans to end India’s legal
gridlock -- for the sake of the $1.3 trillion economy. In what
he calls the biggest overhaul of the judiciary ever, he’s
proposing measures to slash the average trial time from 15 years
to three by the end of next year and ensure all commercial
litigation is heard at new business courts within 12 months.  “The fault lines are now being addressed,” Moily, a
former lawyer, said in an interview in his  New Delhi  office,
where heavy legal volumes line the walls. “I’d like in two
years the world to see India as the best investment
destination.”  Eliminating legal delays would add as much as 2 percent to
India’s gross domestic product by increasing investment,
reducing corruption and lowering business costs, according to a
January report by  Moily’s ministry . That would add $26 billion
in output to an economy that is forecast to expand 8.6 percent
in the year to March.  Battling for Change  “The slow legal system is one of the many things that put
people off India,” said Hugh Young, Singapore-based head of
equities at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. It manages $297
billion of assets, including $4.9 billion in India. “It’s going
to be a bit of a battle to make those changes, but these things
can be done.”  India ranked 182nd out of 183 nations for enforcing
contracts in the  World Bank ’s 2011  “Doing Business” report , a
measure that signals the cost and complexity of dispute
settlement. Only  East Timor  was lower.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, who on Feb. 28 will
present the federal budget, told a  conference  in October 2009
that when businesses invest in India they add a “legal  risk
premium .” They demand a higher return on capital to compensate
for the danger that a case may become ensnared in court
proceedings. This cost, he said, is passed onto consumers and
spurs inflation, which has remained above 8 percent for the last
year. That has forced seven interest rate increases in the same
period, the most aggressive monetary policy in  Asia .  Foreign Firms  Moily’s legislation calls for the building of 5,000 new
courts and increasing the number of judges at a time when 19
percent of vacancies are unfilled. The government, which plans
to pass the rule changes in several bills beginning in the
parliamentary session that started Feb. 21, will invest an extra
$1.1 billion in the judiciary over the next five years.  “We want the system to be reformed to deliver speedy
justice,” said Prakesh Javadekar, a spokesman for the
government’s main opposition, the  Bharatiya Janata Party . “We
are in agreement but we’ll have to look at the fine print.”  Moily aims to plug the empty judges’ posts by hiring
retired magistrates, raising their  retirement age  and using law
graduates as court managers. There are no plans to remove a bar
on foreign law firms.  Still, “these problems can’t be solved overnight,” said
Pratap Venugopal, a Supreme Court attorney for the New Delhi law
firm K.J. John & Co. “It’s going to take at least another
decade. The government’s aims are unrealistic.”  Too Few Judges  India has about 15 judges for each million of its 1.2
billion people, according to  United Nations data . In  China  there
are about 159 judges per million people, while in the U.S. the
figure is about 108.  “Most of the clients feel cheated by the justice system,”
said Dinesh Kumar Garg, an attorney representing Jain in the
lawsuit over the office building. “If one generation starts
litigation it will reach a conclusion by the third generation.
It takes that long.”  To avoid court delays,  Parm Singh , head of the India group
at law firm Eversheds LLP in London, advises companies planning
to do business in the country to write into contracts that any
arbitration take place overseas, in such cities as  Singapore ,  London  and  New York .  “This allows companies to mitigate the risks posed by the
problems of the Indian legal system,” Singh said.  Reserving Offices  Skipper Towers’ alleged fraud began in 1978 when investors,
including Jain, handed over deposits to reserve space in the 12-
story building on central New Delhi’s busy Barakhamba Road.  They claim they were cheated when now-deceased Skipper
owner Tejwant Singh took money from several people for the same
plot. Investments have been trapped as the case bounces through
the court system, with appeals and adjournments forced by
opposition counsel and changes in judges.  For the delays “you have to blame the system, not the
counsels,” said Abha Sharma, Skipper Towers’s lawyer. Sharma
says she now represents Singh’s son, who is being prosecuted
after inheriting the business. “The judicial system can’t
handle so many cases,” she said.  Court petitions on contracts typically involve 46 separate
procedural steps and a 1,420-day wait for a ruling, according to
the World Bank. Only Bangladesh, Guatemala, Afghanistan and
Suriname take longer. In the U.S., it’s 300 days.  “It’s not that people expect things to be fast,” said
Ajay Singha, executive director of the  American Chamber of
Commerce in India , whose members include Motorola Solutions Inc.
and Cisco Systems Inc., in a Feb. 22 interview.  “Companies don’t go through the court system to address
genuine grievances because that may not be a way out,” Singh
said. “It may be a way into a black hole.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  