-- 
Oil Group Starts Political Giving as Congress Weighs Repeal of Tax Breaks

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-02-24T05:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/oil-group-starts-political-giving-as-congress-eyes-subsidies.html
The  American Petroleum Institute ,
the largest oil and gas industry trade group, will start backing
political candidates this year as the U.S. considers repealing
$46 billion in subsidies and imposing pollution rules.  The group, whose members include  Exxon Mobil Corp . and  Chevron Corp ., would make donations separately from industry
executives and employees, who gave $27.6 million mostly to
Republican candidates for Congress last year, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics in Washington. API has paid for
advertising on policy issues and to lobby on legislation.  “This is adding one more tool to our toolkit,” said
Martin Durbin, API’s executive vice president for government
affairs, in an interview. “At the end of the day, our mission
is trying to influence the policy debate.”  The Obama administration is proposing to end tax breaks for
energy companies and to limit greenhouse-gas emissions, actions
the API says will cost jobs and cut domestic production as fuel
costs rise.  Durbin declined to say how much the Washington-based group
hoped to donate. API spent $7.3 million to lobby Congress and
the White House last year, ranking seventh behind six oil-and-
gas companies, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics .  Former Republican and Democratic aides in Congress and from
the White House lobby for the group. They include David
Castagnetti, an ex-chief of staff to Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, and Bruce Mehlman, a
Commerce Department official under  George W. Bush .  Balancing Donations  The oil group, which filed to set up the committee with the  Federal Election Commission  in May, will start distributing
donations in the second quarter of this year, Durbin said. API
has more than 460 members.  “Do we really need another oil-industry PAC in this
city?” said Michael Gravitz, a lobbyist for Environment America
who has opposed  energy-industry  efforts to open more areas
offshore for drilling. “Their level of influence is pretty
obvious, and large.”  The energy industry succeeded in blocking efforts by
Congress to raise the liability oil companies would face for
spills and to repeal subsidies the industry receives, he said.  Meredith McGehee, policy director for the  Campaign Legal
Center , a campaign-finance watchdog in  Washington , said API may
see opportunities to advance its agenda with Republicans in
control of the U.S. House.  “This is the way the game is played,” she said.  Republican Donations  Oil and gas companies and groups with political committees,
such as the Washington-based Independent Petroleum Association
of America, gave about 77 percent, or $19.6 million, of their
total contributions for 2009-2010 to the Republican party,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Oil and gas companies were the 15th largest source of
political contributions leading up to the 2010 election.  Koch Industries Inc. was the industry’s largest
contributor, giving $1.79 million to candidates, more than 90
percent of whom were Republicans. Exxon, which gave $1.33
million to congressional campaigns, was the second largest. More
than 80 percent of Exxon’s money went to Republicans.  President  Barack Obama ’s proposed budget calls on Congress
to repeal subsidies that would be valued at $3.6 billion for oil
and gas companies in 2012. In a decade, the administration
estimates the repeal would yield about $46 billion. Obama said
in his State of the Union address that the industry can afford
to pay higher taxes.  Tax Breaks Repealed  Congress has twice rejected requests to repeal the breaks.  The proposal would “lower revenue to the government by
many billions of dollars as a result of foregone revenues from
projects the tax hikes would prevent going forward,”  Jack Gerard , the group’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement.  API has said greenhouse-gas regulations issued by the
Environmental Protection Agency are burdensome and a threat to
the economic recovery. The agency says the rules support cleaner
technologies and will lead to more “green” jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  