-- 
Oil Retreats on Assurances Libyan Shipments Can Be Replaced

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-24T21:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/oil-advances-to-29-month-high-on-libyan-unrest-goldman-sees-upside-risk-.html
Crude in New York retreated from the
highest level in 29 months on assurances from the U.S., Saudi
Arabia and the  International Energy Agency  that they can
compensate for any disruption of Libyan shipments.  Oil slipped after President Barack Obama said the U.S. will
be able to “ride out” a cut resulting from turmoil in Libya.
The crisis has trimmed supply by 500,000 to 750,000 barrels a
day, the IEA said today. The cuts create “significant upside
risk” to prices, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “It looks like the assurances that any missing barrels
will be made up are finally having an impact,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “Nothing appears to have changed in
Libya and there’s still quite a geopolitical premium in the
market.”  Crude oil for April delivery declined 82 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $97.28 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract touched $103.41, the highest intraday
price since Sept. 29, 2008. Futures are up 22 percent from a
year ago.  Brent oil for April settlement rose 11 cents to $111.36 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, the
highest close since Aug. 29, 2008.  ICE raised the margin requirement on its oil contracts
today by 7 percent. It was the second increase this week,
bringing the total to 14 percent. The latest change goes into
effect tomorrow. Margins represent cash that traders must
deposit to safeguard transactions.  “If you have the margin raised, that takes capital out of
your position,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks &
Opinions LLC in Houston. “You have to reduce your position to
balance your margin account.”  IEA Offer  The IEA said that it is ready to release emergency oil
stockpiles, if needed. The Paris-based  agency , founded in 1974
in response to the Arab oil embargo, advises 28 developed
nations, including the U.S., Japan and  Germany .  “We actually think that we’ll be able to ride out the  Libya  situation and it will stabilize,” Obama said to members
of his outside council on jobs and competitiveness at the White
House.  Saudi Arabia and other members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries said they won’t wait for an
emergency meeting of the group to increase output, according to
a person with knowledge of producer-nation policy. Any extra
supply would be conditional on requests for more crude, the
person said yesterday.  “The market started to break hard when the International
Energy Agency came out saying how much oil they have and that
they’ll release oil if they need to,” said Phil Flynn, vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Earlier in the
day,  Saudi Arabia  was talking to the refiners.”  Libyan Output  Libya, which pumps 1.6 million barrels of oil a day, is the
ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of OPEC, shipping
most of its crude and fuels across the Mediterranean to Europe.
The country has the largest reserves in Africa.  Total SA and OMV AG became the latest energy producers to
scale back operations, following Eni SpA, RWE AG and BASF SE’s
Wintershall unit. China National Petroleum Corp. said it
relocated 47 of its Libyan-based workers.  Opponents of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi consolidated
control over the oil-rich east while he clamped down on Tripoli,
using tanks to block highways and security forces to attack
residents, witnesses said. Foreign governments stepped up
efforts to extract their citizens from what fleeing Egyptians
said is turning into a bloodbath.  “The big fear is that the unrest will spread to other
major oil-producing countries such as  Algeria , or God forbid,
Saudi Arabia,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at
Deutsche Bank in  Washington . “The big question now is what $100
oil will mean for the economy.”  Spreading Unrest  Libya is the latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited
by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by
the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
Disturbances have spread to  Iran , Bahrain, Yemen and Algeria.  “When geopolitics in the Middle East are at play in the
oil markets, all conventional bets on the direction of  oil
prices  based on supply and demand fundamentals are off,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in  London .  Countries in North  Africa  and the Middle East were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil output and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  U.S. crude-oil stockpiles climbed by 822,000 barrels to
346.7 million last week, a sixth straight increase, a weekly
Energy Department report showed. A 1.1 million-barrel gain was
projected, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline Stockpiles  Gasoline inventories tumbled 2.8 million barrels to 238.3
million in the week ended Feb. 18, the first drop this year, the
department said. Analysts forecast that stockpiles advanced
850,000 barrels last week.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 1.08
million contracts as of 3:26 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled
1.28 million contracts yesterday, 67 percent above the average
of the past three months. Open interest was 1.52 million
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net . 