-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Decline 4% on Foreclosures, FHFA Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-02-24T17:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/home-prices-in-u-s-slid-4-in-fourth-quarter-on-foreclosures-fhfa-says.html
U.S. home prices fell 4 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier as record foreclosures
sapped the confidence of homebuyers, according to the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency .  The drop was the 13th consecutive year-over-year retreat
and the largest since 2009’s third quarter, the Washington-based
 agency  said today in a report. Prices fell 0.8 percent from the
prior three months. On that basis, economists projected a 0.6
percent decline, the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Foreclosures discourage potential buyers who want to avoid
price retreats because they sell at a discount, devaluing other
homes. The share of people who intend to buy property dropped to
4.4 percent in February from 5.2 percent in January, according
to the Conference Board, a New York-based research firm. Sales
of foreclosed homes accounted for 37 percent of transactions
last month, up from 36 percent in December, the National
Association of Realtors said in a report yesterday.  “Foreclosures drive down prices because lenders don’t want
to hold onto houses -- they want to get rid of them as fast as
they can,”  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight
in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said before the FHFA report. “That
means they’ll keep cutting prices till they make a sale.”    Idaho  had the biggest drop in prices from a year earlier,
at 16 percent, the FHFA said. Arizona prices tumbled 13 percent,
Georgia was down 12 percent, and Alabama and  Oregon  dropped 10
percent.  New Jersey  decreased 1 percent,  New York  fell 1.1
percent and Massachusetts slipped 0.1 percent, according to the
report.    North Dakota ,  Alaska   North Dakota had the biggest price gain, at 5.1 percent.
Alaska followed, at 2.6 percent, and prices in the nation’s
capital were up 1.4 percent, according to the report.  The FHFA report measures changes in home values using
repeat-sales data on properties with loans backed by  Fannie Mae 
or  Freddie Mac , the biggest mortgage-finance companies. The
results may be misleading because they exclude the all-cash
transactions that are typical in foreclosure deals, said  Paul Dales , a senior economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto.  “This index may be underestimating the true extent of the
price falls,” Dales said in a report today. “It misses any of
the heavily discounted foreclosed properties that are being
bought with cash.”  Cash Purchases  Almost a third of existing-home sales in January were
bought with cash, the National Association of Realtors said in a
report yesterday. That was the highest share since the group
started tracking the financing of property in 2008.  Another home-price measure this week that does include all-
cash foreclosure sales also showed price declines. Real-estate
values in 20 U.S. cities tumbled 4.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the biggest drop in almost two
years, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index. The
slump put prices near the record low set in the first quarter of
2009, during the recession.  The share of homes in foreclosure rose to 4.63 percent in
the fourth quarter, matching an all-time high set in the first
three months of 2010, according to the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  in Washington. The combined share of mortgages in
foreclosure or delinquent was 14 percent, about 1 in every 7
home loans, the trade group said in a Feb. 17 report.  Foreclosure Discount  Homes in the foreclosure process sold last year at a 28
percent discount to properties that weren’t in some stage of
mortgage distress, RealtyTrac Inc. said today. The gap widened
from 27 percent in 2009 and 22 percent in 2008, according to the
Irvine, California-based data firm.  The inventory of U.S. homes for sale rose to a record in
mid-2010 as buyers waited for better deals. The supply, measured
as the time it would take to sell all the properties, reached a
high of 12.5 months in July, according to National Association
of Realtors data.  About one in four mortgaged U.S. homes is underwater,
meaning their mortgage balances exceed current value, according
to Zillow Inc. The number of homeowners with so-called negative
equity reached 15.7 million in the fourth quarter, up from 13.9
million in the prior three months, the Seattle-based real estate
data firm said in a Feb. 9 report.  Federal Reserve policy makers described the U.S. real
estate market as “depressed” in a Jan. 26 statement following
the end of a two-day meeting in  Washington . The central bankers
said falling home values continued to stymie the  consumer
spending  that accounts for about three-quarters of the world’s
largest economy.  Today’s FHFA report doesn’t include a dollar value for
homes. The U.S. median home price was $169,800 in the fourth
quarter, according to the National Association of Realtors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  