-- 
Omkar’s Varma Says Taxes Should Be Cut for Real Estate Industry

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-02-24T04:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/omkar-s-varma-says-taxes-should-be-cut-for-real-estate-industry.html
Babulal Varma, managing director at
Omkar Realtors & Developers Pvt, comments on the expectations
for  India ’s federal budget to be announced on Feb. 28. He made
the comments in an e-mailed response.  Omkar, a Mumbai-based developer, is developing 20 million
square feet of homes and offices with 80 percent of the projects
in the residential segment. The company, which expects revenue
to reach 10 billion rupees by 2015, said it is going to start
selling about seven new projects in the next six months.  “Individual investors are a great driving force for the
housing sector. Deductions under section 24(b) towards interest
on housing loans should be increased to 500,000 rupees ($11,028)
from the current 150,000 rupees since the limit was last
enhanced in 1999, after which there have been numerous changes
in real estate prices and the home loan amount. This initiative
is likely to impact the buying decision of a consumer in a
positive manner.  “Taxation in the real estate sector should be simplified
and reduced. The buyers are burdened with direct taxes like
stamp duty and registration charges of 6 percent, service tax of
2.5 percent and value added tax at 1 percent. Taxes at 9.5
percent on the value of the flat act as a deterrent for a
consumer. From a customer point of view, an increase on the cap
on housing loans at subsidized rates would help them increase
their savings. Similarly, concessions must be granted on service
tax as real estate is more construction driven and is not a
service offering. Hence the service tax component levied on the
industry as a whole should be relooked at.  “The ministry should also consider and grant redevelopment
projects the status of an infrastructure project as it serves
the purpose of overall town planning, provides aesthetic
enhancement, better infrastructure, enhanced lifestyles and
thereby overall growth.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  