-- 
OPEC to Cut Exports on Declining Fuel Demand, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-02-24T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/opec-to-cut-exports-on-declining-fuel-demand-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will ship less crude this month because of
declining demand for winter fuels and as refineries halt for
maintenance, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Loadings will slip to 23.88 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to March 12, down 1.3 percent from 24.19 million a
day in the equivalent period to Feb. 12, the tanker-tracker said
today in a report. The data exclude  Angola  and Ecuador.  “We are moving into a quarter of lower consumption” and
refinery maintenance, Roy Mason, the founder of Oil Movements,
said by phone from Halifax,  England . Falling loadings at this
time of year are “quite normal,” he said.  Oil climbed to the highest in 30 months in  London  as
Libya’s violent uprising reduced supplies from  Africa ’s third-
biggest producer. Brent futures for April settlement rose to
$119.79 today, the highest since Aug. 21, 2008.  Saudi Arabia and other OPEC nations including those in West
Africa are willing and able to replace any lost Libyan oil as
soon as companies ask for it, including crude of the same
quality, a Saudi Arabian oil official said today.  If Libya production is offline for a sustained period, and  Saudi Arabia  is showing a willingness to make it up, “that will
mean more Middle East oil coming out,” Mason said.  In the four weeks to March 12 exports from Middle Eastern
producers, including non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen, will fall
by 1.7 percent to 17.81 million barrels a day, Oil Movements’
data show.  A total of 470.66 million barrels of crude will be on board
tankers in the month to March 12, down 4.5 percent from the Feb.
12 figure of 492.73 million, according to Oil Movements, which
calculates shipments by keeping a tally of tanker-rental
agreements. Its figures exclude supplies held on board ships
used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  Iraq  is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  