-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Increase on Surge in Aircraft

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-02-24T13:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-increase-on-surge-in-aircraft.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods climbed
in January as demand for aircraft rebounded after plunging the
prior month.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
2.7 percent after a 0.4 percent drop in December that was smaller
than previously estimated, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington. Orders excluding transportation
equipment unexpectedly dropped, reflecting a recurring pattern of
declines in capital goods in the first month of a quarter.  Manufacturers from  Intel Corp . to  Navistar International
Corp . are forecasting rising demand as firms in the U.S. and
abroad ramp up investment. While factories remain a mainstay of
the recovery, limited improvement in the labor and housing
markets helps explain why the  Federal Reserve  is forging ahead
with a plan to bolster the economy.  “Manufacturing has stepped up in the last few months,”  Jim
O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York ,
said before the report. “The trend has been up pretty solidly.”  The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 2.8 percent increase in total orders. Estimates
ranged from no change to a 9.5 percent increase.  Excluding transportation, bookings decreased 3.6 percent
after a 3 percent December gain that was more than three times
larger than the prior estimate. They were forecast to rise 0.5
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Bookings for civilian aircraft totaled $7.4 billion after
collapsing to $148 million in December.  Plane Orders  Boeing Co., the largest U.S. maker of aircraft, this month
said January airplane orders fell to 34 from 55 in December.
Boeing reported 17 orders in November. Industry data may not
correlate precisely with the government statistics on a month-to-
month basis.  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
items like computers and communications gear, fell 6.9 percent,
the most since January 2009, after a 4.3 percent gain in December
that was more than double the previous estimate.  Over the past three years, these orders have dropped in the
first month of a quarter every time except once.  “It’s entirely seasonal factors,” O’Sullivan said before
the report. “There’s been a pretty consistent pattern. If
anything, manufacturing growth has accelerated recently.”  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, decreased 2 percent
after rising 2.5 percent in December.  Business Investment  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession may gain a second wind from a new tax provision that
allows companies to depreciate 100 percent of investments in
capital equipment this year.  More orders are prompting some manufacturers to add to
payrolls.  “I do think we’ll expand, I think it’ll be more surgical
and incremental,” Gregory Brown, chief executive officer of
Motorola Solutions Inc., said in a Feb. 18 interview at a
Business Council meeting in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . “They’ll
be opportunities for hiring, but I would characterize it as
relatively modest going forward.”  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, last week announced
plans to build a $5 billion microprocessor plant in Chandler,  Arizona , and hire 4,000 U.S. employees this year.    Paul Otellini , the chief executive officer of Santa Clara,
California-based Intel, was named by President Barack Obama last
week to a new presidential council on jobs and competitiveness,
headed by  General Electric Co . CEO  Jeffrey Immelt . The panel,
created in January to find ways to encourage hiring and boost
U.S. economic competitiveness, is scheduled to hold its first
meeting at the White House today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  