-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Probably Increased in January

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-02-24T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-increased-in-january.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably rose in January, pointing to production gains that are
helping drive the expansion, economists said before a report
today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
climbed 2.8 percent after declining 2.3 percent in December,
according to the median estimate of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Other reports may show fewer new-home sales and
a decline in initial jobless claims.  Manufacturers from  Intel Corp . to  Navistar International
Corp . are forecasting rising demand as firms in the U.S. and
abroad step up investment. While factories remain a mainstay of
the recovery, limited improvement in the labor and housing
markets helps explain why the  Federal Reserve  is forging ahead
with a plan to bolster the economy.  “the manufacturing sector is accelerating in early 2011,”
said Brian Bethune, chief U.S. financial economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “They’re seeing a pickup
in both domestic and export orders, and the signs that we’re
getting from automotives are positive.”  The Commerce Department’s durable-goods report is due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from no change to a 9.5 percent increase.  Excluding demand for transportation equipment such as
commercial aircraft, which can be volatile on a month-to-month
basis, orders rose 0.5 percent after a 0.8 percent December
gain, economists forecast.  Adding Workers  More orders are prompting some manufacturers to add to
payrolls. Other data today may show applications for state
unemployment benefits declined last week. Initial jobless claims
fell to 405,000 during the period from 410,000 the prior week,
according to the median projection before the Labor Department’s
8:30 a.m. report.  “I do think we’ll expand, I think it’ll be more surgical
and incremental,” Gregory Brown, chief executive officer of
Motorola Solutions Inc., said in a Feb. 18 interview at a
Business Council meeting in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . “They’ll
be opportunities for hiring, but I would characterize it as
relatively modest going forward.”  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, last week announced
plans to build a $5 billion microprocessor plant in Chandler,  Arizona , and hire 4,000 U.S. employees this year.  Council on Jobs    Paul Otellini , the chief executive officer of  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel, was named by President  Barack Obama  last
week to a new presidential council on jobs and competitiveness,
headed by  General Electric Co . CEO  Jeffrey Immelt . The panel,
created in January to find ways to encourage hiring and boost
U.S. economic competitiveness, is scheduled to hold its first
meeting at the White House today.  Shares of manufacturers since June 30, 2010, have
outperformed the broader market. The Standard & Poor’s Machinery
Index has increased 50 percent, compared with a 27 percent gain
in the  S&P 500 .  Auto sales in January rose to a 12.54 million annual pace,
the highest since August 2009. The rate over the last three
months is the highest since July through September 2008.  Truck industry retail sales for the fiscal year will rise
to 240,000 to 260,000 vehicles from 191,300 a year earlier,
Navistar said on Jan. 25. That’s up from the company’s December
forecast of 230,000 to 250,000.  While the motor vehicle industry is on the mend, the
housing market is struggling to improve. Sales of new homes in
January fell to a 305,000 annual pace from 329,000 the previous
month, according to the median projection of economists ahead of
a 10 a.m. report from the Commerce Department.  Purchases of previously owned homes unexpectedly climbed in
January to the highest level in eight months as investors used
all-cash transactions to snap up distressed properties. Existing
home sales rose 2.7 percent to a 5.36 million annual rate,
figures from the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  