-- 
Mortgage Rates on Fixed 30-Year U.S. Loans Decrease to 4.95%

-- B y   R e b e c c a   M c C l a y
-- 
2011-02-24T15:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/mortgage-rates-on-30-year-fixed-loans-fall-to-4-95-in-second-weekly-drop.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  fell for a
second week, tracking a drop in Treasury yields as violent
unrest in  Libya  sparked demand for relatively safe investments.  The average rate for 30-year fixed loans declined to 4.95
percent in the week ended today from 5 percent, according to  Freddie Mac . The average 15-year rate was 4.22 percent, down
from 4.27 percent a week earlier, the McLean, Virginia-based
mortgage-finance company said in a statement.  Turmoil in Libya has sent  oil prices  surging and spurred
speculation that an economic recovery may slow. Yields on 10-
year Treasury notes, which are benchmarks for some consumer
loans, fell to a three-week low today. The decline has pushed
mortgage rates down from a 10-month high, making home buying
more affordable as demand begins to recover.  “In times of trouble, money runs to places where it can be
parked safely, like Treasuries,” said Keith Gumbinger, vice
president at HSH Associates, a publisher of consumer-loan data
in Pompton Plains,  New Jersey . “Mortgage rates tend to follow
that.”  Sales of previously owned homes rose in January to the
highest level since July 2010, the National Association of
Realtors reported yesterday. The share represented by
foreclosures and short sales rose to a 12-month high, pushing
the median price to the lowest level in almost nine years.  New-Home Drop  Purchases of new homes plunged 13 percent last month, the
Commerce Department said today. The drop reflected declines in
the West and South that indicate a California tax credit and bad
weather may have played a role.  Mortgage applications in the U.S. climbed last week from a
two-year low as falling rates helped boost refinancing. The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan applications
increased 13 percent in the week ended Feb. 18. The group’s
refinancing gauge increased 18 percent, while its measure of
purchase applications climbed 5.1 percent.  Rates for a 30-year fixed mortgage reached 5.05 percent in
the week ended Feb. 10, the highest since April. The decline to
4.95 percent pushed monthly payments for a $300,000 home loan to
$1,601 from $1,620.  Homebuyers may respond to the lower rates because of
expectations borrowing costs will rise by the end of the year as
the economy improves, Gumbinger said. The rate for a 30-year
fixed loan probably will average 5.1 percent in 2011, according
to a forecast posted on the website of the National Association
of Realtors.  “Consumers will simply enjoy this little dip we have here
before the economy picks up,” Gumbinger said. “They’ll take
any decline in rates they can get.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca McClay in New York at 
 rmcclay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  