-- 
Mouchel Soars in London on Talks With a Potential Bidder

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-02-24T16:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/mouchel-gains-as-enters-advanced-talks-with-potential-bidder.html
  Mouchel Group Plc , a supplier of
grit for London roads, rose the most in a month in London
trading after saying it is in advanced talks about merging with
an unidentified potential bidder.  In January, Mouchel said it was reviewing approaches from
suitors after builder  Costain Group Plc  sweetened an offer for
the company to about 172 million pounds ($278 million). Costain
said today in a statement that it isn’t the party in the talks.  “The strategic logic of a combination of Mouchel and the
preferred possible offeror would provide the best option to
deliver value to shareholders,” Mouchel said in a regulatory
statement today. A spokesman for Mouchel declined to comment on
the identity of the potential bidder.  Mouchel gained 16.5 pence, or 12 percent, to 152.5 pence at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the biggest one-day advance since
Jan. 21. At that close the company is valued at 171 million
pounds. The latest Costain bid for the Woking, England-based
company values each Mouchel share at about 153.2 pence.  David Allvey, Costain’s chairman, indicated Mouchel was
showing more willingness to enter talks after pressure from its
biggest shareholder Schroders Plc, the Financial Times reported
last week.  Mouchel’s three largest shareholders are Schroders,
Prudential Plc and M&G Investments, according to Bloomberg data.
Mouchel, whose earnings have deteriorated following cuts to
public spending by the U.K. coalition government, has rejected
two approaches from Costain.  There can be no certainty that an offer will be made,
Mouchel said. Any offer remains subject to several pre-
conditions, including the satisfactory completion of due
diligence and financing which is likely to take a number of
weeks, said the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  