-- 
Pakistan to Seek $2 Billion From Bank Share Sales, Oil & Gas Bonds

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   K h a l e e q   A h m e d
-- 
2011-02-24T01:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/pakistan-to-seek-2-billion-from-bank-share-sales-oil-gas-bonds.html
Pakistan plans to raise as much as
$2 billion from holdings in the nation’s largest banks and
energy companies and from Oil & Gas Development Co. convertible
bonds, according to Privatization Minister Naveed Qamar.  The government will offer some of its stock in  National
Bank of Pakistan ,  Habib Bank Ltd .,  Pakistan Petroleum Ltd . and
electricity producer Kot Addu Power Co. to local investors,
Qamar said in an interview in the capital, Islamabad, yesterday.
OGDC will market equity-linked bonds internationally, with the
proceeds used to cut the  budget deficit , he said.  “The market is now ready to be tested,” said Qamar, 55,
who was appointed to a new streamlined Cabinet this month under
a drive to cut spending. “The perception of Pakistan may be a
factor in attracting investors, but if you look at the balance
sheets of these companies, they are doing quite well.”  Pakistan’s new ministers are trying to revive a $167
billion economy which has been battered by militant attacks and
the nation’s worst monsoon flooding. The government forecasts
the deficit may widen to 8 percent of gross domestic product in
the year ending June 30, up from 6.3 percent a year ago.  The bond sale,  Pakistan ’s first to international investors
in more than three years, has been under consideration since
2008 and delayed many times as political unrest and terrorist
attacks deterred potential buyers.  The government is the largest shareholder in OGDC, and
will pledge its stock to guarantee the notes as part of an
effort to raise between $500 million and $1 billion, he said.  Share Sales  Pakistan may raise a further $1 billion from the share
sales, some of which will be completed in the current fiscal
year that ends in June, according to the minister.  Shares in OGDC, the nation’s biggest energy explorer, rose
34 percent in the past 12 months compared with a 17 percent
increase in the benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange index.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp., the  United Arab
Emirates ’ largest telephone company, will pay Pakistan $800
million “very soon” under a deal to acquire a stake in
Pakistan Telecommunication Co., Qamar said.  Etisalat, as the U.A.E. company is known, agreed to buy a
26 percent stake in Pakistan’s biggest telephone service
provider in 2006 for $2.6 billion. Though it withheld part of
the payment due to a dispute over transferring property titles,
the matter has been resolved, Qamar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Khaleeq Ahmed in Islamabad at 
 kkhan8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 