-- 
Pakistan May Raise Fuel Prices as Oil Surge Increases Losses

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-02-24T15:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/pakistan-may-raise-fuel-prices-after-global-surge-minister-says.html
  Pakistan  may end a five-month freeze
on its domestic fuel prices as oil surged to the highest in
almost 30 months after  Libya ’s violent uprising cut supplies,
Privatization Minister Naveed Qamar said.  Pakistan hasn’t raised gasoline prices since October as the
government of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  struggles to
control inflation above 14 percent and pacify coalition partners
that have threatened to quit the government if fuel becomes more
expensive. Keeping prices unchanged, the government lost 13.5
billion rupees ($160 million) in duty revenue from December to
February, according to ministry of finance estimates.  “I don’t think any government can afford to keep
subsidizing the prices,” Qamar, who was the petroleum minister
before the Feb. 11 Cabinet reshuffle, said in an interview in
the capital, Islamabad, yesterday. Qamar is also a member of the
government team negotiating a program of economic policy changes
with the main opposition, led by former prime minister  Nawaz Sharif . “At some point, the prices have to be passed on. There
has to be some understanding of the issue. We can’t just take a
populist stance that no price should ever be raised.”  Oil futures for April in  New York  gained for a sixth day,
after rising to $100 a barrel yesterday, amid estimates the
revolt has resulted in the loss of as much as two-thirds of
Libya’s oil output.  Deficit Warning  “The government has to absorb this surge unless there is a
consensus among political parties on this issue,” Siddiq-ul-
Farooq, a spokesman for Sharif’s party, said in an interview.
“We have proposed to the government that we should develop a
mechanism in which poor are least affected by fuel price
increases.”  Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh warned Jan. 25 that
officials must act to cut a fiscal deficit that threatens to
reach 8 percent of gross domestic product, up from 6.3 percent
last year.  Gilani’s government was forced to reverse a Jan. 1 increase
in gasoline prices as its Muttahida Qaumi Movement ally dropped
its support for the government, leaving it short of a majority
in parliament, and Sharif demanded a rollback. Sharif’s party
will decide tomorrow whether to keep its alliance with the
ruling party in the country’s largest province Punjab after a
deadline for the implementation of its 10-point reform agenda
ends today.  The Muttahida Qaumi Movement will not support a fuel price
increase, said spokesman Farooq Sattar.  “The government should offset the increase in
international prices by increasing subsidies and paying for it
from the national exchequer,” he said. “We cannot allow them
to tax the poor further, since prices are already too high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  