-- 
Palm Oil Output in Malaysia to Gain in 2011, Yusof Predicts

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-02-24T07:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/palm-oil-output-in-malaysia-to-gain-as-weather-boosts-yields-group-says.html
  Palm oil  production in Malaysia, the
second-biggest grower after Indonesia, may gain this year as an
improvement in the weather after excessive rain aids yields, an
industry group said, forecasting lower prices. Futures plunged.  Output may be 17.6 million metric tons compared with 17
million in 2010, Yusof Basiron, chief executive officer of the
Malaysian Palm Oil Council, said in an interview yesterday. That
would match production in 2009 and compare with 2008’s record of
17.7 million tons, according to official data.  Increased supplies and lower prices may help cool global
food costs that reached a record in January according to the  United Nations ’ World Food Price Index. Palm oil has rallied 30
percent in the past year as floods hurt harvests in  Indonesia 
and Malaysia. Soybeans, crushed to make a rival oil, have jumped
36 percent, tracking advances in wheat, corn and sugar.  “Higher production estimates will put pressure on the
markets,”  Veeresh Hiremath , associate chief analyst at Karvy
Comtrade Ltd., said from Hyderabad,  India  today. “In the short
term, the market will be in the bearish trend” due to the
better output forecast and improving weather, Hiremath said.  The May-delivery contract plunged as much as 5.1 percent to
3,336 ringgit ($1,088) per metric ton, the lowest price in
almost three months, before trading at 3,378 ringgit at 3:44 p.m.
in Kuala Lumpur. The drop extended yesterday’s 4.2 percent slump.  ‘Become Expensive’  “Palm goes into almost every food product, and if palm and
associate oils like soy become expensive, it will impact food
prices,” said Yusof, who’s worked in the industry for 32 years.
If  Malaysia  can export more palm oil it will help ease shortages
and prevent food costs from rising, he said yesterday. The
council markets and promotes the oil, according to its  website .  Malaysia’s Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister
Bernard Dompok told reporters today that palm oil exports may be
better this year than in 2010. The country intends to boost palm
oil yields and accelerate replanting, Dompok said.  Malaysian palm oil exports increased to 16.7 million tons
last year, worth 59.8 billion ringgit, compared with the 15.9
million tons that were shipped in 2009, according to data from
the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.  “Rain is plentiful, not enough to cause floods, but enough
to induce growth and vigor in the production processes of oil
palms,” Yusof said. “We could expect normalization of
production back to what it should be from March.”  Production in January declined 14.2 percent from a month
earlier to 1.06 million tons, the lowest level since February
2007, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board. Stockpiles
shrank to 1.4 million tons, the smallest amount since July.  La Nina  A La Nina weather event, which can bring excessive rain to  Southeast Asia  and drier-than-usual conditions to parts of Latin
America, including the soybean- and corn-growing areas in
Argentina and  Brazil , is showing signs of weakening, according
to the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.  Malaysia’s palm oil reserves will be replenished by the
second half of 2011 as yields improve, leading to a softening in
prices, said Yusof. Crude palm oil may average 3,500 ringgit a
ton this year, he said. Futures had reached a 35-month high of
3,967 ringgit a ton on Feb. 10.  Yusof joins ECM Libra Capital Sdn. and Credit Suisse Group
AG in forecasting a drop in palm oil prices as the effects of
the La Nina taper off. Palm oil may be close to peaking, Credit
Suisse said in a report on Feb. 17.  Most increased production in Malaysia would need to come
from boosting yields as there was little available land left to
expand plantations, Yusof said. His comments echo 2006 remarks
from Peter Chin Fah Kui, an earlier plantations minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  