-- 
PerkinElmer Is Said to Have Missed Buying Beckman by 25 Cents

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-02-24T21:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/perkinelmer-is-said-to-have-missed-buying-beckman-by-25-cents.html
  PerkinElmer Inc . made a bet-the-farm
offer to take over  Beckman Coulter Inc . and had the highest bid
in the final hours of this month’s auction for the medical-
equipment maker, according to regulatory filings and people with
knowledge of the matter.  It still lost.  Danaher Corp ., more than 10 times
PerkinElmer in size, jumped in to top the company’s $83.25 bid
by 25 cents a share, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks were private.  The outcome has left PerkinElmer to consider whether it
should find another large company to buy or whether it should
put itself up for sale after it spent months pursuing Beckman,
the people said. PerkinElmer’s market value is less than half of
the $6.8 billion Danaher agreed to pay for Beckman. A purchase
would have added diagnostic equipment to Waltham, Massachusetts-
based PerkinElmer’s genetic screening and environmental testing
businesses.  Beckman’s board, working with adviser  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc ., determined that Washington-based Danaher represented the
“best overall transaction” for shareholders, with a greater
chance of closing the deal, according to a Beckman  regulatory
filing . While PerkinElmer had lined up about $7 billion in
financing for a deal, according to the people, Danaher is using
cash to fund about 25 percent of the acquisition, with the rest
coming from debt and equity.  PerkinElmer advanced $1.79, or 6.9 percent, to $27.72 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading today.
The stock rose as much as 9.4 percent earlier, the biggest
intraday gain since August.  Potential Buyers  Initially, nine parties in addition to Danaher expressed
interest in acquiring Brea, California-based Beckman for at
least $70 a share, and had signed confidentiality agreements as
of Dec. 10, according to a filing this month. After revised
offers were received Dec. 22, Danaher’s $70 bid was one of the
two lowest. The company was given several opportunities to re-
enter the contest, the filing shows.  Mary Luthy, a spokeswoman for  Beckman Coulter , said the
company has no comment on the negotiations beyond what was
disclosed in its regulatory filing.    Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman, declined to
comment. Stephanie Wasco, a spokeswoman for PerkinElmer, and
Matt McGrew, a spokesman for Danaher, didn’t return calls and e-
mails seeking comment.  Four Parties  Four parties remained interested as of Wednesday, Feb. 2,
according to the filing. Besides Danaher, bidders for Beckman
included a combined offer from Apollo Global Management LLC and
the Carlyle Group and a second private equity bid from TPG
Capital and  Blackstone Group LP , said people with knowledge of
the talks. PerkinElmer was also still in, the people said.  Danaher was told Feb. 3 its offer wasn’t sufficient. The
next day, Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Culp Jr. called
Beckman Chairman Glenn Schafer to express his continued interest
in acquiring the company, according to the filing, and Danaher,
advised by Morgan Stanley, told Goldman it would increase its
offer and was let back in.  The Apollo  Carlyle group  left the process before it got
into the very final stages, two people said. That offer never
reached $80, said one person familiar with their bidding.  Danaher, PerkinElmer and the TPG-Blackstone group continued
to re-bid all weekend ahead of the purchase announcement on
Monday, Feb. 7. PerkinElmer, referred to as “Potential
Purchaser No. 3” in the filing, according to the people with
knowledge of the talks, had said in a revised letter of interest
Dec. 22 that it would go as high as $83 a share, the highest
proposed bid at that point.  Higher Offer  PerkinElmer later submitted an offer of $83.25 a share as
the auction came to a close on Sunday, Feb. 6. Danaher had bid
$83, while the TPG-Blackstone offer stopped at $81.11, according
to the filing and people with knowledge of the process.  Goldman went back to Danaher and told the company that it
would win the Beckman auction if it bumped its bid to $83.50.
That move put Danaher above PerkinElmer, and PerkinElmer wasn’t
offered a chance to rebid at that point, said the people
familiar with the discussions. At 11:30 p.m. California time
that night, the board was told Danaher had raised its bid and
voted to accept the deal, the people said.  Raising enough capital to acquire Beckman would have been a
challenge for PerkinElmer, said Peter Lawson, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. PerkinElmer’s market
value is about $3.3 billion.  ‘Old-School Diagnostic’  “It would have been a difficult acquisition and it
probably wouldn’t have been the best fit,” Lawson said today in
an interview. “Beckman’s business is very old-school
diagnostic. The 25 percent of revenues for PerkinElmer that are
diagnostic-related are at the higher end of a molecular
diagnostic approach.”  Danaher is a better fit for Beckman because it’s a “high
quality, almost private equity-like company” that could “buy a
No. 4 or No. 5 player and turn it into a No. 1 player,” Lawson
said.  The bidding war over Beckman, and Quest Diagnostics Inc.’s
announcement today that it will buy  Thermo Fisher Scientific
Inc .’s Athena Diagnostics unit, signals that more such deals are
likely, Lawson said.  “We’re definitely seeing an acceleration in both the life-
science tool space and the diagnostics space,” Lawson said.  Quicker Closing  Banks often advise companies to accept offers from larger
buyers that have more cash and available financing. In
considering Danaher’s bid against Beckman’s, Goldman cited “a
substantially higher certainty of closing,” a lower breakup fee
and a deal structure that would result in a quicker closing,
among other items. Those factors trumped the financing
PerkinElmer had lined up with help from its adviser, Bank of
America Corp.  PerkinElmer is still working with Bank of America and has
yet to decide whether to pursue another acquisition or put
itself up for sale, the people said. A purchase of Beckman would
have almost tripled PerkinElmer’s $1.7 billion in annual sales.  While PerkinElmer’s projections for 2011 rely on surplus
cash being used for deals, “the overall portfolio strategy of
the company remains unclear,” according to a Feb. 15 report
from Chicago-based Zacks Investment Research, which has a
neutral rating on the stock. PerkinElmer has made at least 10
acquisitions since 2009, including VisEn Medical Inc., a
molecular imaging company, last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  