-- 
Allianz, Pimco Led Industry Deposits With $156 Billion Last Year

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-02-24T18:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/pimco-leads-industry-fixed-income-deposits-with-almost-156-billion-in-10.html
  Allianz SE ’s Pacific Investment
Management Co. accounted for almost all of the German insurance
company’s $156 billion in fixed-income deposits in 2010, taking
in more money than any rival in the asset-management industry.  Operating profit at the German insurer’s bond unit rose 49
percent to 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion) in 2010, driven by
growth in Pimco’s assets and fees for exceeding benchmarks,
Allianz said today in a presentation on its website. Led by
Mohamed El-Erian and  Bill Gross , Pimco manages about $1.2
trillion in assets, including the world’s largest mutual fund.  Pimco beat rivals such as Vanguard Group Inc., the Valley
Forge,  Pennsylvania , firm that drew $81.1 billion in investor
deposits in 2010, and New York-based  BlackRock Inc ., which last
year had redemptions related to its 2009 acquisition of Barclays
Global Investors. Much of firm’s growth has been fueled by the
$239 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund , managed by Gross, which
has averaged 8.1 percent gains over the past five years, beating
99 percent of similarly managed funds.  Earlier this month, the Newport Beach, California-based
firm took over the distribution of its mutual funds in the U.S.
by opening a broker-dealer, Pimco Investments LLC, as it seeks
to expand its sales to financial advisers and individuals.  Started as a bond firm in 1971, Pimco has diversified into
equities and other asset classes under CEO El-Erian. Over the
past two years, Pimco also started exchange-traded funds and
products that seek to protect investors from extreme disruptions
in financial markets. Allianz did not provide a breakdown of
deposits into those funds in today’s presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  