-- 
Pinnacle, Seeking Growth, Mulls Las Vegas Strip Casino Alliance

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-02-24T20:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/pinnacle-seeking-growth-mulls-las-vegas-strip-casino-alliance.html
  Pinnacle Entertainment Inc ., the
owner of seven U.S. casinos, is mulling a marketing alliance
with a Las Vegas Strip casino company, Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Sanfilippo said today.  Las Vegas-based Pinnacle is overhauling its customer
loyalty program and marketing this year, Sanfilippo said. The
company doesn’t have a casino on the Strip, so it may negotiate
a Las Vegas partnership including reciprocal rewards to draw
more visitors to its properties in  Louisiana , Missouri, Indiana
and Nevada, and drive its customers to the ally.  Casino companies are seeking to grow using loyalty
programs, fueling alliance talk. Caesars Entertainment Corp.,
the world’s largest casino company, has led the industry in
attracting gamblers to its Strip casinos by tapping customers
at its regional U.S. properties via its Total Rewards program.  “We believe that that’s an idea that has merit to it,”
Sanfilippo said today on an earnings conference call, without
naming the potential  Las Vegas  ally. “When you think about
having alliances, that is something that we’ve spent some time
with. That idea is an idea worth pursuing.”  Pinnacle fell 60 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $12.89 at 3:34
p.m. New York time in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have fallen 3.8 percent this year before today.    MGM Resorts International , which owns 10 Las Vegas Strip
properties, is negotiating marketing alliances with regional
casino companies and American Indian operators, said Jim Murren,
chairman and chief executive officer, in a January interview,
without identifying the potential allies.    Wynn Resorts Ltd ., which owns the Wynn and Encore casinos
in Las Vegas, doesn’t have other U.S. casinos to drive visitors
to its Nevada resorts.  Las Vegas Sands Corp ., which owns the
Strip’s Venetian and Palazzo resorts, has one other U.S. casino
in  Pennsylvania .  Pinnacle reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $10.1
million, or 16 cents a share, from a loss of $242 million, or
$4.03, a year ago. Excluding some items, the loss of 1 cent was
better than the 8 cents expected by 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 18 percent to $274 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  