-- 
Plague Kills Scientist in First Laboratory Case in 50 Years

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-02-24T17:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/plague-kills-u-s-scientist-after-first-lab-illness-in-50-years.html
A Chicago scientist died of the
plague after becoming the first U.S. researcher to contract the
disease in more than 50 years, a government report said.  The man, a 60-year-old university researcher who wasn’t
identified in the report, was working with a weakened form of
the plague bacterium that was previously thought to be harmless
to humans. The case occurred in September 2009 and was described
today in a report by the Atlanta-based U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. The  University of Chicago  previously
identified the man as  Malcolm Casadaban , a professor of
molecular genetics and cell biology who worked at the school for
three decades.  Centuries after  the bubonic plague  killed millions of
people in medieval  Europe , the disease continues to infect more
than 2,000 people worldwide each year, according to the  World
Health Organization  in Geneva. Scientists who study the plague
use the weakened bacterium, which has never been linked to a
human illness and is excluded from the strict safety codes that
regulate the study of other deadly germs, the CDC said.  “The severe outcome experienced by the patient was
unexpected,” CDC scientists wrote in the report. “Researchers
always should adhere to recommended use of personal protective
equipment.”  An autopsy of the man revealed a previously unknown medical
condition that may have made him more vulnerable to the illness,
according to the report. He had a hereditary condition called
 hemochromatosis , which causes an excessive buildup of iron in
parts of the body. Previous studies have shown that injecting
mice with doses of iron while they are exposed to the plague
increases their chance of getting sick.  Yersinia Pestis  The bacterium that causes pneumonic, bubonic and septicemic
plague is called Yersinia pestis. The CDC tested the version of
the weakened bacterium the man was working with to make sure it
hadn’t evolved to become more deadly. They injected mice with
high doses of the strain and compared it with similar weakened
strains. Less than 3 percent of the animals died, suggesting the
germ hadn’t become more virulent, the CDC said.  The plague is spread by rodents and the fleas that feed on
them. Improved hygiene and knowledge about the disease has
limited its global spread,  according to the WHO . Early diagnosis
and treatment can improve outcomes, and about 10 percent of
reported cases of plague result in death, the WHO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 