-- 
Portugal Telecom Profit Drops on Lower Sales, Year-Ago Gain

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-02-24T17:58:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/portugal-telecom-profit-drops-on-lower-revenue-year-ago-gain.html
  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA , the
country’s biggest telephone company, said fourth-quarter profit
dropped as revenue declined and a year-earlier gain wasn’t
repeated.  Net income declined to 54.5 million euros ($74.9 million)
from 312.1 million euros a year earlier, the Lisbon-based
company said today in a regulatory filing. Sales dropped to
949.7 million euros from a restated 961.3 million euros.  Revenue was restated as Portugal Telecom sold its stake in
Vivo Participacoes SA, Brazil’s largest wireless operator, to
Telefonica SA for 7.5 billion euros last year. Vivo accounted
for about half the company’s revenue. At the same time, Portugal
Telecom agreed to buy a stake in Tele Norte Leste Participacoes
SA, which control’s Oi,  Brazil ’s largest fixed-line operator.  BBVA analyst Ivon Leal said he remains “optimistic” that
the Oi investment will deliver value in the long term. “But for
the time being, the environment is challenging,” he said,
adding that   Portugal  Telecom heads for a difficult 2011 in its
domestic business.”  Portugal Telecom shares closed unchanged for a second
straight day at 8.23 euros today.  “Cash and cost discipline are our utmost priority,” Chief
Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said in a conference call with
analysts. “There are still more costs to cut and we will adjust
costs as needed to compensate any pressure on topline.”  Revenue dropped 5 percent at the Portuguese fixed-line
unit, hurt by a decline in the sales to companies. Sales dropped
10.6 percent at the TMN unit, the leader in the country’s
wireless market, hurt by a cut in interconnection rates and
clients subscribing to cheaper price plans.  Portugal Telecom’s costs related to job cuts rose to 135
million euros in the fourth quarter from 11 million euros a year
earlier. The company recorded a capital gain of 267 million
euros in 2009 on the sale of its stake in  Morocco ’s Meditel.  The company expects capital spending of around 700 million
euros this year in Portugal, Bava said. Beyond 2012, capital
spending can drop “significantly.”  Capital spending  in
Portugal dropped 12 percent to 657 million euros in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  