-- 
Pound Reaches Three-Week Low Versus Euro as Oil Soars, Retail Sales Plunge

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-02-24T16:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/pound-reaches-three-week-low-versus-euro-as-oil-soars-retail-sales-plunge.html
The pound slid to a three-week low
against the euro on concern a surge in oil prices may derail the
global economic recovery, and a report showed retailers expect
no growth next month.  Sterling fell against a basket of nine developed-market
peers measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes after oil surged to a 30-month high of more than $119 a
barrel. Central bank policy maker  David Miles  said officials
shouldn’t rush to raise  interest rates  to prove they are
“tough” on inflation as forecasts warrant a “very gradual”
tightening, according to a speech in London late yesterday.  “Rate expectations are being pushed back a bit because the
market is seeing the oil price as being stagflationary,” said  Steve Barrow , the London-based head of research for Group-of-10
currencies at Standard Bank Plc. “It’s both inflationary and a
source of weaker growth. That’s something which is likely to
weigh on sterling.”  The pound depreciated as much as 1 percent to 85.62 pence
per euro, the weakest intraday level since Feb. 2, before
trading at 85.50 as of 4:47 p.m. in London. The pound fell 1.6
percent to 131.58 yen, a two-week low, and slid 0.5 percent to
$1.6124.  Retailers saying sales volumes increased from a year ago
outnumbered those reporting declines by 6 percentage points,
compared with 37 percentage points in January, the  Confederation
of British Industry  said today. An expectations gauge for March
was at zero. A separate quarterly index showed selling prices
are rising at the fastest pace in almost two decades.  Oil Surge  Brent oil surged after  Barclays Capital  estimated that
political revolt in Libya, which holds  Africa ’s biggest crude
reserves, caused the nation to cut two-thirds of output.  Libya ,
the ninth-largest oil producer among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may have lost as
much as 1 million barrels of daily production, Barclays said in
a report yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated
disruptions at 500,000 barrels a day.  Britain’s currency has gained 3.3 percent against the
dollar this year amid mounting pressure on the  Bank of England 
to raise its key rate from a record low 0.5 percent as inflation
persists above its target. Consumer-price growth accelerated to
4 percent last month, a Feb. 15 report showed, the 14th
consecutive month above the 2 percent goal.  Two-year U.K. government notes rose for the first day in
three, reducing yields by seven basis points to 1.45 percent.
The 4.5 percent security due March 2013 rose 0.145, or 1.45
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 106.07. Ten-year yields
declined four basis points to 3.62 percent.  Growth Risks  The 10-year breakeven rate, a market gauge of inflation
expectations derived from a yield gap between index-linked and
regular bonds, rose three basis points to 3.24 percentage
points.  Inflation-protected gilts outperformed their nominal peers
this month, handing investors a 0.53 percent return compared
with a 0.42 percent gain from regular bonds, according to
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Though Miles described inflation as “deeply worrying,” he
said he agrees with the bank’s forecast for the measure to slow
to its 2 percent target in 2012. He also said the surge is
mainly due to tax increases and higher commodity costs and not
because of loose monetary policy, adding that risks to the
“central view” on growth are “skewed to the downside.”  The implied yield on the December short-sterling futures
contract fell six basis points to a one-week low of 1.70
percent. A lower yield indicates traders reduced bets that
policy makers will raise the benchmark interest rate.  Money markets still signal policy makers will probably
raise the key rate by about 75 basis points by year-end,
according to the sterling overnight index average, Tullett
Prebon Plc data show. The so-called Sonia rate indicates an
increase of almost 25 basis points in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  