-- 
Qaddafi's Grip on Power Weakens as Opponents Secure Libya's Oil-Rich East

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y ,   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-02-25T06:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/qaddafi-blames-revolt-on-al-qaeda-as-foes-tighten-hold-in-east.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
reinforced his defense of the capital of Tripoli with tanks as
opponents consolidated control of the country’s oil-rich east, a
close adviser abandoned him and Switzerland froze his assets.  Forces loyal to Qaddafi moved against cities near Tripoli
and more than 100 people were killed in Az-Zawiyah, a town west
of the capital, Al Jazeera reported. Rebels appeared to be in
control of the entire eastern coastline, the Doha, Qatar-based
network reported yesterday, as clashes spread to Sabha in the
southwest, and Sabhatha and Az-Zawiyah west of Tripoli.  “It’s a massacre in there,” Egyptian Mohamed Yehia said,
describing recent violence after fleeing his home in the eastern
coastal city of al-Bayda. A Tripoli resident, who identified
himself only as Bashir, told Bloomberg Television that Qaddafi
was blocking off access to Tripoli with tanks.  The Obama administration said it was discussing measures
against Qaddafi, who remained defiant and blamed the uprising
against his 41-year rule on “drugged kids” and al-Qaeda. With
the Libyan leader clinging to power and violence deepening,
opposition leaders have warned the country could descend into
civil war.  “The possibility of civil war only exists if Qaddafi
stays,” Mohammed Ali Abdallah, deputy head of the National
Front for the Salvation of Libya, the main exiled opposition
group, said yesterday. Qaddafi made his comments yesterday
speaking by telephone on state television.  Losing Allies  Evidence he was losing allies included the defection to
Egypt of a confidante, his cousin Ahmed Qaddaf al-Dam, following
resignations by government ministers and diplomats. Army units,
particularly in the eastern part of the country, have defected
to the opposition.  Crude in New York retreated from the highest level in 29
months on assurances from the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and the  International Energy Agency  that they can compensate for any
disruption of Libyan shipments. Crude oil for April delivery
declined 82 cents, or 0.8 percent, to settle at $97.28 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The contract touched
$103.41, the highest intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008.  Asian stocks rose for the first time in five days as the
retreat in crude oil costs eased concern the global economic
recovery will be derailed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained
0.9 percent to 136.53 as of 3:00 p.m. in Tokyo. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.4 percent.  Libyan Oil  Libya, with a population of about 6.3 million, normally
pumps 1.6 million barrels of oil a day, selling most of it to  Europe , according to Bloomberg estimates. That’s about 1.8
percent of world supply.    Switzerland  froze the assets of Qaddafi and his entourage
for three years, the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said in an e-
mailed statement from Bern yesterday. U.K. government officials
have identified billions of pounds in assets held by Qaddafi in
U.K. banks and are planning to freeze them, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported, citing an unidentified official with knowledge of the
matter.  Evacuations of foreign nationals continued. Rough seas
prevented the departure of a U.S-chartered ferry to take 285
people, most of them Americans, from Tripoli to  Malta . The U.K.
reported evacuating 350 British nationals and citizens of 25
other countries yesterday aboard planes and a British frigate.  No Direct Contact  Obama spoke yesterday with U.K Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi to coordinate actions against  Libya , according
to a White House statement. Jay Carney, Obama’s spokesman, said
sanctions and other measures “to affect the behavior of the
Libyan government” in the near term are being discussed.  Obama is sending Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to the
 UN Human Rights Council  in Geneva on Feb. 28 to meet with other
foreign ministers to work on a coordinated response, including a
proposal to expel Libya from the UN human rights group. The
administration, which has received messages from Qaddafi, has
had no direct contact and isn’t seeking to deal with him, State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters yesterday.  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said Libya is bracing for
civil war in his first comments on the unrest following
speculation he may grant Qaddafi asylum after years of support.
“Long live Libya and its independence,” Chavez said today in a
post on his Twitter account.  Blaming Foreigners  Thousands of Egyptians working in Libya fled after
Qaddafi’s second-oldest son, Saif al-Islam, this week accused
foreigners of inciting the revolt. Popular uprisings are
spreading across the Arab world after mass protests in  Tunisia 
and  Egypt  ousted their two long-serving presidents.  Many of those arriving from Libya said they had seen
mercenaries from  Africa  and elsewhere, some speaking French.  “My brother and cousins have been trying to leave Tripoli
for four days, but they’re not able to,” said Nabil Abdel Raouf,
35, an Egyptian construction worker who made it to safety in
Egypt. “The mercenaries are in the streets and they’re killing
anyone who leaves his house.”  Yehia, 23, said that at first “the police attacked the
protesters, but after they saw many of their people being killed,
they sympathized and joined them. The army too.”  Death Toll Reports  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini told parliament
Feb. 23 there are “credible” reports that 1,000 people have
been killed. The violence in Libya quickly surpassed unrest in
other Arab countries engulfed by demonstrations, including Egypt,
Tunisia, Bahrain and Yemen.  In the east, Qaddafi’s opponents organized committees of
civilians to run and defend their cities with the help of troops
who deserted his forces. Major General Suleiman Mahmoud,
commander of the Libyan army in Tobruk, told  Al Jazeera  that his
forces are siding with local residents.  Qaddafi has led Libya since coming to power in a military
coup in 1969, making him the world’s longest-serving non-royal
leader.  He “has always been an ‘unusual’ person: erratic,
unpredictable and unconventional,” George Lane, a former U.S.
ambassador to Yemen who had headed the U.S. Embassy’s office in
Benghazi, said yesterday by e-mail. Lane said he met Qaddafi
during the 1969 coup. “In some ways he was ‘crazy like a fox.’
Now he sounds like he may be out of control,” Lane said.  ‘Rats’ and ‘Cockroaches’  In his speech this week, the Libyan leader called the
protesters “rats” and “cockroaches,” warning them to stay
off the streets and reading a litany of offenses that would
justify the death penalty.  Outside the capital, and in Libyan diplomatic missions
around the world, cracks in the regime were widening. More than
a dozen Libyan envoys have resigned since the uprising began on
Feb. 17, including its chief diplomats to the  United Nations  and
to the U.S.  Saif al-Islam denied on state television yesterday reports
that warplanes had been used in attacks. One of his brothers,
Saadi, in an interview in the London-based Financial Times,
contradicted him, saying ships and aircraft had been used to
bombard ammunition depots in Benghazi.  The  SITE  Monitoring Group, which checks the websites of
Islamic militant groups, said Feb. 23 that al-Qaeda’s North
African arm, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, expressed
solidarity with anti-government forces in Libya and urged
Muslims everywhere to support the uprising. “We will do
whatever we can to help,” SITE quoted the group as saying.  Slow Evacuations  Evacuations have been complicated by the closing of all
airports in Libya except in Tripoli. Turkish Foreign Minister
Ahmet Davutoglu said that Libya denied requests for extra
flights to evacuate Turks from the country, prompting Turkey to
begin the biggest sea evacuation in its history.  Turkey  has
repatriated 5,516 of its estimated 25,000 citizens from Libya so
far, his ministry said yesterday.    China  chartered four passenger ships from Greece and Malta
and 100 buses from Egypt to move 4,600 of its estimated 30,000
nationals away from the violence, its Foreign Ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A Derhally in London at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  