-- 
Quicksilver Approves Takeover Talks Among Dardens, SPO Partners

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T13:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/quicksilver-approves-takeover-talks-among-dardens-spo-partners.html
  Quicksilver Resources Inc ., the U.S.
oil and natural-gas producer whose largest shareholder is the
Darden family, authorized talks between the family and the
company’s second-largest shareholder, SPO Partners LP, so they
can make a takeover bid, according to a regulatory filing.  The limited waiver of a shareholder rights agreement is
good through 6 p.m. New York time March 16, Fort Worth-based
Quicksilver said in today’s filing.  Quicksilver Chairman Thomas F. Darden, Chief Executive
Officer Glenn Darden and Director Anne Darden have been
considering buying the company for more than $16 a share,
according to a Feb. 2 filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. A bid at that price would value the company
at more than $2.7 billion.  Quicksilver announced on Oct. 18 that the Dardens were
considering a buyout, without specifying a value for the
purchase. The board needed to permit talks with SPO for the
offer to go forward, Glenn Darden said in a letter included in
the Feb. 2 filing.  The filing was made before regular trading began on U.S.
markets. Quicksilver rose 26 cents, or 1.7 percent to $15.30
yesterday in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. It has
risen 21 percent since Quicksilver announced the potential bid.  Quicksilver went public 12 years ago after operating for
more than three decades as a private company, most recently
known as Mercury Exploration, run by the Darden family.  The Dardens own 25 percent of Quicksilver Resources through
a private partnership, Quicksilver Energy LP, according to
filings. SPO, a  Mill Valley , California-based investment firm,
holds 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  