-- 
Treasuries Advance as Investors Seek U.S. Securities Amid Turmoil in Libya

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-24T22:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/treasuries-snap-decline-as-investors-seek-safer-assets-fed-to-buy-today.html
Treasuries rose, driving 30-year
bond yields to the lowest level this month, as investors sought
the safest  government securities  amid violence in  Libya  and the
threat of contagion.  Ten-year yields reached a three-week low as the U.S.
auctioned $29 billion in seven year notes in the final of three
sales this week totaling $99 billion. The yield touched the
lowest since Feb. 2 as loyalists of  Muammar Qaddafi  sought to
crush dissent in Libya, which sent crude oil to a 29-month high.
The Fed purchased $5 billion in Treasuries with maturities
ranging from November 2012 to August 2013 today as part of its
planned $600 billion in purchases to support the economy.  “The driver continues to be Libya,” said David Coard,
head of fixed-income trading in New York at Williams Capital
Group, a brokerage for institutional investors. “The price of
oil is driving everything.”  The yield on 30-year Treasuries fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 4.54 percent at 5:01 p.m. in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data, after touching the lowest
level since Jan. 31, The price of the 4.75 percent security
maturing in February 2041 increased 21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 103 12/32.  The 10-year note yield dropped four basis points to 3.45
percent after touching the lowest since Feb. 2. The yield on the
current seven-year note fell two basis points to 2.85 percent.  Foreign Bidders  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.5 percent this
month and this year, compared with a gain of 5.9 percent last
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The bid-to-cover ratio at today’s seven-year note sale,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 2.82, compared with an average of 2.89
for the previous 10 sales. Indirect bidders, an investor class
that includes foreign central banks, purchased 49.7 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 52 percent for the past
10 sales.  “The market may breathe a bit of a sigh of relief because
it’s better than the two- and five-year auctions,” said  Kevin Flanagan , Purchase, New York-based chief fixed-income strategist
for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  Debt Sales  The Treasury sold $35 billion in 2-year debt on Feb. 23 at
a yield of 0.745 percent and $35 billion of five-year notes
yesterday at a yield of 2.19 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio for the five-year sale was 2.69,
compared with an average of 2.79 at the previous 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 34.2 percent of the notes, the lowest
since November, when they took home 31.5 percent.  Treasuries prices have fallen this week amid concerns about
unrest in Libya and the Middle East and the prospects for
contagion in the region.  Crude oil for April delivery declined 82 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $97.28 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract touched $103.41, the highest intraday
price since Sept. 29, 2008, boosting concern about higher fuel
costs hinder economic growth.  “This issue comes at a time when the  U.S. economy  was
beginning to find some forward momentum and confidence was
growing again,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital
markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote in a note to clients. “If this continues to
spread through the Gulf region, it could once again set back the
recovery for an indefinite period of time.”  Fed Buys  The Fed’s Treasuries purchases helped improve the U.S.
economic outlook and the policy debate may turn to whether to
reduce the program scheduled through June, St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  said in the text of a speech today in
Bowling Green,  Kentucky . “Quantitative easing has been an
effective tool, even while the policy rate is near zero. The
economic outlook has improved since the program was announced.”  Bullard, 49, voted in favor of the Treasury purchase
program in November and has rotated this year into an annual
non-voting position.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
annual consumer-price gains during the life of the debt,
increased yesterday to 2.42 percentage points, the most since
Jan. 5.  Consumer Prices  U.S. consumer prices will rise 1.7 percent to 2.2 percent
this year, compared with a 1.5 percent increase in 2010, said
Pacific Investment Management Co., operator of the world’s
biggest bond fund. The company, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , posted the report on its  website  yesterday.  Bookings for durable goods meant to last at least three
years rose 2.7 percent after a 0.4 percent drop in December that
was smaller than previously estimated, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . The number of Americans
filing first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  fell more
than forecast last week, indicating an improving labor market.  “The case for payroll growth accelerating to 150,000 or
more per month is now stronger,” said  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond
strategist at Pimco, which operates the world’s biggest bond
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  