-- 
Treasuries Hold Decline Before Seven-Year Auction, Durable Goods Report

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-24T01:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/treasuries-hold-decline-before-seven-year-auction-durable-goods-report.html
Treasuries held a decline from
yesterday as the U.S. prepared to sell $29 billion of seven-year
notes and economists said a government report will show orders
for durable goods rose.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.42
percentage points yesterday. The spread was within one basis
point of a nine-month high.  “Treasury yields will have to rise,” said Hideo Shimomura,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $72.9 billion in Tokyo as
chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a
unit of Japan’s biggest bank. “The performance of the economy
is improving dramatically.”  Ten-year notes yielded 3.48 percent as of 10:09 a.m. in
Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625 percent note
maturing in February 2021 traded at 101 6/32. The rate increased
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, yesterday.  U.S. durable goods orders rose 2.8 percent in January,
after declining 2.3 percent in December, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce Department report.  Treasuries fell yesterday after demand declined at a $35
billion government auction of five-year notes.  Benchmark 10-year securities rose earlier, pushing the
yield to a three-week low on speculation a jump in crude  oil
prices  due to violent protests in Libya will slow the economic
recovery. U.S. notes erased gains as the sale of five-year debt
drew the lowest level of participation since November from a
group of investors including foreign central banks.  ‘Bit Surprising’  “It’s a bit surprising that there wasn’t stronger demand
at the auction when the geopolitical platform indicates you
probably want the safety of Treasuries,” said Bulent Baygun,
head of interest-rate strategy in  New York  at BNP Paribas SA,
one of the 20 primary dealers obligated to participate in
government debt sales.  Crude oil for April delivery rose to $100 a barrel in New
York yesterday, the highest level since October 2008.  Oil gained as governments rushed to evacuate expatriates
from  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-biggest crude supplier. Army units
defected and a former aide to Muammar Qaddafi warned the revolt
may topple the regime within days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 