-- 
Republican at FTC Backs Probe of Internet Search Competition

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-02-24T12:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/republican-on-ftc-supports-probe-of-internet-search-competition.html
Thomas Rosch, one of two  Republicans 
on the five-member U.S. Federal Trade Commission, said he would
support an examination into whether there is fair competition
among Internet search companies, a field dominated by  Google
Inc .  “The big danger is that you are going to have markets that
have basically tipped so that they are in command of these
monopolists or near monopolists,” he said in an interview.
While declining to say if Google should be the target of a
probe, Rosch said, “I’m not afraid to take a look” at its
role.  With Google, Yahoo! Inc. and Microsoft Inc.’s Bing the only
major search engines, Rosch said, it’s important that no single
company uses its power to thwart competition.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , controlled 67
percent of the search market as of December, according to
market-researcher ComScore Inc., prompting calls for a
government probe of possible antitrust violations. The FTC and  Justice Department , which share responsibility for ensuring
corporate competition, have probed the impact of specific Google
acquisitions on Internet markets.  FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz , and Commissioners Edith Ramirez
and Julie Brill, all Democrats, and Commissioner William
Kovacic, a Republican, haven’t said publicly whether they would
favor an examination of the search industry.  Texas Investigation  Texas Attorney General Gregg Abbott has begun a broad probe
of Google. The European Union has also been aggressive, probing
complaints that Google discriminates against other services in
its search results and stops some websites from accepting rival
advertisements.  Google has said it is working with European officials to
address their concerns.  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, said social-networking
and retail sites, specialty  search engines  and applications for
mobile devices are providing options for computer users.  “Consumers always have the ability to choose, and they
vote with their clicks,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Investors have responded as Google has consolidated its
position as owner of the world’s most popular search engine. The
company’s shares have risen 14 percent to $611.32 from $535.07
over the past 12 months on the New York Stock Exchange.  Microsoft Case  A broad investigation by U.S. authorities into Google could
be the government’s biggest antitrust case since it challenged
Microsoft’s monopoly practices. That Justice Department case,
begun by the Clinton administration, was settled under President  George W. Bush .  Last year, the FTC approved Google’s purchase of mobile ad
service AdMob Inc., and the Justice Department is expected soon
to decide whether to challenge in court Google’s planned
acquisition of ITA Software Inc., a company that sells travel
search software.  Google in 2008 abandoned an agreement to place ads on
Yahoo!’s site after the Justice Department threatened to
challenge the venture in court.  If the FTC opens an investigation and decides to bring a
case, it could rely on powers it used to reach a settlement with  Intel Corp . last year, said Rosch, who was appointed to the FTC
by Bush.  In the Intel case, the FTC invoked Section 5 of the law
that established the agency in 1914 to challenge “unfair or
deceptive” practices, going beyond what is specifically banned
by other federal antitrust statutes.  ‘A Huge Aid’  U.S. courts since the mid-1970s generally have limited what
is illegally anticompetitive under those laws.  “Section 5 is a huge aid to us in our  law enforcement ,”
Rosch said. “We ought to dust it off, think about how we can
apply it sensibly.” The FTC is likely to bring a case under
that provision before Rosch’s term ends in September 2012, he
said.  Rosch also said he is concerned that FTC went too far in
endorsing so-called do-not-track regulation that is aimed at
restricting online marketers from collecting individuals’ Web-
surfing habits.  The FTC may have underestimated the benefits to consumers
of receiving advertising based on their Internet-browsing
interests, Rosch said.  “Before any such mechanism is adopted, we have to be sure
that consumers are warned about the consequences to them of what
might occur if they subscribe to a do-not-track option,” Rosch
said. Consumers should be told they may actually be exposed to
more unwanted ads if they opt out of online tracking, he said.  “They could lose that relevancy option that I think is
attractive,” Rosch said.  Self Regulation  He also said he doesn’t think industry should be allowed to
self-regulate and opposes do-not-track options introduced by
Microsoft, Google and Mozilla Corp., owner of the Firefox
browser.  “I am not prepared to endorse any of the big browsers’
feasibility with respect to do not track,” Rosch said. “We
need to be sure we are not putting the fox in charge of the
chicken coop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at   jbliss@bloomberg.net  and;
Sara Forden in Washington at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  and; 