-- 
Richest Investors Come Back to Big-Cap Stocks in Hunt for Yield

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/richest-investors-come-back-to-big-cap-stocks-in-hunt-for-yield.html
Michel Moreno, the 42-year-old chief
executive officer of the Moreno Group, an oil-services company,
has been investing the cash he set aside during the financial
crisis in the most well-known U.S. companies.  “If I’m going to have market exposure, I want to focus on
the area I’m personally more comfortable with, which is large-
cap stocks,” he said.  Investors like Moreno are buying shares of the biggest U.S.
companies again as the market returns to levels not reached
since 2008 and the municipal  bond market  has become more
volatile. GenSpring Family Offices, whose average account size
is about $30 million, has moved about $1.5 billion, or nearly 10
percent of clients’ assets, into stocks of large dividend-paying
companies during the past three months.  “Wealthier folks are beginning to look at this as a market
that they can be opportunistic buyers in,” said George Walper, Jr., president of Chicago-based  Spectrem Group , a consulting
firm that tracks attitudes among millionaires. “They’re still
much more cautious than they were in 2005 and 2006, but it’s
starting to turn around,” he said.  More than half of investors with $5 million to $25 million
in investable assets said they will probably buy stocks in 2011,
according to a Feb. 22 survey by Spectrem.  Investors put $5.2 billion into mutual funds that invest in
the largest U.S. companies in January, the biggest monthly
inflow since April 2009 and a reversal from the $13 billion in
outflows in December, according to data from  Morningstar Inc . In
all of 2010, investors withdrew $77 billion from large company
funds, said Morningstar, a Chicago-based research firm.  Overdue for Gains  Shares of U.S. companies such as  Coca-Cola Co . and  Johnson
& Johnson  are overdue for gains and represent the most
attractive part of the market, according to  Jeremy Grantham ,
chief investment strategist for Boston-based  Grantham, Mayo, Van
Otterloo & Co ., which manages $107 billion on behalf of
institutions. Johnson & Johnson returned 4.4 percent and Coca-
Cola returned 17 percent in the six months through Feb. 23.  “These stocks are not just a little cheap, they are almost
as cheap as they ever get, relative to the rest of the market,”
said Grantham, who accurately predicted the 2009 market bottom.  The largest U.S. companies, as measured by the Standard &
Poor’s 100 Index, returned 13 percent in 2010 compared with 27
percent returns for small U.S. stocks in the  Russell 2000 Index .
The S&P 100 had a price-earnings ratio of 14 compared with a
ratio of 31 for the  Russell 2000  on Feb. 23. Price-earnings
ratios represent the price investors pay for each dollar in
annual earnings-per-share. A low ratio may indicate a stock is
undervalued.  Investing Risks  One risk of investing in large dividend-paying companies is
that they could continue to lag behind the stocks of smaller
companies and highly leveraged companies, meaning ones with high
debt levels, said GMO’s Grantham.  “We don’t expect these quality income equities will keep
up with the broad market if we get a market that’s up 20 percent
this year,” said Atlanta-based Rex Macey, chief investment
officer for Wilmington Trust Corp., the Wilmington, Delaware-
based bank that is merging with  M&T Bank Corp . Leverage can
improve certain performance measures such as return on equity
because it allows companies to operate with less equity.
Wilmington manages $27 billion on behalf of wealthy families.  Investors have been moving from money-market funds back
into mutual funds. On Feb. 16 there was $2.8 trillion in money-
market funds, down $83 billion from early December, according to
the  Investment Company Institute , a mutual fund trade group.
Investors put $23 billion into stock mutual funds in January,
the biggest monthly inflow since February 2007, Morningstar
said.  Bigger Stakes  Bel Air Investment Advisors, which manages Moreno’s
investments, has increased clients’ stakes in stocks and other
growth investments by 10 percent to 20 percent over the past
several months, said Todd Morgan, senior managing director. Los
Angeles-based Bel Air clients have $20 million or more in assets
and its founders have a combined 57 years of experience with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  Moreno, who lives in Houston, said he likes the safety and
growth potential of companies such as  United Parcel Service Inc .
that have good balance sheets and predictable dividend streams.  Companies with low debt levels and significant sales in
emerging markets, such as  3M Co ., offer attractive prospects,
said Gary Flam, a portfolio manager for Bel Air, which has $5
billion in assets under management. Shares of 3M returned 13
percent and UPS returned 14 percent over the past six months.  “The strong balance sheets, large cash balances, dividend
payouts, multinational revenue streams and relatively cheaper
valuations make these ‘blue-chip’ stocks attractive,” said
Brent Fykes, senior investment partner for GenSpring, the
largest U.S. registered investment adviser, based in Palm Beach
Gardens, Florida.  Selling Bonds  Several clients have sold half of their bond portfolios
over the last two months and invested the proceeds in large-cap
dividend-paying U.S. stocks, said  Larry Palmer , a managing
director for  Morgan Stanley  Smith Barney Private Wealth
Management. Palmer’s clients have an average account size of
about $8 million and his team manages more than $1 billion.  “There’s a margin of safety they have, emotionally, in
those high-quality blue-chip names,” said Palmer, who’s based
in  Los Angeles . “All the advisers here are having the same
dialogue with their clients,” he said.  Income investors may prefer shares of companies such as  Abbott Laboratories  to  government bonds , said Alan Zafran, co-
founder of Los Angeles-based Luminous Capital. Abbott shares
yield 3.8 percent compared with the 10-year Treasury yield of
3.5 percent. Luminous manages about $4 billion for about 250
families.  Stemming Losses  Shares of the largest companies typically lose less than
other stocks in market downturns, according to Grantham. From
the market peak of October 2007 through its low of March 2009
the S&P 100 lost 54 percent, compared with the Russell 2000
Index’s loss of 59 percent.  Municipal bonds may hold more appeal for contrarian
investors than large-cap stocks, according to  David Carter ,
chief investment officer of New York-based Lenox Advisors, which
manages $1.5 billion. Investors withdrew $974 million from
municipal bond funds in the week ended Feb. 16, the 14th-
straight week of withdrawals, according to Lipper. January
outflows for muni funds totaled $13 billion, according to
Morningstar. The S&P 100 is up 4.3 percent since the beginning
of 2011 compared with a 0.3 percent return for the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master Index, which tracks
investment-grade bonds.  ‘Trading Like Junk’  “Munis are trading like junk bonds, but they’re not  junk
bonds ,” said Lew Altfest, chief executive officer of New York-
based  Altfest Personal Wealth Management , with $700 million in
assets under management. Altfest, who advises clients with
assets of $1 million or more, has been purchasing individual
munis such as revenue and general obligation bonds as mutual
funds have had to “disgorge” their holdings to cope with
outflows, he said.  Investors’ newfound enthusiasm for large-cap stocks could
become worrisome if shares continue to gain momentum, said
Jonathan Satovsky, founder of New York-based  Satovsky Asset
Management , which manages $380 million for about 200 families.
“The fund flows are perpetually wrong,” he said.  The current market cycle likely has six or more months to
run before investors need to become concerned about a reversal,
Satovsky said.  “I should be going all in,” he said. “But I would rather
lean into the wind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 