-- 
Rolls-Royce $300,000 ’Baby’ Ghost Doesn’t Make Me a Kardashian

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/rolls-royce-300-000-baby-ghost-doesn-t-make-me-a-kardashian.html
Pulling up to a hot restaurant in  West Hollywood  in a $302,000  Rolls-Royce  feels just as dope as
you would imagine. Eyes swivel and the valets get a hungry look.  Pffhhhtt.  That’s the sound of my credibility deflating as I
accidentally trigger the windshield wipers, and cleaning fluid
douses the entire scene in a fine mist.  So goes living with a  Ghost . Over four days motoring around  Los Angeles , I sip draughts of the good life, so afforded
because of the assumption that I can afford this assemblage of
sparkling chrome and butter-cream leather. The Ghost gets parked
in the prime spot every single time.  I also suffered the downsides. Those same valets expect
hundred-dollar bills to rain from your pockets. Onlookers are
disappointed when you exit and they realize you’re not a
Kardashian. Hours are wasted worrying about the cost of rubbing
one of those enormous, expensive fenders against a curb.  The Ghost, released last year, has been erroneously dubbed
the “baby” Royce. While it is smaller than the barge-like,
$380,000 Phantom sedan, there’s nothing cherubic about this
17.6-foot-long monolith. It’s an object intent on broadcasting
one’s stature in the world. The long aluminum-color hood,
upright grill and barn-sized doors demand attention. I can’t
think of a car better suited to L.A.  Rolls-Royce is owned by Bayerische Motoren Werke, just one
example of the colonization of traditional British automobile
brands. The bright upshot is the Ghost is built on the
exceptional underpinning of the BMW 7 Series sedan, and rock-
solid German engineering lurks throughout.  Dashing Details  The sturdy ride is complemented by the British-style,
coachwork interior, with dashing details like umbrellas hidden
inside the doors and frosted interior lights. The Ghost is  Europe ’s New World Order, showed off in a single masterful
stroke.  The law of cliches demand that I drive around  Beverly Hills 
and Bel Air, and tourists clutching “star maps” actually flash
photos as I wait at a stoplight. (“I don’t recognize him.”)
The Royce is perfectly fine for town, but isn’t suited to
darting around lanes.  It isn’t until I take the 5,400-plus-pound sedan to the
horse farms near  Thousand Oaks  that the Ghost feels truly
settled, loping along soft rolling hills and long straightaways
framed by miles of white split-rail fences.  While I’m well aware that tires must touch asphalt, the
Ghost gives the impression of being just slightly above it all,
a cushion of rarified air keeping the treads millimeters aloft.
How else could one explain the floating ride which turns aside
potholes?  Gentle Rolls  You can plow through tight curves, but the traction and
stability controls often intercede, suggesting that you’re being
a bit crass.  Better to point the wheel straight and let the 6.6-liter V-
12 motor take the Ghost to 60 mph in 4.7 very quick seconds.
Even then, the surge comes across as a firm but polite hand on
your back, a handler guiding you through a crowd. Power is an
incredible 563 horses and 575 pound-feet of torque.  You’ve got to ask, though, what would entice a modern guy
to purchase this Old-World throwback with its whiff of
Churchill-era elitism? It’s hard not to feel class guilt.  The answer is the interior. Stuffed with high-tech items
like BMW’s iDrive infotainment system, satellite radio, parking
sensors and cameras, it rivals any super-sedan in technology.
But a 7 Series doesn’t have an outrageous Spirit of Ecstasy hood
ornament, which automatically lowers into the bonnet when the
car is locked.  Three Moons  Up front, there’s as much space as an SUV, with upright
seats and the biggest plate-glass windshield I’ve ever looked
through. Dials are three white moons in a sky of black glass.
Wood veneers bore me, but I could get lost for days in the
whorls of walnut on my test car -- sourced from a single tree.  My one abiding complaint was the location of the wipers,
just below the shifter lever. My unintentional window-cleaning
incident was repeated many times. The rich aren’t supposed to
make mistakes, you see.  The rear is accessed by coach doors that open front-to-back
(“suicide doors” in American-car parlance). A hidden button
closes them automatically.  The base price starts at $246,500, but ownership almost
demands accessories. To go without the rear “picnic” tables
($2,800) or rear-seat entertainment system ($9,950) would be
like going to the Oscars in a beautiful gown without a lick of
jewelry on.  Bentley Rival  A friend said she wanted to curl up on the $1,100 lambs-
wool floor mats. I couldn’t decide whether I should feel
guiltier that my feet weren’t experiencing the softness, or that
I’d even consider driving a Royce barefoot.  Bentley’s $180,000-plus, four-door Continental Flying Spur
is the Ghost’s obvious competitor. Its exterior is more modern
and less over-the-top -- your call if that’s a good thing.
Electronics like the navigation system are miles behind the
Royce.  I’ve experienced many cars that handle better, but few that
lend such a sense of place and well-being. Even while caught in
a long, torturous jam on the freeway, I found myself relaxed,
caressing the leather.  So this is what it feels to be like the idling rich.  The 2011 Rolls-Royce Ghost at a Glance  Engine: 6.6-liter V-12 with 563 horsepower and 575 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed ZF automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 13 city; 20 highway.  Price as tested: $302,250.  Best features: The ride, the interior, the Spirit of  Ecstasy hood ornament.  Worst feature: That terribly placed windshield wiper  lever.  Target buyer: The modern queen or king.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 