-- 
Rousseff Wins Senate Battle on Brazil Minimum Wage Rise

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-02-24T03:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/rousseff-wins-senate-battle-on-brazil-minimum-wage-rise.html
  Brazil ’s Senate voted to pass the
government’s monthly minimum wage bill last night, handing
President  Dilma Rousseff  a victory in her battle to curb  government spending .  Senators voted to raise the minimum wage 6.8 percent to 545
reais ($326) by rejecting two opposition proposals to lift the
wage to a higher amount.  By rejecting the competing proposals, lawmakers avoided
undermining the government’s plan to trim 50 billion reais
($29.9 billion) from its budget. More than two thirds of pension
and safety-net payments are indexed to the wage, so every one-
real increase raises annual spending by 300 million reais,
according to government figures.  “I’m not sure if this will be enough to help the central
bank, but it’s a good start,” said Flavio Serrano, senior
economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA in  Sao
Paulo , in an e-mail before the vote.  Serrano forecasts that the government will succeed in
curbing spending enough to allow policy makers to cut interest
rates in 2012 as inflation converges with its 4.5 percent
target.  Rousseff’s coalition in the lower house voted Feb. 16 to
reject opposition proposals to raise the wage to 560 reais and
600 reais. The vote sent yields lower, as traders trimmed bets
on interest rate increases.  Policy makers last month raised the benchmark interest rate
for the first time since July to 11.25 percent. Annual inflation
accelerated to 6.08 percent in the year through mid-February,
close to the upper limit of the central bank’s target of 4.5
percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Traders are wagering that the bank will boost the overnight
rate by at least an additional 50 basis points at its March
meeting, Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate-futures
show.  Federal government expenditures jumped 22.4 percent last
year to 700 billion reais, after rising 14.9 percent in 2009,
Treasury figures show.  The country’s budget surplus before interest payments, the
so-called primary surplus, reached 2.8 percent of GDP last year,
falling short of the government’s 3.1 percent target.  Editors: Jonathan Roeder, Helder Marinho  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 Csimoes1@bloomberg.net   Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  