-- 
Trucking Stocks Signaling Recovery in U.S. Entering New Phase of Expansion

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/trucking-stocks-signaling-recovery-in-u-s-entering-new-phase-of-expansion.html
Companies that act as brokers for
trucking services are gaining favor with investors as the 20-
month-old rebound shifts into a new phase that’s less dependent
on inventory restocking.  The so-called asset-lite truckers such as  Roadrunner
Transportation Systems Inc . and C.H. Robinson Worldwide Inc.
lease vehicles for businesses that need to ship goods, so they
have more cost flexibility than companies that own and operate
most of their trucks. Shares of these brokers have risen 6.9
percent since July 30, 2010, compared with a 1.5 percent decline
for operators including  Celadon Group Inc . and  Werner
Enterprises Inc ., according to two new Bloomberg indexes.  “We are way past the early cycle rally,” and now see
“sustainable elements to the recovery,” said Benjamin Hartford, transportation analyst at Milwaukee-based Robert W.
Baird & Co., who co-wrote Baird’s 2011 freight-outlook report.
As the rebound matures, investors will find “greater
resiliency” in companies with flexible costs.  Trucking demand varies with the economy, accounting for 71
percent of the value, or $8.3 trillion, of U.S. goods shipped in
2007, according to the most recent  data  from the Department of
Transportation.  The Baird report shows the recovery spanning 26 months so
far, based on the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing index, which hit a recession low in December 2008.
That’s more than halfway through an average of 40 months, which
the current expansion may exceed, Hartford said. The recession
that ended in June 2009 was the  longest  since the 43-month slump
during the Great Depression, according to the  National Bureau of
Economic Research .  Expanding Economy  The  U.S. economy  likely will expand at a 3.2 percent rate
this year, according to the median estimate of 63 economists
surveyed in February by Bloomberg News, with exports and
business spending on equipment and software poised to generate
most of the growth, said Joseph Carson, director of economic
research at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  When the rebound began in the third quarter of 2009, growth
was driven by  government spending , along with companies that
were building stockpiles and needed truckers to move their
products. This made the operators more appealing to investors
because their profits rise more quickly in this stage of
recovery.  “I tend to favor the asset-based guys” early in the
cycle, because they “are able to get rate increases as well as
higher volumes,” said Kevin Sterling, an analyst in Richmond,  Virginia , at BB&T Capital Markets.  Rising Stock  Indianapolis-based Celadon’s stock more than tripled to
$14.79 at the end of last year from $4.47 on March 9, 2009, as
the operator reported net income of $2.86 million in the quarter
ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of $2.08 million in the
January-March 2009 period.  Freight volumes peaked in September and have dropped 10
percent since then, as measured by the Cass Freight Shipments
Index. Momentum for Celadon stock has slowed as well; it has
fallen 2.6 percent since the end of December.  The Bloomberg U.S. Truckload Trucking Index tracks the
performance of Celadon, Werner and seven other operators. The
Bloomberg U.S. Non-Asset Based Trucking Index tracks Roadrunner,
C.H. Robinson and six other brokers. The two indexes show that
shares of the operators rose 25 percent between May 30, 2008,
and July 31, 2010, compared with a 16 percent decline for the
brokers.  The asset-heavy companies also outperformed in 2001 and
2002, coming out of the recession that ended in November 2001.
As the recovery matured, the asset-lite truckers outperformed
from 2003 to early 2008.  Slashing Costs  When freight volumes started to cool off in 2007,
Roadrunner responded quickly to protect profits, adopting cuts
that slashed its vehicle-leasing costs by 17 percent over two
years.  “The advantage we have is we don’t run empty miles,” said
Peter Armbruster, chief financial officer of the Cudahy,
Wisconsin, company. If customers “go from needing to do eight
trips instead of 10 between our Milwaukee terminal and southern  California , we just do eight. It is more efficient.”  Inventory building aided economic growth for five
consecutive quarters through the third period of 2010, when it
contributed 1.61 percent to the 2.6 percent gain. When companies
stopped adding to their stockpiles in the fourth quarter, the
reduction subtracted 3.7 percent from growth, the most since the
first quarter of 1988.  Adjust Expenditures  John Wiehoff, chief executive officer for  Eden Prairie ,
Minnesota-based C.H. Robinson, said the broker’s lower-cost
model allows it to adjust expenditures rapidly in response to
demand.  “We’re very proud that we were able to manage through the
recession with an earnings increase in each of the past two
years,” he said on a Feb. 1 conference call with investors.
“We think that’s a pretty visible statement about our business
model.”  Brokers like C.H. Robinson “have higher returns, very
little debt and a lot of cash on the balance sheet,” along with
“more financial flexibility” and fewer capital-expenditure
requirements, according to Sterling, who said BB&T Capital
Markets is recommending investors purchase the Minnesota company
and Roadrunner.  C.H. Robinson announced in December a 16 percent increase
in its cash dividend to 29 cents a share. It had $398.6 million
in cash at year-end, compared with $11.1 million for Celadon.  “The asset-lite guys can act countercyclically,” said
Peter Nesvold, managing director and senior equity research
analyst in  New York  at Jefferies & Co. “As fundamentals start
to improve, we have a long way we can ride.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  