-- 
Russia Puts Libya Energy Plans on Hold, Seeks ‘Fair’ Oil Price

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-24T16:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/russia-puts-libya-energy-plans-on-hold-seeks-fair-oil-price.html
  Russia , the world’s largest oil
producer, is concerned that unrest in Libya has driven crude
prices beyond fair market levels, endangering the global
economy, said Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  .  Russia is putting projects in the North African country on
hold, Putin told reporters in Brussels today. State-controlled
OAO Gazprom Neft agreed last week to buy half of  Eni SpA ’s stake
in the Elephant oil project.  Oil climbed to the highest in 30 months in  London  today,
touching $119.79 a barrel, as an uprising in Libya has reduced
supplies from Africa’s third largest producer and raises
concerns the violence may spread to other oil producing nations
in the region.  “This is a serious a threat to the development of the
global economy and that isn’t in Russia’s interests,” Putin
said. “We want a fair price.”  Gazprom Neft’s parent company, state-run gas exporter OAO
Gazprom, is working in Libya with Wintershall, which halted oil
and gas production as a revolt spreads to topple the regime of
Muammar Qaddafi. OAO  Tatneft , based in Russia’s Tatarstan
region, is evacuating staff from its Libyan exploration sites.  “We’ll see how the difficult processes end and make a
decision based on that,” Putin said.    Saudi Arabia  and other nations in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries are willing to replace any lost
Libyan oil as soon as companies ask for it, a Saudi Arabian oil
official said today.  Libya, an OPEC member, pumps about 1.6 million barrels of
oil a day, exporting most of its crude and fuel across the
Mediterranean to Europe, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Russia, which is not a member of OPEC, cannot do anything
to move prices, Putin said in Brussels today. Putin pledged that
Russia would keep contact with  Europe  in an attempt to avoid
negative economic trends. The country is ready to boost natural
gas supplies to the European Union if necessary, Energy Minister
Sergei Shmatko said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  