-- 
Russian Central Bank to Raise Deposit Rate to Tame Inflation, Survey Shows

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   Z o y a   S h i l o v a
-- 
2011-02-24T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/russian-central-bank-to-raise-deposit-rate-to-tame-inflation-survey-shows.html
  Russia ’s central bank may raise the
rate it pays on deposits to drain excess cash from the economy,
tightening monetary policy for a third month to curb inflation.  Bank Rossii  will raise the deposit rate by a quarter-point
to 3 percent, according to the median forecast of 18 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Fourteen of the economists expect policy
makers to leave the refinancing rate at a record-low 7.75
percent for a ninth month, with four predicting a raise to 8
percent. A decision will be made today or on Feb. 28.  “Changing the deposit rate and reserve requirements are the
measures that would be most logical to tighten policy,” Dmitry Polevoy, Russia and Kazakhstan economist for ING Groep in
Moscow, said yesterday by phone. “The deposit rate serves as a
kind of floor for rates on the money market.”  Russians see inflation, the fastest among the so-called
BRIC countries, as the country’s biggest problem ahead of
alcoholism, according to a poll. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
administration has sold discounted grain from state stockpiles
and ordered  oil companies  to cut prices for gasoline and diesel
to stem price increases.  Increasing the central bank’s lending rates would have
little effect now because few banks are seeking funds from the
regulator, Polevoy said. The overnight deposit rate at 3 percent
would be the highest since its reintroduction in March 2010.  Food Prices  Global prices for food surged to a record high last month,
sparking protests in North Africa that toppled the governments
of Tunisia and  Egypt .  Policy makers worldwide are grappling with rising food and
energy prices. China increased reserve requirements and boosted  interest rates  this month as inflation quickened to 4.9 percent,
above the government’s target.  Brazil  raised its main overnight
rate on Jan. 19 after three increases in 2010.  India , which had
inflation of 8.23 percent in January, boosted its benchmark rate
to a two-year high on Jan. 5.  Russian consumer prices rose an annual 9.6 percent in
January, the fastest in 15 months, sapping real wages and
slowing retail sales. Eighty percent of the country’s public
believes inflation is “very high,” compared with 65 percent in
December, according to a poll published yesterday by the state-
run All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or
VTsIOM.  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin yesterday said it was “high
time” for more steps to slow inflation.  Retail Sales, Unemployment  Retail sales rose in January at the slowest pace in a year
as real disposable incomes shrank 5.5 percent for the first
decrease since August 2009. That may weigh on retailers
including X5 Retail Group, Russia’s largest grocer, and OAO
Magnit, its largest competitor.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 7.6 percent in January, the
highest level since April 2010, according to the statistics
service.  “Against the background of weaker consumer and labor-market
data over the recent months, we expect only a 25 basis-point
increase in the overnight deposit rate,”  Clemens Grafe  and  Anna Zadornova , economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a
research note e-mailed yesterday. One basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Traders are pricing in 0.65 percentage point of rate
increases over the next three months, forward rate agreements
show. Russian lenders had 825.9 billion rubles ($28.5 billion)
on central  bank deposits  yesterday, the lowest level since Feb.
1, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Biggest Challenge’  Russia’s biggest challenge is inflation, with price
pressures also coming from the demand side, central bank First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in  Athens  on Feb. 11.  Bank Rossii unexpectedly kept its policy rates unchanged
last month, opting to increase the mandatory reserve level for
lenders to avoid luring speculative capital inflows and support
the nascent economic recovery.  The decision laid the groundwork for a shift in the central
bank’s policy bias, Anton Nikitin, an economist at Moscow
investment bank  Renaissance Capital , said by phone yesterday.  For now, it “wouldn’t be logical to increase rates and
curtail lending to households, which is already at a low level,”
he said.  Bank Rossii will also maintain a “very flexible” exchange-
rate policy, allowing the ruble to strengthen to help slow
inflation, Kudrin said on Feb. 21. Inflation will probably be
between 7 percent and 8 percent this year, down from 8.8 percent
in 2010, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on Feb. 22 in
Moscow.  The ruble has gained 7.2 percent in the past three months
versus the dollar, making it the best performer among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Unpleasant’ Increase  The central bank may face an “unpleasant” increase in
speculative inflows if it would start “aggressively hiking its
deposit rate,” Nikolay Podguzov, VTB Capital’s head of fixed-
income research in Moscow, said by phone on Feb. 21.  Russia-focused equity funds had inflows for a fifth
consecutive week, the only major emerging market to receive
money, UralSib Financial Corp. said on Feb. 18, citing EPFR
Global data. Funds investing in Russian shares received $169
million in the week ended Feb. 16 compared with $267 million the
week before.  “I think that with all this economic data and with all
this danger of speculative capital inflow, the central bank
could opt to take another course to calm inflation,” Podguzov
said. “Probably they could increase  reserve requirements  or
they could tighten their financing tools like Lombard
criteria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 