-- 
Russia's North Caucasus Terror Threatens Olympics as Focus Moves to Sochi

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-02-25T10:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/russia-s-terrorists-threaten-olympics-as-focus-moves-to-sochi.html
Islamic militants in southern  Russia , inspired by uprisings across the Arab world, are
changing tactics and attacking targets closer to Sochi in a bid
to derail the  2014  Winter Olympics.  The killing of Muscovites and bombing of a ski lift at a
resort in Kabardino-Balkaria, a region between Chechnya and
Sochi, last week is part of “new terror campaign” against
Russian rule designed to elicit maximum media coverage, said
Grigory Shvedov, chief editor of  Caucasian Knot , a Moscow-based
news and analysis group that tracks the situation in the North
and South Caucasus.  The Feb. 18 attacks occurred on the day when Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and President  Dmitry Medvedev  touted Sochi’s
Olympic preparations 150 miles (240 kilometers) to the west at a
skiing event with Jean-Claude Killy, head of the  International
Olympic Committee ’s 2014 organizing commission and winner of
three gold medals at the 1968 games.  “The Winter Olympics is a dream come true for
terrorists,” Shvedov said in an interview in Moscow. “Attacks
will intensify throughout the North Caucasus as we get closer to
the games.”  The number of bombings in Kabardino-Balkaria, the hub of a
$15 billion state program to develop tourism, more than tripled
last year to 41, Caucasian Knot data show, according to a report
obtained by Bloomberg.  The bombings spread to North Ossetia and the Stavropol
region last year, according to the data published today. The
number of bombings for the entire North Caucasus increased 3.9
percent to 238, even as attacks in Chechnya, where federal
forces fought two wars against insurgents in the 1990s, declined
to 39 from 62. Police in Sochi yesterday destroyed an improvised
explosive device planted under a  gas pipeline , Interfax
reported, citing law enforcement officials.  ‘Mesmerizing’ Middle East  The uprisings across the Middle East may encourage
extremists in the predominantly North Caucasus further,
according to Shvedov.  “The successful turnover of elites in the Middle East is
mesmerizing not just militants, but also hundreds of thousands
of practicing Muslims” in the region, he said.  Russia has struggled for centuries to control the North
Caucasus, a strategic strip of mountainous terrain between the
Black and Caspian seas that borders Georgia and  Azerbaijan .
Chechnya gained de facto independence after the collapse of the  Soviet Union  in 1991 as separatists fought Russian forces to a
stalemate.  Putin, Kadyrov  Then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin ascended to the
presidency in 2000 after sending troops into Chechnya for a
second time after warlords invaded neighboring Dagestan. While
Putin, who ceded the presidency to his protégé Medvedev in 2008,
managed to reduce the carnage in Chechnya itself through his
handpicked local leader, Ramzan Kadyrov, violence continues to
escalate in nearby regions, except Ingushetia.  In Ingushetia, authorities haven’t been as ruthless as in
Chechnya and had more success with more sophisticated tactics
cutting the number of explosions in half last year, according to
Shvedov.  The IOC, which awarded the Games to Sochi at a ceremony
attended by Putin in  Guatemala  in 2007, said it’s confident
Russia will be able to protect competitors and spectators at the
competition.  “We have no doubts that the Russian authorities will be up
to the task,” the Lausanne, Switzerland-based group said in an
e-mailed response to questions addressed to Killy.  ‘Heavily Guarded’  That confidence is shared by Kadyrov, who has been the head
of deputy head of the Chechen government since 2004.  “There are no serious problems,” Kadyrov, 34, said in an
interview in Moscow Feb. 19. “Sochi is heavily guarded and the
surrounding Krasnodar region is hard to get to.”  Putin groomed Kadyrov, a former guerilla, to lead Chechnya
after his father Akhmad was killed in a bomb attack on the
regional capital Grozny’s main soccer stadium in 2004.  Human
Rights Watch , which tracks government abuse, and Russian human
rights organizations have accused Kadyrov of ordering abductions
and torture, which he has repeatedly denied.  The amount of terrorism activity in the North Caucasus is
“extremely high,” the  Prosecutor General’s Office  said in a
statement on its website in December. Russia killed 332
extremists in the region last year while losing 268 personnel in
terrorist-related actions, Medvedev said on Feb. 22.  Medvedev made the North Caucasus Russia’s eighth federal
administrative district last year, carving it out of the
southern district that includes Sochi, as part of efforts to
improve the local economy and reduce unemployment, which he
cited as a key factor in the rise of extremism. About 9 million
people live in the North Caucasus, an area the size of  Tunisia ,
according to Russian government data.  Forest Dwellers  The number of active militants in the region, where the
average age is about 18, is about 1,000 and growing, Deputy
Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin, the former OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel chief executive officer who heads the North Caucasus
Federal District, told reporters Feb. 11. Half of these are
“Robin Hoods, guys who really got lost,” he said.  “There are hundreds of terrorists in the forests,
supported by thousands more,” said Ahmet Yarlykapov of the
Russian Academy of Sciences.  Chechen native Doku Umarov claimed responsibility for
organizing the Jan. 24 suicide bombing at Moscow’s Domodedovo
Airport that killed 37 people.  Umarov, the self-styled emir of an Islamic state across the
North Caucasus, also claimed responsibility for the attacks on
Moscow’s subway system by female  suicide bombers  last March that
killed 40 people and the November 2009 bombing of the Nevsky
Express train between Moscow and  St. Petersburg  that killed 28.  The number of suicide bombers rose by half to 23 in 2010,
Shvedov said.  Umarov is an elusive target because he moves from “house
to house,” moving in and out of regions, Kadyrov said in the
Feb. 19 interview.  “If I know where he is, I will fly there and eliminate him
immediately,” Kadyrov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  