-- 
SABMiller Spurning Femsa Means Higher Foster’s Price: Real M&A

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-02-24T05:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/sabmiller-spurning-femsa-means-increased-price-for-foster-s-beer-real-m-a.html
  SABMiller Plc , which walked away
from last year’s biggest beer acquisition, faces the prospect of
paying the most ever for  Foster’s Group Ltd . as it tries to
boost profitability.  SABMiller, the second-largest brewer by volume, is working
with JPMorgan Chase & Co. to study a bid for Foster’s once  Australia ’s biggest brewer completes a spinoff of its wine unit,
a person with knowledge of the situation has said. Foster’s beer
business, with the highest operating margin of any independent
brewer, is valued at $11 billion, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.
That would be almost double SABMiller’s largest takeover and
more than the $7.7 billion deal announced by  Heineken NV  last
year for Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB’s beer business, which
SABMiller spurned, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Graham Mackay has handed SABMiller
shareholders a 57 percent return in dollars in the past three
years, at least five times more than  Anheuser-Busch Inbev NV  and
Heineken, as it passed on some of the industry’s biggest deals
to expand in  Asia  and Africa and cut its debt-to-cashflow level
to a six-year low. Now, as higher costs in emerging markets
drive down its return on equity, SABMiller is considering buying
Foster’s in what may be the industry’s third-largest deal.  “It is obviously some time since they’d done a large deal
so they’ve got quite a strong balance sheet,” said  Matthew Jordan , head of research at Matrix in London. “If they could
get it at a cheap price, I think it would be a strategically
sensible thing to do.”  The High Life  Troy Hey, a spokesman for Foster’s in  Melbourne , declined
to comment on “market speculation” the company may be a
takeover target. Nigel Fairbrass, a spokesman at London-based
SABMiller, declined to comment on possible acquisitions.  The company, which started in 1895 selling beer to gold
prospectors in South  Africa , became SABMiller after South
African Breweries Plc bought Miller Brewing Co. for $5.6 billion
in 2002, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The maker of almost 200 brands from  Miller High Life  to
Lech Lite and  Chairman’s Extra Strong Beer  became the second-
largest by volume after at least 30 deals in developing nations
from  Colombia  to Poland and  India , getting about two-thirds of
its sales outside the U.S. and  Europe .  Since 2008, SABMiller passed on the biggest deals as almost
$100 billion of acquisitions in the beer industry were
completed, including InBev NV’s $60.8 billion takeover of
Anheuser-Busch Cos. and the $18.7 billion joint bid by Heineken
and Carlsberg A/S for Scottish & Newcastle Plc.  Foster’s Bid  SABMiller is now studying a bid for Foster’s, working with
New York-based JPMorgan, according to a person familiar with the
situation who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private. The brewer passed on Monterrey, Mexico-based
Femsa’s beer unit because it was too expensive, a person
familiar with the matter said when Amsterdam-based Heineken’s
acquisition was announced last year.  Speculation increased that SABMiller may purchase Foster’s
after the Melbourne-based company said on Feb. 15 that it plans
to spin off the world’s second-largest wine business by May to
focus on reviving beer earnings. Outgoing Chief Executive
Officer Ian Johnston said on a conference call that day Foster’s
board of directors would consider any bid if it came along.  “It’s the kind of thing that an acquirer would want,”
said Matthew Rhodes-Kropf, an associate professor of business
administration at Harvard Business School in  Boston . “It seems
compelling for somebody who’s trying to acquire a series of
brands to have market power.”  ‘Walking Away’  A takeover by SABMiller could cost at least $11 billion,
based on Foster’s 12 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of about $917 million, according
to Ian Shackleton, a London-based analyst at Nomura.  Andy Bowley, a Sydney-based analyst for Citigroup Inc.,
says Foster’s may command 12 times to 12.5 times his Ebitda
estimate of A$911 million ($918 million) for 2012. That would
result in an acquisition valued at as much as $11.5 billion.  SABMiller, which has rejected deals completed at lower
valuations, may not be willing to pay up for Foster’s, according
to Samar Chand, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London . He
estimated that Heineken paid 10.5 times Ebitda for Femsa’s beer
unit, which SABMiller rejected.  “SABMiller is very focused on returns, which they’ve shown
in the past by walking away from high profile deals,” said
Jason DeRise, a London-based analyst at UBS AG. SABMiller also
passed on Heineken and Copenhagen-based Carlsberg’s purchase of
Scottish & Newcastle in 2008, which was struck at an Ebitda
multiple of 23.1 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Return on Equity  SABMiller’s reliance on joint ventures in its push into
emerging markets such as Latin America and Africa, where the
costs can be higher because of less-established infrastructure
and distribution networks, may have eroded profitability.  Its return on equity, a measure of how much a company earns
for each dollar it invested, has fallen in four of the last five
years to 10.8 percent in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s about half the return of the 21 percent it generated in
2005.  On average, SABMiller had a return on equity of 12.1
percent in the past five years, versus 12.9 percent for AB
InBev, the world’s largest brewer, and 17.2 times for Heineken,
the third-biggest beer company, the data show.  While buying the Australian maker of Victoria Bitter and
Pure Blonde would increase the proportion of SABMiller’s sales
in developed markets that are growing slower than emerging
nations, it may also boost the company’s overall profit margins.  Beer Margins  Foster’s beer business had an operating profit margin of
about 38 percent in the 2010 fiscal year, the company said in a
presentation to investors this month. That’s higher than any
independent brewer with annual revenue of more than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The profit margin of 22 percent for SABMiller trails
Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev, who boosted its margins by more
than 2 percentage points to almost 28 percent in 2009, the year
after its purchase of Anheuser-Busch, Bloomberg data show.  SABMiller is more likely to pursue a deal because it is
less indebted than its competitors, according to Anthony Bucalo,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in London, while rivals
seeking acquisitions may be less interested in Foster’s.  SABMiller’s net debt to Ebitda ratio will drop to 1.6 this
fiscal year and 1.1 in 2012, less than half the ratio of 2.5 in
2009, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. AB InBev
will have net debt of 2.3 times Ebitda this year, while Heineken
will have a ratio of 2, the data show.  Global Domination    Asahi Breweries Ltd . of Tokyo, which will “aggressively
seek acquisitions and alliances” this year, isn’t interested in
Foster’s because it’s too expensive, President Naoki Izumiya
said this month at a news conference, according to the Age
newspaper. Asahi may spend as much as 400 billion yen ($4.9
billion) to buy companies by 2012, Izumiya said Feb. 8.  SABMiller wants to “take over the world, don’t they?”
said Andy Ford, an analyst at MF Global in London. “They’ll end
up doing it especially if there aren’t that many people looking
at it as they’d get it for a good price,” he said, referring to
a purchase of Foster’s.  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Enterprise Products
Partners LP , the biggest U.S. pipeline partnership, offered to
reacquire former subsidiary  Duncan Energy Partners LP  in an all-
stock deal that values the company at $2.41 billion.  Duncan Energy holders would get 0.9545 unit of Enterprise
for each unit they own, under the proposal made to the board of
Duncan Energy’s general partner, the Houston-based companies
said yesterday in separate statements.  Valero, Chevron    Valero Energy Corp ., the largest U.S. oil refiner, is in
talks to buy  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp .’s U.K.
refinery for $1 billion to $1.5 billion, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter. An agreement may be reached as
soon as next month, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private.  Chevron has been seeking a buyer for the Pembroke refinery
in Wales, its only remaining European plant, for almost a year.
It’s unclear whether there are other bidders for the asset
besides San Antonio-based Valero, and talks could still break
down, the people said.  There have been 3,451 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $333.3 billion, a 34 percent increase from the $248.5
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for the story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 