-- 
Saint-Gobain Loses Bid to Reverse Siemens Patent Verdict

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-02-24T21:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/saint-gobain-loses-bid-to-reverse-siemens-infringement-verdict.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA’s ceramics
and plastics business lost its bid to overturn a patent-
infringement verdict won by  Siemens AG  over a crystal used in
medical-imaging devices.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said a $44.9 million damage award may need to be
increased to take into account additional products that
infringed the patent. It  told  a lower court to determine how
much Courbevoie, France-based Saint-Gobain should pay Siemens.  The dispute was over the composition of crystals that
convert gamma rays into light to produce a three-dimensional
image of the body to test for cancer and other diseases. Munich-
based Siemens makes crystals for its positron emission
tomography, or PET, tests, and Saint-Gobain produces the
crystals for products made by Royal Philips Electronics NV.  The $44.9 million awarded to Siemens was based on the sale
of crystals for 61 scanners made by Philips Medical Systems. The
Federal Circuit said the court should have included a royalty
award on 18 additional scanners because they were made before
the patent expired even if they weren’t sold until after.
Philips wasn’t named in the lawsuit.  The ruling in the case was 2-1, with Circuit Judge Sharon Prost dissenting, saying the lower-court judge erred in her
instructions to the jury, so the verdict should have been
reversed.  “We are disappointed with this ruling,” Karen Cawkwell, a
spokeswoman for Saint-Gobain, said in an e-mailed statement.
“However, we note the strong dissenting opinion and we are
evaluating our options for overturning the panel decision.”  The case is Siemens Medical Solutions USA Inc. v. Saint-
Gobain Ceramics & Plastics Inc., 2010-1145 and 2010-1177,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower
court case is Siemens Medical Solutions USA Inc. v. Saint-Gobain
Ceramics & Plastics Inc., 07CV190, U.S. District Court for the
District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  