-- 
Salesforce.com Forecast Tops Estimates Amid Software Upgrades; Shares Gain

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-02-25T22:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/salesforce-com-forecast-tops-estimates-amid-software-upgrades-shares-gain.html
  Salesforce.com Inc . rose 3.4 percent
in New York trading after its revenue forecast topped analysts’
estimates, lifted by a rebound in corporate hiring and a switch
to cloud-computing software.  Sales will be $480 million to $482 million in the fiscal
first quarter, which ends in April, San Francisco-based
Salesforce said in a statement. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey
had projected $471.5 million on average.  Salesforce, which helps businesses manage client
relationships online, is benefiting as companies hire sales,
marketing and support workers. Salesforce also is attracting
more users to its newer products, such as the Force.com
developer tools, customer-service software, and Chatter, a
social network for businesses.  “You’re seeing a broadening of their product line,”
Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in an interview. “It took them five
years to build up the sales-force automation to a critical mass.
Now you’re seeing them build their service cloud and Force.com
to a critical mass.”  With cloud computing, businesses get their software and
data delivered as a service over the Internet. That lets them
save on hardware and labor costs because they don’t need to
maintain their own servers.  Stock Surge  Salesforce gained $4.51 to $138.83 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have added 5.2
percent this year.  “As people come out of the recession and upgrade their
software, one of the things they’re upgrading is their  call
centers  to retain customers,” said Barnicle, who has an
“outperform” rating on Salesforce shares and doesn’t own them.  Salesforce shares are up 104 percent in the past year.
That’s made the stock pricier than most peers. Salesforce shares
trade at 329.7 times earnings, compared with an average price-
to-earnings ratio of 89.1 for a peer group of 29 software
companies, according to Bloomberg data.  Excluding some costs, first-quarter profit will be 26 or 27
cents a share this quarter, Salesforce said. That compared with
an average analyst estimate of 32 cents.  Those numbers came in short because Salesforce is hiring
rapidly, said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities in  San
Francisco . An acceleration in Salesforce’s billings -- an
indicator of future sales -- is allaying concerns about higher
expenditures, he said.  No Problem?  “When you’re putting up this kind of growth, I don’t think
investors are going to have any problem with that,” said
Walravens, who has a “market outperform” rating on the shares
and doesn’t own them.  In the quarter that ended Jan. 31, net income fell to $10.9
million, or 8 cents a share, from $20.4 million, or 16 cents, a
year earlier. Sales were $456.9 million, compared with $354
million a year earlier.  Excluding stock-based compensation and other costs, fourth-
quarter profit was 31 cents a share. Analysts on average had
forecast profit of 27 cents and sales of $451.4 million.  Salesforce hired 450 people during the fourth quarter and
will increase commission and bonus payments for its employees in
the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Graham Smith said on
a conference call with analysts yesterday.  Buying Spree  Salesforce also made three acquisitions this year. Last
month, it completed the $212 million purchase of Heroku Inc.,
which makes software for running applications written in the
Ruby programming language. It acquired Dimdim, which makes
software for real-time communications online, for $31 million.
And earlier this month, Salesforce announced the purchase of
Manymoon, which makes applications that help people collaborate
on projects.  The company is adding sales and product-development staff
to deal with an upswing in demand. As the economy recovers,
customers who already rent Salesforce’s software are outfitting
more of their employees with its products, Chief Executive
Officer Marc Benioff said on the call. That wasn’t the case
during the recession, he said.  “We’re over that hurdle,” Benioff said. The company
signed 30 deals worth more than $1 million in the fourth
quarter, he said. “It was a monster quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  