-- 
Salix Declines After FDA Says It Won't Approve Xifaxan for Bowel Disease

-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   A n g e l a   Z i m m
-- 
2011-02-24T21:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/salix-pharmaceuticals-slumps-as-fda-says-it-won-t-approve-new-xifaxan-use.html
  Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd ., a maker
of medicines for gastrointestinal disorders, fell the most in
more than a decade after it said U.S. regulators won’t approve
its Xifaxan drug for a form of irritable bowel syndrome.  Shares of the Morrisville, North Carolina-based company
fell $9.84, or 24 percent, to $31.61 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, after sinking as low as
$31.50 for the biggest decline since Nov. 21, 2000. The stock
climbed 42 percent in the 12 months before today.  The  Food and Drug Administration  will issue what’s known as
a complete response letter for the added use of Xifaxan, Salix
said in a statement today. Company-funded research published in
the New England Journal of Medicine in January showed Xifaxan,
already cleared for traveler’s diarrhea and a rare brain
disorder caused by liver failure, helped ease irritable bowel
symptoms such as abdominal pain and diarrhea.  “I wouldn’t ever call an FDA action a slam dunk, but
certainly expectations were sky high,” said Corey Davis, an
analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New York , in an e-mail today.
“There have been very few drugs I can think of that had a
publication in NEJM and then subsequently never received FDA
approval. Salix got sucker punched by the FDA.”  ‘Retreatment’  An FDA decision had been expected by March 7 for the new
use of Xifaxan as a remedy for non-constipation irritable bowel
syndrome, Salix said today. Instead, Salix said regulators
indicated the expanded use “is not ready for approval primarily
due to a newly expressed need for retreatment.”  If Salix needs to do a new trial for repeat dosing of its
drug, that would cost tens of millions and take years to
complete, Davis said. The company said in its statement it will
consider next steps after it gets the FDA’s letter.  At least 30 million people in the U.S. suffer from
irritable bowel syndrome, and the most common symptom is
diarrhea, said  Mark Pimentel , lead author of the research
reported from January. Most patients are treated with
antidepressants, fiber supplements or diet and lifestyle
changes, he said. Xifaxan, if approved to combat the syndrome,
may help patients who don’t have constipation, he said.  First Drug  The drug could be the first “that is treating a causative
factor in  irritable bowel syndrome ,” Pimentel, director of the
 GI Motility Program  at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los
Angeles , said Dec. 31 in a telephone interview.  Peak annual U.S. sales of treatments for irritable bowel
syndrome without constipation may be as high as $7 billion a
year, beginning about 2018,  Michael Freeman , a Salix spokesman,
said Jan. 4 in an e-mail. The estimate assumes 3 million visits
a year to doctors by patients who are prescribed a drug, Freeman
said at the time. He didn’t immediately return a call for
comment today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net 
Angela Zimm in Boston at 
 azimm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  