-- 
Samsung Said to Be Considering Google TV Products, Excluding Intel Chips

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-02-25T00:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/samsung-said-to-be-considering-google-tv-products-excluding-intel-chips.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the largest
television maker, may use Google TV software in home-
entertainment devices based on its own chips, rather than those
from  Intel Corp ., a person with knowledge of the plans said.  Samsung had previously considered using the  Google Inc .
software and balked after Google required use of Intel’s Atom
chips, said the person, who declined to be identified because
Samsung’s plans haven’t been made public. Google lifted the
restriction.  Support from Samsung would boost Google’s attempts to build
on its dominance of Internet search and gain a foothold on big
screens in people’s homes, another possible source of ad
revenue. By using its own chips, Samsung delivers a setback to
Intel’s effort to land its processors in home electronics and
lessen its dependence on sales of personal computers.  James Chung, a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, declined to comment, as did Intel’s Kiesha Cochrane and
Chris Dale, a spokesman for Google, based in Mountain View,
California.  Google TV software lets users search online video and other
content on their TV screens. Until now, the software has been
used only in TVs and Blu-ray players from  Sony Corp . and in a TV
set-top box from  Logitech International SA , all using Intel’s
Atom chip.  Samsung, the world’s second-largest chipmaker, has sold
televisions, Blu-ray players and other home-entertainment
devices built around its own software for connecting to the
Internet or services such as  Netflix Inc .’s video streaming.  Google’s TV project has suffered other setbacks. The
online-search provider has clashed with TV networks over
allowing their online content on the system.  Google slipped $2.50 to $608.82 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday. The shares have gained
2.5 percent this year. Intel, based in  Santa Clara , California,
gained 14 cents to $21.29, and has increased 1.2 percent this
year.  Samsung shares rose 0.2 percent to 931,000 won as of 9:03
a.m. in Seoul today. The benchmark Kospi stock index gained 0.3
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 