-- 
Saudi Arabia Pledges OPEC Supplies to Replace Lost Libya Oil

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-02-24T19:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/saudi-arabia-says-some-opec-nations-willing-and-able-to-replace-libyan-oil.html
  Saudi Arabia  and other OPEC nations
including those in West Africa are willing and able to replace
any lost Libyan oil as soon as companies ask for it, including
crude of the same quality, a Saudi Arabian oil official said.  There is no reason for  oil prices  to rise because Saudi
Arabia and OPEC won’t allow shortages to exist, the official
said by telephone today, declining to be identified by name.
Some West African oil that goes to Asian markets can be
redirected to  Europe , and extra Saudi oil can go to  Asia  to
replace Nigerian or Angolan supplies, the Saudi official said.  Exporters are under pressure to ensure adequate supplies to
the market after violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest
producer, sent Brent crude futures in  London  as high as $119.79
a barrel earlier today, the highest since August 2008. Brent
retreated below $114 after the Saudi official’s comments were
reported. Several hours later, the International Energy Agency
said it stands ready to release emergency stockpiles if needed.  “The market is looking at the Saudi and IEA statements as
declarations of intent, which isn’t the same as actually putting
physical production on the market,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian ,
head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“The market is now focusing on the potential of lost barrels,
not only in Libya but Algeria, and the possibility of protests
elsewhere that could easily lead to tightening supply.”  OPEC’s Responsibility  As OPEC’s  statute  indicates, it has a responsibility to
ensure that the market is well balanced and that there is no
shortage of supply, the Saudi official said by phone.  Saudi crude can flow through the kingdom’s East-West
pipeline, reducing the time it takes to reach European
refineries, the official said. The line stretches from the
kingdom’s oil-rich eastern province to the Red Sea port of Yanbu
and can transport as much as 5 million barrels a day for export
to European markets, according to a U.S. Energy Information
Administration  website .    Libya ’s benchmark Es Sider grade has a low density and low
sulfur content, making it similar to North Sea Brent crude and
some African crudes that are favored by refiners because they
yield more higher-value products such as gasoline.  IEA Stands ‘Ready’  World oil supply has been cut by 500,000 to 750,000 barrels
a day following the crisis in North Africa, the International
Energy Agency said in a statement today, adding that it is ready
to release emergency stockpiles if needed.  “The IEA is also in close contact with OPEC and major
producer countries and the Governing Board takes note of the
reports regarding their willingness to draw on their excess
capacity to ensure additional supplies if required,” it said.  The IEA, a Paris-based adviser to 28 consuming nations,
said that its member governments have enough emergency
inventories to cover 145 days worth of imports.  Libya pumped 1.6 million barrels a day of crude last month,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Barclay Capital estimates as
much as 1 million barrels a day has been halted, while Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. puts the disruption at 500,000 barrels a day.  Popular uprisings have rocked the Arab world, ignited by
the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by the
Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Protests in
Algeria, which produces 1.25 million barrels a day of oil, led
to the Feb. 22 announcement of an end to the state of emergency
there. Turmoil has spread to Bahrain,  Iran  and Yemen.  Spare Capacity  OPEC collectively pumped 29.4 million barrels a day last
month, according to Bloomberg estimates, and has about 5 million
barrels a day of spare capacity, according to the  International
Energy Agency . Most of the unused capacity is in Saudi Arabia,
the organization’s biggest producer.  Eni SpA, the largest foreign oil producer in Libya, and
other companies including Total SA and OMV AG said they were
curtailing production and evacuating staff after clashes between
troops and anti-government protesters in the past few days.  Eni’s oil and gas production in Libya has been halved to
120,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, and the company may
stop producing there altogether because storage tanks at export
terminals are filling up, two people will knowledge of the
situation said. The flow of gas to  Italy  from Eni’s Libyan
fields halted this week.  Unilateral Decision  Saudi Arabia has previously announced unilateral decisions
to boost production without seeking OPEC’s approval first,
including in 2008 when prices were rallying toward a record.  On May 16 of that year, the kingdom said it would add
300,000 barrels a day from the following month, taking output to
9.45 million barrels a day, and on June 19 it said it would add
a further 200,000 barrels a day. At an emergency oil summit
convened by  King Abdullah  in Jeddah on June 22, 2008, the
country said it could raise output capacity by an additional 2.5
million barrels a day with new giant fields if needed, lifting
its total capacity to 15 million barrels a day.  Oil reached $147.27 a barrel in July 2008 before retreating
to less than $40 a barrel at the end of that year.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela . The group is due to hold its next formal
meeting in early June. Iran, which holds OPEC’s presidency this
year, said earlier this week that oil supplies are sufficient.  In 2005, the IEA drew on emergency oil supplies in its
member countries, including European gasoline, after  Hurricane
Katrina  struck the U.S. Gulf Coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at   adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  