-- 
Saudi Social Programs, Popular King May Hold Off Mideast Tumult

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-24T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/saudi-arabia-s-social-programs-popular-king-may-hold-off-mideast-tumult.html
The contrast between Libya and Saudi
Arabia on Feb. 23 couldn’t have been more striking.  As loyalists to Col.  Muammar Qaddafi  fought rebel forces
east of Tripoli, oil majors such as  Total SA  and  ENI SpA  cut or
suspended their Libyan oil production, while the U.S., Britain,
and  Italy  prepared to send ships and planes to evacuate their
citizens. On the other side of the Arab world, Saudi Arabia’s  King Abdullah  returned from three months of medical treatment
abroad, laden with gifts for his subjects: $36 billion worth of
new jobless benefits, education and housing subsidies, and debt
write-offs. The government even unveiled a new sports channel.  The world is focused on the tragic events unfolding in
Libya, which have alarmed U.S. policy makers and spooked markets
into bidding oil above $100 a barrel. Yet a non-event -- the
unrest that is not occurring in  Saudi Arabia  -- could prove just
as important in determining the future of the region and the
world economy, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 28
issue.  If Saudi Arabia’s people -- including a sizable Shiite
Muslim minority -- keep supporting Abdullah’s regime, then the
country can bring its vast reserves of oil into play to make up
for any production lost in Libya or other crisis-crippled
states. If, instead, Shiite unrest spills over from neighboring
Bahrain into the Saudi state and puts production at risk, the
world will be in a very dangerous place.  ‘Better Social Control’  Observers such as Peter Zeeman, of the geopolitical
consulting firm Stratfor, are betting that Saudi Arabia will
escape the turmoil. “Odds are the Saudis would hold on because
they have much better social control in the form of policing
powers, and they are better able to insulate the minority group
that might like to see a change from events in the outside
world,” he says.  It would be unwise to say definitively that Saudi Arabia
will emerge unscathed. Yet 86-year-old Abdullah has proven an
able ruler. Under Abdullah and his influential oil minister, Ali Ibrahim al-Naimi, the kingdom has expanded its oil production
capacity to about 12 million barrels a day; actual production is
about 8.4 million barrels a day, according to Bloomberg
estimates. The government has a 35,000-man force just to protect
key oil and gas installations. “I don’t really see any credible
risk to their oil infrastructure,” says  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank .  The kingdom is also investing in its citizens, including
the Shiite minority in the oil-producing region of the Eastern
Province, through generous social programs.  Saudi Aramco , the
giant state oil company, has made sure to employ a large number
of Shiite workers to give them a stake in its success.  Educational Benefits  Ordinary Saudis have started to benefit from King
Abdullah’s educational programs. Yasser Abbass, a 28-year-old
Shiite, got full tuition and board while studying for a master’s
in business administration at a California university. “The
government’s program took care of most of my expenses during my
studies, including tuition, health coverage, and monthly
allowance,” says Abbass, who returned to the kingdom and got a
job as an investment banker in Riyadh.  The kingdom’s role as the world’s main oil exporter is more
critical than ever as Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest oil
producer, and  Algeria , the continent’s fourth, confront popular
uprisings.  Libya  pumps 1.6 million barrels a day, according to
data from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and
exports mostly to  Europe .  Saudi Capacity  “Saudi Arabia has built up its spare production capacity
so it can handle any supply interruption in the market,” says  Carsten Fritsch , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG.
“Saudi Arabia can handle it unless there is a combined impact
of protests in North Africa and in another large Gulf
Cooperation Council oil producer.”  So far, none of the major Persian Gulf oil producers have
seen the kind of political instability that has affected
production in Libya.  Saudi Arabia has about 3.5 million barrels of untapped
daily production capacity for emergencies, the  International
Energy Agency  says -- more than double Libya’s output. The
Saudis would need at least 30 days to bring this capacity
online, says Erik Kreil, the U.S. Energy Department’s specialist
on oil market disruptions.  Al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said Feb. 22 that OPEC is
ready to step in to meet a shortage caused by a disruption in
shipments from Libya. “Saudi Arabia and OPEC will be ready to
meet that shortage, if and when it happens,” he said.  Futures Rising  Despite al-Naimi’s assurances, Brent oil futures, the
benchmark price for two-thirds of the world’s crude, have
climbed 10 percent since Feb. 15 -- just before Libya began to
unravel -- and passed $108 a barrel for the first time since
2008. Prices will continue to escalate while the Saudis tap
their spare capacity and refiners, chemical makers and
speculative traders all go after a piece of a shrinking global
supply, Kreil says.  Oil traders are haunted by the specter of 2002-2003, when
political unrest and an oil industry strike in  Venezuela 
interrupted the flow of crude exports from one of the primary
suppliers to the U.S. market. While the world waited for the
Saudis to deliver on promises of extra crude, oil futures traded
in  New York  surged 51 percent in the span of three months to the
highest price since the outbreak of the first  Gulf War , more
than 12 years earlier.  A similar run-up now in the Brent contract used to price
Middle East crude would translate into prices in excess of $160
a barrel. If the Venezuelan experience is any guide, prices from
such an increase would not stay high for long. After Saudi
supplies began flowing in the spring of 2003, U.S. crude prices
tumbled 37 percent in two months.  Mideast Crisis  The difference between 2003 and now is that the current
crisis is in the Mideast, where upheaval has proved contagious.
Gianna Bern, a former BP crude trader now at Brookshire Research
and Advisory, puts it this way: “The real concern is that if we
see these sorts of disturbances spread to Saudi Arabia or  Iran ,
then we’re going to see turmoil in energy markets go to another
level, an unprecedented level.”  All the Arab states that emerged from the collapse of the
Ottoman Empire after World War I are vulnerable, Stratfor’s
Zeihan says, because none have managed a normal transition of
political power. Saudi Arabia has been under the thumb of the
same family since its establishment. Even if Saudi Arabia avoids
unrest this time, it has to continue Abdullah’s reforms to
prevent an upheaval. According to Richard Murphy, a former U.S.
ambassador to Saudi Arabia, the Saudis need to keep creating
jobs and, more importantly, give their citizens “a sense of
participation in government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net 
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock in New York at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net  