-- 
Saudi Man Arrested in Texas on Weapons Charge May Have Been Targeting Bush

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-02-24T20:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/saudi-man-arrested-in-texas-for-attemped-use-of-weapon-of-mass-destruction.html
A 20-year-old Saudi student was
arrested in Texas and accused of purchasing chemicals to make a
bomb and researching potential targets in the U.S., including
nuclear  power plants  and the Dallas address of former President  George W. Bush .  Khalid Ali-M Aldawsari, arrested yesterday by the FBI,
allegedly wrote in a journal that he was inspired by al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden and was planning for jihad, according to
court papers filed by the U.S. government.  Counterterrorism officials have raised concerns about the
possibility that people living legally in the U.S. could plot
attacks and evade detection. In this case, Aldawsari was
arrested after a chemical supplier reported to the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  that he tried to purchase concentrated
phenol, which can be used to make an explosive, according to a
Justice Department statement today.  “Aldawsari purchased ingredients to construct an explosive
device and was actively researching potential targets in the  United States ,” Assistant Attorney General David Kris said in
the statement. “This case serves as another reminder of the
need for continued vigilance both at home and abroad.”  Threat Eliminated  The U.S. is confident that it has eliminated the threat
posed by Aldawsari, according to a federal law enforcement
official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter and spoke
on condition of anonymity. Court papers filed by the government
don’t allege that Aldawsari was acting under the direction of
any terrorist group.  Aldawsari was charged with attempted use of a weapon of
mass destruction and faces a maximum sentence of life in prison,
according to the Justice Department statement. He is scheduled
to make his first court appearance tomorrow in federal court in
Lubbock and had no attorney listed in public records.  He was legally allowed into the U.S. in 2008 on a student
visa and is enrolled at  South Plains College  near Lubbock,  Texas , according to the statement. He started at the school in
January after transferring from  Texas Tech University  and is
listed as a general studies major, said Dane Dewbre, a spokesman
for South Plains. He was a chemical engineering major at Texas
Tech, according to the court papers.  President  Barack Obama  was informed about the case before
the arrest, White House press secretary Jay Carney said at a
briefing for reporters in Washington. Bush also was notified,
Carney said.  According to an affidavit in support of the criminal
complaint and arrest warrant, filed in U.S. District Court in
Lubbock, Aldawsari researched targets and e-mailed himself
information on locations and people. He listed as possible
targets hydroelectric dams and nuclear power plants, according
to the affidavit.  Bush’s Address  He identified reservoir dams in Colorado and  California ,
according to the Justice Department. On Feb. 6, he sent himself
am e-mail titled “Tyrant’s House,” in which he listed Bush’s
Dallas address, the affidavit said. Aldawsari also sent an e-
mail with the subject line “Targets” that included the names
and home addresses of three Americans who previously served in
the U.S. military and had been stationed at the Abu Ghraib
prison in  Iraq , according to the  Justice Department .  He allegedly made Internet searches on babies and dolls,
leading investigators to conclude that he may have considered
using a “realistic doll to conceal explosives or other
weapons,” according to the affidavit. He may also have
considered targeting a nightclub with an explosive concealed in
a backpack, according to the Justice Department.  ‘Time for Jihad’  Aldawsari allegedly described his desire for violent jihad
in postings online and in a personal journal, according to the
Justice Department. According to the affidavit, one journal
entry said: “And now, after mastering the English language,
learning how to build explosives and continuous planning to
target the infidel Americans, it is time for Jihad.”  He also wrote that the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,
led to a “big change” in his thinking and that he was inspired
by the speeches of bin Laden, according to the affidavit.  In December, Aldawsari purchased concentrated nitric and
sulfuric acids, other ingredients that could be used to make an
explosive, according to the Justice Department. He allegedly e-
mailed himself recipes for explosives and instructions on how to
make a cell phone into a remote detonator and how to booby-trap
a vehicle. He purchased a gas mask, hazardous materials suit,
glass beakers and a stun gun, according to the Justice
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  