-- 
Scholes to Sign for Another Season With Manchester Utd., Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-02-24T06:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/scholes-to-sign-for-another-season-with-manchester-utd-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Scholes to Re-sign  Manchester United midfielder  Paul Scholes , who had hinted
that he may retire at the end of the season, told manager Alex Ferguson that he’ll sign a new one-year deal, the Sun  reported .  Ferguson has convinced Scholes, 36, that he has a vital
role to play even after being limited to 11 Premier League
starts this campaign, the newspaper added.  Arsenal ‘Immoral’  Barcelona President  Sandro Rosell  called Arsenal
“immoral” after the Premier League club signed midfielder Jon
Toral, 16, from the Spanish champion’s youth academy, the
Independent  reported . Barcelona, which isn’t allowed to sign 16-
year-olds to professional contracts, will receive a fee of
350,000 pounds ($568,225) for Toral, the newspaper said.  “For us, it is important that we keep these youngsters who
grow up in La Masia,” the Independent cited Rosell as telling
Catalan television last night. “Now they come with money and
take the players. Legally they have done nothing wrong but we
told them it was immoral.”  Zhirkov’s Quit Threat  Yuri Zhirkov is contemplating leaving Chelsea if he fails
to secure a regular first-team place by the end of the season,
the Sun  reported .  The Russia wing-back, who joined the Premier League
champion from  CSKA Moscow  in July 2009 for 18 million pounds,
was quoted as saying that he “will start thinking of other
possibilities” if he fails to bed down a starting spot.  Chelsea Departures?  Chelsea defender Jose Bosingwa has been lined up for a 10
million-pound offseason move to Italy’s Juventus and Blues
winger Florent Malouda is wanted by Spanish club Hercules, the
Mail  reported .  Even though Chelsea is still in the Champions League, the
squad is set for an overhaul after a disappointing domestic
campaign and Bosingwa is likely to be allowed to leave, the
newspaper said. Hercules is prepared to offer Chelsea 7 million
pounds for French winger Malouda, the Mail added.  Player Shortage    Manchester City  may have just 16 senior players available
for today’s Europa League return match against Greek team Aris
Salonika, the Independent  reported .  City manager  Roberto Mancini  said that goalkeeper Shay Given will miss three months with a shoulder injury sustained
before last week’s scoreless draw in  Greece , the newspaper added.
He’ll also be without Micah Richards and  James Milner , while  Adam Johnson  faces another two months out with an ankle injury,
the Independent said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  