-- 
Sears Holdings Appoints D’Ambrosio as Chief Executive Officer

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-02-24T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/sears-holdings-appoints-d-ambrosio-as-chief-executive-officer.html
  Sears
Holdings Corp ., the largest U.S. department store chain, said
Lou D’Ambrosio will assume duties today as chief executive
officer and president.  D’Ambrosio, a former CEO of telecommunications company
Avaya Inc., was named to the posts yesterday. Over the last six
months, he worked as a consultant to the Sears board on
strategic and operational matters, the company said.  “Having worked closely with Lou and observing his business
acumen, compelling leadership style, performance orientation and
customer first approach, I am confident that Lou is the right
person to lead and transform Sears Holdings,” Chairman Edward S. Lampert said in a statement yesterday.  D’Ambrosio joined Avaya as a vice president for services in
2002 after spending 16 years at  International Business Machines
Corp . He was named CEO and president in 2006 and sold Avaya to  Silver Lake  and TPG Inc. for $8.2 billion in 2007. He stepped
down from Avaya for medical reasons in June 2008.  “He is good with technology. He’s not a merchant,”  Brian Sozzi , an analyst at Wall Street Strategies in New York, said in
an interview yesterday. The question is “what does Sears stand
for. I don’t think this hire brings any clarity on this
question.”  Sears, which operates stores under the Sears and K-Mart
brands, hasn’t posted an annual gain in revenue since fiscal
2007. Annual same-store sales, a key measure of growth, haven’t
increased since the fiscal year ended January 2000.  Sears declined to comment beyond the statement.  The company reports fourth-quarter earnings today. Sears
fell $2.93 to $87.23 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
Before today, the shares had fallen 7 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  