-- 
Serbia to Raise Electricity Prices in April, Prime Minister Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-02-24T18:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/serbia-to-raise-electricity-prices-in-april-prime-minister-says.html
Serbia will raise electricity prices
as of April 1, the first increase in a year, with new prices not
affecting as many as 1.5 million socially vulnerable households,
according to Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic .  The government stopped short of endorsing the new price
list as of March 1, responding to central bank advice to raise
the prices after the end of the first quarter, when inflation,
already in the double-digits, is expected to have peaked.  The power monopoly Elektroprivreda Srbije, also known as
EPS, can apply 15 percent higher prices to industrial consumers
and a 13.5 percent price increase to households consuming more
than 350 kilowatt-hours per month as of April, after the winter
season ends, Cvetkovic told lawmakers in parliament today.  “For around one million or 1.5 million households
consuming less than 350 kilowatt-hours per month, prices will
remain the same,” Cvetkovic said.  Even after the price increase, electricity prices in Serbia
of 4.8 euro-cents per kilowatt-hour will remain the lowest in
the region, Energy Minister Petar Skundric said, adding that
consumers are paying 6.9 cents in neighboring  Montenegro , 8.1
cents in Albania, 8.2 cents in  Bulgaria  and as much as 15.63
cents in  Hungary .  “Let me tell you that EPS is not a loss-maker, so you can
realize that EPS is responsible and bearing the brunt of welfare
spending because it helps families and also companies to be more
competitive,” Skundric told parliament.  Close to Collapse  Serbia has traditionally treated electricity and gas prices
as a social, rather than economic category, especially in pre-
election years.  The ruling coalition of Democrats, Socialists and
technocrats, which has a one-seat majority in the 250-seat
parliament, was close to collapsing earlier this month, when
Cvetkovic launched procedures to fire his deputy Mladjan Dinkic.  Leaders of the ruling coalition, including Dinkic, are
expected to agree by the end of the month the reshuffle of
Cvetkovic’s cabinet, a year before general elections in 2012.
Opposition parties have called for early elections.  Serbia, the biggest republic of the former Yugoslav
federation, expects to see its economy growing three percent
this year, nearly double its 2010 growth rate. A three percent
contraction in 2009, the year when Serbia felt the pinch of
global recession, has left at least 200,000 people out of work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  