-- 
Shanghai’s New Dog Rules Mean One Best Friend Per Household

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T10:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/shanghai-s-new-dog-rules-mean-one-best-friend-per-household.html
  Shanghai ,  China ’s richest city, is
extending the country’s one-child policy to animals as it moves
to limit residents to one dog per household in a bid to curb the
growing popularity of man’s best friend.  The population of dogs is causing headaches for the city
government which is banning certain breeds because of an
increasing number of attacks under new rules passed by
lawmakers, according to a  statement  released by the municipality
today.  Shanghai’s population may have reached 23 million people
last year as more migrants moved to the city, China Daily
reported Feb. 23. Dog ownership has also risen dramatically with
incomes in China, which passed the one-child policy in 1979 to
limit its human population.  The city’s gross domestic product last year grew 9.9
percent to 1.687 trillion yuan. The city now has 600,000
unlicensed dogs, according to a report in the  Shanghai Daily .
The newspaper added that the government will also impose a 200
yuan fine on dog owners who fail to clean up after their pets.  “As incomes rise, more people want pets,” said  Shaun
Rein , Shanghai-based managing director of China Market Research
Group. “It’s becoming a serious issue about dogs running
around, pooping and causing a mess.”  The Shanghai government wants to cut down on the number of
animals in urban areas to decrease cases of animal attacks and
prevent rabies, according to a statement on its website. Canine
abuse has also been targeted, it said.  Last year, police handled about 140,000 cases of people
being bitten by unlicensed dogs, compared with 100,000 such
incidents in 2006, according to the Shanghai Daily report.
Banned attack dogs include Tibetan mastiffs, Beauceron wolfdogs
and English bulldogs, the newspaper said.  Owners who violate the new law will face fines of as much
as 1,000 yuan ($152), the Shanghai-based newspaper said. A dog
that attacks people more than once can be seized by police, it
said.  The new regulations go into effect May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Bruce Grant  in  Hong Kong  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  