-- 
Billionaire Slim Forgoes TV Advertising With a Second Mexican Broadcaster

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T06:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/slim-forgoes-tv-advertising-with-a-second-mexican-broadcaster.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s companies
have stopped buying advertising from Mexican broadcaster TV
Azteca SA, days after bigger rival Grupo Televisa SA also
disclosed Slim was no longer a client.  The billionaire’s companies refused a proposal linking an
ad deal to a reduction in the fees Slim’s phone carriers charge
the wireless provider owned by TV Azteca’s biggest shareholder,  Ricardo Salinas , said an official with Slim’s group who can’t be
named under company policy.  America Movil SAB, Telefonos de Mexico SAB and Grupo Carso
SAB, all controlled by Slim, sacrifice Mexico’s most important
advertising audience by being absent on the two TV chains, said
Karla Beatriz Pena, an analyst with Corp. Actinver SA. Televisa
has about 70 percent of  Mexico ’s broadcast market, with TV
Azteca holding most of the rest.  “The lack of a marketing strategy in television is a bit
of a risky step,” Pena said. “Telmex has a lot of presence on
television. Surely this would affect them.”  Televisa Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said
last week on an earnings conference call that the company, after
raising prices, had failed to sell upfront advertising this year
to companies controlled by Slim.  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for
Slim, said the dispute with Televisa was solely over price.  Slim’s companies and Televisa will probably come to terms
on an agreement eventually because both sides will benefit,
analysts with  Barclays Plc  and Citigroup Inc. said this week.  Advertising Sales  Advertising sales to Slim’s group represented about 1.5
percent of Televisa’s 57.9 billion pesos ($4.77 billion) in 2010
sales. Televisa will want a deal with Slim’s companies to avoid
a decline in its broadcast sales this year, said Michel Morin,
an analyst with Barclays in  New York .  “Everything is negotiable,” Morin said. “There will
probably be a desire on both parts to come to an agreement.”  TV Azteca will probably also reach a resolution with Slim’s
group for similar reasons, Pena said. She said she didn’t have
an estimate of Azteca’s sales from Slim’s companies.  An official representing Salinas’s companies, including
mobile-phone carrier Grupo Iusacell SA, said TV Azteca would
like to sell advertising to Slim’s group at market rates.
Telmex, Mexico’s biggest landline phone carrier, and Telcel,
America Movil’s Mexican mobile-phone unit, should also offer
network connection prices at market rates, said the official,
who can’t be named under company policy.  Connection Fees  Telmex, Telcel and Telefonica SA, Mexico’s second-biggest
wireless carrier, agreed in December to reduce network
connection fees for calls to mobile phones by 37 percent through
2014. Telcel agreed to extend the same terms to other carriers
this month.  TV Azteca is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results
today after the close of trading. The Mexico City-based company
is controlled by Salinas, who according to Forbes magazine is
Mexico’s second-richest man, after Slim.  TV Azteca gained 2 centavos to 8.42 pesos yesterday in
Mexico City trading. The shares have declined 2.1 percent this
year. Mexico City-based Iusacell is closely held by Salinas
after delisting its shares last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  