-- 
South Africa Says Gold Miners May Help to Pay for Treatment of Acid Water

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-02-24T11:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/south-africa-says-gold-miners-may-help-to-pay-for-treatment-of-acid-water.html
  South Africa  wants mining companies
to contribute toward the costs of treating acid water, which is
oozing out of derelict  gold mines  around Johannesburg and
contaminating the city’s ground water.  Pumping and treating the water will require an initial
capital outlay of 443 million rand ($62.6 million) and a further
76 million rand annually, the Department for Water Affairs said
in a  report  published on its website today. It may also impose
an environmental levy on companies.  “In the short term, the mining industry is expected to
contribute some of the costs,” the ministry said. “In the
medium to long term, the country should also explore the
viability of an environmental levy on all operating mines to
fund the environmental legacies of the  mining industry ,
including the management of acid mine drainage.”  Water, which collects in unused mines and flows over
exposed metal surfaces, absorbs sulphuric acid before decanting
into surrounding areas.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd .,  Gold Fields Ltd .
and Harmony Gold Mining Co., the continent’s largest producers
of the metal, all have mines on the Witwatersrand, the world’s
biggest goldfield, where some shafts go as deep as 2.35 miles
(3.8 kilometers) underground. Johannesburg flourished into a
city after the discovery of gold in 1886.  The acid mine drainage is taking place in three basins
around Johannesburg, which is dotted with non-operational gold
mines, the report said. President  Jacob Zuma ’s Cabinet on Feb.
22 said it approved the plan outlined in the report, which is
dated December.  Decisive Action Needed  “Decant has already occurred in the Western Basin, while
the Central Basin is currently flooding and will decant within
two to three years unless decisive action is taken immediately
to prevent it,” the report said. The government will fund and
operate efforts to manage the drainage through one or more of
its agencies, the report said.  Pumping in the central basin, which lies below
Johannesburg, is due to begin by March next year, three months
before acid water is expected to reach environmentally critical
levels, Trevor Balzer, the acting director-general of the water
affairs department, said on Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  