-- 
South Korea’s Current-Account Surplus Narrowed in January

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-02-25T01:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/south-korea-current-account-surplus-narrowed-to-an-11-month-low-in-january.html
South  Korea ’s current-account
surplus narrowed to an 11-month low in January as imports surged
amid an economic recovery and rising energy demand.  The surplus was $229 million, compared with $2.11 billion
in December, the Bank of Korea said in a statement in Seoul
today. The current account is the broadest measure of trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income.    South Korea  has stepped up measures to limit won gains
driven by foreign capital inflows, helping keep exports
competitive. Overseas shipments contributed to the fastest
economic expansion last year since 2002, stoking price pressures
and prompting the Bank of Korea to raise  interest rates .  “The current account stands to worsen should  oil prices 
move much higher,” said Kwon Young Sun, an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . “We see an increasing risk that the
BOK will choose not to raise rates in March because of
uncertainties surrounding the Middle East crisis.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,128.95 per dollar as of 10:30
a.m. in Seoul. The benchmark Kospi stock index lost 0.33 percent.
The currency has weakened about 0.27 percent against the dollar
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The nation will probably post a current-account surplus in
February as exports remain “stronger than expected” even as
imports rise,  Lee Young Bog , an official at the  Bank of Korea ,
told reporters in Seoul today.  Earnings Boost  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 45.4 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with a 22.6 percent
gain in December. Imports climbed 32.4 percent after rising 21.7
percent in December.  Overseas shipments have boosted earnings last year at
companies including Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest
maker of semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones.  The central bank unexpectedly left the nation’s benchmark
interest rate at 2.75 percent this month after raising it in
January, July and November from a record-low 2 percent.
Inflation quickened to 4.1 percent in January from 3.5 percent
in December, exceeding the bank’s target of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012.  The surplus on traded goods narrowed to $1.63 billion last
month from $3.68 billion in December, today’s report showed. The
services deficit, which measures the flow of travel, transport
costs and royalties, was $1.64 billion in January, compared with
$1.15 billion in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Sim in  Seoul  at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  