-- 
South Sudan's Militia Clashes Imperil Oil Exploration, Independence Plans

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-02-24T09:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/south-sudan-s-militia-clashes-imperil-oil-exploration-independence-plans.html
Armed clashes between  Southern
Sudan ’s army and a rebel militia that killed about 200 people
this month are clouding the region’s preparations for
independence in July and threatening future oil exploration.  The Feb. 9-10 fighting started when a militia loyal to
George Athor, a former chief of staff in Southern Sudan’s army
who took up arms after losing a state election in April,
attacked the army in Jonglei state a month after signing a
cease-fire with it. Paris-based  Total SA  owns 32.5 percent of a
118,000 square-kilometer (45,560 square-mile) concession in
Jonglei and Lakes states.  “If that area becomes a place that is ungovernable, with a
lot of violence, operators are not going to want to commence
exploration or production efforts,” Monica Enfield, director of
the energy markets and country strategies group at PFC Energy,
and U.S. oil and gas industry consultant, said yesterday by
phone from Houston. “Future production is likely to come from
the Melut Basin, which could be impacted by violence in
Jonglei.”  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had five billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration .  Ending the insecurity sparked by militia rebellions will be
key to attracting the foreign investment and development aid
needed to build an economy that has no steady power supply,
large-scale farms or factories.  Total said last month that it had no set date to start
drilling due partly because of security concerns.  UN Role  The  United Nations Mission in Sudan  is relaying messages
between the Southern Sudanese authorities and Athor in the hope
that talks can restart.  “We are just keeping lines of communication open between
Athor and the government,” David Gressly, the UN regional
coordinator in  Southern Sudan , said today by phone from Juba,
the regional capital.  “They need to be able to bring this to a resolution,” he
said. “To leave that one pending encourages others to do the
same.”  Before Southern Sudan and the north signed a  peace accord 
in 2005, the region had been the scene of fighting for all but
11 years since Sudan’s independence from the U.K. in 1966. While
last month’s referendum on independence passed off peacefully,
with a 99 percent vote for secession, the clashes with Athor’s
forces showed that unity in the region remains fragile.  Army Waiting  “If in fact the cease-fire has collapsed, we are going to
see much of the same kind of fighting and civilians are going to
suffer,” Jehanne Henry, a researcher on Sudan for  Human Rights
Watch , said Feb. 18 by phone from  New York . “Some people don’t
know what it means for the war to be over.”  The ruling party in the region, the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, has urged the army to “stamp” out Athor’s
rebellion. While the authorities know where Athor is, the
security forces are waiting, said Philip Aguer, the spokesman of
the  Sudan People’s Liberation Army .  “There is no talk now, he has already declared war,” he
said in a phone interview from Juba.  Since the peace agreement, Southern Sudan’s president,  Salva Kiir , has adopted a policy of wooing militias to join the
region’s security forces. In 2006, the largest faction, the
South  Sudan  Defense Forces, was integrated into the army.  “I don’t think any door is ever closed in Southern
Sudan,” Gressly said. “We have seen time and again bitter
enemies reconcile their differences here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 