-- 
S. Africa Farmers Shun Libya, Target Sudan Bananas, Egypt Grapes

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-02-24T11:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/south-african-farmers-shun-libya-target-sudan-bananas-egyptian-grapes.html
  South Africa ’s biggest farmers
union,  Agri SA , said its members are seeking to expand into  Egypt , Morocco and Sudan while putting plans to enter  Libya  on
hold because of violence in that country.  Members of the Pretoria-based union are already producing
grapes in Egypt’s Aswan region and are considering olive farming
and processing ventures in Morocco and sugar and banana
operations in Sudan, Theo de Jager, who heads the union’s Africa
committee, said in an interview today. An agreement to farm land
in Congo Republic has already been brokered and sugar operations
are being considered in  Mozambique , he said.  The union, which has 70,000 members, is hoping to profit
from growing demand in  Africa  and to compete more effectively on
the international market by investing in countries where the
climate and location may help them undercut rivals in South
America.  “We hope to end the competitive advantage they have over
us,” de Jager said from Tzaneen, a fruit-farming town in
eastern South Africa. Expansion into Libya has been “put on the
back burner” by farmers who had hoped to profit from a yet to
be ratified bilateral trade agreement between the country and
South Africa, he said.  Most farmers will have the operations in new countries run
by managers rather than emigrating, he said.  “There are South Africans opening up in Egypt, with one of
our biggest grape farmers and others farming in the Aswan
region,” de Jager said. “The farmers in northern  Sudan  should
be able to utilize a preferential sugar trade agreement between
Arab nations.”  South American Competition  Investment plans in Congo Republic, where the agriculture
ministry will allocate about 172,000 hectares (425,012 acres) of
land to 17 South African farming syndicates, are focused on
producing grain and red meat for the local market and fruit for
export.  “The farmers will grow tropical fruit and hopefully give
us an edge against farmers in South America where they
traditionally beat us to the European markets by about a week,”
he said.  The union hopes to conclude talks over 50-year land leases
in Mozambique next week as part of a plan to grow sugar for
biofuel plants, tropical fruit and livestock, de Jager said.  The union has turned down opportunities in Canada and  Europe , he said.  A rival union, Tau SA, has concluded an agreement to send
farmers who want to leave South Africa to  Georgia .  South African farmers are the continent’s biggest producers
of corn, grapes, wine and sugar and the world’s second-biggest
citrus fruit exporter after  Spain .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 