-- 
Zapatero Extends Lead Over Socrates in Debt Race: Euro Credit

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-02-24T09:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/spain-s-zapatero-beating-socrates-of-portugal-in-debt-race-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is beating his Portuguese counterpart  Jose Socrates  as they battle to convince investors they can stem the
debt crisis and restore economic growth.  The extra yield investors demand to own Portuguese 10-year
bonds rather than Spanish securities has climbed this year,
approaching levels reached just prior to Ireland’s November
bailout. It cost a record 215 basis points more this week to
insure against  Portugal  defaulting than its Iberian neighbor.  Zapatero adopted austerity earlier than Socrates. In a U-
turn, he embraced public-wage cuts six months before Socrates
did, raised the  retirement age , made it cheaper to fire workers
and forced lenders to hold more capital. Portugal, whose central
government deficit widened for the first 10 months of last year,
denies it needs aid as borrowing costs near a euro-era record.  “It seems that the adjustments the Spanish government has
made and the tighter rules they are applying to the banks are
having a convincing effect on investors,” said Marius Daheim, a
senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in
Munich. “Spain is getting the benefit of the doubt and is
increasingly being perceived as a turnaround story, while
Portugal is seen as a target for the rescue fund.”  Follow the Money  The yield spread between Spanish 10-year bonds and their
German counterparts has narrowed 26 basis points since Dec. 31
to 223 basis points today, while Portugal pays 73 basis points
more relative to bunds than at the end of 2010. Spain has
pledged to trim its deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic this
year from a targeted 9.3 percent in 2010 and 11 percent in 2009.
Portugal aims to cut its shortfall to the EU’s limit of 3
percent of GDP by 2012 from a projected 7 percent last year.  Bond trading signals that while Portugal is struggling to
convince investors it won’t need to turn to the 440 billion-euro
($606 billion) European Financial Stability Facility rescue
fund,  Spain  is seen at less risk of collapse.  Spanish 10-year bonds yield 215 basis points less than
their Portuguese counterparts, from 115 at the end of 2010. The
spread jumped to 253 basis points on Nov. 10, the most since at
least February 1997. Credit-default swaps on Portuguese
sovereign bonds cost 477 basis points compared with 267 for
Spain, according to CMA. The difference climbed to 215 basis
points on Feb.22, the widest since at least October 2004, when
prices for sovereign debt insurance first became available.  Progress and Healing  Spanish bonds are “certainly getting better” as a
potential investment,  Andrew Bosomworth , a money manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with Francine Lacqua on
Feb. 21. “Real economic progress and healing is starting to
take place,” he said. Pimco manages the world’s largest bond
fund.  Zapatero announced additional measures today aimed at
tackling the 20 percent unemployment rate, telling Parliament
the government will step up vocational training in schools. The
prime minister, who has pledged to change rules on wage-
bargaining by the end of next month, also said the nation has to
improve its competitiveness.  Spain’s deficit-cutting and moves to shore up the cajas, as
the nation’s savings banks are known, may not be enough to
prevent contagion if Portugal is forced to seek an EU bailout,
according to Ignis Asset Management.  “You can’t get too carried away because of Spanish banks’
exposure to Portugal,” said  Stuart Thomson , a Glasgow-based
portfolio manager at Ignis, which manages about $121 billion.
“Because of historical links, it’s an important trading partner
for Spain, both financially and economically.”  Spain’s lenders had $86 billion in foreign claims relating
to the neighboring country in September last year, according to
the  Bank for International Settlements . Spain also sells 8.9
percent of its global exports to Portugal, according to 2010
data from the Industry Ministry.  Right Noises  Spanish bonds have delivered a total return, including
reinvested interest, of 1.5 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. While that trails  Greece ’s 3.1
percent gain among euro-area government debt, it beats
Portugal’s 3.2 percent loss.  “Spain has certainly been doing the right things, and
talking a good game as well,” said Gary Jenkins head of fixed
income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London . “The concern for
the market is that if Portugal doesn’t make it, investors may
turn to Spain. It’s going to have to continue to impress in both
word and deed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  