-- 
Sports Leagues Battle Video Pirates Showing Bootleg Live Games on Internet

-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 
2011-02-24T22:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/sports-leagues-battle-video-pirates-showing-bootleg-live-games-on-internet.html
It’s Saturday, Feb. 5, at the
Mandalay Bay Events Center in  Las Vegas , and 11,000 fans are
watching as barefoot brawlers pummel each other in the  Ultimate
Fighting Championship , the mixed martial arts league.  Edward Muncey is engaged in hand-to-hand combat, but not in
the ring; he’s at a keyboard in a room a few hundred feet away
that reverberates with the roar from the arena. Dressed in a
black pinstripe suit, the UFC’s vice president of new media and
technology pitches forward on a hotel chair before three
computer screens, trawling the Internet to find and shut down
unauthorized live broadcasts of the evening’s matches, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Feb. 28 edition.  As the night progresses, unauthorized video streams of the
event sprout across the Web. Although Muncey has contracted with
several anti-piracy firms around the world, he identifies more
than 200 illegal broadcasts of the fight playing on a single
site: Justin.tv, the live video streaming service, based in  San
Francisco .  He’s able to shut these down using a Web tool that
Justin.tv makes available to copyright holders. He has less luck
with videos of the event he finds on dozens of other sites and
blogs. Muncey and his team fire off hundreds of threatening e-
mails to the operators of these websites, demanding that they
take down the illicit feeds. Many comply, but others respond
slowly or not at all. “It’s like someone stole your car and is
celebrating by doing a doughnut on the parking lot next door,”
Muncey says.  A Safe Perch  Sports leagues once viewed the Internet’s disruption of
other entertainment industries from a safe perch. The Web was
terrific for sharing digital music and television programs, but
it wasn’t really great for games in progress, when outcomes are
still in doubt and fans are most interested.  Now the technology has improved and pirates can easily
divert authorized broadcasts from TV networks onto their own
websites. They have powerful computers, fast broadband
connections and operations in countries such as  China , Sweden,
and the Netherlands, which have less rigorous copyright
protection laws and anti-piracy enforcement.  This past National Football League season, for example,
fans could find and watch almost any game they wanted to see, as
long as they didn’t mind inconsistent video quality and the
occasional inconvenience of having to find a new stream when the
one they were watching shut down.  “We all knew this tsunami was coming,” says Eric Goldman,
an associate professor of law at  Santa Clara University  and an
adviser to Justin.tv, who does not speak for the company. “Some
of the businesses that leagues had in the past are going to get
much harder to control.”  Previous Pirates  For years, bar owners purchased pay-per-view or satellite
feeds and displayed them to their clientele without making the
proper payments. But this new kind of Internet piracy could be
far more difficult to stop and strikes right at the heart of
leagues like the UFC, which asks fans for $45 to watch a night
of action on pay-per-view television -- or via its own website.
With thousands of Internet users able to watch an unauthorized
broadcast and countless illicit channels springing up across the
Web, the potential losses for leagues such as the UFC are
devastating.  Leagues Vulnerable  The country’s major sports leagues make billions selling
broadcast contracts to TV networks and high-priced stadium
seats, then go to great lengths to protect those businesses. For
instance, in most cities,  Major League Baseball  does not allow
fans to watch the games of their hometown team online, because
local broadcasters fear it might damage the ratings of televised
games.  The NFL blacks out games in the city of the home team if
the stadium is not sold out. Piracy gives a fan interested only
in the  Baltimore Ravens , say, a reason to avoid paying $300 a
year or more for satellite provider DirecTV’s NFL Ticket
package, which includes every game.  Conversations with representatives of MLB, the NFL, the  National Basketball Association  and the  National Hockey League 
suggest that Internet piracy of live games is a growing problem.
The NFL says it took down 4,130 unauthorized live streams of its
games during the 2010 season -- a 67 percent increase from the
total in 2009.  “It’s a game of Whac-A-Mole,” says Gary Gertzog, the
NFL’s senior vice president of legal and business affairs. “We
tell them to stop, they agree to stop, we look later, and they
are back at it. This is not where we want to see growth.”  Fighting Back  To slow that growth, sports leagues, like media companies
also tormented by digital pirates, are fighting back any way
they can. They’ve teamed up in an industry coalition, they’ve
filed lawsuits and they’re lobbying for more aggressive
copyright legislation. On Jan. 24, in a move reminiscent of
Viacom Inc.’s unsuccessful 2007 lawsuit against YouTube, Zuffa,
the Las Vegas-based owner of the UFC, sued Justin.tv in federal
court in  Nevada , alleging that the 4-year-old venture-capital-
backed startup wasn’t doing enough to keep infringing material
off its website.  A Justin.tv spokesman would not comment on the suit.  Most intellectual property experts say Justin.tv complies
with the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), which
says website owners are protected if they move expeditiously to
take down infringing content when notified by a copyright
holder.  That doesn’t satisfy Dana White, president of the UFC, who
is most critical of streaming sites that run ads alongside his
copyrighted video. Says White: “The people I want to see
obliterated are the guys making a business out of stealing our
stuff.”  U.S. Government Help  Earlier this month, the U.S. government jumped into the
ring. On Feb. 2, federal investigators seized the domain names
of 10 foreign-owned sites that had become hubs for sports fans
looking for free sports broadcasts online. From that day on,
when fans visited sites such as ATDHE.net, based in  Sweden , or
Rojadirecta.org, based in  Spain , they were greeted by a Web page
featuring the insignias of the Justice Dept.,  Homeland Security 
Dept. and National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination
Center.  ‘This is a first step. It’s a disruptive tactic,’’ says
James Hayes, special agent at Homeland Security, who led the
operation.  It may also have been a symbolic one. Within a few hours
the pirate sites had moved to new Web addresses, outside the
reach of U.S. authorities. Their owners were openly sharing the
new URLs with their followers on Twitter, and some were
promising they would carry live feeds of the upcoming UFC fight.
“What keeps us up at night is piracy,” said Lawrence Epstein,
UFC’s general counsel. “If we have an Achilles’ heel, this is
it.”  Meeting a Pirate  Last August, Muncey set out with a UFC colleague to
understand the mind of the Internet pirate. The pair flew to
Phoenix and met with Hazim Gaber, the former operator of the
video site WatchTVSitcoms.com, who had recently been convicted
of selling counterfeit cancer drugs and had agreed to cooperate
with investigators and copyright owners as a condition of his
33-month prison sentence.  Gaber, 22, a native of  Edmonton ,  Alberta , was led into a
windowless room in the U.S. Federal Building wearing handcuffs.
He immediately recognized the names of Muncey and his colleague
from the cease-and-desist letters they had sent him over the
previous three years, which he had ignored. In the ensuing
discussion, Gaber gave the UFC officials a reason for optimism.
He said the legal threats from sports leagues always felt
hollow, and that he would have stopped posting unauthorized
video if he had ever actually been sued.  Muncey says the league was emboldened by Gaber’s insights.
In addition to suing Justin.tv, it recently filed a series of
other lawsuits against sites allegedly promoting unauthorized
streams of its fights. Epstein hints that the company is
currently busy preparing others.  Targeting Ad Networks  A second target could be the online advertising networks
that display ads on video sites without regard for the legality
of the material on those sites.  After Gaber suggested that the league “follow the money”
and pursue such ad networks, the UFC met with executives from a
Las Vegas online ad company called CPAlead, whose banner ads
regularly appeared on martial arts enthusiast sites that hosted
the league’s copyrighted video without permission.  Since that meeting, the UFC says it has not seen CPAlead’s
ads. John T. Bryant, a CPAlead representative, says: “These
aren’t the types of things that CPAlead condones or supports.”  Even after that success, the UFC faces an uphill battle.
Many of these sites, based in countries with lax copyright
enforcement, are unwilling to cooperate with U.S. companies. And
given the decentralized nature of the Internet, they may be
impossible to eliminate altogether.  Handy Menu  One variety of pirate video source, the so-called link
site, does nothing but present a handy menu of pointers to other
Web pages where Internet users can watch live games for free.  These sites, such as ATDHE, Channelsurf and Rojadirecta, do
not host any video themselves, and their owners express
indignation when asked about piracy.  “We just inform about sports events available on the
Internet,” writes Igor Seoane, the 27-year-old founder of
Rojadirecta, in an e-mail to Bloomberg Businessweek. “Those
events are there with or without Rojadirecta, most of them
linked by any search engine. We do not think it is our
responsibility to make even economical efforts to help copyright
owners.”  Seoane says a Spanish court dismissed a copyright case
against his site in 2008. He also says that he links to 1,000
games every weekend.  Linking Sites  The operators of other linking sites are not quite as
strident.  In January, ATDHE ranked as the 687th most popular site in
the world, according to tracking firm Alexa. Its owners did not
respond to multiple requests for comment.  On one recent evening, shortly after it had re-established
itself at a new Web address (following the U.S. government
intervention), the ATDHE site featured links to live broadcasts
of every NBA and NHL game, in addition to several big college
basketball games and international soccer matches.  NetResult, an anti-piracy firm based in the U.K., has sent
numerous takedown notices to the site’s Internet service
provider, PeRiQuito AB, which also hosts The Pirate Bay, the
BitTorrent file trading service, according to Christopher Stokes, chief executive officer of NetResult. The ISP declined
to take action against ATDHE because it said no illegal streams
were coming from the site.  Broadcasting School Play  Sites such as Rojadirecta and ATDHE would have nothing to
link to if it weren’t for the sites that actually host live
video and allow it to be played by any Internet user. These
sites, like Justin.tv, Ustream and dozens of others around the
world, characterize themselves as “YouTubes of live video.”  Many promote the ability of their users to broadcast, say,
their child’s school play, then stream it to relatives around
the world, who can all watch at the same time.  But these sites are also magnets for users who post live
copyrighted broadcasts such as TV shows and sporting events.
This can be as simple as purchasing a $50 HDTV adapter, which
plugs into a computer’s USB port and allows the PC to receive
live TV. Deploying so-called screencast programs that make
copies of everything on the PC screen, a user can then capture a
channel carrying a sports event and stream it over a live video
site.  Some of these video hosting sites, such as Zonein.tv and
vShare.tv, both based in Holland, appear to be oriented solely
toward this kind of illicit use. They publish no contact
information or details about their owners and are largely
unresponsive to takedown requests, sports leagues say. (Muncey,
of the UFC, says someone representing vShare.tv once wrote to
the league demanding a payment of $5,000 per month to hire
someone to scrub the site of the league’s material.)  Tools to Help  The video hosting sites in the U.S. are generally more
responsive to copyright owners, and most offer tools to allow
leagues to quickly close down streams of their broadcasts when
they find them. Sports leagues in particular praise Ustream,
based in San Francisco, which they say has employees manually
review channels that are suspected to contain copyrighted
content (streams that suddenly attract large audiences, or are
initiated by new users, are flagged).  Justin.tv, on the other hand, does not conduct such manual
reviews and frustrates executives at the sports leagues, which
say its users have gotten adept at quickly republishing
unauthorized broadcasts as soon as they are removed.  Policing the Sites  All leagues say they actively monitor these sites for their
content, but policing them has become arduous and expensive, and
new sites are springing up all the time. Veetle, a live video
startup run by former Stanford students and based in  Palo Alto ,  California , pledges to abide by the DMCA by promptly removing
infringing content whenever it is asked. During the UFC match,
Muncey and his team identified 26 live streams of the fight on
the site, and Veetle quickly complied with takedown requests.  “Our goal is to have content owners be able to identify
potentially infringing content and take it down in an
expeditious fashion,” Bo Yang, chief executive of Veetle, said
in an interview a few days after the fight.  Sports league executives naturally like to point to their
limited victories in combating the pirates. A Chinese website
called TVAnts.com once bedeviled MLB by posting live feeds of
many games during the 2009 season. Officials from baseball’s
MLB.com subsidiary investigated the site and found that its
domain name was registered to a computer science professor at
 Zhejiang University  on the east coast of China.  When the site was unresponsive to takedown requests, the
league wrote a letter to the university president. The school
responded politely, disclaiming any involvement and offering
assistance, and the site disappeared soon after.  Not Suing Fans  Still, sports leagues acknowledge that their own
enforcement efforts will never fully vanquish the piracy threat.
Executives at the major sports leagues also expressed little
interest in suing the individual fans sitting at home watching
these streams.  For one thing, this would require leagues to somehow force
the video sites to disclose their users’ identities. Instead,
the leagues are leaning hard on legislators to increase the
criminal penalties for copyright infringers and to improve the
tools at the disposal of  law enforcement .  One of their goals, to the alarm of advocates of an
unregulated Internet, is to limit the safe harbor protections
given to website operators under the DMCA.  “How does the DMCA even apply to live events?” asks
Epstein, the UFC’s general counsel, as he sips an energy drink
at the fight in Las Vegas.  Taking Material Down  The DMCA calls for sites to take infringing material down
“expeditiously” when notified by copyright holders. But,
Epstein argues, that’s meaningless for live sporting events,
where people can get the full value of a match after watching
only the final few minutes.  Sports leagues have recently offered their enthusiastic
support for a bill, proposed by Senator Patrick Leahy, a
Democrat from  Vermont , in September, called the Combating Online
Infringement and Counterfeits Act, or COICA.  The law would give the  Justice Department  a new set of
legal tools to go after “rogue sites” that are violating
copyrights or facilitating the sale of counterfeit goods. Among
the new tactics proposed, federal officials could compel  Internet service providers  to block U.S. Web users’ access to
overseas piracy sites and force ad networks and payment
processors such as Visa to stop doing business with them.  The bill unanimously passed the Senate Judiciary Committee
last year. A new version of it is expected to get a hearing by
the full Senate this year.  Objections to Bill  Internet civil liberties groups have vigorously objected to
the proposed law for a variety of reasons. They say it would
undermine the world’s trust in the U.S. stewardship of the
domain name system and deprive websites of due process. The law,
they add, would potentially harm all but the savviest Internet
users, who would easily circumvent it by using foreign-operated
Internet services to access blacklisted sites.  “The bill gives a tremendous amount of power to the
government without the appropriate safeguards,” says Kurt
Opsahl, a senior staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a digital rights advocacy nonprofit.  Recently, opponents of the bill say, there was a fresh
illustration of the futility of the bill’s approach. “We’ve
seen the problems the government has had in trying to shut down
WikiLeaks,” says Goldman, of  Santa Clara  University.
“WikiLeaks has proved COICA is ill-fated.”  Anti-Piracy Companies  Aside from backing new legislation, sports leagues are
looking to new anti-piracy companies such as Vobile, based in
Santa Clara, California, to solve their piracy problem. Vobile
analyzes and creates a “digital fingerprint” of live
broadcasts from TV networks and sports leagues.  Then cooperative websites and ISPs create their own
fingerprint of the video streamed by their users and search
Vobile’s database, flagging any videos that generate a positive
match and blocking any that are unauthorized by the copyright
holder. MLB and the NBA have both used the service while the NFL
has dropped it, because “the technology has not worked as well
as they said it would,” says the NFL’s Gertzog.  That leaves the leagues, for the time being, with little
recourse other than letters, lawsuits, lobbying -- and the kind
of laborious and perhaps futile enforcement efforts of Edward
Muncey at the UFC bout in Las Vegas.  That night, Muncey spends close to five straight hours at
his laptop, which is so overrun with malware from visiting
illicit pirate websites that it crashes frequently. As the night
grinds on, the league’s piracy problem grows worse.  Christmas Tree  When the main card begins at around 9:15 p.m., matching two
middleweights, Brazilians Anderson Silva and Vitor Belfort,
Muncey grumbles, the Web “lights up like a Christmas tree”
with unauthorized streams of the fight.  The fight, though, doesn’t last long. The fighters circle
each other warily for three minutes, and then abruptly, Silva
delivers a single kick to Belfort’s face, dropping him to the
ground and ending the evening. The crowd erupts, but in the
adjoining room, Muncey doesn’t even look up from his computer.
He’s fixated on Justin.tv’s website, where at the conclusion of
the event there are still 17 live feeds of the fight listed
prominently in the sports section. Although the point is now
moot, Muncey keeps submitting takedown requests.  “This makes me sick inside,” he says. 