-- 
Spyker to Sell Sports-Car Unit to Vladimir Antonov in Focus on Saab Brand

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-24T11:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/spyker-agrees-to-sell-sports-car-unit-to-vladimir-antonov-to-reduce-debt.html
  Spyker Cars NV , the Dutch owner of
Saab Automobile, agreed to sell its sports-car unit to Russian
businessman Vladimir Antonov to help reduce debt.  Antonov, a former Spyker chairman and shareholder, will pay
15 million euros ($21 million) for the maker of the C8 Aileron
and other supercar models that retail for more than $200,000,
the Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company said today. In addition,
Antonov would pay as much as 17 million euros over six years
depending on the unit’s future profits.  The Dutch manufacturer, which sold 36 cars in 2009, the
last available data, has been losing money since it sold shares
for the first time in 2004. Antonov held 29.9 percent of Spyker
before  General Motors Co . demanded that he get rid of his stake
before agreeing to sell Saab to Spyker. Tenaci Capital BV, a
company controlled by Spyker Chief Executive Officer Victor Muller, eventually bought Antonov’s stake.  “It’s a logical step to do this, so the company can focus
solely on the Saab business,” Martin Crum, an analyst at
Amsterdams Effectenkantoor BV, said by telephone. “Financially
it’s positive as well because the debt will be reduced. It will
reinforce the balance sheet and reduce the interest the company
must pay.”  Spyker rose as much as 13 percent, the biggest intraday
jump since Jan. 25, and was up 5 percent at 5.55 euros at 12:24
p.m. in Amsterdam. Before today, the stock had risen 52 percent
this year.  Saab Focus  “This transaction will allow Spyker Cars N.V. to focus on
the Saab Automobile business exclusively, will eliminate the
requirement for us to make further  capital investment  in the
Spyker business and will reduce our debt,” Spyker Chairman Hans Hugenholtz said in the statement.  The Dutch manufacturer owed about 74 million euros to
Tenaci as of Sept. 30, part of which were funds that helped
finance the acquisition of Saab in February 2010. To further
reduce debt and interest, Spyker within six months plans to
convert 17 million euros of its debt owed to Tenaci into shares,
it said.  Muller will remain Spyker CEO until a successor is
appointed, the company said. It will change its name “shortly”
to better reflect its greater focus on Saab.  Trollhaettan, Sweden-based Saab aims to sell 120,000
vehicles and become profitable by 2012.  Muller reiterated today that he’s considering listing
Spyker’s shares on the Stockholm exchange, and that he may
inform investors at a May 19 shareholder meeting about its
intentions. The sale of the sports-car unit should facilitate a
Stockholm listing, he said on a telephone conference.  “If we would go to the Stockholm exchange, the proposition
would be a clearer one, and hence a better one” if Spyker
operates Saab without the sports-car unit, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  