-- 
Switzerland Freezes Assets of Qaddafi, Regime Officials for Three Years

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-02-24T19:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/switzerland-freezes-assets-of-qaddafi-regime-officials-for-three-years.html
  Switzerland  froze the assets of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and his entourage for three years
to avoid the possible “misappropriation” of the funds.  The freeze takes effect immediately, the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said. The move comes less than two weeks after
the government froze funds and assets in Switzerland belonging
to former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and his circle.  “The Cabinet sharply condemns the use of force by Libyan
rulers against the population,” the ministry said in an e-
mailed statement from Bern today. “In view of the developments,
the Cabinet decided to block any possible assets of Muammar
Qaddafi and his circle in Switzerland with immediate effect.”  The four-paragraph text didn’t specify the value of Qaddafi
assets that are in Switzerland. The assets of Qaddafi and 26
other people, including his sons, have been frozen. It’s the
first time Switzerland has frozen the assets of a leader who is
still in power.  The Libyan leader, who has lost control of much of his
country’s oil-rich east, appealed to citizens to end violence as
his forces stepped up a crackdown on opponents and more than 100
people were reportedly shot dead.  The Swiss government has imposed similar freezes on assets
held by former Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and
Ivory Coast leader  Laurent Gbagbo . On Feb. 2, the government
began a procedure to formally confiscate the Swiss assets of
former Haitian ruler Jean-Claude Duvalier that have been frozen
since 1986.  Monitoring Situation  “The process in this case is exactly the same as with Ben
Ali and Mubarak,” Andre Simonazzi, a Federal Council spokesman,
said by telephone today. He said the government has condemned
the violence in Libya and continues to monitor the situation. He
wouldn’t say whether further measures are being considered.  An estimated 27 percent of the world’s privately held
offshore wealth is managed in Switzerland, which has tightened
money-laundering rules in the past years as it tries to prevent
the inflow of illicit funds.    Libya  is the latest regime in the region to experience a
popular uprising following the toppling of governments in
Tunisia and  Egypt . Demonstrations have also occurred in Yemen
and Bahrain, prompting  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil
exporter, to make changes intended to increase living standards.
King Abdullah yesterday announced at least $11 billion in
spending increases on social security and housing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  