-- 
U.K. Companies Are Urged to Double Women on Boards to 25%

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 
2011-02-24T12:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-k-firms-should-have-25-women-on-boards-by-2015-davies-says.html
Companies in the U.K.’s benchmark
FTSE 100 index should double the proportion of women on their
boards to 25 percent, according to recommendations by a panel
led by Mervyn Davies, the ex-chairman of  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   Davies, asked by Business Secretary Vince Cable in August
to draw up proposals for the government, said the panel rejected
the idea of setting quotas for female board members in law, as
Norway and  France  have done. Instead, the panel said
shareholders should hold companies to account if they fail to
appoint more women.  “A huge percentage of women we spoke to were against
quotas,” Davies told a news conference in London today. “I’d
like to see investors putting more pressure on chairmen.”  The 25 percent goal is a minimum and chairmen should set
their own “aspirational targets -- targets that make sense to
them as a board,” Davies said. FTSE 350 companies should set
their own “challenging” goals, he said. Chairmen should announce 
targets within six months and chief executive officers should 
review progress in 2013 and 2105, the panel recommended.  A study of FTSE 100 company boards published Dec. 2 showed
the proportion of women at senior levels in companies was around
12.5 percent. Eighteen of those companies have no female
directors, Davies said. The Female FTSE Board Report by
 Cranfield University School of Management  found that the ratio
was 7.8 percent among FTSE 250 companies.  Target Set  FTSE 100 companies can achieve the 25 percent target by
2015 if one third of board appointments over the next four years
are of women, the panel said. That would mean 135 appointments
of female board members over the period.  Changes should be made to the  U.K. Corporate Governance
Code  to ensure companies are meeting the recommendations on a
“comply-or-explain” basis, the panel recommended.  “Radical change is needed in the mindset of the business
community if we are to implement the scale of change that is
needed,” Davies said in the report. “There is growing evidence
to show that diverse boards are better boards, delivering
financial outperformance and stock-market growth.”  ‘Very Flawed’  The introduction of formal quotas would be “the answer to
the wrong problem,” Susan Vinnicombe, the director of the
International Centre for Women Leaders at Cranfield and a member
of the panel, told the news conference. She said the key was for
chairman to rethink “a very flawed system of appointments”
that fails to recognize talented women.  Even so, Davies said that quotas would remain an option
“if we don’t get success.”  The Confederation of British Industry, the country’s main
business lobby group, welcomed the proposals.  “Firms should report against internally-set targets that
reflect different starting points, the nature of particular
sectors, and the size and structure of the board,” CBI
President Helen Alexander said in an e-mailed statement. Quotas
“would not have addressed the real issue of how we bring about
a cultural change.”  The government will “engage with business in considering”
Davies’s recommendations, Cable said in a  statement  on his
department’s website.  ‘Glass Ceiling’  Women at U.K. companies continue to perceive barriers to
attaining senior management roles, according to a survey by the
Institute of Leadership & Management published Feb. 21. The
survey, which polled around 3,000 managers, found 73 percent of
female respondents believe in the existence of a “glass
ceiling,” while 36 percent feel that their gender has hindered
their careers, the London-based Institute said.  In  Germany ,  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who called the lack
of women in top management a “scandal” this month, rejected
calls by Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen to impose a 30
percent quota for female board members, saying companies should
do more to promote women from within.  German Family Minister Kristina Schroeder said she would
force companies above a certain size to set and publish quotas
for women on management and supervisory boards as a first step.
At Germany’s 30 largest companies, four of 186 management-board
positions are held by women, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Under a Norwegian law that came into effect in 2008, women
must fill 40 percent of board seats in that country. In 2002,
before the law was passed, women held only 7 percent of the
seats. The ratio has now risen to 42 percent.  A  French law  enacted Jan. 27 forces listed companies with
at least 500 employees and annual sales of 50 million euros
($68.7 billion) to have at least 20 percent female board members
by 2014, rising to 40 percent by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  