-- 
Lu Pledges to Clean Up Alibaba After Scandal Led to Ouster of Predecessor

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-02-24T05:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/lu-pledges-to-clean-up-alibaba-after-scandal-led-to-ouster-of-predecessor.html
  Alibaba.com Ltd . Chief Executive
Officer Jonathan Lu urged workers to adhere to company values,
as he seeks to rebuild trust in China’s largest online-commerce
site after some sales staff helped vendors defraud customers.  “We had a small number of colleagues that may have lost
their way and chose another path,” Lu wrote in an e-mail to
Alibaba’s employees yesterday, two days after the scandal forced
his predecessor’s departure. “We must immediately fix these
mistakes to prevent future detours.”  Lu is tasked with restoring confidence in Alibaba after a
company investigation found more than 2,300 vendors on its
website committed fraud. The company, controlled by billionaire
Jack Ma, has lost about $1 billion of market value in  Hong Kong 
trading since Feb. 21 on concern the frauds will deter
international buyers, which use Alibaba to find China-based
suppliers of everything from electronics to organic fruits.  “There’s definitely a reputational risk, because this is a
site that’s based on trust,” Paul Wuh, who rates the stock
“sell” at Samsung Securities Co. in Hong Kong said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “On the B2B side, they’re doing
quite well and they’ve pretty good market share.”  Alibaba shares gained 2.3 percent to HK$15.14 at the 12:30
p.m. trading break in Hong Kong today, after declining in each
of the past four trading days. That gave the company a market
valuation of HK$76.4 billion ($9.8 billion). Analysts at Morgan
Stanley,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc . and Mirae Asset Securities
Co. had cut their investment ratings on the company.  ‘Systemic Breakdown’  Lu on Feb. 21 replaced David Wei, who resigned after taking
responsibility for the “systemic breakdown” of integrity,
according to the company statement. Chief Operating Officer
Elvis Lee also quit. The two weren’t accused of wrongdoing,
according to the statement.  “Because of the fact that this hasn’t happened within
Chinese companies, many people don’t believe that a CEO and COO
of a company would resign due to value issues,” Lu wrote. “But
this is Alibaba. We are just doing what we think is right. It’s
that simple.”  Lu, 41, joined Alibaba in 2000 and led the team that formed
Alipay, an online payment service, in 2004, according to a
company statement. Lu, who holds a master’s degree in business
administration from China Europe International Business School,
served as Alipay’s president before moving to Taobao in 2008.  The Wall Street Journal reported the story earlier today.  Wal-Mart, Procter & Gamble  Alibaba.com provides business-to-business, or B2B, services
by matching buyers and sellers online and its clients include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . and Procter & Gamble Co. It’s the flagship
of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which counts Yahoo! Inc. as its
biggest shareholder after taking over the U.S. company’s China
operations in 2005.  The frauds would typically involve vendors offering small
quantities of electronics at attractive prices, with payments
settled using “less reliable” methods, according to Alibaba
spokesman John Spelich. The company created a fund in 2009 to
compensate buyers who were defrauded, he said.  The frauds, noticed by senior management from late 2009,
won’t have a “material financial impact” and the value of the
average claim was below $1,200, Alibaba said. The company found
1,219 of its “gold” suppliers in 2009 and 1,107 in 2010
engaged in fraud, according to the statement.  The investigation found that about 100 of the company’s
5,000 salespeople, as well as some supervisors and managers,
were either intentionally or negligently allowing the vendors to
evade the company’s authentication and verification measures to
form “fraudulent storefronts” for international customers.  The fraudulent vendors represented about 1.1 percent of the
company’s   China  Gold Supplier” subscribers in 2009 and 0.8
percent in 2010, the company said. Alibaba has terminated all of
the fraudulent storefronts, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 