-- 
U.S., Europe Struggle to Evacuate Their Citizens From Libya Amid Violence

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-24T13:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-europe-struggle-to-evacuate-their-citizens-from-libya-amid-violence.html
The U.S. and European governments
struggled to evacuate thousands of their citizens from Libya as
spiraling violence in the capital Tripoli kept foreigners
stranded and chaos began to spread to the rest of the country.  Alitalia SpA, which flew about 800 Italians out of Libya
yesterday, suspended flights to Tripoli because passengers were
unable to reach departure gates and  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG  canceled all flights to Tripoli at least through the weekend.
A ferry bound for Malta that began to evacuate several thousand
U.S. citizens from Libya was delayed because of high seas, State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday.  “Of course I am incredibly sorry,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in an interview with BBC television in Oman today.
Those awaiting evacuation “have had a difficult time. The
conditions at the airport have been extremely poor.”    Muammar Qaddafi  extended his grip over Tripoli, where
Egyptians crossing the eastern border reported soldiers and the
militia had fired on civilians and driven most of the city’s
residents into their homes. Foreigners trying to flee the
eastern city of Benghazi, which has been overrun by anti-Qaddafi
forces, took to the sea because the airport was shut down.  Turkey is running the biggest evacuation in its history to
rescue as many as 25,000 Turks who live and work in  Libya , many
of them construction workers, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu
said yesterday. As of today, 7,062 people have been transported,
the Foreign Ministry said in a statement carried by state news
agency Anatolia.  Military-Led Evacuations?  The U.S.-chartered ferry, with a capacity of about 575
people, will be used to evacuate American citizens, including
employees of energy companies and embassy staff, Crowley said.  “Some countries may use their armed forces to evacuate
their citizens,” Jan Techau, an analyst at the NATO Defense
College in  Rome , said in a phone interview. “The U.S., Britain
and  France  would be capable of doing this. It’s not imminent,
but I could imagine it happening.”  About 300 Britons remain in Tripoli and 100 in Benghazi,
with a further 150 scattered in the desert, according to
officials traveling with Cameron in Muscat, Oman. The Royal
Navy’s HMS Cumberland is preparing to dock in Benghazi to pick
up the Britons there. The government is considering how best to
extract those in the desert, said the officials, who declined to
be identified in line with U.K. government policy.  Chinese Rescued    Greece  is aiding in the evacuation of most of the 15,000
Chinese nationals in Libya. Four ships are being used for the
sea evacuation. Two vessels are en route to dock in Crete with
about 4,000 people on board, including 30 Greeks from Benghazi,
the Foreign Ministry in Athens said today.  In Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city, anti-Qaddafi
militias in front of the courthouse were collecting weapons from
people who had seized them from army supplies, a resident said
by phone, declining to be identified on concern over reprisals.  The French and German governments have repatriated several
hundred citizens aboard military and chartered flights, their
foreign ministries said. About 160 Germans and 100 French
citizens remain to be evacuated and both governments are forming
plans to get them out by air, land or sea.  Italian naval vessels bound for the port city of Misurata
east of Tripoli were sent “not only to aid our citizens, but
also, where needed, other foreign nationals who are in
difficulty and are trying to leave Libya,” Defense Minister
Ignazio La Russa said in an interview today on Canale 5.  An Irish airplane that landed in Tripoli yesterday was
prevented from picking up Irish nationals by Libyan security,
Ireland’s government said. The plane remained on the ground for
four hours before returning to  Malta .  “Efforts will be resumed tomorrow morning and in the
meantime, work is proceeding to have Irish nationals
accommodated” on other European Union flights that are trying
to depart from Tripoli, the government said yesterday.  The Spanish and Dutch governments were awaiting permission
from Libyan authorities to land plans and evacuate their
citizens, according to government statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  