-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Feb. 22 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-02-24T13:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-feb-22-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Summary: Stormy weather returned to parts of the West in
mid-February for the first time since late-December 2010.  Some
of the highest precipitation totals were observed in the Sierra
Nevada and the coastal ranges of northern and central  California .
Beneficial precipitation also spread into parts of the Southwest.
In contrast, the drought situation worsened from the central and
southern Plains into the Southeast, under a warm, dry weather
regime.  Warm, windy weather contributed to a sharp increase in
wildfire activity across the South and East.  Farther north,
some beneficial precipitation clipped dry areas from the lower
Midwest into the northern Mid-Atlantic region.  South, East, and Midwest: In mid-February, warm, dry weather
replaced cold conditions across the South.  Warmth also made a
brief push into the East and Midwest.  Drought continued to
develop, expand, and intensify from the Mid-South into the
Southeast.  Agricultural concerns were mounting due to short-
term precipitation shortages superimposed on longer-term
deficits.  On February 20, more than one-third (34%) of  Florida ’s pastures were rated in very poor to poor condition,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Stream flows
remained extremely low for this time of year throughout the
South.  Farther north, no changes were introduced across the
interior Northeast, where pockets of abnormal dryness (D0)
persisted.  In the Midwest, a band of heavy precipitation cut
across central  Indiana  and southwestern Ohio on February 20-21,
leading to some generally minor river flooding and the removal
of abnormal dryness (D0).  Great Plains: Extreme weather conditions persisted on the
central and southern Plains, where drought continued to
gradually expand and intensify.  In less than a week, from
February10 to 16, temperature rises of 80 to 110F were observed
in numerous locations.  On February 16-17, temperatures peaked
above 80F throughout the southern High Plains.  At the height of
the warm spell, several brush and grass fires, including a
16,000-acre complex in Lipscomb County, Texas, affected the
southern Plains.  On February 20, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  rated 60% of  Texas ’ winter wheat crop in very poor
to poor condition, along with 63% of the state’s oats and 55% of
the pasture and rangeland.  The West: The West’s first significant storminess since late-
December 2010 resulted in highly beneficial snowfall in key
watershed areas of California and the Northwest.  Following the
six-week lull, mid-February storms added approximately 5 inches
of liquid to the Sierra Nevada snow pack, according to the  California Department of Water Resources .  Heavy precipitation
in northern California and environs eliminated an area of
abnormal dryness (D0).  Much-needed moisture also spread into
the Southwest, although rain and snow failed to reach any
farther east than central Arizona and northwestern  New Mexico .
Flagstaff,  Arizona , noted 17.9 inches of snow from February 18-
20, after receiving only one other measurable snowfall (1.2
inches on January 31) since the beginning of the year.  Alaska,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico: Stormy weather replaced cold
conditions in Alaska.  Fairbanks received a phenomenal 18.6
inches of snow on February 20-21, representing its sixth-
greatest two-day snowfall on record.  Most (17.1 inches) of
Fairbanks’ snow fell in a 24-hour period, marking its second-
highest total on record behind 20.1 inches on February 11-12,
1966.  As a result of February 1 snow pack information and
recent storminess, some abnormal dryness (D0) was trimmed across
interior  Alaska .  The drought status across Hawaii remained unchanged, as the
western islands continued to receive the heaviest showers.  On
the Big Island, year-to-date rainfall in Hilo through February
22 totaled just 5.16 inches (31% of normal).  Widespread showers dotted  Puerto Rico , with weekly totals in
excess of 2 inches common across the interior.  The island
remained free of drought.  Looking Ahead:  During the next five days (February 24-28),
Pacific energy will continue to migrate eastward into the
central and eastern U.S.  As a result, a low-pressure system
will develop over the south-central U.S. on February 24 and race
into the northern Mid-Atlantic States on February 25.  A second
storm system will develop over the central Plains by February 27
before lifting into the Great Lakes region on the last day of
the month.  Before heading into the Nation’s mid-section, the
second system will also be responsible for widespread
precipitation in the West.  Combined rainfall from the two
storms could reach 2 to 6 inches from the Mid-South into the  Ohio  Valley.  The first storm will also trigger snowfall from
the eastern Corn Belt into the Northeast, while the second
system has the potential to produce major snow accumulations
from the central Plains into the upper Midwest.  The  National
Weather Service ’s 6- to 10-day outlook for March 1-5 calls for
colder- and wetter-than-normal conditions in northern California
and across the northern one-third of the U.S.  In contrast,
below-normal precipitation can be expected from across much of
the nation’s southern tier from Arizona into the southern
Atlantic region.  Warmer-than-normal weather will accompany the
dry conditions across the southern High Plains and the Southwest.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  