-- 
Bank Regulators Said to Push $20 Billion Foreclosure Settlement

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-02-24T20:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-bank-regulators-said-to-push-20-billion-home-foreclosure-settlement.html
U.S. regulators probing flawed and
illegal mortgage-foreclosure practices may try to extract $20
billion of penalties in a settlement with banks that serviced
the loans, according to two people briefed on the talks.  Terms of the potential accord, from regulators led by the
Treasury Department and Department of Housing and Urban
Development, haven’t been formally presented to banks, according
to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions aren’t public. Lenders embroiled in the
investigation include  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co . and  Wells Fargo & Co .  The government originally floated a $25 billion penalty,
which banks rejected, one person said. Banks are resisting a
large settlement because while regulators have found widespread
flaws and violations in documents and procedures, the federal
agencies said they so far have uncovered few examples of
wrongful foreclosures.  Regulators are weighing whether the settlement should
require servicers to write down mortgage principal that would
lower home-loan payments for distressed borrowers, the person
briefed on the talks said.  Details of the settlement talks were reported earlier in
the Wall Street Journal.  Mortgage servicers drew scrutiny from federal bank and
housing regulators and state attorneys general after evidence
emerged in court cases that banks and their contractors
submitted flawed or illegal paperwork in hundreds of thousands
of foreclosure cases.  The so-called robo-signing scandal has slowed foreclosure
and bankruptcy cases, clogged state courts and prompted a review
of major financial companies.  Fines Announced Soon  Officials from HUD and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency have said publicly that regulators may announce fines
against servicers in the coming weeks.  The discussions between financial industry lawyers and
regulators remain fluid and no formal offer has been presented,
according to the people. In addition, the state attorneys
general are proceeding with their own negotiations with the
servicers, and would likely be part of any global settlement.  Spokesmen from the Treasury, HUD and other federal agencies
declined to comment. Bank of America spokesman  Dan Frahm ,
JPMorgan spokesman  Tom Kelly , Wells Fargo spokeswoman Teri
Schrettenbrunner, Citigroup spokesman Sean Kevelighan and Ally
Financial Group spokeswoman  Gina Proia  declined to comment.    John Walsh , acting Comptroller of the Currency, said last
week that his agency’s investigation had uncovered violations of
state and local law but few wrongful foreclosures.  “The loan samples in our exams identified a small number
of foreclosure sales that should not have proceeded because of
an intervening event or condition,” Walsh told the House
Financial Services Committee on Feb. 17.  Federal Housing Administration Commissioner David Stevens
said the same day that any settlement could include mortgage
modifications and civil fines paid to the Treasury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 