-- 
U.S. Is First in Nobels, Trails in Alleyway Sex: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-02-24T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-leads-in-nobels-trails-in-alleyway-sex-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Before you sell the house, auction
the family heirlooms, gather up the kids and book passage on a
boat to anywhere to escape the decline of the American Empire,
take a deep breath. Things aren’t as bad as some would have you
believe.  Perhaps you’ve read  articles  or seen statistics that claim
the U.S. is among the worst of the worst when it comes to things
like  income inequality , life expectancy and student performance
in math and science.  If that’s the case, you have to wonder why so many folks
are risking life and limb to get in. The U.S. happens to be the
No. 3 destination for asylum seekers, according to
 NationMaster.com , an online database that aggregates statistics
from the CIA World Factbook,  United Nations  and  World Bank  among
others. Not surprisingly, the U.S. ranks first in the number of
immigrants. (We are a nation of immigrants.)  What about other indicators that challenge the notion the
U.S. is going the way of empires past? Students from across the
globe flock to the U.S. for college and post-graduate education.
Six of the  top 10 universities  in the world are located in the
U.S., according to U.S. News & World Report. The other four are
in the U.K., that other emblem of Empire Passe.  U.S. students may score poorly in math and science, but
somehow they manage to overcome that handicap to become world-
class researchers. The U.S. can claim more  Nobel Prizes  than any
country: 320 versus 116 for runner-up U.K. In areas such as
physics, chemistry and medicine, the U.S. has two to three times
as many Nobels as its closest competitor, which is either the
U.K. or Germany.  Productivity Gains  You know all those manufacturing jobs that are disappearing
to low-wage  developing countries , or better yet, the jobs  China 
is stealing from the U.S.? The real reason for the vanishing act
is increased productivity, the ability to produce more for each
hour worked.  This is one of the areas where the U.S. excels. In the last
decade, the U.S. ranked third in the average increase in
manufacturing productivity, behind  Taiwan  and  South Korea ,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Gross domestic product  per capita ? Second in the world.  Innovation and entrepreneurship? The U.S. ranks first in
the number of new businesses that were registered in 2005,
according to the latest available data from the World Bank. The
 number of patents  issued to U.S. residents in 2009 (93,727) was
about the same as those issued to residents of all other
countries combined (96,395), according to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Treatment Nirvana  One widely cited statistic during the health-care debate
was how much the U.S. spends compared with how little it gets in
return. That return was measured by  life expectancy , which at
78.1 years put the U.S. 50th among 223 nations.  Yikes! Like many statistics, the numbers don’t tell the
whole story. Health and health care are two different animals.
If you eat and drink too much and smoke, it reduces your life
expectancy.  Once you suffer a heart attack or are diagnosed with
cancer, your chances of survival are best in the U.S. Isn’t that
why millionaires and monarchs seek treatment in the U.S.?  The U.S. ranks first in airports, tourist receipts and in
the number of winners at the Miss Universe Contest. It ranks
fourth of 41 nations in spending on research and development as
a share of GDP and first when it comes to investment in
information and communication technology.  Sexually Repressed  As far as the number of people who have had  sex in an
alleyway , the U.S. was tied for a lowly 24th with such sexually
progressive countries as Sweden and  Finland .  The U.S. is third in the number of Spanish speakers, a
stunning statistic when one considers the number of countries
where Spanish is the first language; second in natural gas
production; and is tied for first (with  Switzerland ) for Olympic
Gold Medals in the women’s giant slalom.  Of course, there are some firsts of which the nation should
be less proud. The U.S. leads the world in obesity,  oil
consumption , anxiety disorders and divorce rates. It has the
 highest corporate income tax  rate among industrialized
countries.  These weaknesses pale in comparison to the biggest problem
faced by the U.S: promises made to future generations that the
government can’t keep and politicians won’t touch. A burst
housing bubble has devastated lives and livelihoods.
Unemployment is still an elevated 9 percent 20 months after the
official end of the recession, higher than in the U.K. and  Germany . More than 6 million people have been unemployed for
more than 27 weeks, and economists are starting to question
whether the reasons are cyclical (garden variety slow growth) or
structural (a  labor force  unsuited to today’s jobs).  Attitude of Gratitude  For every number homegrown America-haters spit out to show
our best days are behind us, there’s an offsetting statistic
that points to our underlying strength. The solution isn’t a war
of words or statistics. It’s the recognition that many of the
characteristics that made the U.S. the envy of the world are
still intact or begging to be resuscitated.  The naysayers don’t appreciate American exceptionalism and
never will.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  