-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for Feb. 23 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-02-24T19:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-feb-23-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Natural gas spot prices were soft again at nearly all domestic
pricing points. The Henry Hub price fell 10 cents per million
Btu (MMBtu) (2.5 percent) for the week ending February 23, to
$3.83 per MMBtu.  Working natural gas in storage fell to 1,830 billion cubic feet
(Bcf) as of Friday, February 18, according to the Energy
Information Administration (EIA) Weekly Natural Gas Storage
Report (WNGSR). The implied draw for the week was 81 Bcf, with
storage volumes shifting to 48 Bcf below year-ago levels.  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), the March 2011
natural gas contract price fell 2.1 cents to $3.900 per MMBtu
from the previous Wednesday.  The natural gas rotary rig count, as reported February 18 by
Baker Hughes Incorporated, fell by 1 to 905, continuing a 3-week
decline. Despite the recent downward trend over 9 of the past 11
weeks, this activity level still represents an increase of 12
units from the same period last year.  Prices  Prevailing natural  gas prices  continued their decline during the
week except for a brief respite around the Presidents Day
holiday when a short cold snap passed.The New York citygate
price jumped $6.40 per MMBtu on Tuesday, hitting $11.45 per
MMBtu before giving back $3.07 of the gain yesterday. The New
York citygate was also one of the few pricing points to show a
gain over the week, rising from $4.63 per MMBtu last Wednesday
to $8.38 per MMBtu yesterday. The Chicago citygate was more
representative of the general weekly trend and dropped from
$4.05 per MMBtu (1.2 percent) the previous Wednesday to $4.00
per MMBtu yesterday, leaving the price $1.08 per MMBtu less than
last year.  Over the week, the Henry Hub price followed suit dropping from
$3.93 per MMBtu to $3.83 per MMBtu. The Henry Hub price is now
down over $1 from last year.  A falloff in natural gas consumption during the week, which
exceeded a falloff in supply, was the primary catalyst causing
the price decline to continue. According to estimates from
BENTEK Energy Services, LLC, domestic consumption this week
decreased by 8.0 percent from the previous week. A decrease in
power consumption of 22.3 percent led the decline followed by a
reduction of 4.3 percent in the industrial sector. The giant
residential/commercial sector saw a drop of 2.6 percent, in line
with the general trend of moderating temperatures during the
period.  According to BENTEK estimates, the average 66.4 billion cubic
feet per day (Bcf/day) of nominal total gas supply represented a
decrease of 1.6 percent from last week’s value. Domestic gas
production was up 0.8 percent, accounting for the bulk of any
gains. Canadian imports (about 6.2 Bcf/day) were down 17.4
percent for the week and remain 15.7 percent below year-ago
levels. Things were little changed in the liquefied natural gas
(LNG) arena, where imports (less than 1 Bcf/day) remained nearly
23.9 percent below last week and 27.5 percent below the
corresponding week last year.  At the NYMEX, the price of the March 2011 contract decreased 2.1
cents, from $3.921 per MMBtu to $3.9000 per MMBtu over the week.
The NYMEX price was up 3.3 cents per MMBtu yesterday in probable
anticipation of today’s contract expiration coupled with the
release of this week. EIA storage report that might signal a
shift from a surplus to a deficit inventory relative to last
year.  Working natural gas in storage fell to 1,830 Bcf as of Friday,
February 18, according to EIA.The 81 Bcf draw was much smaller
than the 5-year average draw for the week of 148 Bcf and last
year’s draw of 174 Bcf. Stocks were 48 Bcf below last Year’s
level and 61 Bcf below the 5-year average.  The week’s draw reverses a four-week trend of larger year-over-
year draws. Unusually colder weather over the past several weeks
had increased residential and commercial heating demand while
shutting in significant natural gas production, leading to
higher inventory withdrawals. This report week’s relatively warm
weather reduced heating consumption while allowing production to
resume. As a result, the week-over-week draw was reduced
dramatically from 233 Bcf to just 81 Bcf.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending
February 17 were warmer than normal for the first time in four
weeks and also warmer than last year. The  National Weather
Service ’s degree-day data show that the temperature in the lower
48 States last week averaged 40.1 degrees, 3.6 degrees warmer
than the 5-year average and 7.4 degrees warmer than last year
Every region of the country was warmer than normal except the
Pacific and New England census regions, which were slightly
colder. Heating degree days nationwide were about 12 percent
below average, and 22 percent below last year.  Storage Table  Natural Gas Rig Count Falls to 905. The natural gas rotary rig
count, as reported by Baker Hughes, Incorporated, fell by 1 from
the previous week to 905, according to data released February
18. The rig count has remained in the low 900s for the past
several weeks, and is only slightly above its year-ago level of
893. On the other hand, horizontal rigs (including both oil and
natural gas) have increased steadily this year. This week’s
horizontal rig count rose to 984, an increase of 4 from the
previous week. Horizontal rigs are almost 50 percent greater
than their year-ago levels. At 223, vertical rigs are roughly
equal with their year-ago levels. Rigs targeting oil, according
to Baker Hughes data, have increased more than 81 percent in the
past 12 months.  The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Grants Freeport LNG
Authority to Export LNG to 15 Countries. DOE’s Office of Fossil
Energy recently granted Freeport LNG long-term authorization to
export LNG to any country with whom the  United States  has, or in
the future enters into, a free trade agreement requiring
national treatment for trade in natural gas and LNG. In 2010,
Freeport announced plans to build liquefaction capacity at its
existing LNG import terminal on Quintana Island,  Texas . More
information is available here:
 http://www.fossil.energy.gov/programs/gasregulation/authorizatio 
ns/2010_Long_Term_Applications.html#fta.  Natural Gas Transportation Update  TransCanada Pipelines, Ltd., on Wednesday, February 23, extended
the time period of an Emergency Operating Condition (EOC) in the
aftermath of an eruption of its mainline in Northern Ontario,
which resulted in the loss of operations of two of its three
pipelines in the area. The incident, which was reported
downstream of the company’s compressor station 75, occurred the
previous Saturday. TransCanada said it will not allow
discretionary services through the impacted area. The EOC is now
expected to end on Friday, February 25.  Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP, this week said it will begin
maintenance next Monday, February 28, at its compressor station
in Airport,  Alabama . The maintenance, which is expected to
continue until April 1, will result in the interruption of gas
flow through the station in either direction. Nominations and
gas flow from receipt to delivery locations on Mobile Bay
Pipeline will continue to be available for service.  Natural Gas Pipeline of America Company (NGPL) on Monday said it
will place into service a new interconnect with Bridgeline
Holdings L.P., at Johnsons Bayou in Louisiana. The service will
be available in mid-March, NGPL said. The delivery point is
located downstream of Compressor Station 342 in Cameron Parish,  Louisiana .  Maintenance will occur at five compressor stations on Rockies
Express Pipeline LLC (REX) during March, according to operator  Kinder Morgan . Emergency shutdown testing at its compressor
stations in Bertrand,  Nebraska , will limit capacity in the area
to 1.4 Bcf from its usual capacity of about 1.8 Bcf per day.
Also, REX intends to perform maintenance between Cheyenne and
Julesburg compressor stations in  Wyoming  late in the month that
will result in a reduction in available capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington
at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  