-- 
U.S. Arrests 100 People in Nationwide Sweep Against Mexican Drug Cartels

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-02-24T20:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-arrests-100-in-fight-on-mexican-drug-cartels-correct-.html
U.S. authorities arrested 100 people
and seized more than $4 million in a nationwide sweep against
Mexican drug cartels sparked by the killing of a U.S.
immigration agent last week,  Drug Enforcement Administration 
officials said.  The operation “dovetails with our primary mission” of
shutting down networks for illegal drugs, DEA spokesman David
Levey said in an interview. The initiative, which is being
coordinated with Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- or ICE -
- began yesterday and is continuing, DEA officials said.  The DEA is working on compiling a list of how many arrests
were made in specific states, agency officials said.  “Today’s forceful crackdown demonstrates that the  United
States  will never back down from the threats posed by barbaric
criminal organizations that smuggle poisons into our communities
and have no regard for innocent human life,” said Gil Kerlikowske, the Obama administration’s director of national
drug control policy, in a statement.  Yesterday, the Mexican army detained a main suspect and
five others tied to the Feb. 15 killing of ICE Special Agent
Jaime Zapata in San Luis Potosi state.  Crime Gang  The suspects, led by Julian Zapata Espinoza, were captured
in a safe house and belong to the organized-crime gang known as
the Zetas, said Ricardo Trevilla, a spokesman for Mexico’s
Defense Ministry, in a televised news conference yesterday in  Mexico  City.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  spoke with President Felipe Calderon of Mexico late yesterday and thanked him for the
efforts to investigate the case and the arrest of suspects, the
White House press office said in a statement. Calderon is
scheduled to meet Obama in Washington during a trip next week.  Jaime Zapata was driving an armored sports utility vehicle
along Mexico’s Highway 57 when 12 to 15 armed men in two
vehicles forced him to stop, according to Representative Michael McCaul, chairman of a U.S. Homeland Security subcommittee who
was briefed on the incident. After Zapata and Avila identified
themselves as U.S. agents, the gunmen opened fire and fled, said
McCaul, a Texas Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  