-- 
U.S. Supports Expelling Libya From UN Rights Council

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-02-24T22:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-supports-expelling-libya-from-un-rights-council-1-.html
The Obama administration backs
removing  Libya  from the  UN Human Rights Council  following the
government’s attacks on protesters, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said.  “We support expelling Libya from the Human Rights
Council,” Crowley told reporters in  Washington  today. He also
said the U.S. has received indirect messages from Libyan
government leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Crowley declined to
characterize the contents of the messages.  The previously scheduled Human Rights Council session in
Geneva starting Feb. 28 is the first international meeting of
foreign ministers since the uprisings in Tunisia and  Egypt ,
making it a convenient high-level forum to discuss Libya and the
broader regional turmoil. Qaddafi today blamed the uprising
against his 41-year rule on “drugged kids” and al-Qaeda as  Switzerland  froze some of his assets.  President Barack Obama yesterday said he’s sending
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to attend the  Human Rights
Council   session . The U.S. is seeking support from European
countries and others for measures against Qaddafi’s regime after
reports that hundreds may have been killed in a crackdown on
protesters.  Clinton will address the council session and “hold
consultations with her counterparts on the situation in Libya
and events and trends in the broader Middle East,” Crowley
said.  International Condemnation  International condemnation in such forums against countries
such as Libya, Iran and Zimbabwe can be effective because their
leaders have sought membership on the council and defend
themselves vigorously before the United Nations-backed panel,
said Neil Hicks, an international policy adviser at the New
York-based Human Rights First advocacy group.  “It also sets the international context in which other,
more direct measures might take place,” Hicks said, citing
actions such as imposing sanctions and creating a no-fly zone
over Libya to curtail the country’s potential military action.
“All of those things will be influenced if there were a strong
resolution from the Human Rights Council and some indication
they were willing to take action and hold Libya accountable.”  The council may not expel Libya immediately, said Hicks,
whose group is pressing for expulsion and other punitive
measures against Libya, including multinational sanctions and
enforcement of a no-fly zone over the country to prevent its
military jets from targeting opponents.  The council would be more likely to order an inquiry into
events in the country to determine what human-rights violations
may have occurred before taking the step of expulsion, Hicks
said.  Libya won election to the council last May, along with
Angola, Malaysia, Thailand and  Uganda , over the objections of 50
advocacy groups that said those nations violate the rights of
their citizens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  