-- 
U.S. Government Shutdown Looms as Lawmakers Deadlock Over Budget Proposal

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-24T05:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-government-shutdown-looms-as-lawmakers-deadlock-over-budget-proposal.html
A U.S. government shutdown looms
after lawmakers deadlocked yesterday over a Republican proposal
to cut $4 billion as part of a budget measure needed to keep
federal agencies running.  House Republicans are working on a plan, slated for a vote
next week, that would attach cuts to a bill funding the
government through mid-March. That was immediately rejected by
Senate Democrats, who are demanding a 30-day extension that
would keep budgets at their current levels.  Lawmakers, who return to  Washington  next week from their
Presidents Day recess, will have just days to find agreement,
because the spending measure now keeping agencies in business
expires March 4. Without agreement, the government will shut
down.  “Americans understand we need to stop the spending binge
in Washington to create a better environment for  job creation ,”
said House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican. “So I ask  Senator Reid , with all due respect: what are you willing to
cut?”  Jon Summers, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , called the proposal a “non-starter” because it would
amount to phasing in the $61 billion in budget cuts passed last
week by the House.  “This isn’t a compromise,” said Summers. “This bill
would simply be a two-week version of the reckless measure the
House passed last weekend. It would impose the same spending
levels in the short term as their initial proposal does in the
long term, and it isn’t going to fool anyone.”  Buying Time  Both proposals are designed to buy lawmakers time to work
out their many differences on funding for the duration of the
government’s 2011 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  The legislation passed by the House last week would cut
hundreds of programs. It includes scores of provisions blocking
funding for the administration’s health care overhaul, as well
as regulations on greenhouse gas emissions, for-profit colleges
and the Federal Communications Commission’s “net neutrality”
Internet rules.  Democrats have balked at the House’s proposed cuts, saying
they would hurt the economy. Earlier this week, Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said the Senate also will not agree to the House’s
legislative riders, saying the bill is to “deal with funding
for our government, not all these other goodies they think are
cute.”  Goldman Sachs Report  Democrats also seized on a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . report
issued earlier this week that said the House-approved cuts would
hurt the economy in the short term. The $61 billion in spending
cuts would shave between 1.5 and 2 percentage points off
economic growth during the second and third quarters of this
year, according to the research note.  Reducing spending by a smaller amount, such as $25 billion
to $50 billion, would cut almost 1 percentage point off the
annualized rate of GDP growth in the second quarter, though it
would have a “negligible” effect on growth by the end of the
year, the analysis said. It said a shutdown of the federal
government would reduce  government spending  by about $8 billion
per week.  “This analysis puts a dagger through the heart of their
‘cut-and-grow’ fantasy,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New
York Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  