-- 
U.S. House Republicans Move to End Foreclosure Aid Programs

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-24T17:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-house-republicans-move-to-end-foreclosure-aid-programs.html
U.S. House Republicans plan to move
forward with bills that would end anti-foreclosure programs put
in place by the administration of President  Barack Obama , saying
they are doing more harm than good.  The  House Financial Services Committee  will consider bills
next week to terminate four mortgage assistance programs,
including the Treasury Department’s Home Affordable Modification
Program, or HAMP.  “In an era of record-breaking deficits, it’s time to pull
the plug on these programs that are actually doing more harm
than good for struggling homeowners,” Representative  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama , the chairman of the panel, said today.
“These programs may have been well-intentioned but they’re not
working and, in reality, are making things worse.”  While the Treasury Department reported that more than
30,000 homeowners permanently lowered their mortgage payments in
December as participation in HAMP accelerated, the program has
failed to reach Obama’s goal of helping 3 million to 4 million
homeowners avoid foreclosure. Troubled borrowers continue to
fall out of the program at a faster rate than they join. A total
of 58,020 loan modifications had been canceled through December,
according to the Treasury.  “While we cannot prevent every foreclosure, it is
important to remember that these programs have helped to create
more options for affordable and sustainable assistance than have
ever been available before,” Tim Massad, the acting assistant
Treasury secretary for financial stability, said in a Jan. 31
statement on the program.  ‘Anemic’  The results have been criticized by housing advocates,
lawmakers and watchdog groups, including  Neil Barofsky , special
inspector general for TARP, who in a January report, called the
results “anemic” and “remarkably discouraging.”  Republican Representatives Jim Jordan of  Ohio  and Patrick McHenry of  North Carolina  last month introduced the bill to
terminate HAMP.  The panel also will mark up bills that would terminate the
Federal Housing Authority Refinance Program, funding for the
Emergency Homeowners Relief Program and the Neighborhood
Stabilization Program.  Lawmakers in the Democrat-controlled Senate have not
introduced companion legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  