-- 
U.S. Debit Limit Is Likely to Be Increased to Avoid Default, Moody's Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-02-24T19:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-debit-limit-likely-to-be-increased-to-avoid-default-moody-s-says.html
Congress will likely raise the U.S.
statutory debt limit or the government will resort to several
options to avoid reaching the threshold to avoid missing
interest payments, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Moody’s doesn’t anticipate placing the nation’s top Aaa
credit rating on review for a downgrade even if action to raise
the so-called debt ceiling is delayed because the risk of
default will remain “extremely” low, the New York-based
company said in a statement today. The U.S. has $8.96 trillion
of marketable debt outstanding.  “We think it’s very unlikely, even up to the last minute,
that they won’t do something,” said Steven Hess, senior credit
officer in the sovereign risk group at Moody’s in a telephone
interview today.  The  U.S. debt  is projected by the Treasury Department to
reach its authorized ceiling of $14.3 trillion within a few
months, setting the stage for a congressional showdown over
lifting the borrowing limit. Also, current government funding
runs out March 4 as lawmakers battle over the budget for the
rest of the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.  If debt service is interrupted the credit-rating company
would consider a downgrade, though a brief lapse in interest
payments “would not automatically lead to a ‘penalty
downgrade,” Moody’s said.  Cash Balances  U.S. debt has more than doubled from about $4.34 trillion
in mid-2007 as the government increased spending to bail out the
financial system and bring the economy out of recession. The
budget deficit has increased to 8.8 percent of the economy from
1 percent in 2007.  The U.S. has cash balances and deposits at the  Federal
Reserve  it can tap if Congress doesn’t raise the limit by the
deadline, Moody’s said. It can also end contributions to
government trust funds and cut spending to help preserve cash on
hand, which may extend the government’s ability to operate
without a higher debt limit “for a couple of months beyond the
time borrowing authority ceases,” the report said.  A budget deficit of more than $1 trillion and projected-
future record shortfalls give the Treasury less latitude to
maneuver as the limit approaches compared with other times when
borrowing restrictions have been a point of contention, such as
1996, because the U.S. is spending at a faster pace, Hess said.  ‘More Limited’  “The time frame is more limited at this point in terms of
the actual financial resources they have at their disposal at
this point without cutting expenditures,” Hess said. “The
reason for that is the deficit is much larger. The time frame is
shorter than in 1996, we believe.”  President  Barack Obama ’s $3.7 trillion budget proposal for
fiscal 2012 would cut the  budget deficit  to $1.1 trillion and to
$607 billion by 2015, with two thirds of the reduction coming
from spending cuts in areas ranging from heating subsidies for
the poor to grants for airports and water-treatment plants. The
rest is from revenue increases, including letting taxes rise for
married couples with more than $250,000 in annual income,
according to the documents.  The budget falls short of the deficit reduction that
Obama’s fiscal commission proposed in December and would have
only a modest impact on the $12 trillion in total deficits the  Congressional Budget Office  projects the government will run up
over the next 10 years. That’s primarily because Obama isn’t
proposing changes for Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security, the
entitlement programs that represent about 40 percent of the
budget and are primary drivers of long-term deficits.  Accelerated Timetable  Moody’s said in December that the agreement between Obama
and Republicans in Congress to extend the Bush-era tax cuts
would accelerate the timeline under which the U.S. credit rating
may be given a negative outlook.  “If this budget proposal by Obama were adopted, that would
be a marginal positive, but it still doesn’t attack the big part
of the budget that needs to be addressed in order to
fundamentally improve the government’s creditworthiness,” Hess
said. “Expenditure cuts are good from the point of view of  deficit reduction , but that’s really only a short-term positive
and not something that alters the long-term trajectory.”  The U.S. first adopted a debt limit in 1917 as a way to
help fund participation in World War I, as Congress loosened
borrowing restrictions that had required the legislature to
approve each sale of Treasuries on a separate and individual
basis, according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  