-- 
Jobless Claims Fall as U.S. Consumer Confidence Climbs in Bloomberg Index

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-24T16:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/u-s-initial-jobless-claims-fell-22-000-to-391-000.html
Fewer Americans than forecast filed
first-time claims to collect jobless benefits last week,
indicating companies are reducing the pace of firings as they
grow more confident in the economic outlook.  Applications for  unemployment insurance  decreased 22,000 to
391,000 in the week ended Feb. 19, the Labor Department said
today. Claims have fallen in three of the past four weeks,
pushing down the monthly average to the lowest level since July
2008. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to the highest
since April 2008, reflecting an improving jobs picture.  Motorola Solutions Inc. and  Intel Corp . are among firms
that have signaled plans to hire, which will help bring down the  unemployment rate . Other reports today showed orders for long-
lasting manufactured goods climbed in January, led by a rebound
in demand for aircraft, while sales of new houses dropped more
than estimated.  “There is continued healing in the labor market,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Research in New York. “We still feel pretty
comfortable about the rebound in manufacturing. Growth in the
first half will be driven by the business sector, with a rebound
in manufacturing, and continued  consumer spending .”  Stocks drifted between gains and losses as the labor market
figures tempered concern that higher energy prices will derail
the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,305.83 at 11:42 a.m. in New York. Treasuries rose, pushing
down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 3.43 percent.  No Special Factors  Economists projected jobless claims would drop to 405,000,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Estimates of 51 economists ranged from 375,000 to 420,000.  The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure, fell
to 402,000 from 418,500 last week.  The Bloomberg gauge of  consumer confidence , formerly the
ABC News U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.2 in
the week to Feb. 20, compared with minus 43.4 the prior week.
Forty-nine percent of those polled held positive views on their
financial situation, the most in a year.  The biggest two-month drop in the jobless rate since 1958
may be helping lift households’ spirits, boosting the odds that
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
will keep growing.  Orders for U.S. durable goods, which are meant to last at
least three years, climbed 2.7 percent in January as demand for
aircraft rebounded after plunging the previous month. The
Commerce Department’s figures showed bookings excluding
transportation equipment unexpectedly fell, reflecting a
recurring pattern of declines in capital goods in the first
month of a quarter.  Civilian Aircraft  Orders for civilian aircraft totaled $7.4 billion after
collapsing to $148 million in December. Boeing Co., the largest
U.S. maker of aircraft, this month said January airplane orders
fell to 34 from 55 in December.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, decreased 2 percent
after rising 2.5 percent in December.  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession may gain a second wind from a new tax provision that
allows companies to depreciate 100 percent of investments in
capital equipment this year.  More orders are prompting some manufacturers to add to
payrolls.  ‘Opportunities for Hiring’  “I do think we’ll expand, I think it’ll be more surgical
and incremental,” Gregory Brown, chief executive officer of
Motorola Solutions, said in a Feb. 18 interview at a Business
Council meeting in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . “There’ll be
opportunities for hiring, but I would characterize it as
relatively modest going forward.”  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, last week announced
plans to build a $5 billion microprocessor plant in Chandler,  Arizona , and hire 4,000 U.S. employees this year.  The rate of improvement in the labor market means the
jobless rate will be slow to decline, according to Federal
Reserve policy makers who have maintained plans to buy $600
billion in  Treasury securities  by June to further boost the pace
of recovery.  The housing market is struggling to strengthen, another
Commerce Department report showed today. New-home sales fell 13
percent, more than forecast, to a 284,000 annual pace.
Foreclosures will keep depressing prices, making distressed
previously owned properties more attractive to prospective
buyers.    Home prices  fell 4 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier as record foreclosures sapped the confidence of
homebuyers, according to a separate report today from the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . The drop was the 13th
consecutive year-over-year retreat and the largest since 2009’s
third quarter.  “This is still a very weak demand picture,” said  Jonathan Basile , a senior economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “There
has been no recovery in housing starts, permits or new-home
sales. We’re in a period where demand and supply will run well
below average.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  