-- 
Uganda’s Opposition Calls for Protests Against Election

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-24T13:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/uganda-s-opposition-calls-for-protests-against-election-1-.html
Four Ugandan opposition leaders who
lost a Feb. 18 presidential election to Yoweri Museveni urged
their supporters to protest in support of demands for a fresh
vote.  The four candidates allege the vote wasn’t free and fair
because of widespread bribery by the ruling party, ballot
stuffing and intimidation, Kizza Besigye of the Forum for
Democratic Change said today in a statement read to reporters in
the capital, Kampala.  “We call upon all our leaders in every district to
organize and address peaceful public rallies and marches to call
for fresh elections,” Besigye said. The “time is now for the
people of  Uganda  to rise and peacefully protest against the
outcome of the 2011 elections.”  The opposition leaders want a fresh election under a newly
constituted independent electoral body that will clean the
voters register, the statement said. Museveni, 66, secured a
fourth term in office, winning 68.38 percent of the vote,
leaving him in charge of an economy on the cusp of an oil boom.    Tullow Oil Plc , the U.K.-based energy company, will
probably start pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin
in 2012. Uganda has an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil,
with about 1 billion barrels already proven, according to
Tullow.  Besigye won 26 percent of the vote that European Union
observers said was “marred by avoidable and logistical
failures, which led to an unacceptable number of Ugandan
citizens being disenfranchised.” Commonwealth election monitors
had “serious concerns” that there wasn’t a level playing field
in the run-up to polling, mission leader Dame Billie Miller told
reporters on Feb. 10.  Today’s statement was also signed by  Olara Otunnu  of the
Uganda People’s Congress, Nobert Mao of the  Democratic Party  and
Samuel Lubega, the independent candidate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 