-- 
Mukherjee Cutting Debt Sales Drives Flattest Curve Since '08: India Credit

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-02-24T20:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/mukherjee-cutting-debt-sales-drives-flattest-curve-since-08-india-credit.html
For the first time in seven years  India ’s government may be preparing to reduce debt sales,
spurring a rally in longer-dated bonds.  Yields on 10-year bonds fell to within 27 basis points of
two-year debt on Feb. 23, the least since December 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Eight of 12 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predict policy makers will cut borrowings
in the year starting April 1. The  finance ministry  may raise 4.3
trillion rupees ($94.6 billion), about 5 percent less than
planned this fiscal year, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said.  Investors are already anticipating fewer offerings, helping
drive a 0.7 percent return on rupee-denominated debt this month,
the best performance in  Asia  after  Indonesia , indexes compiled
by HSBC Holdings Plc show. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee has
room to maneuver in the federal budget on Feb. 28 because less
bonds are due for repayment and phone-license sales last year
may leave him with as much as 40 billion rupees of surplus cash.  “The drop in the spreads indicates that long-term growth
fundamentals remain strong and the markets are less concerned
about the  budget deficit ,” Killol Pandya, who manages the
equivalent of $300 million as the Mumbai-based head of fixed
income at Daiwa Mutual Fund, said in an interview yesterday.  India has run fiscal deficits every year for more than
three decades. The nation’s debt obligations have risen from
28.71 billion rupees in 1981, according to earliest-available
data from the central bank.  Fiscal Shortfall  The deficit  shortfall  in the nine months through December
was 45 percent of the full-year target of 3.81 trillion rupees,
official data show. In the new fiscal year, it may drop to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product from an estimated 5.2 percent
in the current 12-month period, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, the
prime minister’s chief economic adviser, told reporters Feb. 21.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates the deficit,
which includes state governments’ finances, will be the highest
among the so-called BRIC economies at 8.5 percent of GDP in
2011. That compares with 3.6 percent in  Russia , 1.9 percent in  China  and 1.2 percent in  Brazil .  The yield on India’s 8.13 percent bonds due September 2022
touched 8.08 percent on Feb. 22, the lowest level since Jan. 5,
on speculation demand is increasing due to the absence of new
offerings. The rate on the most-traded government security was
8.14 percent yesterday, compared with 8.11 percent on Feb. 23.  Borrowing Plan  The government, which budgeted 4.57 trillion rupees in
borrowings for the year ending March, scrapped one part of a 100
billion rupee sale in September. It has issued 4.27 trillion
rupees of notes between April 1 and Feb. 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The positive is there are no supplies scheduled for at
least a month,”  Anoop Verma , a fixed-income trader at
Development Credit Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, said in an interview on
Feb. 23. “That is spurring some buying.”  The difference between India’s 10-year bonds and similar-
maturity  U.S. Treasuries  has shrunk to 467 basis points from
this year’s high of 496 on Jan. 10 amid optimism growth in
Asia’s third-biggest economy will push up state revenue. The
government forecasts GDP will rise 8.6 percent in the current
financial perdion, the most in three years.  Tax collections  totaled  3.91 trillion rupees at the end of
December, 73 percent of the full-year target. The government
also earned 677.2 billion rupees in the form of license fees
from third-generation phone licenses it sold in May, more than
the budgeted 350 billion rupees.  Debt Repayments  The government needs to repay about 730 billion rupees in
the coming fiscal year, compared with 1.12 trillion rupees in
the 12 months ending March, according to budget documents.  “There is inherent buoyancy in the economy, which will
lead to higher tax collections and lesser dependence on
borrowings,” Madan Sabnavis, an economist at Mumbai-based CARE
Ratings, said in an interview on Feb. 22.  The rupee has retreated 1.7 percent this year on concern an
11 percent surge in crude-oil prices in  New York  will raise the
government’s subsidy burden. The currency dropped 0.7 percent to
45.48 per dollar yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The government compensates  oil companies  for selling
cooking gas, kerosene and diesel at lower-than-market prices to
shield 66 percent of the nation’s 1.2 billion people who live on
less than $2 a day from spiraling prices. Subsidies account for
about 10 percent of India’s budget.  ‘Bearish on Borrowings’  “I am bearish on borrowings for the next year,” Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd., said in an
interview on Feb. 22. “Tax revenues may not be as buoyant as
they are this year and subsidies will be higher on  oil prices .”
She forecasts gross borrowings will be 4.9 trillion rupees in
the next financial year.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, is little changed this month at 189 basis points,
according to CMA prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “India’s approach on  deficit reduction  will be gradual,”  Rajeev Malik , a Singapore-based senior economist at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, said in an interview yesterday. “The  bond
market  is unlikely to react negatively to the budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  