-- 
Turkcell Plans Share Buyback, Increase in Dividend Payout

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-02-24T15:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/turkcell-plans-share-buyback-increase-in-dividend-payout-1-.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile phone company, plans to use its 5
billion lira ($3.1 billion) cash position to fund acquisitions,
a share buyback and an increase in dividend payments, Chief
Executive Officer Sureyya Ciliv said.  The Istanbul-based company aims to buy back shares from its
free float, now at 34.7 percent, or from existing shareholders
once a new commercial code comes into effect, Ciliv said today
in an interview.  Turkcell yesterday reported that revenue fell to 2.19
billion liras in the fourth quarter, down from 2.26 billion
liras in the corresponding period in 2009. The company had 33.5
million subscribers at the end of the fourth quarter, down from
33.9 million in the previous quarter.  The stock fell as much as 11 percent, its biggest drop in
almost three years, and traded at 9.24 liras, down 9 percent,
at 4:14 p.m. on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange .  “Turkcell’s market share retreated to 54 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2010 from 56 percent in the same 2009
quarter,” said Mert Bostanoglu, an analyst at Istanbul-based
Ata Invest, in a note to his clients today.  The company, partly owned by  Sweden ’s  Teliasonera AB , is
seeking to use acquisitions, unit sales and the mobile-Internet
business to boost revenue as it faces more competition in its
home market from  Vodafone Group Plc  and Avea Iletisim Hizmetleri
AS, majority owned by  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS . Turkey’s
information and technology market grew 6 percent to $35 billion
in 2010, the country’s regulator said last month.  Cash Position  “We can use most of our cash position in acquisitions,”
Ciliv said. “We also plan to increase our dividend payouts and
buy our own shares,” he said. Turkey’s new commercial law, set
to be implemented in mid-2012, will allow companies to buy back
as much as 10 percent of their issued shares.  Turkcell may pay out more than 50 percent of 2010 profit in
dividends, Ciliv said. A shareholders meeting scheduled for
April will decide on the plan, he said.  Turkcell, which has operations in  Kazakhstan ,  Azerbaijan ,
Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus and  Georgia , is “closely monitoring
opportunities in neighboring countries” and eastern  Europe  for
acquisitions, Ciliv said. The company is also assessing plans by  Serbia  to sell 51 percent at Telekom Srbije AD, he said. “No
board decision has been taken yet.”  The company wants to set up mobile virtual network
operations in other European countries after it signed an
agreement in October to buy capacity from  Deutsche Telekom AG 
for its so-called mobile virtual network operator unit in  Germany , Ciliv said.  Sales Forecast  Turkcell forecasts sales growth of between 7 percent and 9
percent this year after revenue in 2010 rose 0.8 percent to 9
billion liras, below the company’s target, Ciliv said. Revenue
last year was reduced by about 9 percentage points by price cuts
instituted by regulators that took effect in April.  The company also expects mobile Internet sales growth of 80
percent this year after sales in the category expanded 74
percent to 454 million liras in 2010, Ciliv said.  Turkey’s telecommunications regulator cut the maximum
tariff an operator can impose by 38 percent, while the maximum
rate operators charge each other, or mobile termination rates,
was lowered by 52 percent from April, 2010.  Turkcell is the biggest loser of the regulatory moves, said
Cemal Demirtas, an analyst at Istanbul-based Oyak Securities.  A reduction in termination rates and a maximum pricing
introduced by regulators as well as “marketing initiatives” by
rivals will have a “negative impact” on first-quarter results,
with a “gradual improvement” beginning in the second quarter,
Ciliv said.  Superonline, Astelite  Fiber-optic data carrier unit Superonline AS will probably
raise sales “at least 50 percent this year,” after posting 335
million liras in revenue with a 33 percent growth rate in 2010,
Ciliv said.  The unit’s growth in fiber-optic services to corporate and
individual clients will continue, the CEO said. Earnings before
interest taxes depreciation and amortization as a percentage of
sales will grow “much higher than 2010’s 9.8 percent.”  Ukraine unit Astelit is also forecast to have more than 20
percent sales growth in dollar terms after its sales shrunk 3.4
percent in 2010 to $339.3 million, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 