-- 
Turkish Stocks Plunge to Five-Month Low as Oil Price Surges; Bonds Decline

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-02-24T16:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/turkish-stocks-plunge-to-five-month-low-as-oil-price-surges-bonds-decline.html
Turkish stocks sank to the lowest in
more than five months on concern higher oil prices, driven by
violence in Libya, may stoke inflation and prompt the central
bank to raise  interest rates .  The  ISE National 100 Index  of stocks fell 3.8 percent to
60,760.82, its biggest retreat since May 25, at 5:30 p.m. in
Istanbul, giving the index a 7.9 percent loss in the past four
days.  “Investors see Turkey as one of the countries that would
be affected the most from oil prices’ rise,” Tunc Yildirim, a
director at Standard Unlu Securities, said by telephone.  Oil climbed above $100 a barrel in New York as Libya’s
uprising cut shipments from Africa’s third-biggest producer. Oil
jumped as much as 5.4 percent to $103.41 a barrel in  New York 
and Brent crude for April delivery traded as high as $119.79 in  London .  Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said Turkey imports 93 percent
of its oil consumption.  “If the rise in  oil prices  turns out to permanent, then
inflation will rise and the question emerges whether the central
bank would raise rates to stop this,” said Yildirim.  Ignited  Investors are “pricing in the geopolitical risks” from
tension in Libya and its impact on oil prices, Ozlem Bayraktar Goksen, an economist at Unicorn Capital Securities in Istanbul,
said in an e-mailed research note. For Turkey, “higher oil
prices translate into a higher current-account deficit and
elevated levels in inflation,” he wrote.  Turkey’s central bank won’t change its monetary policy in
the face of rising oil prices, Dunya newspaper reported today,
citing Ibrahim Turhan, a deputy governor of the bank. According
to minutes of the central bank’s Feb. 15 meeting, released Feb.
22, policy makers said that rising global commodity prices may
fuel inflation.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile
phone company, retreated 9.8 percent to 9.16 liras, the lowest
in six months, after yesterday posting fourth-quarter net income
falling short of analyst estimates.  Yields on two-year bonds dropped 1 basis points to 8.69
percent at the 5 p.m. close, according to the RBS Istanbul
Benchmark Bond Index, snapping a five-day rising streak.
Turkey’s lira gained 0.4 percent to 1.6026 per dollar, trimming
this year’s losses to 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  