-- 
Vietnam's Dung Approves Plan for Tighter Policy to Fight Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T05:08:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/vietnam-s-dung-approves-plan-for-tighter-policy-to-fight-prices.html
Vietnam will restrain lending growth
and narrow the  budget deficit  as Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
seeks to curb inflation and revive investor confidence in an
economy that has devalued its currency four times in 15 months.  Dung cut the credit-growth target to below 20 percent from
23 percent for 2011, according to a resolution approved by the
prime minister, which was presented by Deputy Prime Minister
Nguyen Sinh Hung to government and central bank officials at a
meeting in Hanoi today. He told ministries to narrow the budget
deficit to less than 5 percent of gross domestic product this
year and ordered a “cautious and tight” monetary policy.  The country’s benchmark stock index has slid 6.7 percent in
the past year and Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings cut  Vietnam ’s sovereign-credit rating last
year. Inflation accelerated to a two-year high of 12.31 percent
this month, adding to signs of an overheating economy, and may
be spurred further by higher electricity prices in March.  “The package of measures that the government just signed is
still not strong enough and the main concern is that the general
macroeconomy is still bad,” said Cao Thi Hong, vice general
director of Hanoi-based Vietnam International Securities Co.
“Local investors are losing confidence while foreign investors
remained net sellers in the stock market recently.”  Vietnam’s benchmark VN Index fell 2 percent at the 11 a.m.
local time close to 461.29, its lowest level since Dec. 9. The
dong declined 0.3 percent to 20,893 a dollar.  Rate Increases  The central bank raised its refinancing rate by 2
percentage points to 11 percent last week, and boosted its
reverse repurchase rate on Feb. 22, joining neighbors from  Thailand  to  China  in tightening policy as inflation accelerates.  The economy showed signs of overheating in January, Ho Chi
Minh City-based Viet Capital Securities said this month. The
government expects economic growth this year of as much as 7.5
percent, up from a 6.8 percent pace in 2010.  The central bank devalued the dong on Feb. 11 to curb the
nation’s trade shortfall and narrow the gap between official and
black-market exchange rates. The devaluations raise the risk of
higher import costs, while a planned increase in power tariffs
of about 15 percent next month may also spur prices.  “Concern about inflation is just one issue,” Pham Thanh Thai Linh, Hanoi-based head of market strategy at Bao Viet
Securities Co., a unit of Vietnam’s biggest insurer, said by
phone today. “The overall situation is monetary policy
tightening, so the upside for stocks will be much less, while
other investment channels, like gold or foreign-exchange, are
more attractive.”  Gold Trading  Dung’s resolution asked the central bank to slow the growth
and proportion of lending in non-productive sectors, especially
property and stock trading.  The central bank will “gradually” restrict and abolish
trading of gold in non-jewelry form in the “free market,”
according to the resolution. Dung will instruct ministries and
provinces to reduce public spending by 10 percent for the next
nine months.  State-owned companies will be ordered to focus their
capital on their main businesses, and the Ministry of Industry
and Trade will consider reducing and exempting import tax on raw
materials for some industries, including garment, textile,
footwear, seafood and medical sectors, according to the
resolution.  The central bank will manage  interest rates  and  money
supply  flexibly, the resolution showed.  Policy Shift  “The announcement of the Prime Minister’s plan indicates a
clear shift in policy stance from over-emphasis on growth
towards stabilizing the economy,” Deepak Mishra, the  World
Bank’s  lead economist in Vietnam, said in an e-mail today.
“This augurs well for Vietnam’s economy as it shows a strong
resolve on the part of the government to address the
macroeconomic vulnerabilities that have plagued the country for
some time.”  The measures, if implemented effectively, will help Vietnam
to regain its macroeconomic stability “soon,” he said.  The government’s target to keep inflation at or below 7
percent this year will be difficult to meet, Thoi Bao Kinh Te
Vietnam newspaper reported this week, citing Nguyen Tien Thoa,
the head of price control at the Ministry of Finance.  Electricity prices will rise by an average 15.3 percent,
starting March 1, Hoang Quoc Vuong, deputy minister of trade and
industry, said Feb. 21. Dung has approved the increase.  Vietnam’s Ministry of Finance raised petroleum prices
including gasoline, diesel and kerosene, effective from 10 a.m.
local time today, said Vuong Thai Dung, deputy chief executive
officer of Vietnam National Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News at   oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  