-- 
Thousands of Foreigners Struggle to Leave Libya as Unrest Triggers Exodus

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-24T15:46:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/violence-in-libya-spurs-thousands-of-foreigners-to-flee-as-chaos-escalates.html
Thousands of foreigners in Libya
struggled to leave the country as spiraling violence in the
capital Tripoli kept those trying to flee stranded and chaos
spreading through the country threatened to spark an exodus.  Alitalia SpA, which flew about 800 Italians out of Libya
yesterday, suspended flights to Tripoli because passengers were
unable to reach departure gates and  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG  canceled all flights to Tripoli at least through the weekend.
A ferry bound for Malta that began to evacuate several thousand
U.S. citizens from Libya was delayed because of high seas, State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday.  “Of course I am incredibly sorry,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in an interview with BBC television in Oman today.
Those awaiting evacuation “have had a difficult time. The
conditions at the airport have been extremely poor.”  Thousands of Egyptian workers pouring over the eastern
border into their homeland spoke of soldiers and militia loyal
to  Muammar Qaddafi  firing on civilians in Tripoli and driving
most of them into their homes. Italy yesterday warned that as
many as 350,000 migrant workers in  Libya  may cross the  Mediterranean Sea  and seek refuge in  Europe .  China and Turkey both said they were mobilizing the
biggest-ever evacuations of their citizens. More than 4,600 of
an estimated 30,000 Chinese nationals, many working on
construction projects in Libya, managed to leave, according to
the official Xinhua News Agency.  Turkey  sent a fleet of ferries
to release as many as 25,000 of its citizens who live and work
in Libya, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said yesterday.  Ferries, Aircraft  Foreigners trying to leave the eastern city of Benghazi,
which has been overrun by anti-Qaddafi forces, took to the sea
because the airport was shut down.  The U.S and European governments rushed to mobilize
chartered ferries and military aircraft to get their citizens
out. The U.S.-chartered ferry, with a capacity of about 575
people, will be used to evacuate American citizens, including
employees of energy companies and embassy staff, Crowley said.  “Some countries may use their armed forces to evacuate
their citizens,” Jan Techau, an analyst at the NATO Defense
College in  Rome , said in a phone interview. “The U.S., Britain
and  France  would be capable of doing this. It’s not imminent,
but I could imagine it happening.”  About 300 Britons remain in Tripoli and 100 in Benghazi,
with a further 150 scattered in the desert, according to
officials traveling with Cameron in Muscat, Oman. The Royal
Navy’s HMS Cumberland docked in Benghazi and prepared to
evacuate the Britons there. The government is considering how
best to extract those in the desert, said the officials, who
declined to be identified in line with U.K. government policy.  Chinese, Turks    Greece  chartered four vessels and rescued about 4,000
Chinese citizens aboard two ships that are en route to dock in
Crete, the Foreign Ministry in Athens said. As of today, 7,062
Turks have been transported, the Turkish Foreign Ministry said
in a statement carried by state news agency Anatolia.  In Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city, anti-Qaddafi
militias in front of the courthouse were collecting weapons from
people who had seized them from army supplies, a resident said
by phone, declining to be identified on concern over reprisals.  The French and German governments have repatriated several
hundred citizens aboard military and chartered flights, their
foreign ministries said. About 160 Germans and 100 French
citizens remain to be evacuated and both governments are forming
plans to get them out by air, land or sea.  Italian Ships  Italian naval vessels bound for the port city of Misurata
east of Tripoli were sent “not only to aid our citizens, but
also, where needed, other foreign nationals who are in
difficulty and are trying to leave Libya,” Defense Minister
Ignazio La Russa said in an interview today on Canale 5.  An Irish airplane that landed in Tripoli yesterday was
prevented from picking up Irish nationals by Libyan security,
Ireland’s government said. The plane remained on the ground for
four hours before returning to  Malta .  “Efforts will be resumed tomorrow morning and in the
meantime, work is proceeding to have Irish nationals
accommodated” on other European Union flights that are trying
to depart from Tripoli, the government said yesterday.    Spain ’s government said it’s awaiting permission from
Libyan authorities to land planes and evacuate its citizens. A
Dutch military aircraft landed in Tripoli early today to ferry
back some of the 70 Dutch citizens, the Foreign Ministry said in
a statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  