-- 
War Rooms, `Hokey' Unity Signal U.S. Unions Under Siege in Ex-Strongholds

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-02-24T03:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/war-rooms-hokey-unity-signal-u-s-unions-under-siege-in-ex-strongholds.html
Wes Jorden said he felt part of a
national movement as he stood inside the Capitol in Indianapolis
among hundreds of fellow union members.  Labor leaders in Washington have thrown their weight into
helping local affiliates oppose a Republican-backed measure that
died in  Indiana ’s state legislature yesterday, he said.  “The AFL-CIO has been here all week,” Jorden, 27, a
power-plant worker from Princeton, Indiana, said in an interview
yesterday. “From the top down, we’ve all had support.”  Indiana,  Wisconsin  and  Ohio  are battlegrounds between
Republican governors seeking to restrict union rules they call
costly and unnecessary and labor leaders who say workers are
under attack. The fight has unified a labor movement that has
faced divisions since 2005, when seven unions bolted from the
AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation.  “It’s a moment we need to stick together, or we lose,”
Jill Cashen, communications director for the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union, said in an interview. “We are putting
tremendous resources into this. There is no other issue.”  National labor groups have set up war rooms and are e-
mailing “Battlefield Bulletins” to affiliates in the field.
Union presidents and activists have set up a figurative “labor
table” in  Washington , where former rivals such as AFL-CIO
President  Richard Trumka  and International Brotherhood of
Teamsters President James Hoffa plot strategy at the offices of
participating unions.  Rotating Location  “The headquarters for the table always rotates, because
this is a moment that has really made the hokey concept of
solidarity crystal clear,” Cashen said.  The unions have set a goal of raising $30 million for a
campaign to counter the Republican efforts, according to a labor
official with knowledge of the plan who spoke on condition of
anonymity because it hasn’t been made public. The Wall Street
Journal reported the fundraising goal late yesterday without
identifying a source.  AFL-CIO labor leaders also canceled plans for an annual
retreat in  Orlando ,  Florida , that was scheduled for next week.
“With everything going on, everyone wanted to be close to their
operations” and will gather in Washington instead, said Alison
Omens, a spokeswoman for the labor federation.  States face deficits that may reach a combined $125 billion
in the next fiscal year. Republican governors including  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin, John Kasich of Ohio and  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey  are trying to change rules for collective bargaining
and worker contributions for health care and pensions to manage
costs. Labor leaders call the bills union-busting.  Departing for  Illinois   Democratic lawmakers in Wisconsin and Indiana left the
state for Illinois to block the quorums needed for action.  In Indiana, Democrats are trying to block a bill that would
restrict collective bargaining for teachers and defeated one
that would keep employers and unions from negotiating contracts
that make nonunion members pay for labor representation.  The demonstrations in the Midwest have energized labor
unions that have seen membership dwindle in 2010 to a record low
6.9 percent of employees in companies, down from 7.2 percent in
2009, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Nationwide,
of the 14.7 million workers in unions last year, 7.6 million
worked for governments, according to the bureau.  While unions are on the defensive, the labor-led protests
raise “the profile of the  labor movement  from something that a
lot of people saw as a vested interest to a moral crusade once
again,” Robert Creamer, a Democratic political consultant based
in  Chicago , said in an interview.  In interviews over the last week, national labor leaders
have sought to portray the challenge facing their dwindling
membership as an opportunity to rally support.  ‘Fed by Millionaires’  The protests are giving the public a chance to understand
that “the middle class is at risk,” said Mary Kay Henry,
president of the  Service Employees International Union . “It’s
not going to end here.”  ‘This will explain to a lot of the public that there’s a
right-wing Republican agenda that’s being fed by millionaires
and  Wall Street ,’’ Leo W. Gerard, president of the United
Steelworkers union, said.  In Indianapolis, union protesters such as Brian Short, 36,
of Terre Haute said he appreciates the backing from Washington.  The national labor unions “are standing up for us,” said
Short, sporting a sticker that read “Stand Up for Hoosiers.”
“We’re here to protect the rights of workers. I think it’s
great.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  