-- 
What Vikram Pandit Knew, and When He Knew It: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-02-24T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/what-vikram-pandit-knew-and-when-he-knew-it-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
On Feb. 14, 2008, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency sent a seven-page letter to  Citigroup Inc .’s chief executive, Vikram Pandit, summarizing the
results of a special supervisory review its bank examiners had
recently concluded.  The gist of the regulator’s  findings : Citigroup’s internal
controls were a mess. So were its valuation methods for subprime
mortgage bonds, which had spawned record losses at the bank.
Among other things, “weaknesses were noted with model
documentation, validation and control group oversight,” the
letter said. The main valuation model Citigroup was using “is
not in a controlled environment.” In other words, the model
wasn’t reliable.  Here’s where the timeline gets curious. Eight days later,
on Feb. 22, Citigroup filed its  annual report  to shareholders,
in which it said “management believes that, as of Dec. 31,
2007, the company’s  internal control  over financial reporting is
effective.” Pandit  certified  the report personally, including
the part about Citigroup’s internal controls. So did Citigroup’s
chief financial officer at the time,  Gary Crittenden .  The annual report also included a Feb. 22 letter from KPMG
LLP, Citigroup’s outside auditor,  vouching  for the effectiveness
of the company’s financial-reporting controls. Nowhere did
Citigroup or KPMG mention any of the problems cited by the OCC.
KPMG, which earned $88.1 million in fees from Citigroup for
2007, should have been aware of them, too. The lead partner on
KPMG’s Citigroup audit, William O’Mara, was listed on the “cc”
line of the OCC’s Feb. 14 letter.  Unanswered Questions  So, what did Citigroup and  KPMG  know, and when did they
know it? Those are questions the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission should have answered, but didn’t.  The OCC’s letter to Pandit was one of hundreds of newly
released documents the FCIC posted to its website before it
closed shop this month. As far as I can tell, there’s no
indication the commission asked anyone at Citigroup or KPMG to
explain how they justified their assurances about Citigroup’s
internal controls in the face of the OCC’s criticisms. KPMG’s
name doesn’t even appear anywhere in the FCIC’s 545-page  report .  The key players aren’t talking now, either. Pandit,
Crittenden and O’Mara didn’t return phone calls. A KPMG
spokesman, George Ledwith, declined to comment, as did an OCC
spokesman, Kevin Mukri. A Citigroup spokeswoman,  Shannon Bell ,
declined to discuss the OCC’s findings, though in an e-mail she
said the certifications by Pandit and Crittenden were “entirely
appropriate.”  Subprime Fallout  The OCC began its special review after Citigroup on Nov. 4,
2007, disclosed that the value of its subprime-related assets
had fallen by anywhere from $8 billion to $11 billion since
Sept. 30, which the bank blamed on downgrades by credit-rating
companies that “occurred after the end of the third quarter.”  As I wrote in a column at the time, the idea that all these
losses occurred after September 2007 wasn’t credible. Merrill
Lynch & Co. had already written down its own subprime-related
holdings by $8.4 billion during the third quarter, while
Citigroup’s writedowns as of Sept. 30 had been small by
comparison.  Now we have further confirmation. In a Jan. 17, 2008,
internal  memo  to John Lyons, the examiner in charge of the OCC’s
review, two OCC staff members, Michael Sullivan and Ron Frake,
put it simply: “Model control processes did not work.”  Broken Models  Citigroup’s valuation model for collateralized debt
obligations, they said, “was built in a short time and largely
circumvented typical control policies and procedures. Developers
were not aware of their responsibilities under corporate
policies, having typically built trader tools rather than
official valuation models. Control groups did not enforce them
at the time and are now firmly on the sidelines.”  About the only kind comment the OCC staff had for
Citigroup’s valuation method was that it “is broadly within the
range of current market practice.” That was hardly a
compliment, considering the whole financial world was blowing
up. One big problem they found was that Citigroup was using a
sketchy discounted cash flow model to value its CDOs, rather
than using the value of the collateral as a starting point.  The Feb. 14 letter to Pandit, signed by Lyons, echoed those
conclusions. It said “several months after the first use of the
DCF model there are several deficiencies that need to be
addressed.” Additionally, “over-reliance was placed on credit
rating agency ratings without considering the appropriateness of
these ratings to specific products or the true risk of the
underlying collateral.”  Skewed Balance Sheet  Yet somehow KPMG and Citigroup’s management decided they
didn’t need to mention any of those weaknesses or deficiencies.
Maybe in their minds it was all just a difference of opinion.
Whatever their rationale, nine months later Citigroup had taken
a $45 billion taxpayer bailout, still sporting a balance sheet
that made it seem healthy.  “As I look at the deficiencies cited in the letter, taken
as a whole, it appears that Citigroup had a material weakness
with respect to valuing these financial instruments,” said Ed Ketz, an accounting professor at  Pennsylvania State University ,
who reviewed the OCC’s letter to Pandit at my request. “It just
is overwhelming by the time you get to the end of it.”  One company that did get a cautionary note from its auditor
that same quarter was American International Group Inc. In
February 2008, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP warned of a material
weakness related to AIG’s valuations for credit-default swaps.
So at least investors were told AIG’s numbers might be off. That
turned out to be a gross understatement.  At Citigroup, there was no such warning. The public
deserves to know why.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Jonathan Weil  in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  