-- 
Bellyaching Rich Folks in Sports Need Fish Tale: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-02-24T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/whining-rich-folks-in-sports-need-fish-tale-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
So  Carmelo Anthony , he of the big-
market team and big-money contract, got everything that he
desired. If only the same could be said about former National
Basketball Association player George Johnson, who simply wanted
to go fishing.  There was so much inane, money-related chatter during the
NBA’s recently completed All-Star weekend. Talk, talk, talk.
It’s a pity that some of the owners, executives and players
don’t shut up long enough to listen to a guy like Johnson, who
had the misfortune of playing before an era in which even so-so,
out-of-shape journeymen get rich.  Anyone who stopped yakking long enough to listen might have
heard the 62-year-old Johnson talking about an invitation
extended by former Golden State Warriors teammate Rick Barry, a
hall of famer who was suggesting that a bunch of the old gang
from the 1974-75 championship team get together for a fishing
trip to  Alaska .  Camaraderie and war stories always appeal to Johnson, who
played from 1972 to 1986. The getaway sounded like a great idea,
that is, until Barry revealed the price tag.  “Eight thousand dollars,” Johnson said, repeating the
amount slowly -- eight -- thousand -- dollars -- for emphasis.
“I can go to the supermarket and get my fish.”  No Fishing  So, just to summarize, there will be no fishing and fun
with the fellas. It’s just too expensive.  Johnson isn’t one of these old timers who begrudge the
filthy-rich players of today, even if too many of them (see Eddy Curry) don’t deserve their multimillion-dollar salaries. More
power to them, Johnson says.  The subject of money -- more specifically who has it, who
doesn’t and who wants more of it -- isn’t just a topic of
conversation in the NBA, mind you. National Football League
executives and players spent much of Super Bowl week bellyaching
about their labor contract, which expires March 3. Owners and
players just can’t seem to figure out how to share more than $8
billion in revenue.  What’s more, in both the NFL and NBA even the owners can’t
agree among themselves on how to share. It’s so bad in
basketball that Commissioner David Stern  joked  that one side of
his hair is grey because of labor negotiations with the players
and the other side is grey because of revenue-sharing battles
among owners.  ‘Asinine’ Deal  In  Major League Baseball , meantime, the Yankees are
bemoaning revenue sharing while White Sox General Manager Ken Williams used the word “asinine” to describe the possibility
that Cardinals slugger  Albert Pujols  could land a $30 million a
year contract.  That would buy a lot of fishing trips.  The NBA picked the perfect locale for its All-Star
festivities in Los Angeles, home of the Lakers, who earlier this
month signed a 20-year broadcast agreement with Time Warner
Cable that the  Los Angeles  Times says is worth $3 billion. Time
Warner will create two regional sports networks, one in English
and one Spanish, which the company will seek to distribute to
other cable systems. Look out, folks, the cable bill is about to
go up. Again.  Even with all this money, the divide between fan and
athlete gets wider. Pay more. Get less.    Tiger Woods , for instance, likes to say he began tweeting
because it allows him to connect with fans on a different level.
As if Woods ever connected to fans on any level.  Fan Overlap  That kind of dissonance was on full display in Los Angeles,
where basketball’s best players received police escorts and rode
in SUVs with tinted windows for the one block trip to Staples
Center. One block.  How can there be a connection between athletes and fans
when their worlds don’t overlap? Would it have been so difficult
for the players to walk?  The  National Hockey League  is oh-so proud of its new seven-
year, $375 million endorsement agreement with  SABMiller Plc ’s
MillerCoors and Molson Coors of  Canada . Hockey fans drink lots
of beer. They pay lots for it, too.  Johnson doesn’t understand all the whining. There’s enough
for everyone, or so he figures.  As for Anthony, he made his debut last night with the  New
York Knicks , who signed the all-star forward to a three-year,
$65 million extension after acquiring him from the  Denver
Nuggets .  Wouldn’t it be something if Anthony, in a sports world
where everyone is looking out for themselves, brought some much-
needed sanity and sent Johnson fishing?  (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  