-- 
Why We Should Debate Public-Sector Bargaining: Brendan Greeley

-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 
2011-02-24T18:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/why-we-should-debate-collective-bargaining-commentary-by-brendan-greeley.html
When five different statehouses take
up similar pieces of contentious legislation at the same time,
it suggests either a conspiracy or a crisis. Bills pending in  Wisconsin , Ohio,  Michigan ,  Tennessee  and  Idaho  would limit the
right of public-sector unions -- teachers, nurses, sanitation
workers, firefighters -- to bargain collectively.  Wisconsin’s has come to a vote first. In protest, the
state’s Democratic senators moved to  Illinois  and the state’s
union members moved into the capitol.  Scott Walker , Wisconsin’s
governor and the bill’s chief proponent, went on television to
warn against outside agitators.  “We’re not going to be intimidated by people coming in
from outside of Wisconsin trying to tell us what to do to
balance our budget,” he said.  One of those outsiders was President  Barack Obama , who
called Walker’s bill “an assault on unions.” Another was
Gerald W. McEntee, president of the 1.6 million-member American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, who wrote
in the  Huffington Post  on Feb. 16 that “newly elected
politicians are working tirelessly to pay back their debt to the
corporate CEOs who funded their campaigns.”  It has always been good sport for Republican politicians to
lay into public unions, and for union leaders to lay into
Republicans. And that’s the shame about the circus in Wisconsin,
where all the posturing threatens to obscure a serious issue.
America’s taxpayers really do need to reconsider the way they
negotiate with their employees. The question is whether
restricting collective bargaining is the proper remedy.  Nakedly Political  Wisconsin’s bill doesn’t present the best argument in favor
of curbing worker rights; it stuffs a clause on collective
bargaining into a larger “budget repair bill” that cuts
public-worker benefits and restructures the state’s debt. This
presents the end of collective bargaining as a fiscal necessity.  If the state can make up its shortfall, Walker loses his
reason to restrict unions. Sure enough, both the unions and the
state’s Democrats have agreed to swallow the benefit cuts if
Walker drops the collective-bargaining limits. He won’t budge.  Details of the bill look nakedly political. State employers
would be prevented from deducting union dues from paychecks.
Unions couldn’t require dues and would have to hold annual votes
to maintain certification. These are all longstanding demands of
anti-union groups, and, as The  New York  Times and Bloomberg have
reported, oil billionaires and conservative activists Charles
and  David Koch  were major supporters of Walker’s campaign. Their
organization, Americans for Prosperity, is running television
commercials promoting the bill in Wisconsin.  First Responders  The legislation spares local police, state troopers and
firefighters, groups that lean Republican. In the past, unions
that represent first responders have held fewer negotiating
rights, according to  Alex Colvin , who teaches collective
bargaining and conflict resolution at  Cornell University . Colvin
can’t think of an industrial-relations rationale to give
collective bargaining to police, but not teachers.  If all five state bills were so flawed, it would be easy to
reject this idea. Ohio’s legislation, now in committee in
Columbus, is a more serious piece of work.  It abolishes collective bargaining without suggesting
specific cuts or clawbacks, removing from the discussion the
urgency to narrow any immediate deficit. (Ohio’s is projected to
be about $8 billion in the next two years.) It avoids some of
the provisions on dues and votes that the anti-union crowd
favors. It includes police and firefighters. And it doesn’t
limit pay measures the way Wisconsin does with its proposal to
peg wages to the  consumer price index . Shannon Jones, the
Republican state senator who wrote the  Ohio  bill, describes it
as a “reset.”  Fettering Chains  Local governments, the second-term senator explains, are
fettered with two chains. The terms of collective bargaining --
in particular binding arbitration -- have prevented local
politicians from renegotiating contracts in line with revenue.
At the same time, antitax movements at the local level have
prevented local governments from raising revenue to meet
contracts. Cincinnati, part of which lies in Jones’s district,
needs to hold a referendum to raise taxes. Its pension fund is
more than $1 billion in the hole.  Collective bargaining works as a ratchet: It takes the last
contract as a starting point. It can obscure raises through
impenetrable tiers and terms, and binding arbitration can tell a
local government to raise more revenue even if voters won’t
approve a new tax levy. Although real money is at stake -- 85
percent of Ohio’s state budget goes to local governments --
Jones’s bill wouldn’t directly fix any budgets. It proposes to
solve a problem of governance.  Opposing Pay Cuts  A USA Today/Gallup poll on Feb. 22 showed that 53 percent
of Americans oppose reducing pay or benefits for government
workers; 61 percent oppose ending collective-bargaining rights.
And 71 percent oppose increasing taxes.  Whether collective-bargaining reform is conspiracy or
crisis, American taxpayers have surely conspired to create a
different and far more elementary crisis. We love teachers, but
we hate taxes; we want to spend more than we are willing to pay.
Jones’s bill asks voters to own up to what she calls their
“cognitive dissonance.”  America has never resolved how it feels about public-sector
unions. Boston’s police department struck in 1919 over 17-hour
days and vermin-infested stations. Robbery and destruction
followed, as Joseph E. Slater describes in his book, “Public
Workers.” Calvin Coolidge, then governor of  Massachusetts ,
called out the state guard and fired the strikers. Coolidge’s
response helped make him president, and the chaos tilted the
next half-century of negotiations against public unions.  1940s Union Bans  Democrats and Republicans passed laws in the 1940s that
banned public-union strikes and even membership in any
organization that asserted the right to strike. The success of a
public-sector strike depends not on whether it’s legal but on
whether it’s tolerable to voters. In the decades that followed,
public-sector workers struck, and politicians granted them
amnesty. They negotiated, and in many states won a legal right
to bargain collectively, in part because it was seen as a safety
valve to prevent strikes.  At the same time, unions entered politics, and their
ability to elect Democratic mayors and governors created a
built-in conflict: Lawmakers were often negotiating with labor
leaders who put them in office. By the late 1970s, according to
Cornell’s Colvin, they had no clear counterweight. That arrived
with  Ronald Reagan , not because he fired striking air traffic
controllers in 1981 but simply because he won his election.
“The alternative to having union support,” says Colvin, “is
to run against taxes.”  Globalization, Competition  In the past three decades, globalization has made wages a
factor of competition, forcing private unions into a series of
concessions and eroding their power. ( Union members  today make
up about 7 percent of the private-sector work force, down from
20 percent in 1980, and about 36 percent of public-sector
workers.) In 2011, as a recession and structural shifts expose
every one of America’s inefficiencies, it may be time to rethink
public unions as well. America’s companies aren’t the only ones
competing in a larger market; its governments are, too.  Ohio Senator Joe Schiavoni is the ranking Democrat on the
subcommittee considering Jones’s bill. “If there’s something we
can fix,” he says, “let’s fix it … but this is destruction.”  Last year, Ohio’s public unions gave back $250 million in
concessions. Schiavoni says most local government officials he’s
seen testify about the bill have shown frustration with
collective bargaining yet don’t want to end it altogether.
Schiavoni concedes it creates problems for some communities
while saying Jones’s approach is too blunt. He would rather have
the Senate focus on creating jobs. Local-government shortfalls,
he points out, get worse when the economy gets bad.  So these are the terms of the debate, which is likely to
reach Madison-size proportions -- with pizza ordered for
protesters by well-wishers in Cairo -- by the time it comes to a
final vote in Columbus. Schiavoni’s America says to fix the
problem, you fix the economy. Jones’s America says you can’t fix
the economy without fixing the problem. Whatever their
differences, neither dismisses this as a mere conspiracy.  (Brendan Greeley is a reporter for Bloomberg Businessweek.
A version of this column appears in the Feb. 28 issue of the
magazine. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story: Brendan Greeley in  Washington  at   bgreeley2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Eric Pooley in
New York at   epooley2@bloomberg.net . 