-- 
Assange Should Be Extradited to Sweden on Sex-Assault Charges, Judge Rules

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T14:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/wikileaks-s-assange-should-be-extradited-to-sweden-judge-rules.html
Julian Assange, founder of the anti-
secrecy website WikiLeaks, should be extradited to  Sweden  from
Britain to face questioning over sexual-assault allegations by
two women, a U.K. judge ruled.  District Judge Howard Riddle in London rejected claims that
Assange won’t get a fair trial in Sweden and that the prosecutor
handling the case is a “radical feminist.” Geoffrey Robertson,
one of Assange’s lawyers, said he would appeal.  “It does not seem unreasonable to me” that Sweden would
request Assange’s presence for questioning “in a matter as
serious as this,” Riddle said. “I must order that Mr. Assange
be extradited to Sweden.”  Assange was detained in December after Swedish authorities
issued a so-called European arrest warrant seeking to question
him over the claims of sexual misconduct, which the women said
took place in August. Today’s ruling is the first round of what
lawyers said will be a long appeal process that may end up being
decided by the U.K. Supreme Court. Assange remains free on bail.  The allegations were made as WikiLeaks was condemned for
posting thousands of classified U.S. military and diplomatic
communications, prompting Assange’s lawyers to say the
extradition may be politically motivated. The U.S. is
investigating WikiLeaks activities and the hacking of some
company websites by supporters of the organization.  “What we saw today at Belmarsh was a rubber stamping
process,” Assange said outside  Belmarsh Magistrates’ Court  after
the ruling. “It comes as no surprise. It is nonetheless wrong.”  Guantanamo Bay  “There was no consideration during the entire process of
the merits of the allegations,” Assange said, and the European
arrest warrant process should be changed to address that.  If extradited, Robertson said Assange could eventually be
sent to the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and
face a death sentence for espionage.  An appeal by the 39-year-old Australian will probably fail
because the chance of successfully contesting a European arrest
warrant is “very, very small,” said Neill Blundell, a lawyer
with Eversheds LLP in London.  “This case isn’t about WikiLeaks,” Blundell said.
“Whether we accept or don’t accept that Sweden was being
pressured by the U.S., the European arrest warrant is there to
streamline the process for one EU member state extraditing
someone from another.”  If Assange is extradited, Riddle said in his ruling that
sending him on to the U.S. would require the permission of both
Sweden and the U.K.  English Protection  “Mr. Assange would have the protection of the courts in
Sweden,” he said. “He would have the protection of the  English
courts  also.”  The Swedish prosecutor, Marianne Ny, declined to comment on
the matter citing the planned appeal.  Robertson had argued that Ny had misused the European
arrest warrant by seeking to detain Assange before charging him
with anything. Ny said he is wanted for questioning.  “On appeal, they’re going to need more than just a smoke
screen issue,” Blundell said. “That’s going to be the tricky
thing -- looking at whether the arrest warrant was issued in a
procedurally correct manner.”  During hearings earlier this month, Robertson criticized
the Swedish justice system and said Assange would be treated
unfairly because many rape trials are conducted in private.
Riddle said he was confident Assange will get fair treatment.  ‘More Subtle’  “If the Swedish practice was in fundamental and flagrant
breach of human rights I would expect there to be a body of
cases against Sweden confirming that,” Riddle said. “I think
the position is more subtle and less stark.”  Assange’s Swedish lawyer, Bjorn Hurtig, lied when he said
Ny hadn’t attempted to interview Assange when he was in Sweden,
the U.K. judge said. Hurtig later admitted Ny repeatedly told
him in September she wanted to interview Assange, Riddle wrote.  “It cannot have slipped his mind,” Riddle said in the
judgment. Hurtig spent a week unsuccessfully trying “to contact
a very important client about a very important matter. The
statement was a deliberate attempt to mislead the court.”  Riddle also rejected arguments Sweden’s prime minister,
Fredrik Reinfeldt, hurt Assange’s ability to get fair treatment
with comments that turned him into “public enemy number one.”  A defense witness, Brita Sundberg-Weitman, a Swedish lawyer
and former judge, failed to produce any further evidence to
substantiate her conclusion that Ny “is a well-known radical
feminist.”  Assange’s legal team may have damaged their case by
focusing too much an personal attacks against Ny and other
lawyers involved in the case, said Dan Hyde, a lawyer with
Cubism Law in  London , who isn’t involved in the case.  Assange’s lawyers were “overdoing the character attacks on
the Swedish prosecutors, that left an impression of mud-
slinging,” Hyde said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  