-- 
Wisconsin Deal Allows for Assembly to Vote on Union Bill

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-24T20:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/wisconsin-deal-struck-to-allow-for-assembly-vote-on-union-bill.html
  Wisconsin  Assembly Democrats agreed
to limit debate and allow a vote today on a bill restricting
collective-bargaining rights for public employees, while state
Senate Democrats continue to stall the measure.  Assembly Democrats agreed to offer only 38 more amendments,
one for each member, and restrict debate on each to 10 minutes,
said Eric Bott, a staff member in Republican Speaker Jeff Fitzgerald’s office. That should allow a vote on the bill this
afternoon, Bott said in a telephone interview.  “The Republicans basically told us we’re going to shut you
down or you can offer 38 more amendments,” Representative Kelda
Helen Roys, the minority caucus chairwoman, said in a telephone
interview.  The bill, championed by Republican Governor  Scott Walker ,
has sparked days of worker protests at the Capitol in Madison.
It would require public employees except police and firefighters
to pay 5.8 percent of their salaries for pension costs; they pay
nothing now. They would have to foot about 12 percent of their
health-care premiums, up from 6 percent.  The measure is intended to address a  budget deficit 
projected at $137 million in the current fiscal year and $3.6
billion in the next biennium, Walker has said.  Asking for Money  Two potential Republican presidential candidates entered
the dispute today on Walker’s side. Former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney said his political action committee would
send $5,000 to the Wisconsin Republican Party, and former
Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty sent an e-mail to supporters
asking them to sign a petition to back Walker.  The Wisconsin Assembly had been debating the bill since
Feb. 22 with Democrats offering amendments to delay it. The
Senate has been unable to vote since last week, when 14
Democrats left the state for  Illinois  to prevent a quorum and
stall a vote.  The Senate convened at 7 a.m. today to allow sergeant at
arms employees to go to the homes of missing lawmakers with
police, the  Associated Press  reported. Scott Fitzgerald, the
Republican Senate majority leader, said he hoped the tactic
would pressure them to return, the news service said.  “Every night we hear about some that are coming back
home,” Fitzgerald said. Democratic Senator Jon Erpenbach said
all 14 senators remain out of state and won’t return today,
according to the Associated Press.  Unions were planning “the largest day of demonstrations
outside of Madison in Wisconsin’s history” today, Eddie Vale,
AFL-CIO political communications director, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  