-- 
World Bank Approves $407 Million in Aid for Ethiopian Services

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-24T11:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/world-bank-approves-407-million-in-aid-for-ethiopian-services.html
The  World Bank  approved $407 million
in assistance for Ethiopian local administrations to improve
public services.  The funds, $246.6 million of which is a grant, will be used
by districts to improve education, health, agriculture, water
and sanitation, and rural roads, the Washington-based bank said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation, will also
contribute $523 million to the Protection of Basic Services
program that runs until July 2012, while other donors, such as
the U.S. and the European Union, have given $131.7 million.  The Horn of Africa nation, one of the world’s biggest
recipients of aid, has made progress against development goals,
although it has been criticized by campaign groups for human
rights abuses and political repression.  Primary school enrollment increased to 87.9 percent from
68.5 percent in the five years through 2010, the child
immunization rate rose to 82 percent from 70 percent, while
rural access to drinking water increased to 65.8 percent from 46
percent, according to the statement. Budget transparency and
accountability have also improved, the bank said.  Improving the quality of education should be a focus,
according to the bank’s country director, Ken Ohashi.  “Expanding access has been the relatively easy part,” he
said in the statement. “Increasingly, the challenge is
quality.”  A “large component” of funds will continue to go toward
“strengthening accountability and transparency systems,”
Ohashi said in a phone interview today from  Addis Ababa , the
capital. “We do recognize there are concerns and we are working
on that.”  In October, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  accused
donor-funded programs, including the Protection of Basic
Services, of being used by the ruling  Ethiopian People’s
Revolutionary Democratic Front  to maintain control by denying
political opponents access to resources and services.  The allegations were rejected by the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  