-- 
Xoom Sues Motorola Over New Tablet Computer With Same Name

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-02-24T21:22:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/xoom-sues-motorola-mobility-over-its-new-tablet-computer-with-same-name.html
Xoom Corp., operator of a money-
transfer website, sued Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for
trademark infringement for naming its new tablet computer that
went on sale today the Xoom.  Xoom Corp. , based in San Francisco, said it has been
offering its online service since 2003 and registered the
trademark for the name in 2004, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  San Francisco .  “To confuse and mislead consumers, Motorola without
authorization deliberately and unlawfully appropriated Xoom’s
trade name and trademark rights,” the closely held company said
in the complaint.  The Xoom tablet went on sale today in the U.S. through  Verizon Communications Inc .’s wireless unit to compete with  Apple Inc .’s iPad and rival devices that, like the Xoom, run on  Google Inc .’s Android software. Xoom.com allows users to
transmit money through the website to more than 30 countries.  Motorola Mobility hasn’t been served with a complaint and
has no comment at this time, the Libertyville, Illinois-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Motorola Mobility’s trademark application was rejected in
December by the  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office , which said it
was too similar to one owned by  Zoom Telephonics Inc . in Boston,
according to information on the office’s website.  On Feb. 10, Motorola Mobility told the trademark office
that it and Zoom had agreed there wouldn’t be any confusion
“because of the material differences in the goods and services
which they each offer,” according to the trademark website.
Zoom Telephonics makes modems and other communications products.  Public Application  Two days later, the agency agreed to make the application
public to see if anyone else would oppose it, the website said.  Xoom Corp. filed additional applications Jan. 24 for use of
the Xoom name for a website and software related to money
transfers, according to the website.  Xoom Corp. also charged that Motorola Mobility purchased
the Xoom keyword for online  search engines . The first item that
appears on the Google search page after typing in the keyword is
The Motorola XOOM. Xoom.com is the second item.  Motorola Mobility rose 65 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $30.42
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 4.5 percent this year.  Xoom Corp. is backed by venture firms Sequoia Capital, New
Enterprise Associates and Fidelity Ventures, according to its
website.  The Xoom tablet sells for about $600 with a two-year
Verizon contract and about $800 without one. It will compete
with an iPad model priced at $729, as well as with less-
expensive tablets from  HTC Corp . and Samsung Electronics Co.  The case is Xoom Corp. v. Motorola Trademark Holdings LLC,
11-0848, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donald Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 