-- 
Yen's Haven Status Outweighs Higher Oil Import Bill, Young Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-02-24T14:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/yen-s-haven-status-outweighs-higher-oil-import-bill-young-says-tom-keene.html
The yen’s haven status is
outweighing the currency’s negative longer-term outlook caused
by surging  oil prices , according to Barclays Plc’s Jeffrey Young.  “The risk-aversion bid is offsetting the medium- to long-
term negative of higher oil prices on the Japanese current
account,” Young, head of North America foreign exchange
research in New York, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  The yen appreciated 0.8 percent to 81.82 per dollar today,
its seventh straight gain, the longest run this year.  The currency strengthened as Libya was rocked by protests
ignited by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and
fanned by the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has taken control of Tripoli,
using tanks to block highways and security forces to attack
residents, witnesses said.  Japan swung to its first trade deficit in 22 months in
January as exports to  Asia  slowed and a surge in commodity
prices pushed up import costs. Japan’s imports rose 12.4 percent
from a year earlier, reflecting rising oil prices, according to
a Feb. 23 report from the  Finance Ministry . The country’s crude
oil imports rose 3.6 percent to 19.24 million kiloliters from a
year earlier.  Crude oil futures traded in London advanced to $119.79 a
barrel, the highest since August 2008, as the uprising in Libya
spurred demand for the safest assets. Oil for April delivery
topped $100 per barrel in New York.  “In an environment where there is more risk and investors
are naturally more reluctant to put their money across borders
into another country, the yen does not really suffer from
that,” Young said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  