-- 
Hariri Supporters Rally to Demand Disarming of Hezbollah Forces

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-13T13:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/hariri-supporters-rally-to-demand-disarming-of-hezbollah-forces.html
Lebanon’s caretaker Prime Minister  Saad Hariri  used a rally of supporters in  Beirut  to call for the
disarming of Shiite Muslim paramilitary force Hezbollah.  “We demand a state where nobody else carries arms,”
Hariri told the rally in the capital’s Martyrs’ Square. “We
demand a state which has one sole army standing in the face of  Israel .”  Hezbollah, the only Lebanese faction officially allowed to
maintain its arms at the end of the country’s 1975-1990 civil
war, waged several wars with Israel since then. The group says
it wants to maintain its arms to defend Lebanon from potential
Israeli attacks.  Hezbollah walked out of Hariri’s unity government in
January, leaving the country in political crisis as Prime
Minister-designate Najib Mikati struggles to form a cabinet.  Tensions have escalated in anticipation of the indictments
into the 2005 assassination of Hariri’s father, former Prime
Minister  Rafiq Hariri .  Hezbollah Secretary General  Hassan Nasrallah , has said
since July he expects some of his group’s members to be indicted
by the UN-backed tribunal trying the Hariri murder. Hariri was
killed along with 22 others by a roadside bomb in Beirut in
2005.  Hezbollah denies links with the assassination.  The country has since witnessed at least seven political
assassinations, fought a month long war with Israel in 2006, and
civil unrest that killed about 80 people three years ago after
Hezbollah and its allies took over parts of west Beirut.  Political divisions have led to a paralysis of public
institutions preventing the passing of the 2010 budget in
parliament for the sixth year.  Lebanon’s economy is forecast to grow 5 percent this year,
slowing from 8 percent in 2010 and 9 percent in 2009, the  International Monetary Fund  said in an October report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 