-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Fall on Japan Earthquake, Reactor Concern

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-03-14T15:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/aussie-drops-to-six-week-low-versus-yen-as-japan-quake-saps-risk-appetite.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars weakened versus the greenback as  Japan ’s biggest
earthquake and the struggle to contain the nuclear accident it
triggered damped demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie, as the currency is nicknamed, slid to a six-
week low against its Japanese counterpart on speculation the
disaster will prompt investors in the Asian nation to bring home
overseas funds. New Zealand’s dollar fell toward the weakest
since September versus the U.S. currency as global shares
tumbled. Losses in the Australian and New Zealand dollars
against the yen were tempered on speculation Japan may intervene
to curb gains in its currency.  “Risk aversion is prevailing in the market following the
earthquake, sending stocks and commodity currencies lower,”
said Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign bond department in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co. “There may be repatriation flows
favoring the yen, but at the same time, rising expectations for
yen-selling intervention is giving some support to the Aussie
and kiwi.”    Australia ’s dollar depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.0060 at
11:24 a.m. in  New York  from $1.0138 on March 11. The currency
dropped 0.8 percent to 82.32 yen, after earlier declining to
81.47, the lowest since Jan. 31. New Zealand’s currency weakened
0.7 percent to 73.78 U.S. cents. It declined 0.8 percent to
60.33 yen.  The MSCI World Index of stocks slumped 1.4 percent.  Quake, Tsunami  The March 11 earthquake in Japan triggered a tsunami that
swept as far as 20 kilometers (12.4 miles) inland along the
northern coast. Radiation levels around the Tokyo Electric Power
Co. station in Fukushima, north of Tokyo, rose after cooling
systems at a second reactor failed, heightening concerns about a
meltdown. A hydrogen explosion occurred at the No. 3 reactor at
the site today, the Ministry of Economy, Trade & Industry said.  The  Bank of Japan  poured a record 15 trillion yen ($183
billion) into the financial system today and increased the size
of its asset-purchase program. The measure represents the bank’s
first same-day repurchase operations since May when it added
funds to help stabilize the market after the Greek debt crisis
set off a slide in stocks worldwide.  Australia’s dollar also dropped as traders cut bets the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will raise  interest rates  during the
next year. The RBA will boost its target rate by 17 basis points
over the next 12 months, down from a prediction for 36 basis-
points of increases a month ago, a Credit Suisse AG index
showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 