-- 
Australia, New Zealand Win to Reach Quarterfinals of Cricket World Cup

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-03-13T20:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/australia-new-zealand-win-to-reach-quarterfinals-of-cricket-world-cup.html
Defending champion  Australia  beat
Kenya by 60 runs to extend its unbeaten run at cricket’s  World
Cup  to 33 matches and reach the quarterfinals. New Zealand
defeated  Canada  to advance.  Australia, which won the last three editions of the four-
yearly tournament, scored 324-6 off 50 overs in the Group A
match in Bangalore,  India , yesterday. Kenya finished on 264-6,
led by 98 not out from Collins Obuya.  “Full credit to Kenya, I thought they fought the game out
well, particularly with their batting,” Australia captain Ricky Ponting was cited as saying on the tournament website. “There
was a bit of rust on the team I think.”  Australia’s unbeaten run at the World Cup began back in
1999. It is assured of finishing in the top four of its seven-
team group, along with  New Zealand  and Sri Lanka. Pakistan can
guarantee a spot by avoiding defeat in either of its two
remaining matches.  New Zealand tops the group on eight points following its
97-run victory against Canada in Mumbai, India. Sri Lanka and
Australia have seven points, Pakistan six, with Zimbabwe on two
points needing to win both its remaining games to have a chance
of advancing.  Michael Clarke top-scored for Australia in Bangalore with
93 from only 80 balls.  Brad Haddin  hit 65 and Mike Hussey got
54.  Nehemiah Odhiambo was the pick of Kenya’s bowlers with 3-
57, including the wickets of Clarke and Hussey. Jimmy Kamande
had two wickets, with Obuya dismissing Ponting.  Kenya was reduced to 46-3 in its reply before Obuya and
Tanmay Mishra, 72 runs, shared a 115-run partnership. Thomas
Odoyo then added 35, but Kenya was unable to match the run rate
of Australia as it slipped to defeat.  McCullum Century  In  Mumbai , Brendon McCullum scored 101, while Ross Taylor
cracked 74 from 44 balls as New Zealand racked up 358-6 against
Canada. The Canadians made 261-9, with Ashish Bagai, 84 runs,
and Jimmy Hansra, 70 not out, sharing a partnership of 125 runs
for the fourth wicket.  Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Kandy, Sri Lanka, today, while
in Group B Bangladesh hosts the Netherlands in Chittagong.
Bangladesh will move ahead of  England  into fourth spot with a
win. No teams from Group B are yet assured a quarterfinal spot.  The tournament, co-hosted by India, Bangladesh and Sri
Lanka, ends on April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  