-- 
Australian Greens Want End to Future Fund Owning Tobacco Shares

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-03-13T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/australian-greens-want-end-to-future-fund-owning-tobacco-shares.html
The Australian Greens, who helped
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  win power, want the government’s
Future Fund investment program changed to prevent the holding of
tobacco company shares.  “It makes no sense for a Federal Government fund to be
investing in a way which is so clearly at odds with current
health policy,” Greens Senator Rachel Siewert said in an e-
mailed statement. “This revelation should provide us with an
opportunity to re-visit the Fund and see what we can do to
improve this investment strategy.”  The Future Fund, established five years ago to cover the
pension costs of retiring lawmakers, judges and public servants,
had A$147.7 million ($148 million) invested in 14 tobacco
companies as of Dec. 31, according to portfolio holdings
obtained by Bloomberg News through a Freedom of Information Act
request.  The investments are held as  Australia  introduces some of
the toughest anti-smoking laws in the world, including becoming
the first nation to ban brand names on tobacco packs. In
addition to raising the excise on tobacco by 25 percent last
year, the government banned the public display of cigarettes in
stores.  Australia, where sales of tobacco products totaled A$10.9
billion in 2009, records about 15,000 deaths a year from related
diseases, according to government statistics. Smoking is the
largest preventable cause of death, according to the Australian
Medical Association.  Health Care  Nicola Roxon, health minister in Gillard’s Labor government,
last month said smoking cost Australia’s A$1.3 trillion economy
about A$31.5 billion each year in health care and lost time due
to illness.  “My personal view is no one should invest in  tobacco
companies ,” Roxon told the  Herald Sun newspaper . “No one
should invest in products that are such dreadful killers.”  Gillard’s minority government needs the support of four
non-party lawmakers to pass laws after the August 2010 election
delivered the closest result in 70 years. Greens lawmaker  Adam Bandt  along with independents  Tony Windsor ,  Rob Oakeshott  and  Andrew Wilkie  pledged their support to enable Labor to govern.  From July 1 when the new Senate term starts, the Greens
will have the balance of power in the nation’s upper house, with
enough of its own Senators to side with Labor to pass laws or
team with the opposition to defeat them.  New Laws  Australia bans the open display of cigarettes in shops, and
cigarette packs carry graphic images of diseases blamed on
smoking. Legislation mandating plain packaging, which would
prevent the use of company logos, brand imagery or promotional
text, will be introduced this year.  The government’s 25 percent increase in tobacco excise last
year raised the cost of a packet of 30 cigarettes by about
A$2.20 to about A$17.70. Single cigarette packet prices are now
as high as A$20 depending on where they are bought. Small stores
and service stations are more expensive, according to figures
from the National Retail Association.  The  Future Fund  manages assets received from the federal
government on behalf of civil servants and lawmakers, in the
form of cash as well as shares in the formerly state-owned
Telstra Corp., the nation’s biggest phone company.  It was established as a statutory authority under the
Future Fund Act of 2006 by the previous administration of Prime
Minister  John Howard . It has its own board, while oversight is
provided by the Treasurer and Minister for Finance and
Deregulation, according to its website.  Target Returns  The board has been set target returns on its investments by
the government and can invest in a wide range of industries
“provided those activities are legal in Australia,” the Future
Fund said in a March 11 e-mailed statement.  The Future Fund’s holdings as of Dec. 31 include A$46.4
million in London-based  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , A$36.5
million in New York-based  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and
A$26.1 million in  Lorillard Inc. (LO)   The fund’s tobacco investments were held across 14
companies in nine countries, also including  South Korea ’s KT&G
Corp., Japan Tobacco Inc., Gudang Garam TBK PT of  Indonesia  and
Swedish Match AB, according to the Future Fund document provided
to Bloomberg.  Investment in tobacco companies represents 0.5 percent of
its holdings in equities.  The fund also invests in  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , of
Bristol, U.K., which last year said it may take legal action
against the government’s new proposals.  British American had 46 percent of the Australian retail
market for cigarettes in 2006, according to a 2008 report by
Cancer Council Victoria.  Philip Morris  had a 34 percent share
and Imperial had 18 percent.  Accumulating Assets  The Future Fund states its purpose as “accumulating
financial assets sufficient to offset the Commonwealth’s
unfunded superannuation (pension) liabilities by 2020,”
according to a statement of investment policies on its  website .  The fund targets an average return of at least the rate of  consumer price index  plus between 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent per
annum as its long-term benchmark with an “acceptable, but not
excessive, level of risk.”  The Future Fund had A$71.8 billion in assets at Dec. 31,
2010, according to a portfolio update published on its  website 
on Jan. 28 this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  