-- 
Bahrain Police Battle Protesters Blocking Financial Harbour

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-13T14:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/bahrain-police-battle-protesters-blocking-financial-harbour-2-.html
  Bahrain  police fought with pro-
democracy demonstrators seeking to block access to the nation’s
financial center, leaving 100 protesters and 14 officers
injured, according to hospital and government officials.  A group of protesters blocked King Faisal Highway, the main
arterial road in the capital Manama, and “attacked unarmed
police officers,” the government’s media office said. One
officer was stabbed and another suffered a head injury,  Bahrain
News Agency  said, citing the country’s interior ministry.  More than 100 protesters were injured when police removed
tents that the demonstrators set up at the Bahrain Financial
Harbour, Ali Jaafar, a doctor at the  Salmaniya Medical Complex ,
said in a phone interview. The hospital was treating injuries
for smoke inhalation and fractures, he said.  Shiites, who comprise as much as 70 percent of Bahrain’s
population, say they face discrimination over jobs and housing
from the ruling Al Khalifa family, who are Sunnis, and their
supporters. The calls for free elections, more housing and jobs,
echo movements that have swept the region in the past two months
and unseated longtime rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Crude  oil prices  have advanced 19 percent since the unrest
in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, started on Feb.
14.  Union Strike  Bahrain’s Federation of Trade Unions called for a general
strike from today in response to “excessive force” used by
police to remove protesters from the Financial Harbor, the
federation said in an-emailed statement. The federation has
unions in the aluminum, oil and transport industries  “The government is responsible for bringing the country to
this impasse and is also responsible for reaching solutions,
which will save the country,” the federation said in the
statement.  Osama Salman, a 44-year-old business consultant, said he
took an unconscious protester to  Salmaniya Medical Complex .
 “He was hit on the head by a tear gas canister,” Salman said
in a telephone interview.  Some protesters later went to Bahrain University to support
students rallying against the use of force earlier today,
Mohammed Maskati, the head of the  Bahrain Youth Society for
Human Rights , said in a telephone interview. “People armed with
sticks were trying to prevent the students from protesting, and
have even beaten some up,” he said.  Other protesters moved back to the Pearl Roundabout and
the Financial Harbour, said Salman. Demonstrators have camped in
the central Pearl Roundabout in Manama, a key traffic junction
in the city, to press their demands since last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Riyadh at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 