-- 
BHP Billiton to Resume Gulf of Mexico Drilling After Permit Win

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-03-13T04:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/bhp-billiton-wins-second-deep-water-drilling-permit-in-u-s-since-bp-spill.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, will resume drilling of a production
well at its Shenzi oil field in the  Gulf of Mexico  after winning
the second U.S. deep-water permit since BP Plc’s spill last year.  “We are very pleased to be resuming work,” Kelly Quirke,
a spokeswoman for Melbourne-based BHP, said in an e-mailed
statement today. The company joins  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  as the only
drillers cleared to resume work by the  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management , Regulation and Enforcement since BP’s April 20 spill.  Lawmakers have criticized the Obama administration for
delaying domestic exploration as unrest in the Middle East
pushes up  oil prices .  BHP Billiton  will use equipment from  Helix
Energy Solutions Group Inc. (HLX)  in case of a blow out, Melissa
Schwartz, a spokeswoman for the Bureau, said in a March 11 e-
mail.  “We are encouraging offshore exploration and production,”
President  Barack Obama  said during a press conference at the
White House March 11. “We’re just doing it responsibly.”  Crude oil in  New York  has climbed 23 percent in the past
year. Futures have surged 11 percent since Jan. 14, when the
president of Tunisia was ousted as protests rocked the Middle
East and North Africa, including Saudi Arabia’s neighbors Yemen,
Oman and Bahrain. Prices touched a 29-month high of $106.95 a
barrel during trading on March 7.  Helix, which provided vessels that responded to the BP
disaster, is able to collect 10,000 barrels of oil a day and cap
a well in water as deep as 5,600 feet (1,706 meters), Cameron
Wallace, a Helix spokesman, said at the time Noble won its
permit.  Gulf Production  Oil production in federal waters of the Gulf, the largest
domestic source of U.S. crude, reached a record high in 2010,
Obama said yesterday. The administration had stopped deep-water
drilling after the BP blow out to assess safety and spill-
response plans of the companies. The moratorium was lifted on
Oct. 12.  BHP said on Feb. 15 that the lack of permits in the Gulf
“was a major constraint on our business” and resulted in
deferring “drilling of high volume production wells.”  Production for the 2011 financial year will be in line with
the 2010 financial year, the company said in a statement.  BP’s Macondo well blew out off the Louisiana coast, killing
11 rig workers and spewing more than 4 million barrels of crude
into the sea. BP made several attempts to cap the well, located
in 5,000 feet of water, before shutting the leak after 87 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  