-- 
MBIA’s Split Unfair to Policyholders, Former Regulators Say

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-13T21:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/mbia-s-split-unfair-to-policyholders-former-regulators-say-1-.html
Four former New York state
insurance regulators retained by lawyers for banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  said in court documents they
would not have approved the 2009 split of MBIA Insurance Corp.  The split “permitted MBIA Inc. to engage in asset
shuffling for the benefit of its shareholders and management, to
the detriment of MBIA Insurance’s structured-finance
policyholders,” Richard Stewart, who was insurance
superintendent from 1967 to 1970, said in an affidavit dated
March 3 and released today on the website of New York State  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan . “I never would have permitted these
transactions to occur.”  The affidavits were filed as part of the banks’ case under
New York state’s Article 78 challenging the split, in which MBIA
sought to restart its business of guaranteeing state and
municipal bonds by moving that business into another insurance
unit. Guarantees of debt backed by mortgages and other
securities, which led to MBIA’s loss of its top ratings in 2008,
remained with its MBIA Insurance Corp. unit.  MBIA has separate litigation against lenders including Bank
of America’s Countrywide, saying they fraudulently induced the
company to insure mortgage-backed securities.  ‘Thorough and Careful’  “We remain confident that the court will affirm the New
York State Insurance Department’s decision to approve MBIA’s
transformation, which came after a thorough and careful
analysis,” Chuck Chaplin, MBIA’s president and chief financial
officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “MBIA Insurance Corp.
was solvent then and remains so today, two years and two
unqualified audit opinions later.”  Former Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo “abandoned
his paramount duty to protect MBIA Insurance’s structured-
finance policyholders by a) basing his approval on a superficial
review of MBIA’s Transformation application and b) allowing  MBIA
Inc. (MBI)  to drain substantial assets from the already financially
weakened MBIA Insurance,” Edward Muhl, superintendent from 1995
to 1997, wrote in a separate affidavit dated March 5.  Two other affidavits criticizing the split were signed this
month by Gregory Serio, superintendent from May 2001 to January
2005, and James Corcoran, superintendent from 1983 to 1990.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Eric Dinallo, 601846-2009,
New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  