-- 
Binocular Pulled Out of Champion Hurdle Horserace; Bookmakers Return Bets

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-13T17:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/binocular-pulled-out-of-champion-hurdle-horserace-bookmakers-return-bets.html
Title-holder and race favorite
Binocular was withdrawn from this week’s Champion Hurdle at  England ’s Cheltenham horseracing festival after testing positive
for a medication.  Binocular, which was at odds of 5-2 with Ladbrokes Plc for
the March 15 contest, was treated for an allergy two weeks ago
and needed further treatment, the British Horseracing Authority
said  on its website . He then tested positive for an unspecified
substance that was expected to remain in his system by race day.  The horse, owned by JP McManus, was pulled out of the
Champion Hurdle after talks between the BHA and trainer Nicky
Henderson.  “Because the horse has not run and because the substance
is a legitimate medication, we want to be clear that this
screening finding is not a breach of the rules,” the BHA said.
“We will continue to assist where we can in establishing when
Binocular tests negative and can therefore race again.”  Some bookmakers including  Paddy Power Plc (PAP)  and race sponsor
Stan James Plc said they will refund bets already struck on
Binocular. Typically money placed in such “ante-post” wagers
is lost if the horse does not run. Ladbrokes already had a
“non-runner, no-bet” rule on the race.  “We are all obviously shattered but I am particularly
upset for JP, who has been incredibly understanding as I know
how much this horse means to him,” Henderson was cited as
saying on the BHA website. “I would very much like to
sympathize with all Binocular’s supporters and punters who may
have backed him ante-post.”  Hurricane Fly is the new 3-1 favorite with Ladbrokes.  The Cheltenham festival in western England, one of the
biggest events in the nation’s jumps racing calendar, runs from
March 15 to 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  