-- 
Booze Makes Comeback at Work as Silicon Valley Taps IPad-Linked Kegerators

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-03-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/booze-makes-comeback-in-workplace-with-silicon-valley-twist.html
At Yelp Inc.’s  San Francisco 
headquarters, a keg refrigerator provides a never-ending supply
of beer to employees, letting them drink as much as they like.  They just have to be comfortable with full disclosure:
Workers badge in to  an iPad application  attached to the keg that
records every ounce they drink.  “If you’re at the top of the leader board consistently, I
don’t know if that’s a place that you’d want to be,” said Eric
Singley, director of Yelp consumer and mobile products.
“Luckily, that hasn’t really even been an issue.”  In a contemporary version of “Mad Men” and its bibulous
ad executives, more dot-coms are embracing the idea of drinking
at work. That means keeping bars stocked at all hours,
installing kegerators and letting programmers tip back a few
while they code. It also raises questions about the effect of
alcohol on productivity and the safety of employees.  “Alcohol is sort of a slippery slope, because obviously
you’d think it might impair their performance,” said Dalton
Conley,  social sciences dean  and professor at New York
University. “Many people can work after one beer, but I doubt
many people can do serious knowledge work very productively
after four or five.”  While office parties and Friday-night beer busts are
nothing new, the all-hours nature of startups means more
employees blend their nightlife with work time. Drinking is an
extension of that, said Joe Beninato, chief executive officer of
Tello Inc., an app developer in  Palo Alto ,  California .  ‘We’re All Adults’  “When you’re working at a startup, you’re working 24-7 and
it takes over your life,” he said. “It’s not like it’s a wild
fraternity party or something like that -- we’re all adults.”  When  Tello ’s iPhone app for rating customer service made it
into  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s online store in February, the five-person
company decided to celebrate. No matter that it was before noon.  “We got out the whiskey, and everybody had a shot,”
Beninato said.  Workers have a similar outlook at  CrowdFlower , said Lukas
Biewald,  CEO  of the San Francisco-based employment company.  “We do have a fridge full of beer, people do work late and
drink out of it,” Biewald said. “When we first started, our
office was like our home -- we had leftovers in the fridge --and
I think it’s an extension of that.”  Banker Visit  It’s typical to see employees with a beer on a Friday
afternoon, when the company lets workers demonstrate new
projects, he said. CrowdFlower also occasionally gets kegs for
gatherings it hosts for its community of developers and users.  “We had a customer from a bank come, around 11 a.m., and I
was really embarrassed by the fact that we had a keg up,”
Biewald said. “But he actually poured himself a drink.”  Twitter Inc., also based in San Francisco, has wine and
beer in its fridge, along with nonalcoholic drinks.  “We treat employees as adults, and they act accordingly,”
said Jodi Olson, a spokeswoman for the company.  Even so, the age-old problems of workplace drinking haven’t
disappeared, said Robert Sutton, a professor in  Stanford
University ’s management science and engineering department. Some
employees can’t drink in moderation or control themselves after
imbibing, he said.  “I’ve been involved in workplaces that can be pretty
dysfunctional, where people will start drinking a little too
much at lunch,” Sutton said. “There’s like a bazillion studies
that show when people drink, their performance is impaired, and
there’s problems with absenteeism.”  Sexual Harassment  Another danger: Women are at greater risk of sexual
harassment at offices where heavy drinking is the norm,
according to a 2004 Cornell University study. The report,
sponsored by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism, found harassment incidents increased more than
twofold for each additional alcoholic beverage consumed by male
co-workers.  The long hours may be what sets technology workers apart
from the boozing executives on “ Mad Men ,” a show set in the
1960s, said  New York University ’s Conley.  “The folks drank a lot more alcohol back then and had
three-martini lunches, but they weren’t staying until midnight
finishing projects,” he said.  At Yelp, an online reviews site, the keg is meant as an
after-hours activity, said Singley, who has worked for the
startup more than three years.  “That’s when it gets the most use,” he said. Still, the
definition of a workday can depend on the employee.  “Engineers in particular are night owls,” he said. “A
little ramen noodles at 9 p.m., and then after that, winding
down your day, you might stop by the keg. People work here
really late.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  