-- 
State Bank of India to Tap Chaudhuri as Chairman on Competition From ICICI

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-13T18:30:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/chaudhuri-may-lead-india-s-largest-bank-as-competition-from-icici-climbs.html
  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s
biggest lender, is poised to name 36-year veteran Pratip Chaudhuri as chairman as competition from rivals including  ICICI
Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  intensifies.  Deputy Managing Director Chaudhuri, 57, was the only person
recommended to a cabinet committee tasked with selecting the
head of the state-controlled bank, a finance ministry official
said on March 11, declining to be identified before an official
announcement. Chaudhuri didn’t return three telephone calls to
his office in Mumbai.  Chaudhuri’s task of boosting shareholder returns at the
205-year-old lender may be hampered by state control that gives
private-sector rivals an edge in mobile and Internet banking,
said hedge fund manager Vikas Pershad. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Morgan Stanley are seeking licenses in the world’s second-
fastest growing major economy and ICICI posted record earnings.  “Now private banks are better positioned to capture
growth,” said Pershad, Chicago-based chief executive officer of
Veda Investments LLC. “Over the next five years, if I think of
which bank in  India  will perform the best in terms of return on
equity and share price, I find it difficult to believe SBI will
be first, second or third.”  Shares of  State Bank , which accounts for almost a quarter
of India’s loans, are unlikely to outperform local rivals such
as Mumbai-based ICICI, India’s second-largest lender, said
Pershad, who doesn’t hold the stock and says he doesn’t plan to
invest in the state-run lender.  Stock Performance  State Bank has more than tripled in the past five years,
compared with a 66 percent gain in ICICI, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock shed 1 percent to 2,565.15
rupees in Mumbai trading on March 11, giving the lender a market
capitalization of $36 billion.  Chairman Om Prakash Bhatt, who began his term as head of
the Mumbai-based bank in July 2006, will retire at the end of
this month. During his tenure, the bank’s loans climbed almost
threefold to 7.4 trillion rupees ($164 billion) as of Dec. 31,
and deposits more than doubled to 8.79 trillion rupees.  Chaudhuri, who started with State Bank in 1974, was put in
charge of international banking operations in April 2009.  The new chairman of State Bank will need to attract
deposits and raise capital in a banking system with tighter
liquidity constraints,  Brian Hunsaker , an analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said on March 12 from  London . The lender will also need to expand lending while
curtailing growth of bad loans, he said.  ‘Immediate Challenge’  ICICI, whose loans and deposits shrank for almost two years
as Chief Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar  sought to curb
unsecured lending and reduce the cost of funds, will also be a
tougher competitor, Hunsaker said. The lender in January said
profit for the quarter ended Dec. 31 rose 31 percent to a record
as loans increased and provisions for bad debts declined.  The nation’s largest non-state lender plans to add 500
branches a year, Kochhar said on Jan. 28. ICICI has more than
2,500 outlets, according to its website. That’s about a fifth of
the more than 12,400 branches operated by State Bank.  “There’s a limit to how much SBI can gain given its
size,” Hunsaker said. “SBI’s major competitor is now going to
be a force to reckon with: That could be the new chairman’s
immediate challenge.”  Foreign banks may also increase operations in India, though
they won’t pose a threat to State Bank until they’re allowed to
expand branches or make acquisitions, Hunsaker said.  New Licenses  Morgan Stanley is awaiting approval from the  Reserve Bank 
of India for its banking license application, the Mint newspaper
reported last month, citing V.K. Bansal, chairman of the New
York-based firm’s local unit. Goldman Sachs, which offers
investment banking and research services in the Asian nation,
has applied for a commercial banking license in India, the New
York-based company said almost a year ago.  India’s central bank will issue guidelines on new banking
licenses by March 31, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said
last month as the government seeks to expand banking services to
the nation’s rural areas.  State Bank, whose operations include insurance and
corporate advisory units, said profit for its banking unit
climbed 14 percent to 28.3 billion rupees for the three months
ended Dec. 31. The lender accounted for 17 percent of the
nation’s loans and deposits, it said in a presentation on its
website.  The lender should consider developing a “large overseas
presence” to build foreign exchange reserves that can support
acquisitions abroad by Indian companies, said Abizer Diwanji,
executive director for corporate finance and head of financial
services at KPMG India Pvt. in  Mumbai . State Bank should seek
greater market share in handling global remittances, he said.  Still, the government’s control over State Bank’s
operations makes the lender less flexible and able to adapt to
changes than private-sector rivals, Hunsaker and Pershad said.  “It’s not been easy to change the working of the bank, to
get the elephant to dance,” Pershad said. “The real test for
the bank will come now, to meaningfully expand earnings
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  