-- 
China May Consider Japan Nuclear Accident in Drafting Future Energy Plans

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-13T05:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/china-may-consider-japan-nuclear-accident-in-drafting-future-energy-plans.html
A blast at a nuclear facility in  Japan  after a record earthquake may become a factor in  China ’s
drafting of future energy plans, a top planning official said.  China may consider the effects of the nuclear accident as
it finalizes its energy plans for the 2011-2015 period,  Xie Zhenhua , vice chairman of the National Development and Reform
Commission, said in Beijing. Radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant exceeded Japanese limits after an explosion yesterday
destroyed the wall of the reactor building and injured workers
following Japan’s strongest earthquake on record.  “Evaluation of nuclear safety and the monitoring of plants
will be definitely strengthened,” Xie said today, while
attending the closing of the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference.  China, the world’s biggest polluter, is building more
nuclear reactors than any other nation in an effort to cut
emissions and protect its environment while trying to maintain
economic growth. The country is tripling the number of reactors,
building 27 units to add to the 13 that are already operational,
according to the London-based  World Nuclear Association .  “China will become more cautious while developing nuclear-  power plants  but is unlikely to alter its long-term nuclear
development plans,” Dave Dai, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., said by phone today. “The
accident in Japan may trigger increased public concerns over
building atomic plants.”  Nuclear Accident  An explosion at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Daiichi No. 1 reactor, which had begun venting radioactive gas
after its cooling system failed, injured four workers yesterday.
The utility reported no damage to the building housing the
reactor. It began flooding the reactor with sea water and boric
acid today to prevent a meltdown and eliminate the potential for
a catastrophic release of radiation.  China won’t change its plans to develop nuclear power after
the Japanese earthquake, Zhang Lijun, vice minister of
environmental protection, said yesterday.  Global expansion of nuclear power may draw more scrutiny
and skepticism as the world watches Japan struggle to prevent a
meltdown at the reactor damaged by the earthquake, said Peter Bradford, a former member of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.  There are 442 reactors worldwide that supply about 15
percent of electricity, the  World Nuclear Association said. 
There are plans to build more than 155 additional reactors, most
of them in  Asia , and 65 reactors are currently under
construction, the association said on its website.  Emission Cuts  China has pledged to cut  carbon emissions  by switching to
clean energy such as nuclear and wind power. It wants at least
15 percent of its energy mix to come from non-fossil fuels by
2020 and is building more atomic plants to help meet that goal.  The government may approve 10 additional nuclear power
projects during the 12th five-year plan which covers the period
from 2011 through 2015, the  China Daily  reported Jan. 26, citing  Zhang Guobao , former director of the National Energy
Administration. China is expected to raise its 2020 target for
nuclear power generation to 86 gigawatts, accounting for 5
percent of China’s total power generation, the newspaper
reported, without citing anyone.  The country is also studying specific measures to control
total energy use and conduct carbon-trading trials during the
next five years, Xie, who is also the nation’s top climate
negotiator, said today, without elaborating.  -  Wang Ying . Editors: Allen Wan,  John Liu   To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story: Wang Ying in
Beijing at   ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  