-- 
Congress Will Probably Pass Temporary Bill Averting Shutdown, Durbin Says

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/congress-will-pass-stopgap-bill-averting-shutdown-durbin-says.html
Congress will probably approve a
measure this week to keep the U.S. government in operation
through April 8, Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the majority
whip, said yesterday.  The legislation, proposed by House Republicans March 11,
would reduce discretionary spending by about $6 billion and fund
the U.S. government for three weeks, replacing a measure that
expires March 18. Democrat Durbin, speaking on CNN’s “State of
the Union,” said the Senate would take up the measure once it
passes the House, where Republicans have majority control.  Enacting the sixth stopgap spending measure of fiscal 2011
is needed to prevent a government shutdown and will provide
lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  with more time to work out
a deal to fund U.S. programs through the fiscal year that ends
Sept. 30, Durbin said. Congress needs to advance the measure to
facilitate an agreement addressing the nation’s long-term fiscal
straits, Durbin said.  “We’re not going to balance America’s budget in the next
six months,” Durbin said. Republican lawmakers, led by the
House, propose cutting $61 billion in  government spending  this
year, which Durbin rejected as part of this year’s budget.
“That goes way too far,” he said. The Democratic-controlled
Senate rejected that proposal March 9.  Fiscal Issues  Long-term fiscal issues can’t be resolved in stopgap
funding bills, Durbin said. “We’re looking at this in honest
and hard terms about how we deal with this deficit, not in a
matter of six months but over a period of time so that we
responsibly cut spending and don’t do it at the expense of
America’s economic growth.”  The three-week measure worked out between the White House
and lawmakers from both parties would forestall a shutdown of
non-essential government services after March 18.  Senator  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican and the
minority leader, said on “Fox News Sunday” yesterday that the
short-term bill puts the U.S. on a “slow path” toward the $61
billion target.  While Senate Republicans will support the latest spending
bill, they will insist on deeper budget cuts as a condition of
funding the government through Sept. 30 and of voting to raise
the debt ceiling, McConnell said.  “My prediction is not a single one of the 47 Republicans
will vote to raise the debt ceiling unless it includes with it
some credible effort to do something about our debt,” McConnell
said.  Political Bickering  President Barack Obama on March 11 urged lawmakers to work
out a deal that keeps the government running through the end of
the fiscal year, saying the public expects them to “stop with
the political bickering.”  “We can’t keep on running the government on two-week
extensions,” Obama said. “That’s irresponsible.”  Representative  Kevin McCarthy , a California Republican who
is the majority whip, vowed a government shutdown wouldn’t
happen and said Obama and Senate Democrats hold the keys to an
agreement on financing government operations through the end of
the fiscal year.  “We think that Democrats need to step up and actually
produce something,” McCarthy said on “State of the Union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Young in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  