-- 
Dubai Shares Rise Most in 15 Months as Saudi Protests Fizzle; Emaar Surges

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-13T16:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/dubai-stock-index-rallies-to-two-week-high-as-saudi-day-of-rage-passes.html
Middle East shares rallied, sending
Dubai’s benchmark stock index up the most in more than a year,
as protests in  Saudi Arabia  didn’t escalate, allaying concern
that unrest in the Middle East would spread.    Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, surged 10 percent and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the United
Arab Emirates’ biggest bank, climbed to the highest in almost a
month after Zawya Dow Jones reported the lender expects to meet
analysts’ estimates for 2011 profit. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
jumped 4.3 percent, the most since December 2009, to 1,512.59 at
the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.2 percent, following a 3.1 percent rally
yesterday. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks
increased 1.3 percent.  The protests in “Saudi turned out to be much calmer than
anticipated, hence the strong rally in Tadawul yesterday,” said
Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of investment at Royal
Capital. “Local markets are following this technical rebound.”  Police and anti-riot vehicles patrolled most Saudi cities
during the so-called “Day of Rage” March 11, thwarting
activists’ plans to rally for political and economic changes.
More than two months of protests have rocked the Middle East and
North Africa as citizens demand civil rights, better  living
standards  and the ouster of entrenched regimes. The Tadawul has
dropped 6.1 percent since Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was
ousted by a popular movement on Jan. 14.  Saudi Protests  Saudi academics, writers and representatives of the
minority Shiite Muslim population have called on King Abdullah,
the sixth monarch in the Arab world’s largest economy, to move
the country toward a constitutional monarchy. A rally took place
after midday prayers March 11 in the eastern city of Al-Hofuf,
with several hundred people calling for Shiite Muslim prisoners
to be released, said two activists who declined to be identified
for security reasons.  The king has announced plans to spend about 110 billion
riyals ($29 billion) on programs aimed at boosting housing,
education and social welfare. There was also a warning from the
Council of Senior Islamic Scholars that public protests won’t be
tolerated.  “It is difficult to say whether it will be short-lived or
not, in the light of the terrible events in  Japan  and the
uncertainty around the opening of the Egyptian stock exchange,”
Talhaoui said, referring to the gains in regional stocks.  Asian stocks fell last week, dragging the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index down 3.1 percent, after an earthquake shook Japan in the
final minutes of trading March 11.    Egypt  Bourse  Egypt’s regulator of financial markets, stock exchange and
the clearing house will meet today to decide when to resume
trading on the bourse, the state-run Middle East News Agency
reported. Trading will likely resume on March 16 or at the
beginning of next week, the news agency reported, citing an
official it didn’t identify at the bourse. Egypt-bourse chief
Khaled Seyam has resigned, Al-Arabiya reported, without saying
how it obtained the information.  The market has been shut since the end of trading on Jan.
27 during a popular revolt that ousted President Hosni Mubarak
more than two weeks later. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  plunged 16
percent in the last two trading days.  Oil for April delivery declined 1.5 percent to $101.16 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on March 11, the
lowest settlement since March 1. The six nations of the Gulf
Cooperation Council, including Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.,
supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Meeting Estimates  Emaar surged the most since December 2009 to 2.95 dirhams.
Emirates NBD rose 1.3 percent to 3.24 dirhams, the highest since
Feb. 16. The bank expects to meet estimates for net income of
about 3.4 billion dirhams this year, Zawya reported, citing
Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner .  Kuwait’s SE Price Index gained 1.8 percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  advanced 1.5 percent. Qatar’s gauge climbed
2.8 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  increased 1.3 percent.
Bahrain’s measure added 0.4 percent as 340,000 shares traded,
compared with the six-month average of 1.8 million.  Bahrain said in a media office statement it removed tents
set up by protesters at the Bahrain Financial Harbour this
morning after demonstrators said they were planning to close all
entry points to the center. Some 100 were injured in the
clashes, according to Ali Jaafar, a doctor at Salmaniya
Hospital.  In  Israel , the TA-25 Index retreated 1.5 percent to
1,243.95 at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the lowest since
Nov. 14. The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government
bond due January 2020 was unchanged at 5.18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  