-- 
Egypt’s Stock Market Regulator Eases Rules on Margin Calls by Brokerages

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-13T08:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/egypt-s-stock-market-regulator-eases-rules-on-margin-calls-by-brokerages.html
Egypt’s stock market regulator
eased rules on margin calls by brokerages in an attempt to limit
volatility when the North African nation’s bourse opens after
more than a month-long closure.  Brokerages now will require investors pay margins or
present more collateral when the client’s debt reaches 70
percent of the shares’ value at the end of trading each day, the
 Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority  said in a statement on
its website. Brokerages were allowed to make the margin calls at
60 percent earlier.  The bourse has been shut since the end of trading on Jan.
27 amid a popular revolt that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  two
weeks later. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  plunged 16 percent in
the last two trading days.  The margin call measures are part of “mechanisms to resume
trading with the aim of limiting the volatility that may happen
in the market when trading starts, and to mitigate the negative
impact on investors, especially those dealing in margin trading,
as well as to spur demand,” the regulator said in the statement
dated yesterday.  The supervisory authority issued new rules on Feb. 19 to
prevent a possible drop when trading resumes, including
suspending margin and intraday trading and preventing stocks
from moving more than 10 percent a day. The new margin trading
regulations apply to shares bought previously, Mohamed Abdel
Salam, chairman of Misr for Central Clearing, Depository &
Registry, the clearing house, said by telephone today.  Brokerages will be allowed sell the client’s shares or
“liquidate the collateral” when debt reaches 80 percent of the
shares’ value instead of 70 percent, the regulatory agency said.
Investors can also submit shares not approved for margin trading
as collateral, although brokerages shouldn’t value those shares
at more than 60 percent of their price, the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  