-- 
Telecom Italia Investors May Propose Bernabe as Chairman, Patuano as CEO

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-03-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/telecom-italia-investors-may-propose-bernabe-as-chairman-patuano-as-ceo.html
  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s biggest
investors agreed to appoint Franco Bernabe, the current chief
executive officer, as executive chairman and to name a new CEO
to boost the company’s flagging Italian business, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Marco Patuano, who manages the company’s Italian operations
for Bernabe, will be promoted to CEO and given a board seat,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
shareholder agreement isn’t public. Luca Luciani, head of
Telecom Italia’s Brazilian business, will become director
general with responsibility for all of Latin America and report
to Bernabe, the people said. Bernabe’s term expires next month.  Telco SpA, the company that owns 22.4 percent of Telecom
Italia, will hold a board meeting today to approve the
reorganization.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  and  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  own Milan-based Telco.  Bernabe, 62, has cut debt and resolved the company’s Latin
American disputes over its Argentinean investments, though he
has failed to stem the slide in the company’s business in Italy,
which accounts for 70 percent of revenue. He has presided over a
46 percent drop in the company’s shares since he became CEO in
December 2007, which has wiped off about 19 billion euros ($26
billion) in market value.  ‘Higher Job’  “Bernabe has to turn into the promoter of Telecom Italia’s
strategic direction and be ready to seize opportunities,” Marco Fossati said in a March 7 interview. The Fossati family’s Findim
Group SA owns about 5 percent of  Italy ’s biggest phone company.
“He has to be stripped out of the daily routine to focus on a
higher job to help the equity recover its value.”  Bernabe’s term, and that of the board of Italy’s biggest
phone company, expires with the approval of 2010 accounts I
April. Investors who jointly or separately hold at least 1
percent of the common stock have until March 15 to present board
candidates.  Telecom Italia’s debt stood at 35.7 billion euros at the
end of 2007, when Bernabe came on board. It fell to about 31.5
billion euros at the end of 2010.  In Latin America, Bernabe has worked on putting Telecom
Italia’s house in order. The Italian company bought control of
Telecom  Argentina  in October with the purchase of an 8 percent
stake from the Werthein family. The accord allowed it to resolve
all “outstanding legal proceedings” with its local partner.  Argentine Dispute  Disputes with the Wertheins and the Argentine government’s
attempt to force Telecom Italia to sell its stake amid tighter
regulations had led the company to hire Credit Suisse Group AG
in 2009 to analyze options, including the sale of its unit.  At home, things have been less smooth for Bernabe. Like his
counterparts at former phone monopolies such as Telefonica,
Bernabe is struggling to revive growth in the company’s domestic
market as a sluggish economy and rivals’ price cuts take their
toll. Telecom Italia’s sales at home fell 7.4 percent to 20
billion euros last year, as mobile revenue dropped 11 percent.  Best known in Italy for turning around oil company  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
overseeing its privatization and making it one of the world’s
largest energy companies by market value, Bernabe had a previous
stint at Telecom Italia.  He joined the company in November 1998 after about six
years at Eni only to be ousted following Telecom Italia’s
takeover by Roberto Colaninno’s Olivetti in 1999. Bernabe
returned to Telecom Italia in 2007 -- after he founded FB Group
and merged it with Rothschild -- with a mandate to shrink the
company’s ballooning debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;  Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 