-- 
Telecom Italia, Parmalat, Edison, Eni: Italian Equity Preview

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-14T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/telecom-italia-parmalat-edison-eni-italian-equity-preview.html
The following companies may be
active in Italian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
share prices are from the previous close.  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  fell 221.4, or 1 percent,
to 21,863.02 in Milan.    Edison SpA (EDN)  : The board of the Italian power company
will not approve as scheduled its 2010 results today as it seeks
to end a dispute among its key shareholders over the amount of
assets it needs to write down, Il Sole 24 Ore reported without
saying where it got the information. Electricite de France SA
and Edison’s main Italian shareholders, which jointly control 61
percent of the Italian electricity company, will accept a
proposal from three independent board members for Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to do an independent valuation of Edison’s assets,
the newspaper said. Shares fell 1.4 percent to 87.3 euro cents.    Eni SpA (ENI)  ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  : Saif Qaddafi,
the Libyan ruler’s son, said in an interview with Corriere della
Sera and other Italian media that the government would punish
Italy for criticizing its response to a popular uprising and
would consider having China or Russia replace Italy as the
country’s biggest trading partner. Eni is the biggest foreign  oil company  in Libya and the Libyans own 2 percent of
Finmeccanica, which supplies the government with security
systems and helicopters and has won other contracts for its
Ansaldo STS SpA train unit. Eni fell 0.7 percent to 17.46 euros.
Finmeccanica shares declined 17 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 8.93
euros.    Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  : Telecom Italia’s biggest
shareholders will nominate Franco Bernabe, the current chief
executive officer, as executive chairman today and offer broader
powers to a new CEO to manage the company’s slumping Italian
business, two people familiar with the matter said. A director
general to oversee its Latin American businesses will also be
appointed. Telecom Italia rose 0.4 percent to 1.134 euro.    Parmalat SpA (PLT)  : Shareholders that control more than
15 percent of the Italian milk and yogurt producer proposed a
list of new managers for the company that doesn’t include
current Chief Executive Officer Enrico Bondi after the close of
trading on March 11. The Italian government, concerned that the
company may fall under foreign control, may encourage a group of
Italian investors to build a big enough stake to challenge the
group by proposing its own management list, newspaper la
Repubblica reported on March 12. Shares closed unchanged at
2.352 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  