-- 
Telecom Italia’s Bernabe to Become Executive Chairman

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-13T12:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/telecom-italia-said-to-name-bernabe-as-executive-chairman-patuano-as-ceo.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s biggest
shareholders will nominate Franco Bernabe, the current chief
executive officer, as executive chairman and offer broader
powers to a new CEO to manage the company’s slumping Italian
business, two people familiar with the matter said.  Marco Patuano, who currently manages the Italian operations
for Bernabe, will be promoted to CEO and given a board seat,
said the people, who declined to be identified as the
appointments have yet to be made public. Patuano will answer to
both Bernabe and the board.  Luca Luciani, head of Telecom Italia’s Brazilian business,
will be nominated director general with responsibility for  Latin
America  and will report to Bernabe, the people said. Bernabe’s
term as CEO expires next month.  The new management team will be nominated tomorrow by the
board of Telco SpA, the Milan-based holding company that
controls Telecom Italia and ratified next month by Telecom
Italia’s board, the people said.  The agreement marks an end to a dispute among the company’s
key shareholders about Bernabe’s future. Spain’s  Telefonica (TEF)  SA,
 Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Assicurazioni Generali
SpA (G)  own about 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia through Telco.  Growth in Latin America, where Bernabe helped reorganize
investments in  Argentina , and a 12 percent reduction in net debt
have helped limit shareholders’ concerns over the 17 percent
drop in the company’s domestic sales on his watch. Bernabe, 62,
last month also promised an annual 15 percent dividend increase
through 2013.  Bernabe’s term, and that of the board of Italy’s biggest
phone company, expires with the approval of 2010 accounts next
month. Investors who jointly or separately hold at least 1
percent of the common stock have until March 15 to present board
candidates. There have been no announcements or press reports
about any alternative to Telco’s management list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 