-- 
Merkel Wins Support From German Coalition Lawmakers on Bailout Agreements

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-13T23:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/merkel-wins-support-from-german-coalition-lawmakers-on-bailout-agreements.html
German lawmakers from Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s coalition indicated that they will back a deal
struck by euro-area leaders to snuff out the debt crisis,
freeing her to focus on campaigning for six state elections.  Senior coalition lawmakers said that the weekend agreement
on a pact to bolster competitiveness, which commits euro nations
to follow Germany and enact budget rules into law, will probably
overcome resistance to other aspects of the crisis package. That
raises the likelihood the measures to be ratified at a March 24-
25 European Union summit will pass the German parliament.  “If the euro group can agree on a convincing, realistic
framework for tackling both those economic and budgetary causes
of the crisis, I see that we in this caucus could bite into the
sour apple,”  Norbert Barthle , budget spokesman in parliament
for Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , said in a phone interview.  The 17 euro-region leaders meeting in Brussels unexpectedly
announced a comprehensive package to stem the crisis on March
12. Merkel originally pledged a final deal by March 25, two days
before an election in Baden-Wuerttemberg, the state her party
has ruled for more than 50 years. Polls show the CDU may
struggle to hold the state.  By getting the matter out of the way early, Merkel lessened
the likelihood that it becomes a campaign issue in the state
votes, the next of which is on March 20 in Saxony-Anhalt. That
increases the chance the final crisis deal will be passed by
parliament, said Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of polling company
Psephos.  ‘Phantom Threat’  “As an election risk for Merkel, the euro crisis has
become a phantom threat, lacking the potency this year that it
had in 2010 when the tabloids ran amok with headlines about  Greece ,” Hoffmann said by phone. “The economy’s humming along,
the euro crisis hasn’t hurt jobs or emptied people’s purses. If
voters are unperturbed right now, does it make sense for her
lawmakers to rock the boat? I don’t think so.”  Among the measures agreed on at the weekend were a cut in
the cost of Greece’s bailout loans and a permanent safety net
for indebted states from 2013. Lawmakers are most concerned at
the implications for German taxpayers of a retooled rescue fund
that is being allowed to spend its 440 billion-euro ($611
billion) capacity and to buy debt in primary markets.  Merkel, speaking to reporters in Brussels at about 1:30
a.m. after the euro-area leaders’ meeting, said the deal on a
“pact for the euro” that tightens economic cooperation and
commits nations to enact budget rules into law unlocked the way
to a broader agreement on the comprehensive package.  ‘A New Door’  The pact “kicks open a new door,” Merkel said. “We
achieved our aims, namely that we anchored strict conditionality
while making it clear that we feel committed to the euro as a
whole.”  Merkel’s success in cajoling fellow euro leaders to sign up
to the pact, after a prior incarnation of the proposals was
rejected last month, was welcomed by her Christian Democratic
bloc and their Free Democratic Party coalition partner, which
has fought hardest against burdening German taxpayers further.  While for ideological reasons the Free Democrats would not
support the idea of the rescue fund buying bonds directly,
“it’s sound economic practice to look at the costs of saying
no,” said Bjoern Saenger, the FDP’s finance spokesman.  “My guess is that if it’s possible to pack it in strict
conditional terms, the caucus may be persuaded to back it,” he
said by phone.  Lower-house lawmakers will vote on the result of the March
24-25 summit, according to Barthle. The upper house will
probably also have a say.  Parliament Vote  Coalition lawmakers are due to vote March 17 on a separate
non-binding resolution billed as an appeal to Merkel not to
agree to a financial “transfer union” whereby richer euro-area
states such as  Germany  subsidize the others.  Klaus-Peter Flosbach, finance spokesman in  parliament  for
the Christian Democratic bloc, left open the door to Merkel
winning parliament’s backing for the final package.  “What’s decisive is that the measures agreed on to support
the euro are always linked to corresponding conditions,” he
said in a written comment.  Merkel “may have to use all her powers of persuasion to
secure German parliamentary approval” for the deal,  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London , said in a note. “Still, German top politicians have a
record of living up to their pro-European credentials whenever
it really counts. We do expect the two houses of the German
parliament to eventually pass the comprehensive package.”  For Barthle, the “sour taste” of short-term measures to
staunch the debt crisis can be sweetened if lawmakers are
reassured that longer-term steps are being put in place to stop
any repeat.  “It’s all about convincing us that the euro group really
means business in moving forward to alleviate both the fiscal
and economic causes of this crisis,” said Barthle. “If that’s
convincing, then it may be possible to back such emergency
instruments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  