-- 
Metals Demand in Japan May Tumble as Quake Damage, Power Cuts Halt Plants

-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-03-13T11:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/metals-demand-in-japan-may-tumble-as-quake-damage-power-cuts-halt-plants.html
Demand for industrial metals in  Japan , Asia’s biggest importer of aluminum, may decline as
factories shut because of damage or power shortages after the
country’s strongest earthquake on record, analysts said.  “You’ve got some production decline and certainly a
consumption decline as well,”  Jim Lennon , a senior analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a phone interview today. Japan is
the world’s second-largest buyer of copper ore after  China .  The northern Tohoku region most affected by the 8.9-
magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami represents about 8
percent of gross domestic product, and is host to factories
making products from cars to beer. It also has energy
infrastructure including a nuclear power plant that the
government said was at risk of a meltdown after an explosion.  Factory shutdowns, power cuts and the impact on  consumer
confidence  may hurt Japan’s GDP for months, while contributing
to growth later as the country rebuilds plants, homes and
infrastructure, economists said.  “Demand for base metals, such as copper, zinc and nickel,
may drop in the short term,” said Kim Gyung Jung, an analyst at
Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, recalling a similar
impact from the 6.9-magnitude earthquake in Kobe in 1995.  Aluminum for three-month delivery dropped 1.6 percent to
end at $2,545 a metric ton in  London  on Friday after falling as
much as 3.3 percent. Copper ended little changed at $9,190 a
metric ton after dropping as much as 2.2 percent.  Crucial Point  The temblor hit as the economy was pulling out of a
contraction in the fourth quarter. Recent data showed factory
orders increased 4.2 percent from December, the biggest jump in
five months, industrial production rose in January and the  unemployment rate  held that month at 4.9 percent, matching the
lowest level since March 2009.  Companies from Sony Corp., Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor
Co. and Nissan Motor Co. to beermaker Sapporo Holdings Ltd. and
refiner JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. shut facilities in northern
Japan. Cosmo Oil Co. had a refinery fire in Chiba, outside  Tokyo ,
while Tokyo Electric Power Co. battled to avert a meltdown to a
nuclear power station 220 kilometers north of the capital.  Nippon Steel Corp., the country’s biggest maker, suspended
operations at its Kamaishi plant, the company said today.
Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., the third largest, said March 11
blast furnace operations at its Kashima steel plant were halted.  Mitsui, Mitsubishi  Copper and zinc producers have also announced shutdowns.
Mitsubishi Materials Corp., the third-largest copper maker,
halted its 258,000-metric ton Onahama smelter in Fukushima
prefecture, and Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co., the top zinc
producer, shut its 112,000-ton capacity Hachinohe smelter in
Aomori prefecture, spokesmen said on Friday.  Some shipments of raw material for the smelters may be
diverted to China or  South Korea , said  David Thurtell , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore .  Consumption in Japan may take three to six months to
recover as the country undertakes a widespread reconstruction
program, said Macquarie’s Lennon.  “It’s not going to happen overnight,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 Jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  