-- 
FCC, OHL, Acciona, Santander, Telefonica: Spanish Equity Preview

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-14T07:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/fcc-obrascon-santander-and-tecnocom-iberian-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Spanish trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and share prices are from the previous close.  Spain’s IBEX 35 fell 0.4 percent to 10,398.4.    Acciona SA (ANA)  : Spain’s second-biggest wind-farm
operator is close to selling its car park unit to a Nordic fund
specialized in infrastructure, Expansion reported, without
citing anyone. The transaction, valued at a minimum of 150
million euros ($209 million), is part of the company’s
divestment plans for non-strategic, real estate-related assets,
the newspaper said. The shares slid 0.2 percent to 70.76 euros.    Banco Santander SA (SAN)  : Spain’s biggest bank and other
lenders may be active. Moody’s Investors Service may lower its
ratings on Spanish lenders and savings banks in coming days
after it downgraded Spain’s sovereign rating earlier this week,
Expansion reported, citing Moody’s analyst Kathrin Muehlbronner.
Santander shares fell 7 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 8.09 euros.    Enagas (ENG)  SA: The operator of Spain’s natural gas
grid was cut to “hold” from “buy” at Citigroup Inc. The
shares dropped 0.5 percent to 15.42 euros.    Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL)   and  Fomento de
Construcciones y Contratas SA (FCC)  : OHL and FCC’s Globalvia
Infrastructure unit have teamed up to bid for a contract to
finance, build and manage the 22-kilometer highway extension of  Canada ’s 407 highway which will be called the 407 East, Cinco
Dias said. OHL shares slipped 0.3 percent to 24.02 euros. FCC
fell 20 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 21.76 euros.    Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  : The Spanish builder and
Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA are bidding for road
projects in Panama valued at about 1.1 billion euros, Europa
Press reported, citing unidentified people from the industry.
Sacyr shares soared 6.1 percent to 8.53 euros.  Tecnocom,  Telecomunicaciones y Energia (TEC)  SA: Spain’s
second-largest computer-services company can maintain its
dividend policy this year, Chief Executive Officer Javier Martin
told Expansion in an interview. The shares fell 1.9 percent to
2.33 euros.    Telefonica SA (TEF)  : Spain’s biggest phone company may
sell shares of Atento Inversiones y Teleservicios SAU, its call-
center unit, to institutional investors only, excluding retail
investors from the initial public offering, El Confidencial
reported, without citing anyone. Telefonica hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. as the only bank to help it coordinate the share
sale, the financial news website said. The shares fell 1.1
percent to 17.85 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  