-- 
Global Stock Rally May Withstand Japan Disaster as Economic Growth Tops

-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-14T20:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/global-stock-rally-may-withstand-japan-disaster-as-economic-growth-tops-4-.html
Stocks in Japan extended losses as
trading resumed though the worst earthquake on record in the
third-biggest economy is unlikely to dent the two-year bull
market in global equities.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped 6.2 percent, the most
since December 2008, to 9,620.49 today. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index retreated 0.6 percent at 4 p.m. in New York. Lost
production from the Tohoku region where the 8.9-magnitude quake
struck might not be enough to spur a recession, Bank of America
Corp. said. The Bank of Japan said it will pump a record 12
trillion yen ($146 billion) into the financial system.  “The purely economic consequences will be modest: some
reconstruction, some more  government spending ,” said Charles de Vaulx, a manager at New York-based International Value Advisers
LLC, where he co-manages the $1.8 billion IVA International Fund
including Japanese stock. “No major international consequences,
either, except maybe helping drive long-term rates higher. We do
not expect to make any significant changes to our portfolio as a
result of this tragedy.”  The fastest global economic growth since 2007 and record
U.S. profits that helped spur the 94 percent rally in the MSCI
All-Country World Index of 45 nations should be intact,
investors said. While the quake adds to concerns such as
violence in Libya and Europe’s debt crisis, shares may benefit
from reduced inflation expectations as damage to oil refineries
curbs demand for crude.  Miyagi Prefecture  The temblor and subsequent tsunami may have killed 10,000
people in Miyagi prefecture north of Tokyo, national broadcaster
NHK reported, citing local police. The official toll reached
1,833 at 4 p.m. Tokyo time, with 2,369 missing and 1,898
injured, the National Police Agency said.  Workers battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown after a
second blast rocked an atomic plant north of Tokyo. No large
release of radiation was detected after the explosion, which
didn’t breach Fukushima power station’s No. 3 reactor and
followed a build-up of hydrogen gas, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo today. The risk of a large
leak is very small, he said.  “It will be very difficult to handicap and assess a worst-
case nuclear disaster scenario,” said Stephen Wood, the New
York-based chief market strategist for Russell Investments,
which manages $155 billion. “It would be a completely
independent analysis because we don’t have any historical data
for such a situation. We would have to go back to the table and
start over.”  No Change  The MSCI All-Country World Index slipped 0.7 percent today
while the iShares MSCI  Japan  exchange-traded fund dropped 7
percent in U.S. trading today.  “Our view on Japan is still the same,” said David Herro,
chief investment officer of international equities at Harris
Associates, which oversees $65 billion in Chicago. “When you
look at the valuation of Japanese companies, if you look at
what’s happening with Japanese managements in terms of improving
operating efficiency, we’re still excited about the Japanese
equity market.”  Global stocks ended little changed on March 11 as declines
of 0.7 percent or more in  China ,  Hong Kong  and Australia were
offset by a 0.7 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The MSCI All-Country gauge rose less than 0.1 percent to
336.73. U.S. shares were boosted by a 1.5 percent drop in oil
spurred by speculation the temblor would curb demand in the
world’s third-biggest oil-consuming country.  Buying Opportunity  “If this causes market values to go substantially lower,
we’ll use this as an opportunity to buy quality at lower
price,” Herro said.  “Very little of this will ultimately
impact the long-term price of the companies we own.”  Investors are trying to assess whether the quake will hurt
Japan’s economy enough to derail worldwide growth spurred by
more than $12 trillion pumped into the financial system by
governments and central banks since 2008. Global gross domestic
product is forecast to expand 4.4 percent this year and 4.5
percent in 2012, according to the Washington-based  International
Monetary Fund .  Japan accounted for $5.4 trillion, or 8.7 percent, of world
GDP in 2010, when the global economy expanded by 5 percent, the
fastest pace since 2007, the  IMF  said. Japan may expand 1.5
percent this year, the fifth-worst rate among the world’s 24
developed nations, according to the IMF’s World Economic Outlook
from October.  ‘Very Limited’  “If you’re talking at the level of the global economy, I’d
say it’s very limited,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management, which oversees $1 billion in  New
York .  Equity bulls are counting on record U.S. earnings. Profit
for S&P 500 companies will total $96.68 a share this year,
according to the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  A 17 percent increase in crude futures trading in New York
since Feb. 18 has helped push the S&P 500 down 3.5 percent from
its 32-month high of 1,343.01, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The oil contract retreated March 11 after a storage-tank fire
shut Cosmo Oil Co.’s 220,000 barrel-a-day refinery in Chiba,
outside Tokyo, and JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. closed
refineries in Sendai, Kashima and Negishi.  “Japan is one of the largest economies in the world, so
right now it may ease some of the global inflationary pressures
because it lowers the demand for oil and materials,” said
Patrick Legland, the Paris-based global head of research and
strategy at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, which oversees about $300
billion.  Aging Population  The earthquake is the latest shock to an economy that has
the fastest-aging population in the developed world and has been
mired in deflation for much of the past two decades. The Nikkei
225 has fallen 74 percent since December 1989 as land prices
tumbled to about half their peak levels in the late 1980s. The
country’s real GDP grew at an average 0.8 percent pace in the
past 10 years, compared with 1.7 percent in the U.S.  The benchmark index for Japanese stocks lost 3 percent last
year as the yen at its strongest annual average level against
the dollar since at least 1971 dimmed the outlook for export
earnings. The country depends on demand from China and the U.S.,
the destination for 35 percent of Japanese shipments.  Japan avoided an economic contraction following the 1995
Kobe earthquake that killed more than 6,000 people because
factories from outside the affected region were able to offset
lost production, according to a March 11 research note from
Masayuki Kichikawa and Setsuko Yamashita, economists at Bank of
America in Tokyo. Extra supply capacity may limit the quake’s
drag on GDP to as little as 0.2 percentage points, they wrote.  Economic Boost  “If you look at the history of earthquakes, they rarely
cause permanent downturns in an economy and often the rebuilding
efforts give rise to renewed economic activity,” said Komal Sri-Kumar, who helps manage $116 billion as chief global
strategist at TCW Group Inc. in  Los Angeles . “My expectation is
that we’re talking about one or two quarters of downturn in
Japan and no long-term impact. If the market goes down
significantly, it’s an opportunity to buy.”  The ruling Democratic Party of Japan has few options to
offset growth that is lost to the quake. The Ministry of Finance
projected in January that government debt will rise 5.8 percent
to a record 997.7 trillion yen in the year starting April 1.  Bank of Japan  interest rates  are near zero and the
country’s borrowing costs are the lowest in the developed world.
Government bonds maturing in 10 years yield 1.27 percent, while
the yen has depreciated against 12 of the 16 most-traded
currencies this year, dropping 4.8 percent versus the euro and
0.9 percent against the dollar.  Credit Rating  Japan’s economy shrank more than the government initially
estimated in the fourth quarter because of a downward revision
to capital investment and  consumer spending . Moody’s Investors
Service lowered its outlook on Japan’s Aa2 debt rating last
month on concern about the government’s ability to tackle the
world’s biggest public-debt burden.  “The big problem in Japan is that the government has been
trying to stimulate the economy for so long that it doesn’t have
a lot of gunpowder left,” said  Tim Hartzell , who oversees $300
million as chief investment officer for Houston-based Sequent
Asset Management, which invests in Japanese stocks through
exchange-traded funds. “Japan hasn’t had any economic growth
for years, and there’s no domestic demand.”  Wood, steel and construction companies may benefit from
rebuilding in Japan, said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee
$14.4 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  Weyerhaeuser, Plum Creek    Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , a Federal Way, Washington-based owner of
timberland, rallied 6.2 percent to $24.38 in the U.S. on March
11 for the biggest rally since July 12. Seattle-based Plum Creek
Timber Co. rose 2.4 percent, the most since Dec. 1, to $41.52.  American depositary receipts of Pohang, South Korea-based
steelmaker  Posco (005490)  advanced 2.1 percent.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ’s ADRs
climbed 0.3 percent to $30.75 after the shares fell 2.3 percent
in Japan. It is the world’s second-largest maker of construction
equipment. Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar Inc., Komatsu’s
competitor, added 1.7 percent to $100.02.  “It was very specific infrastructure-type companies that
people suddenly said, ‘Wait a minute, these guys will
benefit,’” Sorrentino said.    Fukuda Corp. (1899) ,  Ueki Corp. (1867) , and PS Mitsubishi Construction
Co., all of which are construction companies based in Japan,
surged in the final minutes of trading on March 11 as the quake
drove the Nikkei 225 down 1.7 percent.  Similar Pattern  Fukuda rose 30 percent, the most among 1,666 stocks in the
Topix, to 213 yen. The Niigata City-based construction company
jumped 52 percent in the two days following a magnitude 6.4
quake in October 2004 and rallied 20 percent in a single session
after a 6.8-magnitude temblor in July 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and  Wolfram Alpha LLC .  Ueki, a general contractor in Kashiwazaki, soared 23
percent to 165 yen for the second-largest gain in the Topix on
March 11. PS Mitsubishi, a Tokyo-based maker of concrete, jumped
18 percent to 298 yen.  The Nikkei 225 has lost 5.6 percent since its 2011 peak on
Feb. 21 through March 11. The index’s gain since the bottom in
global stocks 24 months ago is 45 percent, versus a 95 percent
advance in the MSCI All-Country World Index, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “People may move away from risk assets and fly to bonds in
the short term,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , an analyst at Shinkin
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $6 billion, on March
11. “This doesn’t mean Japan’s economy itself will break down.
With earthquakes, things go back to normal after a few months.
So investors’ risk aversion will probably only last for a short
while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  