-- 
Milk Seen Plunging 14% as Costliest Cheese in Quarter Century Curbs Demand

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n ,   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-14T19:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/milk-seen-plunging-14-as-costliest-cheese-in-quarter-century-curbs-demand.html
The milk rally that sent prices up
48 percent this year, more than any agricultural commodity, may
be ending as farmers respond with record production and the
costliest cheese in a quarter century curbs demand.  Output in the U.S., the world’s second-largest producer,
may rise 1.7 percent to 196 billion pounds in 2011, enough to
fill about 34,500 Olympic-sized pools, the Department of
Agriculture estimates. Demand will weaken as restaurants cut
promotions and grocers raise prices, said INTL FCStone Inc., a
New York-based broker. Futures may drop 14 percent to $16.86 per
100 pounds by Dec. 31, a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts showed.  Dairies are missing out on profits from milk’s biggest
rally since at least 1996 as the surge in grain that drove world
food prices to a record, contributing to protests in northern  Africa  and the Middle East, also boosted the cost of feeding
cows. While income for grain and cotton growers will rise more
than 20 percent this year,  earnings  at dairies may drop 13
percent, the government estimates.  “Grain farmers are having some of the best years they’ve
had in a long time profit-wise, but you couldn’t say that for
dairy,” said Bob Cropp, an economist at the University of
Wisconsin in Madison who has been studying the industry since
1966. “Dairy facilities are running at the maximum. With a
little softening in demand, prices are going to come down.”  Milk futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange fell 0.2
percent today to $19.61 in  Chicago , after reaching a 32-month
high of $19.65 on March 11. Prices are up 53 percent from a year
earlier as importers from  Mexico  to  China  increased buying and
the rebounding U.S. economy bolstered domestic demand.  Commodities Rally  Milk’s 2011 rally has exceeded those of all agricultural
futures traded in  New York  and Chicago including cotton, which
surged 42 percent and reached a record last week. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities advanced 11 percent, and the
S&P 500 Index of stocks rose 3.7 percent. As of March 10,
Treasuries gained 0.1 percent this year, a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index shows.  Traders are already anticipating a drop, with the December
contract at a 16 percent discount to the one that expires this
month.  Shawn Hackett , the president of Hackett Financial
Advisers, who correctly projected in October that milk would
surge, now says futures for Class III milk, used to make cheese,
may fall as low as $15 amid higher output in  Australia  and  New
Zealand , the largest exporter.  Food Inflation  Riots have erupted from  Bahrain  to  Morocco , in part fueled
by food costs the  United Nations  says reached a record last
month. Protests already toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia.
The projected drop in milk prices will do little to relieve the
surge in food inflation that the  World Bank  says helped drive 44
million more people into extreme poverty since June.  Milk’s rally may continue for several more months because
exports will support prices, said Jerry Dryer, the Delray Beach,
Florida-based publisher of the Dairy & Food Market Analyst, who
has been following the industry for three decades.  Shipments surged 63 percent to $3.7 billion last year,
nearing the 2008 record of $3.8 billion, U.S. Dairy Export
Council data show. Cheese exports rose to an all-time high, and
milk-powder sales climbed 61 percent, the Arlington, Virginia-
based trade group said.  U.S. exports rose as New Zealand boosted sales to China,
said James Dunn, an economist at  Pennsylvania State University 
in  University Park . China bought about 353 million kilograms
(778 million pounds) last year, compared with 69 million
kilograms in 2008, according to New Zealand government data.  Last Rally  Milk’s last advance of this magnitude ran for 15 months
through June 2007, when it more than doubled to a record $22.45.
Prices would have to advance 14 percent more to match that peak.  “This rally will last at least a full year before rising
production catches up with demand,” said Dryer of Dairy & Food
Market Analyst.  Consumption may not support the gains much longer, said
Mary Ledman, a former economist with Kraft Foods Inc. U.S. milk
production this year may begin rising in April and May, just as
retailers start increasing prices to shoppers, she said.    Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the fourth-largest U.S. supermarket chain by
sales, said Feb. 24 that it began to pass higher costs to
consumers during the fourth quarter, including for milk.  “Retailers’ margins in the dairy case, and particularly on
fluid milk, have been squeezed since 2010,” said Ledman, who
owns the Libertyville, Illinois-based consultant Keough Ledman
Associates. “I don’t think they have any choice but to raise
retail-milk prices in 2011.”  Ice Cream  Whitey’s Ice Cream, which has 11 stores in  Illinois  and  Iowa  and sells to about 100 retail outlets including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., may boost prices in coming months because costs for
milk, cream and sugar have jumped about 50 percent from a year
ago, said Jeff Tunberg, who owns the Moline, Illinois-based
business with his brother.  “Ice cream has been recession-resistant, but not
recession-proof,” Tunberg said. “We’ve been in business for 78
years, and we’ve always had a model that we will raise our price
before we will change our quality.”  Cheddar cheese in supermarkets averaged $5.143 a pound in
January, the highest since at least 1984, while a half gallon of
ice cream sold for $4.74, the most since 1980, according to data
collected from about 26,000 retailers by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Retail whole milk averaged $3.301 a gallon, 2
percent more than a year earlier.  Cheesemakers  U.S. food inflation accelerated 0.9 percent in January, the
fastest monthly pace since June 2008, when prices were headed
for their biggest annual gain in 28 years. Costs will rise as
much as 4 percent this year, more than the 2 percent to 3
percent estimated in January, the USDA said last month.  Higher prices don’t mean improved earnings for dairy
farmers because corn, the main feed ingredient, is 82 percent
costlier than a year ago. In  California , the biggest milk
producer, feed costs made up about 84 percent of the price
farmers received for milk in December, according to USDA data.  The average net-cash income, or earnings used to pay most
expenses and debt, for American dairies will decline to $184,000
this year from $212,100 in 2010, a bigger drop than for
producers of beef cattle, hogs and poultry, the USDA estimates.  Dairy Profit  Higher milk prices still allowed dairies to earn $1.18 per
100 pounds of milk at the end of February, compared with 21
cents at the same time last year, said Chip Whalen, a senior
risk manager at Commodity & Ingredient Hedging LLC in Chicago.  The herd will rise 0.4 percent to 9.154 million cows on
average this year, the first annual increase since 2008, the
USDA estimates.  Cows produced on average 21,149 pounds (9.59 metric tons)
last year, more than double the amount in 1970, according to the
USDA. Changes to breeding methods mean more females are being
born. Farmers also maintain younger herds by slaughtering older
cows when their milk output slows.  Productivity probably will increase in the next few months
to a seasonal peak that will exceed the monthly record of 1,893
pounds reached in May, said Joel Karlin, the commodity sales
coordinator for Western Milling in Goshen, California, which
makes feed for dairy farms.  At the same time, higher prices will curb demand from
consumers, erasing profit for producers that don’t grow their
own feed or hedge their grain costs, said Robert Chesler, a
Chicago-based vice president of food service for INTL FCStone.  Food Promotions  “Daily buying has been led by promotions and specials,
two-for-$10-pizza deals, things like that,” Chesler said.
“That’s going to be a difficult thing to continue in 2011,
because of the price increases in commodities, so demand
domestically could certainly take a little bit of a pullback.”  Oberweis Dairy Inc., a processor based in North Aurora,
Illinois, that buys milk from farmers, increased the retail
price of half-gallon, glass-bottle milk products by almost 7
percent as of March 1, Chief Executive Officer Joe Oberweis
said. The 84-year-old company’s milk cost has doubled since
2009, he said.  Farmers are “a little bit more optimistic at this point,
but, still, nobody’s jumping up in the air and kicking their
heels,” said Joyce Bupp, a 65-year-old farmer who owns a 170-
cow dairy in Seven Valleys,  Pennsylvania .  U.S. milk production may continue to rise, said Michael Swanson, a Minneapolis-based economist at  Wells Fargo & Co ., the
largest U.S. agricultural lender. Producers “expand when prices
are good and expand when prices are bad,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  