-- 
India Passes China as World’s Top Arms Importer, Sipri Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-03-14T06:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/india-overtakes-china-as-world-s-top-arms-importer-sipri-says.html
  India  replaced China as the world’s
top weapons importer, according to a study by the  Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute , as it aims to modernize
its armed forces and project power through the region.  India received 9 percent of the volume of international
transfers of “major conventional weapons” from 2006 to 2010,
topping China,  South Korea  and  Pakistan , Sipri said in a report
released today. India spent about $37 billion on defense in 2009,
equal to the amount proposed to be cut from the U.S. military
budget next year, Sipri  data  shows.  “The increases are substantial, and if you look at the
Indian plans for the near future, they are massive,” Siemon
Wezeman, a Sipri researcher who helped write the report, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s worrying from the fact you are
bringing a lot of weapons into an area that isn’t particularly
stable, where you’ve got countries that have been at each
other’s throats.”  India’s internal security threats and rivalries with
Pakistan and  China , the nuclear-armed neighbors with which it
has border disputes, have driven the increase in expenditures,
Wezeman said. The country’s plans to boost defense spending in
the next decade to modernize the military have attracted U.S.
and European firms banned from selling weapons to China.  The average volume of worldwide arms transfers in 2006-2010
was 24 percent higher than in 2001-2005, the report said. The
Asia-Pacific region led the world, accounting for 43 percent of
arms imports. It was followed by  Europe  at 21 percent, the
Middle East at 17 percent and the Americas at 12 percent.  Economic Growth  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25
percent in the next financial year, the fastest pace since 2008,
according to a Finance Ministry survey released last month. The  World Bank  estimates that more than three-quarters of India’s
1.2 billion people live on less than $2 a day. Defense Minister
A.K. Antony said last month India’s military spending amounts to
about 2.5 percent of its gross domestic product.  “India’s defense procurement and deployment are very much
determined by China’s increasingly assertive policy and
conduct,” said  Brahma Chellaney , a professor of strategic
studies at the Centre for Policy Research in  New Delhi .  China plans to increase defense spending 12.7 percent this
year to $91.5 billion. The enhanced military capabilities of the
country with the world’s biggest army have heightened concern
over its goals. China and India share a disputed 3,550-kilometer
(2,220-mile) Himalayan border, with each country claiming
territory the other has ruled since a 1962 war.  Indian Jets  India is seeking to buy 126 warplanes in the world’s
biggest fighter-jet purchase in 15 years, according to the
Indian Defense Ministry. Paris-based  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ,
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Sweden ’s  Saab AB (SAABB) , Russia’s United Aircraft Corp.
and European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co., based in Paris and
Munich, are competing for the contract.  The outlays on weapons have allowed India to demand
technology transfers as part of purchases, Sipri said. The U.S.
and Europe have banned weapons sales to China since the 1989
Tiananmen Square crackdown. U.S. military officials have
questioned China’s motives in developing ballistic anti-ship
missiles and radar-evading fighter jets.  India is “in a position where they have this huge market
at a time when exporters are in desperate need to find export
markets,” Wezeman said.  U.S. Exports  The U.S. remains the world’s largest exporter of military
equipment, accounting for 30 percent of arms deliveries between
2006 and 2010, the report said. The Defense Department is
requesting $671 billion for the 2012 fiscal year starting Oct. 1,
$37 billion less than this year’s request.  Stockholm-based Sipri, founded in 1966, conducts research
into conflict, armaments, arms control and disarmament,
according to its  website . A substantial part of its funding
comes from the Swedish government, it said.  The institute measures the volume of arms moved around the
world using an index that rates “the military resource value of
the weapon in relation to other weapons” because an accurate
financial value can’t be attached to many transfers, it says on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  