-- 
Manufacturing Keeps Fueling Expansion: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-13T05:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/industrial-production-probably-rose-as-manufacturing-fuels-u-s-expansion.html
U.S. industrial production probably
rose in February for a third month in the last four, indicating
manufacturing remains a stalwart of the expansion, economists
said before a report this week.  Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.6
percent after a 0.1 percent decrease in January, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Federal
Reserve figures on March 17. Other data may show less  home
construction  and contained inflation excluding food and fuel.  Orders are rising at companies like  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ,
signaling factories are boosting an economy still held back by
housing-market weakness. With wage growth restrained and limited
signs businesses are passing along higher energy costs, Fed
policy makers meeting this week may stick to their plan of
buying Treasuries aimed at bolstering growth.  “Manufacturing has been a driver of the recovery thus far
and this will remain the case,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S.
economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in New York. “Demand is
starting to return and inventories are light relative to that,
so restocking will provide a boost. For the Fed, it’ll be fairly
status quo on policy, except for some comment about firmer
energy and commodity prices.”  The strength in manufacturing continued into this month.
The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic gauge, on March 17, and
the  New York  Fed’s Empire State index, two days earlier, will
show factory expansion in the respective regions this month,
economists forecast.  Orders Rising  “We have seen orders build through the quarter,” Ron Slaymaker, vice president of  investor relations  for Dallas-based
Texas Instruments, said on a conference call with analysts March
8. “Based upon what we’re seeing through the first two months,
we would expect that orders will be up solidly compared to the
fourth quarter.”  Manufacturing shares have outperformed the broader market
over the past year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Supercomposite
Machinery Index has surged 40 percent in the last 12 months
through March 11, compared with a 13 percent gain in the  S&P
500 .  At the same time, expanding economies in  Asia  and Latin
America are generating greater demand for commodities and
lifting prices. Escalating turmoil in  Libya  and unrest in the
Middle East have pushed up crude oil. Oil futures the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  have increased about 10 percent this year.  Consumer Prices  The  consumer price index , the broadest of three price
measures issued by the Labor Department, rose 0.4 percent for a
third month, according to the Bloomberg survey median. So-called
core prices, which exclude volatile food and fuel, likely rose
0.1 percent after a 0.2 percent gain in January. The figures are
due on March 17.  Compared with a year earlier, the core CPI rose 1 percent
for a second month, according to the median estimate.  Wholesale costs increased for an eighth consecutive month
in February, spurred by higher prices for fuel and other
commodities, economists projected ahead of the data due March
16. A day earlier, another Labor Department report may show the
cost of goods imported into the country posted the fifth
straight monthly gain.  Fed officials meeting March 15 are about half way through
their second round of bond purchases that’ll pump $600 billion
into the financial system by June. Along with the so-called
quantitative easing, they will probably maintain their policy of
keeping the benchmark rate near zero.  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier,
matching December’s year-over-year gain, the smallest in five
decades of record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run
overall inflation of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Bernanke on Inflation  Higher oil and commodity prices probably won’t cause a
permanent increase in broader inflation, and borrowing costs are
likely to stay low, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in his
semiannual monetary policy testimony to Congress.  Experience with such price gains in recent decades, along
with currently stable labor costs, suggests a “temporary and
relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer price inflation,”
Bernanke told lawmakers on March 2. “The economy’s recovery is
not firmly established, and we think monetary policy needs to be
supportive.”  The economy’s weak link is housing, which is depressed by
foreclosures and falling prices. Housing starts fell 4.4 percent
after a 15 percent jump in January that reflected a surge in
multifamily units, economists projected ahead of Commerce
Department data on March 16.  Builders remain pessimistic. The National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index, due on March 15,
rose to 17 this month from 16 in February, according to
economists surveyed. Readings below 50 mean more respondents
said conditions were poor.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  