-- 
Israeli Government Approves Construction in Some West Bank Settlements

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-13T14:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/israeli-government-approves-construction-in-some-west-bank-settlements.html
Israel approved construction of
several hundred homes in Jewish settlements after the killing of
five members of an Israeli family living in the  West Bank .  The building, the largest number of homes approved at one
time in more than a year, was slated for large West Bank
settlements, including Maaleh Adumim and Gush Etzion near
Jerusalem and Ariel outlying Tel Aviv, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s office said in a statement.  Jewish settler leader Danny Dayan called the government
decision “a small step in the right direction.” Peace Now, a
group that monitors settlement construction, said it “plays
into the hands of extremists.”  The violence, the first fatal attack since August 2010,
came as the Middle East Quartet -- the U.S., the  United Nations ,
the European Union and  Russia  -- sent envoys to try and get  Israel  and the Palestinians to resume peace talks that stalled
in September. Negotiations halted when Netanyahu refused to
extend a partial 10-month construction freeze in the West Bank
settlements and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
said he wouldn’t continue talks unless the building was halted.  “Chances of peace are definitely hindered by the Israeli
decisions to erect more settlements,” Palestinian Authority
spokesman  Ghassan Khatib  said by phone. “We have been saying
that without serious pressure from the outside, Israel will
continue with this.”  Peace Proposal  Netanyahu spokesman  Mark Regev  said the construction was
inside areas that “every serious peace proposal put on the
table in the last 20 years” included as part of Israel.  The White House and the UN condemned the attack. The UN in
a statement urged “all to act with restraint.”  Tony Blair , the
Quartet’s representative, called the killings “shocking and
deplorable.” The Quartet said that attacks on civilians are
“completely unacceptable” and “emphasized the need to
expedite efforts” to achieve peace.  Soldiers were still searching for one or more assailants
who stabbed the Israeli parents and three of their children to
death around midnight between March 11 and March 12, an army
spokeswoman said, speaking anonymously according to regulation.
She declined to say how many arrests had been made.  Jewish settlers in the West Bank overnight stoned
Palestinian cars in two separate locations and burned a vehicle
in the city of Hebron, an army spokeswoman said. There were no
injuries or damages from the stoning, she said, speaking
anonymously by regulation.  Responsibility Claim  The Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the armed wing of the
Palestinian Fatah movement, claimed responsibility for the
killings in Itamar, a settlement of about 1,000 residents
founded in 1984 about 60 kilometers (37 miles) northeast of  Tel
Aviv . It called the violence “the natural response to the
massacres of the fascist occupation against our people.”  Israeli ministers started talking earlier this month about
a possible new initiative to restart talks with the Palestinians
that would include an interim settlement, in part in response to
international pressure. After the attack, Israel may demand more
action from Palestinian security forces, said Jonathan Spyer, a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya.  “The government of Israel may also feel able to resist
pressure in a way that was difficult when things were very quiet
in the West Bank,” Spyer said by phone.  Stop Attacks  Netanyahu, in a phone call with Abbas yesterday, urged him
to take action against anti-Israeli incitement in territories
under his control. Abraham Dicter, a lawmaker from the Kadima
opposition party and former head of the Shin Bet or General
Security Services, said on  Army Radio  that the Palestinians were
not making sufficient efforts to stop attacks against Israel.  Yariv Oppenheimer, a Peace Now spokesman, said the last
major construction approval by Netanyahu’s government was before
the freeze went into effect. At that time, the government
approved 200 new units, he said. An Israeli official, speaking
anonymously as he was not authorized to speak to the press on
the matter, said the number of homes approved was between 300
and 500.  According to the  Central Bureau of Statistics ,
construction started on 541 new West Bank homes in 2010 as
compared with 1,946 begun in 2009, while 1,492 were completed,
down from 2,071 in the previous period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 