-- 
Italy’s Biggest Bank Investors Waver With Basel Capital Shortfall Looming

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-03-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/italy-s-banking-foundations-waver-as-capital-boost-unavoidable-.html
  Italy ’s banking foundations, the
biggest investors in the country’s lenders, may balk at
providing more funds to the industry, an obstacle as banks seek
to meet tougher  capital requirements .  The foundations, including Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di
Siena and Fondazione Cassamarca, spent at least 3 billion euros
($4.2 billion) to buy shares sold by Italian banks and had to
forego dividends amid the financial crisis. As new rules are
implemented, the lenders face a capital hole of as much as 17
billion euros, according to estimates by research institute
Prometeia in Bologna. They may have to turn elsewhere for help.  “If the banks need capital they’ll have to make do,” said
Dino De Poli, chairman of Fondazione Cassamarca, which owns 0.8
percent of Milan-based  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  Funds “are needed for the
foundations and not for the banks, in which they’ve invested far
too much already,” he said in a telephone interview.  The Group of 20 nations last year endorsed rules proposed
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that would triple
the highest-quality capital lenders need to hold. The committee
may also apply tougher rules to European banks considered
“systemically important financial institutions.”  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest lender, and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
would show “meaningful capital deficits” if they were
classified as systemically important, Evolution Securities
analysts wrote in a March 1 report. The lenders may need 4
billion euros and 5 billion euros, respectively, to meet the
stricter requirements, according to the analysts.  Draghi Comments    Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  last month urged the
country’s lenders to use profits to strengthen their reserves
and said he expects banks to raise money ahead of new
regulation. A “recourse to the  capital market  as soon as
conditions permit” is “unavoidable,” he said.  Italy’s 88 regional foundations, which oversee 49 billion
euros of assets, half of which is invested in banks, use the
money generated through their holdings to fund philanthropic
programs. Fifteen institutions own majority stakes in banks,
while 55 have holdings of less than 50 percent.  “Banking foundations have been squeezed to subscribe to
banks’ issues of capital and hybrids,” Evolution Securities
wrote in its report. “So even if a bank needs to raise capital
this might be delayed for ‘governance’ reasons.”  UniCredit raised 7 billion euros in the last three years
through two capital increases, while  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA (BMPS)  got 5 billion euros from investors in 2008, half of
which was provided by its foundation.  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  last
month concluded a 2 billion-euro share sale to repay state aid
received during the crisis. Intesa, which hasn’t asked investors
for money, is selling assets to strengthen its finances.  ‘Most in Need’  Monte Paschi, which showed the weakest result among Italian
banks in European banking stress test in July 2010, again faces
a capital shortfall, according to analysts at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Research and Nomura Holdings Inc.  “Monte Paschi is the bank most in need of a capital
injection,” Merrill’s Alberto Cordara wrote in a March 3 note.
The Siena, Italy-based lender, which has to repay 1.9 billion
euros of state aid, may have to raise about 1 billion euros,
Domenico Santoro of Nomura estimated.  “In recent months, Monte Paschi reiterated that they don’t
need a capital increase,” said Gabriello Mancini, chairman of
Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which owns a 46 percent
stake in Italy’s third-largest bank. “For the moment, I can’t
do anything more than take note of what they said,” he said in
an interview, declining to comment on whether the foundation
would subscribe to a possible rights issue.  Dividend Policy  Monte Paschi Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari  said Feb. 18 that
the bank isn’t studying a capital increase. Similar comments
were made by UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni 
on Feb. 26 and Intesa CEO Corrado Passera last November. Banking
foundations hold more than 11 percent of UniCredit, which also
counts war-wracked  Libya  among its biggest investors, and about
25 percent of Intesa.  A reduction of lenders’ payouts, urged by Draghi to
preserve the capital, may add pressure on foundations, which use
dividends to finance their projects. In 2009, the institutions’
revenue fell 6.4 percent to 2.5 billion euros, said ACRI, the
association of the Italian banking foundations. Dividend income
from holdings in lenders dropped 80 percent to 480 million
euros, as UniCredit and Intesa canceled payouts.  “Our allocation to charity depends on dividends we get,”
Fondazione Cassamarca’s De Poli said.  ‘Unique System’  UniCredit and Intesa, the country’s second-biggest bank,
resumed their cash dividends last year, with a payout ratio
below the average of the last five years, while Monte Paschi
didn’t distribute a dividend.                  Monte Paschi’s managers are considering making payouts
again, Mancini said. “As shareholders we should aim at
dividends. Still, we are sensible to the capitalization needs
that the crisis and Basel III require. Last year, we agreed to
the bank’s decision not to pay dividends.”  “The regulatory environment for banks is changing and this
means that the dividend yield will be reduced to rebuild
capital,” said Angelo Manca, a portfolio manager at Ockham
Capital Partners in  London . “We also expect the Italian banks
to tap the capital markets for more equity.”  Fondazione di Venezia, which owns 0.6 percent of Milan-
based Intesa, wouldn’t participate in a potential share sale by
the lender, according to Chairman Giuliano Segre, who said he
plans to keep cutting the stake in Intesa.  ‘Good Occasion’  “Banks’ rights issues would be a good occasion for
foundations to dilute their holdings,” he said. “They should
diversify their investments, reducing their presence in the
banks’ capital.”  Italy’s foundations, partially run by local politicians,
were created twenty years ago when the philanthropic arms of
savings banks were split from their lending operations to pave
the way for the industry’s privatization.  “This is a unique system in  Europe ,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale-Maffe, a professor of business strategy at Milan’s  Bocconi University . “Foundations played and will continue to
play a crucial role in the Italian banking system. For better or
for worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  