-- 
Japan `Big One' May Raise Quake Risk for Years, Help End Mystery of Plates

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-14T17:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/japan-big-one-may-raise-quake-risk-for-years-help-end-mystery-of-plates.html
The Japanese earthquake and tsunami
that may have killed 10,000 people will spark more Pacific
temblors for years to come and yield data that will erase some
of the mystery of the Earth’s crust, scientists said.  Pressure levels changed on the undersea plates extending
500 kilometers to the east and west of the epicenter, likely
provoking aftershocks “for a long time,” said Eric Fielding, a
principal scientist at the  Jet Propulsion Laboratory . The
Pasadena, California, research group is using data from  Japan  to
help scientists forecast follow-on shifts in crustal plates.  Japan’s largest quake on record, which hurled a 7-meter
(23-foot) wave landward after one plate slid beneath another off
the coast of Sendai, had an 8.9 magnitude. The aftershocks will
likely include at least one measuring 8 and 10 of magnitude 7,
JPL geophysicist Andrea Donnellan said. All are many times
larger than the 6.3-level New Zealand quake in February that
leveled the Christchurch business district and killed 160.  “The segments south and north of the Sendai rupture zone
will have large increased stresses,” Donnellan, a principle
investigator who models probable shifts in the Earth’s crust,
said in written answers to Bloomberg. “While a few large
earthquakes will occur soon after the last one, most will occur
at much longer times, typically years, after the last one.”  Ring of Fire  Predicting earthquakes with precision eludes scientists,
who until recently lacked data to improve forecasts. The
disaster will aid research into how the mosaic of plates around
the world can shift and trigger shocks, building on measurements
from  Indonesia  in 2004 and  Chile  in 2010 that gave geophysicists
insight into how the biggest tremors change Earth’s geology.  Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, lies on the so-
called Ring of Fire, an arc of volcanoes and fault lines
surrounding the Pacific Basin including Sumatra, site of the
Indonesian quake.  “Before 2004, most geophysicists taught that only limited
parts of the Ring of Fire could be capable of generating really
giant earthquakes,” Antonio Piersanti, head researcher of the
Rome-based Italian Institute of Geology and Vulcanology, said in
an e-mailed statement. “After the Sumatra event and especially
after this last event maybe we should seriously consider the
possibility that any part of the Ring of Fire could generate a
9-plus earthquake,” Piersanti said.  Liquidity Boost  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  today poured a record amount of cash into
the financial system and doubled the size of its asset-purchase
plan to shield the economy from the effects of the quake, which
may have knocked the planet 3.9 inches off its axis.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan today appealed for international
help as workers battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown after a
second blast rocked an atomic plant north of  Tokyo . Millions
remained without electricity or water.  The Bank of Japan today poured a record amount of cash into
the financial system and doubled the size of its asset-purchase
program to shield the economy from the effects of the disaster.  The last big quake before March 11 -- the 9.1 magnitude
that hit Aceh in northern Sumatra -- led to a rupturing of
plates beneath the ocean and was blamed for an aftershock almost
three years later and caused hundreds of more deaths. The 8.4-
magnitude shock on Sept. 12, 2007, was in a 4,500-kilometer
subduction zone, an area where one tectonic plate is forced
under another.  Ruptures, Aftershocks  The Sumatran quake in 2004, which generated an Indian Ocean
tsunami that left about 220,000 dead or missing in 12 countries,
sent aftershocks that continued for years and killed hundreds
more.  It occurred when the Indian plate slid under the Australian
plate, a process known as a rupture. In Japan’s case, the 8.9-
magnitude event was generated from the thrusting of the Pacific
and North American plates on or near the zone where they meet,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . Hundreds of aftershocks
have occurred already in Japan, the  USGS  said on its website.  In Japan, more than 10,000 residents of Miyagi prefecture
may have died, Go Sugawara, a spokesman for the prefectural
police department, said yesterday. The number of confirmed
deaths in Miyagi stood at 379 as of 3 p.m. Tokyo time, he said.  The disasters “have given us a huge amount of high quality
data, that was not available before,” Andreas Reitbrock, a
professor who teaches about the Earth’s interior dynamics at the
University of Liverpool, wrote in an e-mail. “Due to the new
data available, we are now beginning to understand in much more
detail the actual slip distribution before, during and after
such huge tremors.”  Slipping Plates  Scientists measure plate slips to determine how fault lines
interact with each other. The March 11 Japanese quake qualifies
as the new “big one,” Reitbrock said.  A 6.9-magnitude earthquake in Kobe, western Japan, killed
more than 6,000 people in 1995, while the 7.9-magnitude Great
Kanto Quake of 1923 destroyed 576,262 structures and killed an
estimated 140,000.  Other large quakes may still threaten Japan, wrote Wolfgang
Lenhardt, section head at the Seismological Service of  Austria ,
who has been studying data from the quake. The subduction zone,
an area where one tectonic plate is forced under another, to the
east of Japan still haven’t become active, Lenhardt said.  Scientists caution that predicting whether and when a plate
may pop up or dive underneath another is still beyond their
reach.  “It is possible that the portion of the plate boundary
closer to Tokyo is now closer to failure, though it is rather
difficult to say when that failure might occur and how large it
might be,” said Brian Baptie, a British Geological Survey
scientist. In any case, the Japan quake “will not have changed
the probability of an earthquake occurring at larger distances,”
such as in  California .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  