-- 
Japan's Five-Year Notes Jump Most in Two Years on BOJ; Longer Bonds Fall

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-14T07:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/japan-bonds-may-rise-on-speculation-earthquake-yen-gains-to-slow-economy.html
  Japan ’s five-year notes rose the
most in more than two years as investors sought the relative
safety of government debt after the nation’s strongest
earthquake on record triggered a nuclear crisis.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Japan’s 30-year
bonds instead of five-year notes rose to a three-month high on
concern the country will sell more debt to finance
reconstruction. The  Bank of Japan  today said it will buy more
government debt to “ enhance ” monetary easing. Bonds with
longer maturities fell as costs surged to protect Japanese debt
from nonpayment.  “Bonds in the shorter end will be strong as the BOJ won’t
now exit its easing policy for the time being,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which
manages the equivalent of $8.6 billion in  Tokyo . “People don’t
want to buy the longer end because of its lower liquidity and
concern about an increase in bond issuance.”  Five-year yields dropped nine basis points to 0.475
percent, the biggest slide since October 2008, as of 3:47 p.m.
in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co. The yield spread between 30-
year bonds and five-year notes climbed to 1.715 percentage
points, the most since Dec. 7. Thirty-year yields rose 1.5 basis
points to 2.19 percent.  The benchmark 10-year yield sank seven basis points to 1.2
percent. The 1.3 percent security due March 2021 added 0.626 yen
to 100.892 yen. Ten-year bond futures for June delivery climbed
0.72 to 139.92 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 6.2 percent, the most since
December 2008.  Nuclear Plants  Three-month euroyen futures due December touched the
highest since October. That prompted the  Tokyo Financial
Exchange  to ask for more deposits from participants whose
deposits fell short of the required amount for interest rate-
futures trading.  The magnitude-8.9 earthquake on March 11 triggered a
tsunami that swept as far as 20 kilometers (12.4 miles) inland
along the northern coast. Radiation levels rose around the Tokyo
Electric Power Co. station in Fukushima, 135 miles north (217
kilometers) of the capital, after cooling systems at a second
reactor failed, heightening concerns about a possible meltdown.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said the government
would use 200 billion yen ($2.44 billion) of money left over
from the budget for the fiscal year ending March 31 to start an
extra spending package.  Five-year swaps insuring Japanese sovereign debt against
default jumped 13 basis points to 92 basis points, according to
Deutsche Bank AG. That’s the biggest increase since February
2009, prices from data provider CMA in New York show.  BOJ Measures  Japan may “at some point” reach a fiscal “tipping
point” if the market loses confidence in the soundness of
government finances and demands a  risk premium  on  government
bonds , Tom Byrne, a senior vice president at Moody’s Investors
Service, wrote in an e-mailed note today. Moody’s last month
lowered its outlook on the country’s credit rating.  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board
today decided to double to 10 trillion yen a fund that buys
government bonds, corporate debt, exchange-traded funds and
other assets. The central bank also pumped 15 trillion yen into
the financial system, a record for same-day operations.  The yen earlier appreciated to 80.62 per dollar, the
highest since Nov. 9. A stronger yen reduces the value of
overseas earnings at Japanese companies when repatriated.  “The steps are intended to reassure the financial
market,” said  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co. “The BOJ is apparently aiming to contain
the yen’s appreciation, as it drives down stock prices,
worsening the situation.”  Insurance Costs  The damage caused by the earthquake may reach 15 trillion
yen,  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo and a former BOJ official, wrote in a report
today. The government may spend about 2 trillion yen for
reconstruction, he wrote.  Liquidity from the central bank may fail to prevent yields
from rising as pressure mounts on insurance companies and Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration to sell bonds to pay for
reconstruction.  “Rebuilding after the Kobe quake was a significant strain
on the budget, and the cleanup and rebuilding cost is likely to
be even higher this time,”  Chris Low , chief economist at FTN
Financial in  New York , wrote in a research note on March 11.
Yields on 10-year debt “are likely to increase as much as 50
basis points or more over the next year,” he wrote.  In the five trading days after a 6.9-magnitude earthquake
struck Kobe, western Japan, in January 1995 killing more than
6,000 people, yields rose eight basis points to 4.73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 