-- 
Nuclear Accident Forces China Policy Review as India Sees Safety Backlash

-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 
2011-03-14T07:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/japan-nuclear-accident-may-thwart-boon-to-areva-ge-in-china-india-plans.html
Japan’s worst nuclear accident in
at least 33 years has compelled  China  and  India  to review plans
for atomic energy that were set to provide a boon for suppliers
including  Areva SA (CEI)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   The potential meltdown at a nuclear plant struck by Japan’s
record temblor may be “a big dampener” on India’s program,
Shreyans Kumar Jain, chairman of the Nuclear Power Corp. of
India, said in Mumbai. The accident may become a factor in the
drafting of China’s energy plans,  Xie Zhenhua , vice chairman of
the National Development and Reform Commission, said in Beijing.  India plans to spend $175 billion by 2030 on nuclear
generation while China is adding 27 reactors in five years as
the two most-populous nations seek cleaner energy sources to
propel economic growth. Japan’s accident, a month shy of the
25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, may reignite debate
about the safety of atomic energy, Nuclear Power’s Jain said.  “The Japan accident has created a very, very tough
situation for India, actual implementation of nuclear power
projects will now certainly take a backseat,” said Debasish
Mishra, Mumbai-based senior director at  Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu .  “It will be very difficult to sell the idea of
nuclear power to people for any political party after the Japan
disaster.”  Avoid Meltdown  Tokyo Electric Power Co., Asia’s largest utility, is
seeking to avoid a meltdown of at least two reactors at the
nuclear power station by flooding them with water and boric acid
to eliminate the potential for a catastrophic release of
radiation into the atmosphere. The station lost power to keep
the reactor core cool after the March 11 earthquake, triggering
an explosion the following day that destroyed walls surrounding
one of the reactors bought in 1971 from General Electric.  General Electric, which is talks to sell reactors to India,
won’t change its plans for the country after the Japan accident,
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said in  New Delhi  today.
Immelt expects the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s Indian
operations to grow 30 percent this year.  ‘Big Dampener’  State-owned Nuclear Power has sought details about the
accident from the World Association of Nuclear Operators, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  and its own official
stationed in  Tokyo , Nuclear Power’s Jain said.  “This event may be a big dampener for our program,” Jain,
chairman of India’s state-run monopoly producer, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We and the Department of Atomic
Energy will definitely revisit the entire thing, including our
new reactor plans, after we receive more information from
Japan.”  Areva’s reactors are expected to be the first overseas
units to be built in India after it rejoined the international
nuclear trade after almost four decades. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government won access to atomic fuels and technology in
September 2008 from the 45-member Nuclear Suppliers Group on a
proposal made by former President  George W. Bush  after India and
the U.S. signed a civilian nuclear accord in 2005.  France and India signed an agreement on Dec. 6 that will
allow Paris-based Areva to build two nuclear reactors for $9.3
billion to help meet soaring energy demands in  Asia ’s second-
fastest growing major economy. Nuclear Power has acquired 938
hectares of land for the project, an area that’s almost three
times the size of Central Park in  New York .  Patricia Marie, spokeswoman for Areva, declined to comment.  China Plans  In China, the government won’t change its plans to develop
nuclear power, Zhang Lijun, vice minister of environmental
protection, said a day after the 8.9-magnitude temblor struck
off the eastern coast of Japan. Local media said the death toll
from the quake and ensuing tsunami may exceed 10,000.  China has pledged to cut  carbon emissions  by switching to
clean energy such as nuclear and wind power. It wants at least
15 percent of its energy mix to come from non-fossil fuels by
2020 and is building more atomic plants to help meet that goal.  The nation’s energy planners say they aim to have 40
reactors by 2015 and, by 2030, enough additional reactors to
generate more power than all 104 reactors in the U.S., the
leader in nuclear energy. China National Nuclear Corp., the
country’s largest reactor builder, and rival China Guangdong
Nuclear Power Group Co. are looking to foreign companies such as
Toshiba’s Westinghouse Electric Co. and Areva for reactor
technology and components, as well as help with construction.  The nation’s nuclear power capacity may reach 40 gigawatts
by 2015 and exceed 70 gigawatts by 2020, Han Wenke, head of
energy research at the NDRC, said last June. China had 10.82
gigawatts of nuclear power capacity as of the end of 2010, the
state-owned China Electricity Council said in February.  No Longer Sacrifice  “The accident in  Japan  may trigger increased public
concerns over building atomic plants,” said Dave Dai, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.
“China will become more cautious while developing nuclear-power
plants but is unlikely to alter its long-term nuclear
development plans.”  The Chinese economy, which more than doubled in the past
five years, surpassed Japan’s in 2010 to become the world’s
second biggest. It is also the world’s largest energy consumer
and leading polluter.  Most of the 155 reactors planned worldwide are in Asia,
according to the  World Nuclear Association.  There are 442
reactors worldwide that supply about 15 percent of electricity
and a further 65 are under construction, the association said on
its website.  More Scrutiny  Global expansion of nuclear power may draw more scrutiny
and skepticism as the world watches Japan struggle to prevent
the meltdown, said Peter Bradford, a former member of the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  “In general, our business is going very well, but the
situation in Japan is troubling,” said Vaughn Gilbert, a
spokesman for  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse nuclear unit.  China has also been the site of some of the world’s most
 devastating earthquakes . A 7.5-magnitude temblor in northeastern
China’s Tangshan killed 250,000 people in 1976, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . At least 87,000 people died in 2008 in a
7.9-magnitude quake in the southwestern province of Sichuan. A
5.8-magnitude temblor in southern China’s Yunnan province last
week killed at least 25 people.  Indian reactors at Kakrapar in western Gujarat state and
Kudankulam in the southern state of  Tamil Nadu  survived an
earthquake in 2001 and a tsunami in 2004, without any safety
scares, Nuclear Power’s Jain said.  “But that doesn’t mean we can be happy,” Jain said. “Our
new launches will have to keep in mind public sentiment and
naturally this process won’t happen overnight.”  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story: Archana Chaudhary
in Mumbai at   achaudhary2@bloomberg.net ; Wang
Ying in Beijing at   ywang30@bloomberg.net   --With assistance from Subramaniam Sharma and Kartikay Mehrotra
in New Delhi and Bloomberg News in  Shanghai . Editors: Stephen
Foxwell, Margo Towie  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in Mumbai at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net  