-- 
Japan Battles Nuclear Meltdown as Millions Are Without Power

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 
2011-03-14T13:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/japan-tries-to-contain-nuclear-leak-as-earthquake-death-toll-may-top-1-400.html
Workers battled to prevent a
nuclear meltdown after a second blast rocked an atomic plant
north of Tokyo, as helicopters and convoys of army trucks headed
toward areas worst hit by  Japan ’s strongest  earthquake .  No large release of radiation was detected after the
explosion, which didn’t breach Fukushima power station’s No. 3
reactor and followed a build-up of hydrogen gas, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo today. The risk of
a large leak is very small, he said.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami has killed
thousands and left millions without electricity or water. Stocks
plunged and the Bank of Japan poured record funds into the
economy after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the country was
facing its worst crisis since World War II.  “The situation at the Fukushima nuclear plant continues to
be a concern,” Kan said at a meeting of the government’s crisis
response team in  Tokyo . “Everyone connected with this is
working with all their might, without regard to day or night, to
prevent further damage.”  The cooling system failed at Fukushima Dai-Ichi station’s
No. 1 and No. 3 reactors after the earthquake, and it stopped
working today at the No. 2 reactor. Fuel rods in the reactors
may have melted when water levels fell, Edano said. Molten rods
would increase the risk of a meltdown.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the nuclear
plant, stopped pumping seawater into its Nos. 1 and 3 reactors
earlier today because it needed to use the one working pump on
the No. 2 reactor to cool it down, said Nishiyama Hidehiko,
director general at Japan’s Trade Ministry.  10,000 Feared Dead  Three other reactors at the station were shut for
maintenance before the quake. Six people were injured in today’s
blast, Tokyo Electric Power said.  The earthquake and tsunami may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi
prefecture, north of Tokyo, said Go Sugawara, a spokesman for
the prefectural police department. The official toll reached
1,823 dead and 2,369 missing, the  National Police Agency  said.  About 1.3 million households were without power this
morning, and 1.4 million had no running water, according to a
government report. Rescue teams were having trouble reaching
about 24,000 people stranded in northeastern Japan, NHK
Television said.  More than 310,000 people are in emergency shelters and
heating systems are short of fuel, the state broadcaster
reported. Temperatures in Sendai, near the epicenter of the
quake, are forecast to fall to around freezing tonight.  Emergency Supplies  About 120,000 blankets, 120,000 bottles of water, 100,000
packages of instant noodles, 10,000 diapers and 130 portable
toilets were en route to the most devastated areas, according to
a statement on the prime minister’s website posted at 7 a.m.  Convoys of army trucks and police buses could be seen
heading in both directions on the Tohoku expressway, which runs
from Tokyo to the north of Japan. In the town of Motomiya, about
230 kilometers (140 miles) north of the capital, ambulances and
Tokyo Electric vehicles were queuing for petrol at a gasoline
station.  Some of the expressways leading north from Tokyo were
closed to regular traffic for the relief efforts. Drivers are
allowed to buy 10 liters (2.6 gallons) at gasoline stands that
have fuel, attendants told Bloomberg News.  Economic Impact  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said “the
economic impact will exceed the 20 trillion yen in damage
sustained during the Kobe earthquake” of 1995. The government
still has 1.3 trillion yen ($15.8 billion) in discretionary
funds from this year’s budget that can be allocated for quake
relief, he said at a press conference.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  poured a record 15 trillion yen into the
world’s third-biggest economy today as the earthquake triggered
a plunge in stocks and surge in credit risk. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average closed 6.2 percent down, the biggest one-day drop
since December 2008.  Kan is sending 100,000 Self-Defense Forces personnel into
the areas around Sendai, a city of 1 million people, for search-
and-rescue efforts, Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa said.
About 190 aircraft and 45 vessels were deployed to transport
injured people and supplies,  according  to the Defense Ministry
website. More than 50 countries pledged help.  The parliament suspended its current session,  Kyodo News 
reported, citing lawmakers.  ‘Worst Crisis’  “Our country faces its worst crisis since the end of the
war 65 years ago,” an emotional Kan said at a nationally
televised press conference in Tokyo yesterday. “I’m convinced
that working together with all our might the Japanese people can
overcome this.”  A temblor measuring 6.1 shook buildings across Tokyo at
4:12 p.m. today. There have been 32 aftershocks with a magnitude
of 6 or greater since the main quake struck on March 11,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . One quake this morning
triggered an alert for a 5-meter tsunami for Iwate prefecture
that didn’t materialize.  At Yurakucho station in the capital’s central business
district, commuters stood 12 deep, waiting to board at 8 a.m. As
a delayed train pulled in and passengers got off, people surged
forward to squeeze into carriages. Riders who usually read
newspapers or check their mobile phones were packed so tightly
inside the car, they couldn’t lift their arms.  Conservation Measures  Japan is setting up power conservation measures, Edano said
yesterday. Tokyo Electric will start power outages in parts of
the greater Tokyo area today, according to a statement. Edano,
in a predawn press conference in Tokyo today, urged Japanese
citizens to “save electricity in the most maximum way possible,
including large electricity users.”  Winds took small radiation releases from the reactors out
to sea away from the population and shouldn’t affect the U.S.
west coast, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which sent
reactor experts to Japan, said in a statement. Radiation at the
plant exceeded Japanese limits after an explosion on March 12 at
the No. 1 reactor destroyed the walls of the plant and injured
four workers, said Naoyuki Matsumoto, a company spokesman.  Inadequate cooling of the reactor core may lead to a
meltdown, the most dangerous kind of nuclear power accident
because of the threat of radiation releases, according to the
NRC. The 1979 partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island reactor
in  Pennsylvania  failed to breach the containment building,
according to the commission.  ‘Prepare for Worst’  Air Self-Defense Forces transported batteries, generators
and pumps for cooling water to the plant, the  Defense Ministry 
said. More than 100 military staff members were dispatched to
provide containment assistance with special chemical units.  Seawater was pumped into reactors to prevent a meltdown.  The government ordered people within 10 kilometers of the
power plant to evacuate after the cooling system failed.  “We’d like to keep the length of the evacuation at a
minimum, but at the same time we must prepare for the worst,”
Edano said.  Rescue workers used chain saws and hand picks to dig out
bodies in coastal towns hit by the quake, the  Associated Press 
reported. Hajime Sato, a government official in the quake-
ravaged Iwate prefecture, told AP that not enough supplies were
getting through and that there was a shortage of body bags and
coffins.  The  U.S. Agency for International Development  sent 150
search-and-rescue personnel with dogs that can find bodies in
rubble. The U.K.,  Australia  and  South Korea  also were sending
teams with dogs.  Relief Efforts  The aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan was off the coast to
support relief efforts, said Leslie Hull-Ryde, a U.S. Defense
Department spokeswoman. The carrier will be joined by the USS
Essex, and both vessels “can be used for helicopter operations
and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief,” Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said in Bahrain on March 12.  The U.S. Navy moved its ships and planes involved in the
rescue efforts after radiation was detected on three helicopters
operating near the Fukushima plant.  “Low-level radioactivity” was detected on 17 air crew
members when they returned to the Ronald Reagan operating about
100 miles northeast from the plant, Navy spokesman Jeff Davis
said in an e-mail.  The maximum radiation dose detected on any crew member was
less than one month’s exposure to natural radiation emitted from
sources such as “rocks, soil and the sun,” Davis said.  The U.S. State Department urged tourists and non-emergency
American officials to defer travel to Japan. France urged its
citizens to leave Tokyo over concerns of danger from the nuclear  power plants , the  Daily Telegraph  reported, citing the French
embassy in the Japanese capital.  1,200 Years  The quake was the world’s strongest since a December 2004
temblor in  Indonesia  that left about 220,000 people dead or
missing in 12 countries around the Indian Ocean. It was the
biggest within the boundaries of the North American and Pacific
tectonic plates in 1,200 years, said Dave Applegate, a senior
adviser at USGS.  Some of the nation’s largest manufacturers, including  Sony
Corp. (6758) , Honda Motor Co., Nissan Motor Co. and beermaker  Sapporo
Holdings Ltd. (2501) , shut down facilities in northern Japan.  Sony said its plant in Miyagi that makes Blu-ray discs,
magnetic tapes and optical discs was flooded. Toshiba closed a
plant that makes sensors for the cameras in its mobile phones.
Refiner JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. also shut operations.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  closed 12 plants in the nation through March
16. Refiner JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. also shut operations.  ‘Ring of Fire’  Tokyo Disney Resort will be closed until at least March 21,
depending on the state of transportation and infrastructure
around the park, operator Oriental Land Co. said. No major
damage to the park’s facilities was reported, it said.  Japan lies on the so-called “Ring of Fire,” an arc of
volcanoes and fault lines surrounding the Pacific Basin. A 6.9-
magnitude earthquake in Kobe, western Japan, killed more than
6,000 people in 1995, while the 7.9-magnitude Great Kanto Quake
of 1923 destroyed 576,262 structures and killed an estimated
140,000.  Within an hour of the March 11 quake, a 7-meter-high
tsunami engulfed towns on the northern coast, washing away
buildings, vehicles and boats.  The wall of water reached as far as 20 kilometers inland,
according to NHK. It swamped an area from Erimo in the northern
island of Hokkaido to Oarai, Fukushima, about 670 kilometers to
the south, according to Japan’s  meteorological agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  