-- 
Japan Adds $183 Billion to Stabilize Markets After Quake

-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-14T04:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/japan-readies-massive-liquidity-as-boj-gauges-risk-to-post-quake-economy.html
The  Bank of Japan  poured a record
15 trillion yen ($183 billion) into the world’s third-biggest
economy today as the strongest earthquake in the nation’s
history triggered a plunge in stocks and surge in credit risk.  The yen fell after the central bank added funds to the
financial system, reversing earlier gains against the dollar on
speculation authorities would sell the currency to aid exporters.
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa yesterday said he is ready to unleash
“massive” liquidity to support markets.  “This is a big and also appropriate move,” said  Stephen Schwartz , chief economist for  Asia  at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA in  Hong Kong . “It’s a short-term measure to
ensure stability to prevent this shock from spilling over to the
financial markets.”    Japan  faces power blackouts, the risk of meltdowns at a
nuclear power station, and a predicted death toll of more than
10,000 after the 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami
devastated northeastern regions. More than 350,000 people are in
emergency shelters. The central bank, meeting from noon in Tokyo,
may respond to the disaster with tools other than policy rates,
already cut to near zero to counter deflation.  Besides the 15 trillion yen of emergency funds deployed in
the central bank’s biggest one-day operation, the Bank of Japan
offered to buy 3 trillion yen of government bonds from lenders
in  repurchase agreements  starting March 16.  Today’s policy meeting was brought forward from 1 p.m.  Death Toll  “We are providing as much funds as needed to dispel
anxiety in financial markets,” said Kazushige Kamiyama, an
official in charge of the central bank’s money market operations.
“We will continue to add ample funds to stabilize financial
markets.”  The disaster may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture
north of Tokyo, said Go Sugawara, a spokesman for the
prefectural police department. The official toll reached 1,597,
with 1,481 more missing and 1,683 injured, the  National Police
Agency  said.  Before the quake, Japan’s economy was showing signs of a
revival, after shrinking an annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year.  The cost of protecting Japanese government bonds with
credit-default swaps surged the most in two years and the  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 6.2 percent as of 1 p.m. local time.  Asset Purchases  The yen touched 80.62, the strongest since Nov. 9, before
falling to 82.12 per dollar, from 81.84 in  New York  last week.
It has gained about 1 percent against the greenback since the
March 11 earthquake.  Bank of Japan officials may keep the central bank’s asset-
purchase plans unchanged as they gauge the effect of the
disaster. Economists said officials will likely keep longer-term
credit programs at a total of 35 trillion yen.  The economic hit from the March 11 quake will depend on how
long it shuts down factories and the distribution of goods and
services, with the potential meltdown at the nuclear power
facility clouding the outlook. For now, the central bank is
likely to ensure lenders have enough cash to settle transactions,
and aim any additional steps at providing credit in the areas of
northeastern Japan devastated by the temblor, analysts said.  Spending Package  Shirakawa and his board could opt to accelerate asset
purchases, including  government bonds  and exchange-traded funds,
within the existing credit programs, particularly if the yen
climbs and stocks tumble, said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, who used to work at
the central bank.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is also preparing a fiscal
response. Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said
at a press conference the government still has 1.3 trillion yen
in discretionary funds from the budget for the year through
March 31 that can be allocated for quake relief.  “This earthquake affected a wide area, and it’s likely
that the economic impact will exceed the 20 trillion yen in
damage sustained during the Kobe earthquake” of 1995, Yosano
said.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said it would take beyond
the end of this month to compile a supplementary budget package.
Opposition leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  told reporters in  Tokyo 
yesterday he proposed to Kan a temporary tax to help fund the
relief effort.  The central bank set up a  task force  after the temblor, and
pledged in a statement March 11 to ensure financial stability
and said it will do everything it can to provide ample liquidity.
The BOJ extended 55 billion yen to lenders over the past two
days to ensure cash was on hand for withdrawals by survivors.  Assessing Banks  The money went to 13 financial institutions operating
outside regular business hours in disaster-struck areas, the
bank said in a statement yesterday, adding that it was checking
on the scale of damage to lenders.  The quake struck hardest in Tohoku, the northern region of
the main island of Honshu that accounts for about 8 percent of
Japan’s gross domestic product.  Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp. halted production after
the quake struck 2:46 p.m. local time 130 kilometers (81 miles)
off the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo. Nissan Motor Co. said
2,300 new vehicles were damaged by tsunami surges. Tokyo
Electric Power Co. is battling to avoid a meltdown at its
Fukushima nuclear plant, and warned it will today begin rolling,
periodic blackouts of Tokyo.  Declines in stocks may shake  consumer confidence , which
slid to a 10-month low in December as the government started to
unwind economic stimulus measures. The economy had contracted in
the fourth quarter as  consumer spending  and exports slumped, a
decline economists had said would be temporary as a rebound in
global growth fuels overseas demand.  Cost of Recovery  “The earthquake has increased the risk the economy won’t
be able to emerge from its lull, which many believed would
happen this quarter” said  Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at
Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. He added that the government is
likely to spend about 5 trillion yen for recovery efforts.  Policy makers may establish a lending program to help
financial institutions in the Tohoku area, said  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse in Tokyo and a
former Bank of Japan official.  Today’s decision was originally scheduled for tomorrow
following a two-day meeting; the BOJ said it cut short the
gathering to accelerate its response. Shirakawa plans a press
conference after the announcement.  ‘New Measures’  “The BOJ is very likely to focus on cautious operations
aimed at preventing any problems in fund transactions between
financial institutions,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists
including Tokyo-based Chiwoong Lee wrote in a research note.
“We also expect it to devise new measures in the context of its
current comprehensive monetary policy to support the rebuilding
of affected areas and buoy the entire Japanese economy based on
continuing assessments of the impact.”  In the days following the Kobe earthquake, the BOJ boosted
liquidity injections to the money market and pumped 500 billion
yen in excess funds to restrain the uncollateralized overnight
lending rate, which was around 2 percent. It also lowered its
benchmark official discount rate to a record low as the economy
deteriorated and the yen rose. The currency surged about 21
percent in the three months after the quake.  Noda said March 11 that Japan’s growing debt load would not
impede its rescue effort. Standard and Poor’s downgraded Japan’s
credit rating to AA- in January and Moody’s Investors Service
lowered its outlook on the nation’s Aa2 grade to negative from
stable last month.  “We are going to do everything we can” Noda told
reporters in Tokyo after the quake. “The fiscal situation can’t
be a constraint to addressing this natural disaster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  