-- 
Japan May Boost Grain Imports After Quake, StanChart’s Ofon Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-13T12:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/japan-may-boost-grain-imports-to-ensure-food-supply-after-quake-ofon-says.html
  Japan , the biggest corn buyer, may
increase grain imports to guarantee food supplies after the
nation’s strongest earthquake on record and a tsunami devastated
the northeast coastal region, said Standard Chartered Plc.  “For corn, it’s a bullish event,” said  Abah Ofon , a
Singapore-based analyst, in a phone interview today. Signs of
increased demand may bolster grain prices, he said.  Corn, wheat, soybean and rice futures tumbled on Friday
after Japan was struck by a 8.9-magnitude temblor and a tsunami
engulfed towns on the northern coast. The government was
checking ports and grain depots for damage, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said on March 11. Farmland
was flooded with burning debris in some areas as the tidal surge
swept inland, images from state broadcaster NHK showed.  “It’s just an additional uncertainty in an already
uncertain market,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist
at the Rome-based United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization.
“The question is not so much supplies, but distribution,” he
said in a phone interview today.  The country was also grappling with its worst nuclear
accident in at least 33 years at a plant north of  Tokyo  damaged
by the temblor as local media said the death toll may top 10,000.  Radiation levels around the Tokyo Electric Power Co.
station in Fukushima, 135 miles north of the capital, rose after
cooling systems at a second reactor failed, heightening concerns
about a possible meltdown following an explosion yesterday.
Water levels fell at a third reactor, raising the possibility of
a hydrogen explosion, Japan’s top government spokesman said.  Empty Shelves  In Tokyo, residents emptied supermarket shelves and steeled
themselves for power outages that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said
will start tomorrow. Hoarding is a natural consumer reaction in
the face of calamity, said Ofon.  The quake “will likely impact grain trade” after ports in
Kushiro, Hachinohe, Ishinomaki and Kashima were hit by the
tsunami, and some feed mills and livestock operations were hurt,
the U.S. Grains Council said March 11. Japan is the largest
buyer of U.S. corn and the second biggest for wheat and rice.  Corn futures for May delivery fell 18.5 cents, or 2.7
percent, to settle at $6.6425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier, the price touched $6.5275, the lowest level for
a most-active contract since Jan. 31. This week, the grain
slumped 8.8 percent, the most since mid-November.  The earthquake is unlikely to cause significant damage to
Japan’s feed and food production, said Nobuyuki Chino, the
president of Tokyo-based Unipac Grain Ltd.  Ports Small  There are no large-scale facilities to produce livestock
feed and wheat flour in Miyagi, which was hardest hit by the
temblor, said Chino, who has traded grain for three decades.
Factories in the region are supplied with grain unloaded at five
or six local ports that are too small to accept Panamax-size
vessels, he said in a telephone interview.  Japan  imported  14.343 million tons of U.S. corn last year,
almost twice as much as  Mexico , the second-biggest buyer,
government data show. The country’s U.S. wheat purchases were
3.148 million tons, trailing only  Nigeria ’s. The U.S. shipped
2.347 million tons of soybeans and 388,900 tons of  rice  to Japan
last year, according to the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  