-- 
Japan Stricken Reactor Just Completed Inspection for Next Decade of Power

-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-14T11:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/japan-stricken-reactor-just-completed-inspection-for-next-decade-of-power.html
A month after Japan approved its
second-oldest nuclear station to keep running for another
decade, engineers are fighting to avert a meltdown at the 40-
year-old plant hit by the country’s worst earthquake.    Tokyo  Electric Power Co. is flushing three reactors at its
Fukushima plant with water after cooling systems failed and a
blast tore through a containment building. The accident comes
less than four years after a quake shut another plant run by the
utility and in the wake of industry scandals involving faked
repair reports and fatal accidents.  “We’ve assumed that if the plants were well enough
engineered everything would be OK, but it’s not turned out to be
true,” said Katsuhiko Ishibashi, a seismologist at Kobe
University who has worked on state panels on nuclear safety.
“Atomic power has been central to national policy and, in
Japan, once you’ve committed it’s hard to reverse course.”    Japan , the world’s most earthquake-prone country, has
increasingly relied on 54 nuclear reactors to supply 30 percent
of its power as the oil, coal and natural gas burned at other
plants all need to be imported. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has
said nuclear technology exports from  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501)  would help revitalize the nation’s economy and meet
greenhouse-gas emissions targets.  Tokyo Electric said it won approval last month to extend
the life of the plant for another 10 years from the national
government, after permission was given previously by the local
authorities. The yearlong review process includes plant safety
inspections. By law, nuclear reactors are required to submit
applications every 10 years to continue operations.  Six Reactors  There are six reactors at the Dai-Ichi site. Unit No. 1 is
a  General Electric Co. (GE)  boiling-water reactor model that can
generate 439 megawatts of power and began commercial operation
in 1971, according to the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  A hydrogen-fueled explosion blasted the cement housing of
reactor number 1 of the Fukushima plant, 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Tokyo, at 3:36 p.m. on March 12, a day
after the 8.9-magnitude quake also triggered a tsunami. Seven-
meter waves slammed Japan’s northeast, devastating the towns of
Minamisanriku and Matsushima and knocking out power at the
plant, disabling the vital cooling systems.  Japanese officials yesterday  evacuated  more than 200,000
people and handed out iodine, used to protect the thyroid from
radioactivity, as they extended an exclusion zone around the
plant to 20 kilometers. Cooling systems failed at the station’s
No. 3 reactor, raising concern of another explosion. Officials
flooded the reactors with seawater, rendering the plants useless
for future power production.  ‘Last Countermeasure’  “Seawater is the last countermeasure” because it destroys
the reactor, Wan Joo Kim, a senior researcher at the safety
preparedness division of the Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety,
said by phone. “The plant won’t operate anymore.”  Kan’s ruling party vowed in a June manifesto to make the
prime minister chief of a “sales force” to market the nation’s
nuclear technology.  Toshiba is bidding to build  Turkey ’s second nuclear power
plant, and its unit Westinghouse Electric Co., a U.S. maker of
light-water nuclear reactors, has orders from  China . A Japanese
group in October also won a contract to build a nuclear plant in  Vietnam .  Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said yesterday that
the incident won’t deter the country from developing atomic
energy.  The Fukushima accident damages the industry’s reputation
after a string of embarrassments over the last 12 years.  Radiation Exposure  Two workers were killed by radiation exposure at a fuel
processing plant in 1999, when they used buckets to estimate a
uranium mixture that caused a blue flash of light and a chain
reaction that went unchecked for 20 hours. Regulators failed to
ensure that safety alarms were installed at the plant run by
Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. because they believed there was “no
possibility” of a major accident at the facility, according to
an analysis by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency in the U.S.  In 2004, an eruption of super-heated steam from a burst
pipe at a reactor run by Kansai Electric Power Co. killed five
workers and scalded six others. A government investigation
showed the burst pipe section had been omitted from safety
checklists and had not been inspected for the 28 years the plant
had been in operation.  Faked Data  Revelations from 2007 that the utilities had regularly
doctored safety records were a repeat of a 2002 scandal that
brought public apologies from  Tokyo Electric , the resignation of
its chairman and president, and a government shutdown of all 17
of the company’s reactors. The utility said in that year it had
falsified reports on power plant repairs for two decades.  The disaster at Fukushima isn’t the first quake-related
accident for Tokyo Electric. A 6.8 magnitude temblor on July 16,
2007, caused a fire and radiation leaks that shut down the
Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant, the world’s biggest. It took
almost two years to restart.  The government failed to conduct sufficient checks for
seismic faults before approving Kashiwazaki as the site, Trade
Minister Akira Amari said a week after the quake. The ministry
approved the reactor site based on surveys Tokyo Electric
conducted in the 1970s, he said.  The quake generated seismic acceleration as high as 606
gals at the reactor structure, triple the quake impact the plant
was designed to withstand, Tokyo Electric reported at the time.
One gal, a measure of shock effect, represents acceleration of 1
centimeter (0.4 inch) per square second.  Who to Believe?  Japan lies on the so-called “Ring of Fire,” an arc of
volcanoes and fault lines surrounding the Pacific Basin. A 6.9-
magnitude earthquake in Kobe, western Japan, killed more than
6,000 people in 1995, while the 7.9-magnitude Great Kanto Quake
of 1923 destroyed 576,262 structures and killed an estimated
140,000.  Japan is in the process of planning and building 14 more
nuclear reactors, according to the Trade Ministry’s website.
This would help the industry account for about 40 percent of the
nation’s power in 2020, the ministry said.  Getting public support after the blast at the nuclear plant
may be the biggest challenge to those plans after the latest
accident at Fukushima, said Mitsuhiko Tanaka, a former nuclear
equipment engineer and now an anti-nuclear activist.  “You can’t build them without the approval of the local
people,” Tanaka said. “Who’s going to approve one of these
things now? This is the end of the nuclear industry in Japan for
at least the next 40 years.”  Chernobyl Legacy  The 1986 Chernobyl disaster in modern-day Ukraine, the
worst nuclear accident recorded, stopped nuclear construction in
the  Soviet Union  and  Russia  for two decades. A cooling
malfunction that led to a partial meltdown of the second unit of
the Three Mile Island plant in the U.S. in 1979 stopped all
further nuclear plant construction in the U.S., although the
accident didn’t cause above-normal radiation levels or deaths.  “Even though the ongoing situation seems much more similar
to the events at Three Mile Island than Chernobyl, it has
similarly damaged the reputation of the industry and put many
pro-nuclear groups on the defensive,” said Daniel Aldrich, a
political science professor at  Purdue University  in  Indiana ,
who’s researching Japan’s nuclear industry.  “Anti-nuclear groups can point out not only the various
cover-ups and fatal accidents in recent Japanese nuclear history
but also the lack of transparency, conflicting information to
local residents, and anger and panic across the broader
population,” Aldrich said.  Asuka Mogi, 33, a health-care worker from Yokosuka, said
she is not sure whether she can believe officials on nuclear
energy anymore.  “The government is saying: ‘Don’t worry, this isn’t a big
deal,’” Mogi said in a near-empty Shinjuku train station in
central Tokyo, usually crowded with people on a Saturday night.
“At the same time, they are telling people to evacuate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  