-- 
Kan Faces `Katrina Moment' as Earthquake, Nuclear Crisis Test Leadership

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-03-14T11:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/kan-faces-katrina-moment-as-quake-nuclear-crisis-test-leader.html
Three days ago, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  was fighting for his political life. Now, the success
of his government may hinge on how he responds to what he calls
Japan’s biggest crisis since the end of World War II.  The March 11 record  earthquake  in northeastern Japan struck
hours after Kan, 64, had begun attempting to defuse a scandal
over a political donation he received. He mobilized 100,000
troops and pledged an emergency-spending package to cope with
the quake, the ensuing tsunami and two hydrogen explosions at a
nuclear power station.  A bungled response could draw the kind of criticism heaped
on President  George W. Bush  for his fumbled reaction to
Hurricane Katrina, which ravaged the U.S. Gulf Coast in 2005. An
effective job might lift Kan’s prospects, as it did those of
Queensland Premier Anna Bligh, who coped with the aftermath of
Australian floods and a cyclone last month.  “This is Kan’s Katrina moment,” said Jun Okumura, a
consultant at the Eurasia Group risk consulting firm in  Tokyo 
and a former Japanese trade official. The premier has weeks to
show “he’s not such a poor leader after all. The thing going
for him now is that the opposition can’t be in opposition.”  Kan pledged at least 200 billion yen ($2.4 billion) to cope
with the 8.9-magnitude quake and sought an extra spending
package that won the support of the  Liberal Democratic Party ,
the biggest opposition group. Sadakazu Tanigaki, leader of the
LDP, said post-earthquake funding will be needed and his party
“will cooperate with all our might.”  ‘Worst Crisis’  Tanigaki yesterday called for a temporary tax to pay for
relief efforts, a proposal that Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said “can’t be ruled out.”  Millions remain stranded without water or power and more
than 310,000 people are in evacuation centers. Officials said
the death toll may top 10,000. More than 100 aircraft and almost
60 boats have been deployed to transport injured people and
supplies, and 13 countries have dispatched relief teams.  “Our country faces its worst crisis since the end of the
war 65 years ago,” an emotional Kan said yesterday in a
nationally televised briefing. “I am convinced that working
together with all our might the Japanese people can overcome
this.”  The reaction so far is “light-years better” than the
response to the 1995 Kobe earthquake that killed 6,400 people,
when  Japan  initially turned down offers of aid from countries
including the U.S. and the U.K., said  Jeff Kingston , director of
Asian Studies at  Temple University ’s Tokyo campus.  ‘Nuclear Fallout’  “Kan has shown the public a resolute and compassionate
leader,” Kingston said. “But the nuclear fallout could turn
political if all assurances turn out to be wishful thinking.”  Today’s blast at the Fukushima power station’s No. 3
reactor came as workers battled to prevent a nuclear meltdown.
The cooling systems failed at the plant’s No. 1 and No. 3
reactors after the earthquake and it stopped working today at
the No. 2 reactor, the Yomiuri newspaper reported, citing
information received by Fukushima prefecture.  Kan, who faces dissent within his  Democratic Party  of
Japan, has repeatedly rejected calls to resign and become the
fifth straight premier to last no more than a year. Failure to
set a path for reining in a public debt close to 200 percent of
gross domestic product has spurred credit-rating firms to lower
Japan’s sovereign grade or put it on notice for a cut.  Stocks Fall  Japanese stocks fell the most in more than two years. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average tumbled 6.2 percent, adding to the 1.7
percent drop on March 11 as the earthquake struck less than 30
minutes before the market closed. The yen weakened 0.1 percent
to 82.07 per dollar as of 8:15 p.m. in Tokyo.  Some of the nation’s largest manufacturers, including  Sony
Corp. (6758) , Honda Motor Co., Nissan Motor Co. and beer maker  Sapporo
Holdings Ltd. (2501)  shut down facilities in northern Japan.  While the lower house of parliament on March 1 passed Kan’s
record 92.4 trillion yen budget for the year beginning April 1,
the opposition has refused to compromise on bills authorizing
44.3 trillion yen in deficit bonds.  Before the quake struck, Kan was fielding questions in
parliament over a donation that may have been made by a non-
Japanese resident, the same alleged violation that prompted the
resignation of his foreign minister. A March 7 poll showed the
premier’s support at less than one voter in four.  Every Two Hours  Bush’s approval rating fell in the wake of  Hurricane
Katrina  amid dissatisfaction with his response to the disaster.
Bligh’s popularity, by contrast, has soared. Her direct speech
and command of detail as the crisis unfolded -- she held press
conferences every two hours until about 10 p.m. in the first few
days of the Queensland floods -- won her plaudits and reversed
her low popularity.  The satisfaction rating among voters for Bligh is 60
percent, compared with 25 percent at the end of last year, the
Sunday Mail reported Feb. 20, citing a Galaxy poll of 800
voters. No margin of error was provided.  The disaster will “take the heat off Kan,” Aurelia George Mulgan, a Japanese politics professor at the University of New
South Wales in Canberra,  Australia , said by phone. “But if he
fluffs it, then he’s gone. He was gone anyway, but this provides
him with an opportunity to rescue his administration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  