-- 
Kangaroo Sales Evaporate as Regulator Rejects World Bank: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-13T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/kangaroo-sales-evaporate-as-regulator-rejects-world-bank-australia-credit.html
Sales of bonds by top-rated
overseas borrowers in  Australia  have evaporated following a
record start to 2011 after the nation’s banking regulator ruled
they don’t qualify under new international capital rules.  The  World Bank , Germany’s Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
and other supranational and agency issuers have avoided the
kangaroo bond market since the  Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority  said Feb. 28 their notes can’t be considered liquid
assets under Basel Committee on Banking Supervision rules. The
AAA rated securities represented 27 percent of new bond sales in
Australia in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  APRA’s decision spurred the nation’s banks to purchase
federal and state government securities that do qualify, pushing
Australian sovereign yields to the lowest in two months. The 10-
year government bond has fallen 5 basis points since the
guidelines were announced, while the extra yield investors
demand to own New South  Wales  state debt instead of government
notes is at a record low.  “Supranationals were potentially the most attractive asset
for bank liquidity books,” said David Plank, Sydney-based head
of research at Deutsche Bank AG. “Since APRA’s decision to
leave them out, semi-governments are now the default asset of
choice.”  Sales of kangaroo bonds, or Australian dollar notes issued
by overseas borrowers in the nation, surged 88 percent to a
record A$37.3 billion ($37.8 billion) last year. Borrowers were
drawn to the market by swap rates that cut funding costs once
proceeds were exchanged into U.S. dollars. Bank demand for top-
rated kangaroo notes rose on anticipation they would meet global  capital requirements .  Basel Requirements  Under Basel rules coming into force by 2015, banks must
hold enough assets that can be converted into cash to meet their
needs for 30 days in a sudden crisis. APRA announced last month
that only sovereign and semi-government bonds were traded in
sufficiently “large, deep and active markets” to meet the
criteria.  The ruling was “surprising,” said Eila Kreivi, head of
funding at Luxembourg-based  European Investment Bank , the third-
largest issuer of kangaroo bonds last year at A$5.45 billion.
“I would not agree that our bonds are not liquid enough,” she
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Some state governments have less debt than EIB and their
notes aren’t traded as much in the secondary market, she said.
EIB has A$18.5 billion of kangaroo bonds outstanding and last
sold the notes on Feb. 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Australia’s Tasmania state owes A$3.3 billion in
domestic bonds, according to its website.  The regulator’s ruling caused yields on kangaroo bonds sold
by some supranational issuers to rise relative to similar-
maturity government debt.  Borrowing Costs  The spread on EIB’s A$3.1 billion of 6.5 percent August
2019 notes widened to as high as 112 basis points on March 3
from 96 basis points on Feb. 25 and was at 100 on March 11,
according to  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  prices.
Relative yields on the 5.75 percent October 2019 notes issued by
the World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development widened to 82 basis points on March 3 from 66 and
were last at 68, ANZ prices show.  Heike Reichelt, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based
World Bank, declined to comment on APRA’s decision.  At the same time, borrowing costs are falling for state
governments. Spreads on New South Wales’ A$3.7 billion of 6
percent bonds due in 2016 have narrowed 9 basis points since
Feb. 25 to 34, the lowest on record, ANZ prices show. Bonds
issued by Queensland state and due the same year yield a spread
of 42 basis points more than benchmarks, the narrowest this
year, according to ANZ prices.  Debt Burden  Banks were drawn to AAA rated kangaroo bonds to strengthen
their balance sheets because there is so little Australian
government debt available.  The sovereign burden of A$184 billion is 22 percent of
gross domestic product, compared with 59 percent in the U.S.,
Bloomberg data show. The government says it is committed to
delivering a surplus in the financial year ending June 30, 2013,
as the country’s biggest resources boom in a century spurs
growth.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has responded to the shortage
of  government bonds  outstanding by offering lenders contingency
loans to help them meet the liquidity requirements. Debt sold by
supranational issuers, bank bonds rated A- or higher and AAA
rated mortgage bonds are among securities that can be used as
collateral to access the facility, for a fee that has yet to be
determined, according to the RBA.  Economic Growth  The central bank, which raised borrowing costs seven times
from October 2009 to November last year, is forecasting a 4.25
percent economic expansion in 2011, the biggest annual increase
since 1999.  The yield on Australia’s 10-year government bond fell 10
basis points last week to 5.48 percent, the lowest since Jan.
11. Yields on similar-dated Treasuries declined to 3.4 percent
from 3.49 percent.  The Australian dollar climbed 11 percent in the past 12
months against the greenback, the third-best performance among
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It ended the week
unchanged at $1.0138.  The five-year Australian dollar basis swap rose 5.5 basis
points to 27 basis points, the highest this year, after the APRA
ruling and was at 22 on March 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Basis Swap  The swap measures the cost of switching interest based on
the London interbank offered rate for payments linked to
Australia’s bank bill swap rate. It falls when overseas
borrowers sell debt in Australia and seek to swap the proceeds
for U.S. dollars, and rises when Australian issuers make the
opposite transaction. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to
each other.  It will be “challenging” to match bond sale sizes that
were achieved before the ruling, said the EIB’s Kreivi. “We
might see smaller deal sizes in the future.”  Stefan Goebel, head of treasury at Landwirtschaftliche
Rentenbank,  Germany ’s development agency for agribusiness,
agreed.  “I would expect smaller new issue sizes and a slower
process to build up a liquid line while taps of already large
issues may be less affected,’ Goebel said by e-mail.  Frankfurt-based Rentenbank issued A$2.15 billion of
kangaroo bonds in 2010 and last sold the securities on Feb. 9.
Supranational bond issues this year averaged A$407 million,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘‘The slowing of primary activity is clearly a reflection
of the recent APRA guidelines, which the market had expected to
include some of the supranational borrowers,’’ said Dean O’Hara,
Sydney-based head of fixed income syndicate at UBS AG. ‘‘The
immediate response by some investors was to move to the semi-
government sector.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  