-- 
Zain Said to Approve Kingdom Holding, Batelco Offer for Saudi Arabian Unit

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-03-13T17:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/kingdom-holding-batelco-make-joint-bid-to-acquire-25-stake-in-zain-saudi.html
The board of Mobile
Telecommunications Co. approved a joint offer by  Kingdom Holding
Co. (KINGDOM)  and Batelco to buy its 25 percent stake in Zain  Saudi
Arabia , two people familiar with today’s board decision said.  Zain, as Mobile Telecommunications is known, will send an
approval letter tonight to Kingdom Holding and Batelco, one
official said, requesting anonymity because the decision has yet
to be announced. Approval will pave the way for a bid by
Etisalat to acquire a controlling stake in Kuwait’s biggest
phone operator for about $12 billion.  Zain Saudi rose the most since May, surging 9.2 percent to
7.15 riyals after the joint non-binding offer was announced
earlier today. Zain advanced 4.4 percent to 1,420 fils and
Kingdom Holding, controlled by Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, gained 6.9 percent to 9.3 riyals.  Zain’s board last month rejected separate offers from
Kingdom Holding and Batelco, as Bahrain Telecommunications Co.
is known, to buy the stake in its Saudi unit. The decision was
seen as thwarting a bid by Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,
also known as Etisalat, to buy a 46 percent stake in Zain.
Etisalat had said Zain needed to sell its stake in the Saudi
unit in a “timely fashion” for the deal to proceed.  ‘Makes Sense’  The new offer “makes sense because Batelco has the telecom
experience and Prince Alwaleed is well connected by investors,”
Irfan Ellam, an analyst at  Al Mal Capital PJSC  in Dubai, said in
a phone interview today. “The question is, what price are they
bidding.”  Kingdom Holding and Batelco said the joint non-binding
offer and expression of interest will be valid until 9 a.m.
Riyadh time tomorrow. The companies didn’t give details about
the price they offered for the stake.  “We need to hold at least 15 percent and Kingdom Holding
10 percent, according to regulations,” Batelco Chief Executive
Officer Peter George Kaliaropoulos said in a phone interview
today. “For the overall 25 percent stake, we will contribute 60
percent of the investment and Kingdom Holding 40 percent.”  Batelco is “pretty confident” the offer will succeed and
expects to hear an initial response from Zain by tomorrow
morning, according to Kaliaropoulos. The company, which aims to
run the Saudi operator if the deal succeeds, increased the price
“a little bit” from the previous offer, he said.  Missed Deadline  Etisalat last month missed a second deadline in its attempt
to acquire a majority stake in Zain, Al-Khair National for
Stocks and Real Estate Co. said March 1. Al-Khair is owned by  Kuwait ’s Kharafi Group, Zain’s second-biggest shareholder which
was leading the sale talks with Etisalat.  Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said March 2 it is still
interested in buying a majority stake in Zain. “Information
related to the due diligence have been collected and Etisalat is
in the process to study and analyze the information,” Etisalat
spokesman Ahmed bin Ali said at the time.  “If Zain Saudi is taken out of the equation then
Etisalat’s offer can go ahead as the biggest stumbling block is
Zain Saudi,” Ellam said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net 
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  