-- 
South Korea Steel, Refining, Auto Shares Gain as Japan Quake Shuts Rivals

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-03-14T08:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/korean-steelmills-automakers-may-gain-from-japan-earthquake-hyundai-says.html
South Korean stocks gained, led by
auto, steel, oil refining and technology companies, on
speculation they will gain sales after an earthquake damaged
plants of Japanese rivals, lowering output.  The Kospi Index advanced 0.8 percent to 1,971.23 at the 3
p.m. close.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest automaker,
gained 1.6 percent after Toyota Motor Corp. said it will suspend
production at all 12 of its factories in  Japan .  Posco (005490) , South
Korea’s biggest steelmaker, surged 8.3 percent after Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd., Japan’s third largest, said it shut its
Kashima plant after “big damage.” Shares of Korean insurers,
transport companies and nuclear power-plant builders fell.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor, Japan’s strongest on record,
unleashed a seven-meter-high tsunami that engulfed towns on the
north coast on March 11. The death toll may exceed 10,000,
according to Miyagi prefectural police department spokesman Go
Sugawara. Damage will probably exceed the 20 trillion yen ($243
billion) sustained during the Kobe earthquake in 1995, Economic
and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said.  “Supply disruptions by Japanese companies seem inevitable,
and demand for Korean-made products may increase,” analysts at
Hyundai Securities Co. led by Lee Sang Won wrote in a report
today. “We believe the earthquake will be slightly positive for
Korean equities.”  Honda, Nissan  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said it
will halt factories in Sayama, Mouka, Hamamatsu and Suzuka.
Nissan Motor Co., the second-largest, said 2,300 new vehicles
were damaged.  Oil refiner SK Innovation Co. rose 6.7 percent and  S-Oil
Corp. (010950)  surged 13 percent as Japanese companies including JX
Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. and Cosmo Oil Co. cut back capacity.  Supplies of petrochemical products including paraxylene, of
which Japan exports about 2.5 million tons a year, will become
tighter, benefiting South Korean producers, according to Hyundai
Securities.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
televisions and memory chips, climbed 4.4 percent, while LG
Display Co., the world’s second-largest maker of flat-screen
panels after Samsung, advanced 4.3 percent.  Hynix, Shilla  Hynix Semiconductors Inc., the world’s second-largest maker
of memory chips, jumped 8.7 percent. Investors speculated the
earthquake may cut production at Toshiba Corp. and boost chip
prices, Meritz Securities Co. analyst Lee Sun Tae said in a
report today.  Hotel Shilla Co., which also operates duty-free shops in  South Korea , slumped 9.8 percent and Grand Korea Leisure Co., a
casino operator, tumbled 15 percent on concern that there will
be fewer Japanese travelers.  Histeel Co., a Korean producer of structural steel pipes
and flexible stainless steel pipes, surged 15 percent.  “Japanese steelmakers say there hasn’t been significant
damage but there will be fresh demand resulting from recovery
work that will benefit Korean companies,” said Lee Jin Woo, a  fund manager  in Seoul at KTB Asset Management Co., which manages
about $10 billion in assets.  Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co. slumped 2.3 percent.
Korean Reinsurance Co., which gained 0.9 percent after falling
as much as 5.9 percent, reiterated that losses linked to the
earthquake will probably be less than 5 billion won ($4.4
million).    Korean Air   Korean Air Lines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier, fell
7.3 percent while smaller  Asiana Airlines (020560)  Inc. dropped 10.6
percent. Both airlines resumed daily flights between South Korea
and airports at Narita and Haneda in  Tokyo  on March 12. Hanjin
Shipping Co. fell 5.4 percent.  Nuclear power plant builder Doosan Heavy Industries &
Construction Co. tumbled 11 and Korea Electric Power Corp. sank
2.2 percent amid concern demand for nuclear energy will fall.  Workers battled to prevent a meltdown as a second hydrogen
explosion rocked a Tokyo Electric Power Co. nuclear plant north
of the Japanese capital.  Asia ’s largest utility is flooding two
reactors at the plant with water and boric acid to avert a
catastrophic release of radiation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  