-- 
New Technology Seduces Us When Death Beckons: Craig D. Turner

-- B y   C r a i g   D .   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-03-13T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/new-technology-seduces-us-when-death-beckons-craig-d-turner.html
The decision to opt for medical
care that relies on the most costly technology is often based on
blind faith that newer, elaborate and expensive must be better.  The sentiment is understandable. We look to the miracles of
medical technology to solve all sorts of problems, from  weight
loss  to wrinkle removal. We place even greater faith in this
technology when engaged in life’s inevitable losing battle
against disease and death.  So exalted is medical technology that it has become our de
facto God during times of personal health crisis. Considerations
about costs fly out the window. Risks are downplayed or ignored.  Hospitals and physicians are perhaps even more susceptible
than the lay public to the allure of new medical technology.
Competitive market pressures and our enduring hope that somehow
the latest, greatest and best will help us beat the odds combine
to create an environment that, at its worst, can foster
irrational and ill-considered decisions.  We seem to be promoting newer technology even in the
absence of data. Exciting cutting-edge treatments are marketed
with the singular effect of peddling hope to patients when they
are at their most vulnerable. Rival hospitals and physicians
afraid of losing revenue respond by escalating the medical arms
race, buying more and more expensive new technology.  Once purchased, the pressure to use this new equipment
becomes overwhelming. A procedure accomplished perfectly well --
maybe even better -- with older technology is shoved aside.  One health-care administrator told me the basement of the
hospital is full of million-dollar machines collecting dust --
not because they didn’t work or because they were ineffective,
but because they have been displaced by newer technology.  All of this spending, which in part explains why the U.S.
has the world’s most costly health-care system, takes place
while the country ranks 46th in infant mortality and 36th in
longevity -- tied with Cuba, according to the  United Nations .  To be sure, technological advances have on the whole
brought undeniable benefits to health care. The list is long,
from the invention of antibiotics to the development of
anesthesia.  What is different with the new wave of technological
marvels is that many are heavily driven by  marketing , require
that physicians master arduous new skills and often lack clear
benefits compared with established and less-costly technology.  Now 10 years into surgical practice, I have learned some
hard lessons related to new equipment and techniques. For one,
patients often are put at greater risk as we physicians scale
the learning curve.  But put aside for a moment that costs increase when the
doctor isn’t familiar with the technology. More things can go
wrong.  Costly Robots  The most telling case in point is that of robotics used for
surgery. They are costly and require significant re-training for
surgeons. Yet consumers hungrily seek out surgeons versed in
their use. If a surgeon recommends an older, less expensive
technology, many patients will shop for a surgeon willing to use
the newest and costliest devices, even if the added benefits are
unproven and the risks may be greater.  Hospitals do nothing to discourage this and engage in the
kind of tawdry marketing more familiar on late-night
infomercials by using patient testimonials. “I cannot believe
how quickly I recovered,” a vigorous-looking  patient  is quoted
as saying.  As a surgeon I have to ask: Where is the data? Was the
recovery any quicker than in a procedure done without a robot?
Would another surgical approach have served the patient as well?
And cost a lot less?  Da Vinci  I have been using a robot known as da Vinci, made by  Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) , since 2004. The system was developed
with funding from the U.S. Army with the main goal of allowing
the surgeon to operate through telepresence at a safe distance
from a wounded soldier on the battle field.  In a hospital setting, the surgeon sits in the corner of
the room at a  master console  looking into a 3-D virtual view of
the surgical field. Hand movements of the surgeon are translated
to the robotic arms at the bedside a few feet away. This
disconnect of surgeon from patient comes with a $2 million price
tag (for the robot) and costs $2,000 to $3,000 each time the
device is used.  I try to tell my patients there is no conclusive data aside
from reduced blood loss to show the da Vinci is significantly
better than open surgery. Furthermore the reduced blood loss is
most likely secondary to the machine’s laparoscopic approach, in
which one or several tubes are inserted into the body, letting
the surgeon see and operate, rather than the benefits of the
robot itself.  Prostate Cancer  For example, in using the da Vinci for removal of the
prostate in cancer patients, there is no consensus in the data
that it provides any improvement in post-operative potency or
urine control compared with standard laparoscopy or even larger
incision surgery. There has even been some data to suggest
cancer control can be compromised with robotic surgery.  But when I tell prospective patients and their families
that I plan to use a robot, more often than not they grow wide-
eyed and awe-struck.  Lost in the discussion is that I have actually become
dependent on the da Vinci. My skills with standard laparoscopy
have suffered to the point that I am now reliant on the robot to
assist me in performing some of the finer movements of the
surgery. Rather than being viewed as incompetent, though, I am
seen as the priest who, imbued with the power of robot, will
deliver the patient from the shadow of death.  ‘My Own Pocket’  When done correctly, innovation should make things more
cost-effective and safer while ensuring better results. There
are always ramp-up costs and physician-learning curves to
consider, and therefore we must use only the most appropriate
innovative technology and use it wisely.  We are all keepers of the health-care system treasury. In
making treatment choices, physicians and patients alike would do
well to ask: “If I were paying for this out of my own pocket
would I choose this treatment, or am I just being wowed by the
cool factor at someone else’s expense?”  In the first decade of practice I was enthralled with the
amazing new technology. Moving into my second decade I hope to
temper some of that enthusiasm with a bit of good old-fashioned
fiscal responsibility.  (Craig D. Turner practices urology in  Portland ,  Oregon , and
is founder of medical device company ETHOS Surgical. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Craig D. Turner at  turner@portlandurology.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  