-- 
Nick Watney Erases Doral Anguish to Win Golf's Cadillac Championship

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/nick-watney-wins-golf-s-cadillac-championship-by-two-over-dustin-johnson.html
  Nick Watney  beat  Dustin Johnson  by
two shots to claim his first World Golf Championships title two
years after he came within a whisker of forcing a playoff
against  Phil Mickelson  at the same event.  Watney carded a 5-under-par 67 yesterday to finish the
Cadillac Championship at the TPC Blue Monster in Miami at 16-
under par. In 2009 at the course, Watney left a 30-foot (9.1
meter) birdie attempt at the final hole on the lip of the cup,
giving Mickelson a one-shot win.  “I’ve settled the score,” the 29-year-old Watney, who
overcame a two-shot deficit to third-round leader Johnson, said
at the trophy presentation ceremony. “Luckily today I was able
to do a little better.”  The victory is worth $1.4 million to Watney, who also won
the 2007 Zurich Classic of  New Orleans  and the Buick
Invitational in 2009 on the U.S.  PGA Tour . The Cadillac
Championship is the second WGC event this year. The series
continues with the Bridgestone Invitational in August before
concluding with the HSBC Champions in  Shanghai  in November.    Tiger Woods , seeking his first win in 17 months, climbed 10
places yesterday to finish in a tie for 10th. The world No. 5
shot a 6-under-par 66, tied for the day’s lowest round, to
finish at 8-under.  Woods, who has won three times at the TPC Blue Monster,
said afterwards that he’s making progress on swing developments
with new coach  Sean Foley  after a self-imposed five-month layoff
last year.  ‘Still Building’  “It’s still building, I’m still putting pieces together,”
Woods told NBC in a televised interview. “I hit a lot of good
shots out there today and when I did miss it, I knew exactly
what the fix was and was able to rectify it.”  Woods will play in the  Tavistock Cup , an invitational event
at the Isleworth Golf & Country Club in Windermere, Florida,
today and tomorrow.  Watney sank a short putt for birdie at the par-5 12th hole
to take the lead at 15-under. Johnson, a four-time winner on
tour, joined him on that mark with a birdie at No. 14 after his
approach shot from a fairway bunker struck the pin and stopped
two feet from the cup. Minutes later, Watney holed out for par
from 25 feet at No. 15 to remain co-leader.  At No. 16, Johnson, 26, played from a fairway bunker into a
greenside sand trap, leading to his second bogey in 57 holes.  Watney took a one-shot lead to the 467-yard par-4 18th -- a
hole he’d never birdied and where he had a double bogey
yesterday. He drained a 10-foot putt for a three to leave
Johnson, in the final pairing, needing an eagle to tie, a feat
he couldn’t achieve.  “Nick is a good friend of mine,” Johnson said during a
news conference. “I told him walking off that if I was going to
lose to somebody, I was glad it was him. And he played really
well. I didn’t give him the tournament. He earned it.”  Sixth-ranked Mickelson completed an erratic four-round
performance by finding 13 bunkers in a 4-over-par 76. He dropped
to 4-over for the tournament and a tie for 55th place out of 66
finishers.  The tour continues March 17 with the Transitions
Championship at the Innisbrook Resort in Palm Harbor,  Florida .
The first major championship of the season, the Masters
Tournament, is scheduled for April 7-10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in New York at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  