-- 
Nuclear Renaissance Threatened as Japan’s Reactor Struggles

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n ,   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-03-13T22:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/nuclear-renaissance-threatened-as-japan-fights-meltdown-at-quake-hit-plant.html
Global expansion of nuclear power
may draw more scrutiny and skepticism as the world watches  Japan 
struggle to prevent a meltdown at reactors damaged by a record
earthquake and tsunami, a former U.S. atomic regulator said.  “This is obviously a significant setback for the so-called
nuclear renaissance,” said Peter Bradford, a former member of
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. “The image of a nuclear
power plant blowing up before your eyes on a television screen
is a first.”  An explosion at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Daiichi No. 1 reactor, which had begun venting radioactive gas
after its cooling system failed, injured four workers yesterday.
The utility reported no damage to the building housing the
reactor. It began flooding the reactor with sea water and boric
acid today to prevent a meltdown and eliminate the potential for
a catastrophic release of radiation.  Water levels temporarily fell at the utility’s Daiichi No.
3 reactor, increasing the possibility of a hydrogen explosion at
that reactor’s building, Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said in  Tokyo  today. Engineers are also injecting boric
acid water into the Daiichi No. 3 unit, according to a company
 statement .  There are 442 reactors worldwide that supply about 15
percent of the globe’s electricity, according to the London-
based  World Nuclear Association.  There are plans to build more
than 155 additional reactors, most of them in Asia, and 65
reactors are currently under construction, the association said
on its website.  New Reactors Planned  Japan gets about a third of its electricity from 54 nuclear
power plants, the third-most after the U.S. and France. Two
reactors are under construction and 12 more are planned,
according to the  World Nuclear Association .  China is tripling the number of its reactors, building 27
units to add to the 13 now operating on the mainland, according
to the association.  China  may consider the effects of the
nuclear accident as it completes its energy plans for the 2011-
2015 period,  Xie Zhenhua , vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, said in Beijing.  “Evaluation of nuclear safety and the monitoring of plants
will be definitely strengthened,” Xie said today, while
attending the closing of the  Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference .  India, which plans for a 13-fold increase in nuclear power
generation, will reconsider its expansion as Japan’s worst
accident in at least 33 years forces a safety review of existing
and proposed plants, Nuclear Power Corp. of India said.  ‘Big Dampener’  “This event may be a big dampener for our program,”
Shreyans Kumar Jain, chairman of India’s state-run monopoly
producer, said in a telephone interview from Mumbai today. “We
and the Department of Atomic Energy will definitely revisit the
entire thing, including our new reactor plans, after we receive
more information from Japan.”  Germany’s energy agency  Dena  recommends a return to phasing
out nuclear power and switching off reactors in the country that
are similar to those crippled in Japan, the German newspaper
Handelsblatt reported, citing an interview with the agency’s
head Stephan Kohler.  In the U.S., companies including  Southern Co. (SO)  and  NRG
Energy Inc. (NRG)  have submitted  applications  to build as many as 21
new reactors, adding to the 104 existing units.  Three Mile Island  “Certainly it’s going to cause some reappraisals because
this is what you call a show-stopping event,” said Robert
Alvarez, a senior scholar at the Washington-based  Institute for
Policy Studies  and former senior policy adviser at the U.S.
Energy Department.  U.S. utilities canceled 14 nuclear plant orders in the wake
of the 1979 partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island reactor in
Pennsylvania, according to the  International Atomic Energy
Agency . The “immense” psychological effect of the accident
spread through the Western world, the agency said in a  report .  “The arguments that held sway during the Three Mile Island
days will hold sway today with this accident,” said Tom Cochran, a nuclear physicist at the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council. “The situations are somewhat
similar, assuming this doesn’t blow up or breach the reactor
vessel.”  The U.S. should slow the construction of new domestic
nuclear power plants until officials can assess whether the
situation in Japan signals a need for additional safety
measures, said Senator  Joseph Lieberman  of Connecticut, an
independent who heads the Homeland Security Committee.  Slower Development  Twenty-three nuclear power plants in the U.S. were built
according to designs that are similar to the Daiichi plant’s,
Lieberman said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “I don’t want to stop the building of nuclear power
plants, but I think we’ve got to quietly, quickly put the brakes
on until we can absorb what has happened in Japan as a result of
the earthquake and tsunami and see what more, if anything, we
can demand of the new power plants that are coming online,”
Lieberman said.  Still, Lieberman said he supports nuclear power because
“it’s domestic and it’s ours and it’s clean.” U.S. plants have
had a good safety record since safety standards were upgraded
after the Three Mile Island accident, he said.  Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  said he
remains a supporter of domestic nuclear power.  “The bottom line is, we do have to free ourselves of
dependence from foreign oil in the other half of the globe,”
Schumer said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today. “I’m still
willing to look at nuclear. As I’ve always said, it has to be
done safely and carefully.”  Clean Energy  Those who advocate nuclear power, which emits virtually no
carbon dioxide, as a way to combat  climate change  will now have
to deal with a “greatly heightened skepticism” and
“heightened unwillingness to have nuclear power plants located
in one’s own neighborhood,” Bradford said.  The damaged Japanese Daiichi No. 1 reactor, designed by  General Electric Co. (GE) , began commercial operation in 1971 and is
similar to units still running in the U.S., said Cochran, who
advised U.S. regulators on the cleanup of Three Mile Island.  Problems at the reactor may encourage the replacement of
older models, said Sergei Novikov, a spokesman for Russia’s
state-owned nuclear holding company Rosatom Corp.  “The global nuclear industry will speed up phasing out
first-generation power units and start building new ones,”
Novikov said.  Rosatom is building 15 new reactors worldwide, more than
any other international supplier, five of them outside Russia.  Troubling Situation  GE, the largest U.S.-based reactor builder, is focused on
the situation at the reactor in Fukushima and staff weren’t
available to comment on the outlook for the industry, Michael
Tetuan, a spokesman for the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company, said in an e-mailed message.  “In general, our business is going very well, but the
situation in Japan is troubling,” said Vaughn Gilbert, a
spokesman for  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse nuclear unit.  Patricia Marie, a spokeswoman for France’s  Areva SA (CEI) ,
declined to comment today on the Fukushima situation or its
effect on the nuclear industry.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is in talks with its
Japanese counterparts, according to a press release. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French Minister of Industry Eric Besson affirmed their nation’s confidence in the safety of
nuclear power.  ‘Slow’ Renaissance  “We know how secure our power stations are,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin amid opposition calls for a rethinking of
Germany’s use of nuclear power.  It’s too early to speculate on U.S. political and financial
fallout from the accident in Fukushima, said Richard Myers, vice
president for policy at the Washington-based  Nuclear Energy
Institute , which represents reactor owners and builders.  “We’ve been saying for five years now that we expect the
renaissance of nuclear power would unfold slowly,” Myers said.
“We expected to see between four and eight new nuclear reactors
between now and 2020 and we still believe that.”  Preliminary construction has begun on new reactors in
Georgia and  South Carolina , where state regulators allow
companies to recover the cost of reactors as they are built, he
said.  Avoiding disaster in Japan may help the industry prove its
ability to handle emergencies, said Dale Klein, a former U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission chairman and a professor of
nuclear engineering at the University of Texas at Austin.  “As long as they keep the core covered, as long as there’s
no significant radiation release, it will demonstrate that the
safety systems for the most part worked,” Klein said. “The
human disaster that will be remembered will be the earthquake
and the tsunami, which will have caused many more deaths.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  