-- 
Obama’s Libya Inaction Risks Missing Opening for Democracy: Lisa Anderson

-- B y   L i s a   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-13T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/obama-s-libya-inaction-risks-missing-an-opening-lisa-anderson.html
The Obama administration’s
hesitation is difficult to fathom as the Libyan government tries
to crush a rebellion sparked by the popular uprisings against
authoritarian regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Unlike the rulers in Tunisia and Egypt,  Muammar Qaddafi  has
long been a provocative and exasperating opponent of U.S.
interests -- the U.S. didn’t even have an ambassador in Tripoli
from 1979 until 2008. The recent revival of diplomatic relations
was accompanied by modest intelligence cooperation as the Libyan
and U.S. governments made common cause against al-Qaeda, but the
U.S. has little to lose in far more assertive support for the
Libyan rebellion. And President  Barack Obama  has much to gain in
helping coordinate multilateral support for it.  Even if the battle turns in his favor, Qaddafi will never
regain complete control of the country, nor will he win back the
international community’s acquiescence in his rule. Yet we know
that he won’t retire gracefully from the leadership of his
revolution; he has said he will die in its defense and he means
it. Nor are the rebels going to surrender only to be slaughtered
by Qaddafi’s forces; they too may as well die in battle.  There is, therefore, little to be gained in waiting to see
how the fighting turns out: a long, drawn-out and  well-televised 
bloodbath as the two sides fight to the finish would be
humiliating to the entire international community, not least the
U.S. president, who has made himself one of world’s most
eloquent advocates of freedom, democracy and human rights.  Daunting Task  The longer the fighting goes on, the more difficult will be
the already daunting task of repairing the social, economic and
political damage wrought by Qaddafi’s more than 40 years of
uninterrupted rule. The political calculus of the Libyan people
has already been deeply influenced by Qaddafi’s decades of
manipulation and brutality. More than 75 percent of the
population was born after Qaddafi came to power in 1969, and
very few Libyans have even passing familiarity with the rule of
law, personal liberty or civic responsibility.  Ruled for decades by arbitrary and cruel decree, Libyans
often resorted to unsavory expedients to obtain simple
necessities such as access to medical care, exit visas or even
Internet services. As a result, their trust in the system and in
each other eroded, and they took refuge in the last remaining
source of assistance and solace: tribe and family. Libyan
society has been fractured along tribal and clan lines, and
every national institution, including the military, is divided
by the cleavages of kinship and region. This means there are
personal scores to settle and local rivalries to cope with.  No Organization  There is no system of political alliances, no network of
economic associations; there is no national organization of any
kind. Libya will again need the sort of international assistance
it enjoyed on the eve of its independence in 1951. At that time,
devastated by decades of fascist rule and the North African
military campaigns of World War II, the former Italian colony
was delivered to the  United Nations .  The UN secured law and order and appointed a commissioner
who worked with a provisional assembly of 60 Libyans -- 20 each
from the western, eastern and southern provinces -- to draft a
constitution and plan for elections. The new system wasn’t a
complete success, not least because the majority of the
representatives in the new parliament were illiterate, like most
of their constituents, but it did serve to secure a peaceful
transition to independence.  Outside Help  The appointment of a UN commissioner may not be the perfect
mechanism 60 years later, but some outside assistance in
imposing law and order, restoring the economy, and bringing the
fractious, jealous and inexperienced leadership of a post-
Qaddafi  Libya  together will probably be necessary. Libyans will
need to design political institutions with which they can all
live, and they will need help to do so, at least at the outset.  Neither the U.S. nor the international community should be
deterred by the difficulty of imagining the aftermath from
fulfilling their responsibility to protect civilians from the
depredations of vicious governments -- in fact, they should plan
for it. Any military and diplomatic intervention that will bring
an end to the Qaddafi regime should be accompanied, from the
beginning, by mobilization of the resources for political
reconstruction. Today, such assistance needn’t be expensive, in
either financial or political terms.  There are many international organizations whose expertise
could be lent to the purposes of the post-Qaddafi transition.
The  Club of Madrid ’s gathering of former national presidents
from around the world who are willing to provide technical
advice to transitional nations moving toward democracy is just
one example. But they will need to be part of a dialogue now
about a multilateral and multifaceted effort to oust the Qaddafi
regime and plan for the future of the country.  A military intervention in the absence of plans for
civilian reconstruction is a recipe for failure. But a
comprehensive approach that included international civil society
would be a harbinger of a more nimble global community and a
more peaceful and just world in the 21st century.  (Lisa Anderson is the president of the American University
in Cairo. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Lisa Anderson at  landerson@aucegypt.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  