-- 
Obama Urges Improved Background Checks After Slayings

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-13T21:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/obama-urges-nimbler-background-checks-after-tuscon-shootings.html
(Corrects spelling of Tucson in second paragraph.)  President  Barack Obama  called for
more effective background checks for gun sales after the January
shooting rampage in  Arizona  that killed six people and wounded
13 others, including U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords .  The shootings in Tucson, and “perhaps another 2,000” gun-
related deaths in the U.S. since then, show a need for consensus
on how to prevent more gun violence, Obama said in an op-ed
column published in today’s “Arizona Daily Star.” The U.S.
needs “an instant, accurate, comprehensive and consistent
system for background checks,” he said.  Jared Lee Loughner, 22, was charged March 4 with fatally
shooting six people Jan. 8 outside a shopping center where
Giffords was meeting constituents. Loughner, who could face the
death penalty if convicted, entered a not guilty plea March 9.  His indictment followed an earlier one in which Loughner
was charged with the attempted assassination of Giffords, who
survived a gunshot through the head, and the attempted murder of
two of her aides. Loughner pleaded not guilty to those charges
on Jan. 24.  “A man our Army rejected as unfit for service; a man one
of our colleges deemed too unstable for studies; a man
apparently bent on violence, was able to walk into a store and
buy a gun,” Obama said of Loughner.  Obama said he believes the Second Amendment to the
Constitution guarantees individuals the right to bear arms, and
said most U.S. gun owners are “highly responsible.” Still,
“sound and effective steps” are needed to keep
“irresponsible, lawbreaking” people from buying guns, he said.  A law enacted four years ago to strengthen the National
Instant Criminal Background Check System hasn’t been properly
implemented because states often provide “incomplete and
inadequate” data, Obama said. The U.S. should reward states
that provide the best data, and “make the system faster and
nimbler,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  