-- 
Tokyo People Reeling From Record Quake Show Resilience, Stick to Routines

-- B y   B r e t   O k e s o n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-13T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/tokyoites-reeling-from-record-quake-display-resilience-with-sunday-routine.html
Two days after the worst earthquake
on record to hit Japan and as two nuclear reactors threatened to
spew radiation 135 miles north of  Tokyo , many in the capital
were letting a balmy spring day distract them from the headlines.  “I watch the news and it’s frightening,” said Yoko Dohi,
a 33-year old mother who took her twin boys to play on the
swings at her neighborhood park as the temperature reached 16
degrees Celsius (61 degree Fahrenheit) yesterday. “But what can
you really do? I can’t keep them inside.”  On  Marunouchi Nakadori , Tokyo’s answer to  New York ’s Fifth
Avenue, fashion photographers shot a model posing along the
cobble-stoned street. Restaurants were crowded with diners after
widespread closures on Saturday. Joggers made their way around
the 5-kilometer course surrounding the Imperial Palace.  Hisahiro Shoda and Takafumi Kojima had romance on their
minds. The two men, 23 and 25, spent Sunday morning waiting in
line in front of the  Echire  butter shop to buy pastries for
their girlfriends to celebrate today’s White Day, when men give
gifts to women.  “With all that’s happening, maybe I should propose to my
girlfriend,” said Kojima, an office worker, who had spent the
night of March 11 sleeping on the floor at work following the
8.9-magnitude earthquake. “But I probably won’t.”  Earthquake Preparation    Japan  is used to bouncing back from devastation. Most big
cities were bombed heavily during World War II, and the nation
responded with the Economic Miracle that gave it the world’s
second largest economy until  China  surpassed it last year.  It is also one of the world’s most  earthquake-prone 
countries. While Friday’s quake was the worst in memory, the
country experienced on average about 19 earthquakes of magnitude
6 or higher between 1996 and 2005, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency . The government mandates strict building
codes to withstand quakes and children are trained from grade
schools on how to respond. There have been no cases of looting
reported due to the earthquake, either in Tokyo or elsewhere,
according to the  National Police Agency .  The death toll from the quake and the resulting tsunami may
top 10,000, with the majority of the victims in the northern
part of the country in the prefecture of Miyagi. More than
350,000 people are in emergency shelters.  Tokyo’s normal patterns resumed less than 48 hours after
the country’s most violent earthquake in more than a century set
buildings swaying and crippled the transportation network. On
Friday, phone networks went down under the deluge of people
seeking information and tens of thousands of people were
stranded overnight at train stations and offices.  “It’s been a very bad few days,” said  Jeff Kingston ,
director of Asian Studies at Japan’s  Temple University . “People
want normalcy and to return to the rhythm of their lives.”  Vegetables, Sushi  At the DeliF grocery store on Yasukuni Dori in Shinjuku
ward, a refrigerated truck pulled up at 12:30 p.m. Sunday and
unloaded boxes full of apples, spinach, lettuce and meat. The
shelves of the store were about half empty after a rush to buy
food after the quake and the staff quickly began restocking.
While there was no packaged bread, the store had freshly baked
cherry bean buns and melon pies. The store’s 18 customers took
their time with their purchases.  Down the street, at the Kyotaru bento stand, Teruko Kuwata
was busy preparing take-out lunches. She was cooking rice and
making sushi rolls with fresh tuna, salmon, eggs and eel. There
was no sense of panic among people, she said.  “We’re getting all the supplies we need,” said Kuwata,
who is in her 60s. “Right after the quake, we sold everything
we had, but the next day we restocked and we don’t anticipate
any problems tomorrow either.”  Other areas weren’t so fortunate. In Setagaya Ward, both
the Summit and Ozeki supermarkets were sold out of eggs and
orange juice due to supply disruptions from the quake. At one
Tokyu Store Chain Co. supermarket in western Tokyo, shoppers
were limited to purchasing one bottle of water each, with the
shop’s supply running out within an hour of opening at 10 a.m.  Slot Machines  Others sought entertainment instead of food. At the Oasis
slot club on Kagurazaka slope in Shinjuku ward, noise and smoke
filled the air as rows of men fed tokens into the machines. A
television screen above their heads showed constant updates
about the status of the nuclear  power plants  in Fukushima, where
a possible meltdown threatened. No one paid any attention.  At the top of the hill, Jun Sasaki was visiting the
Bishamonten Shinto shrine. Sasaki, a 35-year old home-care nurse
was concerned because of the quake. Many of her elderly patients
live in old wooden homes and she worried the aftershocks might
bring the structures down. Still, her thoughts were elsewhere as
she tied a wooden prayer tablet to the shrine’s latticework.  “I want to get married,” she said. “That’s my personal
wish.”  Luxury Goods  In Ginza, Keiko Nonaka expected a drop-off in sales of
leather bags and wallets at her store Ibiza. On the day after
the quake, she had six customers instead of the usual 40. The
streets were unusually empty for a Sunday, she said.  “At times like this, people prioritize the things they
need like water and emergency food,” said Nonaka, 55. “I don’t
think anyone is in the mood to buy anything extravagant like the
luxury items we sell here.”  Leaving Tokyo  The city has experienced more than 100 aftershocks
following the main quake. Nina Robinson, from  Melbourne , decided
the uncertainty was too great. She and her husband bought
tickets to  Australia  for themselves and their two children on
Saturday and will leave on Monday.  “It’s better to go home for now,” said Robinson, 37. “I
know a great number of families that have already left. The
aftershocks keep coming, especially in the nighttime and it’s so
unsettling for the children.”  The British School in Tokyo canceled classes on March 14,
citing the risk of power cuts in an e-mail sent to parents.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. will start power outages in parts of
the greater Tokyo area on March 14, the company said yesterday.  Dohi, the mother of the twin three-year olds, planned to
send her sons to the day care center on Monday. They had been
there on Friday during the quake.  “They kind of enjoyed it,” she said. “All their friends
were there.”  A return to normalcy wasn’t so welcome for Hosaka Takashi.
He spent his Sunday morning waiting for an hour in front of  Hongkong & Shanghai Hotels (45)  Ltd.’s Peninsula hotel before he got
a passenger. That contrasted to Friday after the quake when the
61-year-old taxi driver worked until 3 a.m. taking passengers
home as far as the western suburb of Tachikawa, for which he
collected a 30,000 yen ($370) fare.  “That kind of business won’t come back unless there’s a
major aftershock,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bret Okeson in Tokyo at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Collins at 
 collinsc@bloomberg.net  