-- 
Tepco, Toshiba, JR East May Be Among Companies Most Hurt by Earthquake

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-03-13T23:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/tokyo-electric-toshiba-east-japan-rail-may-be-among-most-hurt-by-quake.html
  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.,  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) ,  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  and Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. are
among companies that may be most hurt by the strongest
earthquake on record to hit  Japan , analysts and investors said.  Tokyo Electric, battling to avoid a meltdown at its
Fukushima nuclear plant, faces “severe” rebuilding costs and
Toshiba’s nuclear business may see increased scrutiny, said
Minoru Matsuno, president of Value Search Asset Management Co.
in Tokyo.  Japanese engineers in Fukushima, 135 miles (217 kilometers)
north of Tokyo, are working to contain the nation’s worst
nuclear accident in at least 33 years.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ,  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and Canon Inc. yesterday joined the growing
number of companies saying their operations were hurt following
the 8.9-magnitude earthquake on March 11 that rocked Japan and
triggered tsunamis.  “For Tokyo Electric and anything nuclear-related, it’s
going to be pretty bad,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive
officer at　Myojo Asset Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based
hedge fund advisory firm. “The biggest fear I have is what will
happen at the nuclear power plant as it would be a real disaster
if the situation deteriorates into another Chernobyl.”  Kan Orders Toshiba  Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average tumbled 1.7
percent in the final minutes of Tokyo trading March 11 after the
earthquake hit.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  ordered Toshiba President Norio Sasaki to help with efforts to stop radiation leaking from the
Fukushima plant,  Kyodo News  reported yesterday, without citing
anyone. Takashi Mizuno, a spokesman at Japan’s largest maker of
nuclear reactors, confirmed the meeting, though he couldn’t
verify the topics discussed. Toshiba said last week it shut a
semiconductor plant in the northern prefecture of Iwate.  East Japan Rail, which lost an estimated 60.2 billion yen
($731 million) from the 2004 Niigata Chuetsu earthquake, has the
potential to incur a “major negative impact on earnings”
because of the disaster, Hitoshi Hosoya, a Tokyo-based analyst
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , wrote in a March 11 report.  East Japan, the nation’s largest train operator, suspended
operations of trains in the Tohoku and Tokyo areas, along with
its bullet-train operations on the day of the earthquake. As of
yesterday, the company, known as  JR East , hadn’t resumed
operations for trains going to Tohoku, Yamagata and Akita,
according to its website.  Silicon Wafers  Fumihisa Nishino, executive officer of JR East’s transport
safety department, said the company hasn’t decided on when to
resume Shinkansen and regional trains in the Tohoku district.  Shin-Etsu, which makes the silicon wafers needed to produce
semiconductors, said last week it stopped operations at its
manufacturing complex in Annaka, Gunma prefecture; the Kashima
Plant in Kamisu, Ibaraki prefecture; and the Shirakawa Plant in
Nishigo Village, Fukushima prefecture. The company will resume
operations after safety inspections and measures have been
completed, it  said  on its website.  Disruptions at Shin-Etsu and  Sumco Corp. (3436)  account for about
60 percent of the world’s electronic wafers, will undermine
global supply, which may benefit the No. 3 producer,  Wacker
Chemie AG (WCH) ’s Sitronic, according to Klaus Ringel, an analyst at
Credit Agricole Cheuvreux. Shin-Etsu produced most of its wafers
in the region that was hit the hardest, according to Cheuvreux.  Sony’s Batteries  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
said yesterday that it’s halting production at eight factories
that make products ranging from Blu-ray discs, magnetic heads
and batteries. That’s two more plants than the company said on
March 11. The company makes about 10 percent of the world’s
laptop batteries, according to Dennis Chan, an analyst at Yuanta
Financial Holding Co.  Canon, Nippon Steel, Suzuki Motor, Nippon Paper Group Inc.,  Nippon Suisan Kaisha Ltd. (1332) ,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and
convenience-store operator  Lawson Inc. (2651)  yesterday disclosed they
were affected or were suspending operations, joining the growing
number of Japanese companies from Sony to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Among energy companies, Cosmo Oil Co.’s 220,000 barrel-a-
day refinery in Chiba near Tokyo was closed after a fire raged
through the plant, while JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. closed
refineries in Sendai, Kashima and Negishi. A fire is burning
near a fuel tank at its Sendai refinery, JX Nippon said in a
statement on its website.  Gas Queues  JX Nippon is having difficulties supplying oil products in
areas around Tokyo and northern Japan, it said. Some gasoline
stations are running out of supplies. Queues as long as 1
kilometer were seen at gas stations north of Tokyo.  Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. halted shipments at two
refineries., JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp.  The list may grow. Kyodo reported yesterday that  Hino
Motors Ltd. (7205)  and  Nippon Paper Group Inc. (3893)  are suspending
operations, while Asahi newspaper reported  Nikon Corp. (7731)  has
suspended operation at its camera plant in Miyagi prefecture.  Outside Japan, China Unicom   Hong Kong ) Ltd. Chairman Chang Xiaobing said yesterday the company is fixing Internet broadband
services that have been disrupted by the Japanese earthquake.
Taiwan’s  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  said affiliate M Setek Co. shut down
operations in Sendai and Soma.  Damaged Cars  Last week, spokesmen at Japan’s three-largest carmakers --
Toyota, Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. -- said thousands
of new vehicles were damaged. Toyota will suspend production at
its dozen factories in Japan and its body makers on March 14,
while Honda said it will stop production at factories in Sayama,
Mouka, Hamamatsu and Suzuka.  Oriental Land Co., operator of the Tokyo Disney Resort,
shut the amusement park and said March 12 it will decide March
21 when it will reopen. Shutting the park for three months may
cost  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  about $50 million in lost royalty revenue,
according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch.    NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s largest mobile-phone operator,
said last week it’s restricting as much as 80 percent of voice
traffic in northern Japan, while  Softbank Corp. (9984)  said had no
timeframe as to when its service would return to normal.  On the day of the earthquake, Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.,
the maker of Subaru cars, said it closed five factories, while  Toyota Boshoku Corp. (3116)  reported damage at a plant in Miyagi.  Denso
Corp. (6902) , Japan’s biggest auto-parts maker, said a plant under
construction south of Miyagi was damaged.  Builders May Gain  Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co.,  Mitsubishi Materials Corp. (5711) 
and Dowa Holdings Co. said March 11 they stopped operations at
metal smelters following the earthquake.  Construction companies may benefit.  Fukuda Corp. (1899)  shares
surged 30 percent in the final minutes of trading on March 11.
Construction companies that may gain include Daiwa House
Industry Co.,  JGC Corp. (1963) ,  Kajima Corp. (1812) ,  Obayashi Corp. (1802) ,  Sekisui
House Ltd. (1928) ,  Shimizu Corp. (1803) , and  Taisei Corp. (1801) , according to
Keybank Capital Markets Inc.  The major rebuilding that will occur will also likely
benefit timber-related companies as wood is more earthquake
resistant than concrete, according to Dundee Capital Markets
Inc.  Acadian Timber Corp. (ADN) , Ainsworth Lumber Co., Canfor Pulp
Products Inc., Interforest Ltd.,  Louisiana-Pacific Corp. (LPX) ,  Norbord Inc. (NBD) , Plum Creek Timber Co., TimberWest Forest Corp.,
West Fraser Timber Co. and  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  are among those that
may benefit, according to Dundee.  “The quake will put a huge brake on the economy, so almost
everyone including Shin-Etsu and JR East will get hit,”  Mitsuo Shimizu , an equity analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo,
said by telephone yesterday. “Japan can’t have tight budget
anymore to rebuild the country. Construction companies and
cement makers will benefit from rebuilding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  