-- 
Philippines May Raise $4.6 Billion to Help Fund Building of Roads, Rail

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-03-14T07:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/philippines-may-raise-4-6-billion-to-help-fund-building-of-roads-rails.html
The  Philippines  may raise as much
as 200 billion pesos ($4.6 billion) from state-owned financial
institutions for a fund that private companies can tap to
finance road, rail and port projects, Economic Planning
Secretary Cayetano Paderanga said.  “We want to tap the liquidity in the domestic market and
avoid currency risks,” Paderanga said in an interview on March
12 on Cagragay Island in  Luzon , where he spoke to a group of
local fund managers. The  Asian Development Bank  is advising the
government on the creation of the fund, he said.  National Development Co ., the nation’s investment agency,
will probably issue debt to state-owned Development Bank of the
Philippines,  Land Bank  of the Philippines, the Government
Service Insurance System and the Social Security System to
create the fund, Paderanga said. The four financial institutions
will also be able to issue debt themselves to contribute to the
fund, he added.  Budget deficits in 22 of the past 26 years have capped
state spending on infrastructure, prompting President  Benigno Aquino  to start a $16 billion development plan to bolster
investment.  The Philippines may defer a plan to sell Samurai bonds in
the first half following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan,
and will take its cue from the  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , Aquino’s spokesman Ricky Carandang said today.  The government is seeking central bank approval to sell up
to $1.5 billion of dollar-denominated bonds, a government
official who declined to be identified, said on March 11. The
government plans to borrow 773 billion pesos this year, of which
73 percent will come from the domestic market.  ‘Not as Critical’  “The good thing is, it’s not as critical for us to go
out” and raise funds overseas, Paderanga said, citing the more
than 1.5 trillion pesos deposited at the central bank. The state
may provide loans from the fund with tenures of up to 25 years
for approved infrastructure projects, he said.  The government will invite private industry to build $1
billion worth of roads and railways this year to help achieve
its goal of 7 percent to 8 percent growth, Paderanga said.  National Development may start issuing bonds this year and
will raise funds only when needed, he said.  Development Bank 
plans to sell $300 million of dollar bonds, President Francisco Del Rosario said March 7.  The planned infrastructure projects won’t immediately
bolster growth “but will help achieve sustainable expansion in
the longer term,” Paderanga said.  The yield on the 7 percent peso bond due January 2016 rose
five basis points to 6.25 percent, the highest in more than a
week, according to Tradition Financial Services. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Inflation, Growth  The government is monitoring the effect of rising oil and
food prices on consumption and growth, Paderanga said. Inflation
accelerated to 4.3 percent in February from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in nine months.  “Five percent growth this year is something we can
attain,” Paderanga said. “It’s a decent number. We’re
observing developments” including the Middle East tension and
the impact of the earthquake in  Japan , he said. The economy grew
7.3 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in more than three-decades.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will consider the implications
of the Japan earthquake when it reviews monetary policy on March
24, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mail yesterday.  The Philippines has lagged neighbors in attracting foreign
direct investment, luring $1.95 billion in 2009 compared with
$4.88 billion for  Indonesia  and $5.95 billion for  Thailand ,
according to the  United Nations 2010 World Investment Report .  “Our savings rate is higher than our investment rate,”
Paderanga told members of the Fund Managers Association of the
Philippines on March 12. “This is quite embarrassing.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  