-- 
Read This Column, or Big Bird Takes a Bullet: Kevin Hassett

-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 
2011-03-13T23:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/read-this-column-or-big-bird-takes-a-bullet-kevin-hassett.html
A famous 1973  cover  of National
Lampoon showed a dog with a revolver held to its head, with the
caption, “If you don’t buy this magazine, we’ll kill this
dog.”  To hear defenders of publicly subsidized media, Republican
efforts to  cut funding  to  National Public Radio  (NPR) and the
Public Broadcasting System (PBS) puts a gun to the head of Big
Bird. That doesn’t have to be the case.  The Corporation for Public Broadcasting, created by
Congress in 1967, provides public funds that cover about 15
percent of operating costs for public radio and television. In
fiscal year 2011 its  federal appropriation  is $430 million, up
from $300 million in 2000.  The corporation supports hundreds of radio and television
stations, not just the biggest names,  NPR  and the  PBS . By law,
about 66 percent of the money it receives from its federal
appropriation goes to individual public television and radio
stations by direct grants.  This year it will spend $73 million, or 17 percent of its
federal funding, on television programming through grants to
organizations such as PBS -- home to Big Bird’s “Sesame
Street” -- and the  Independent Television Service , and $29
million, almost 7 percent of funding, on radio programming by
organizations including NPR, Public Radio International and
American Public Media. (Public broadcasters also get some
federal funding through other sources, plus funding from state
and local governments.)  Liberal Bias  Funding for public radio and television is a legacy of the
1960s, and Republicans have long sought to eliminate it. They
argue that taxpayer dollars shouldn’t support biased coverage --
last week’s firestorm over comments by a senior NPR official
only added to proof of the network’s liberal bias -- or compete
in a space that is also populated by private enterprise.  When House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and congressional
Republicans threatened to cut funding for public radio and
television in 1995,  Hillary Clinton , then the U.S. first lady,
brought out the big guns.  “I don’t really care what the speaker says about me,”  she
said . “I wish he would leave Big Bird alone.”  Any choice between public funding and the survival of Big
Bird is a false one. Democrats and Republicans alike have not
thought through the economics of public support.  “Big Bird is nearly 30 years old, and it’s time to leave
the federal nest,” former Republican Representative  Steve Largent   said  in 1999.  Big Bird Business  Largent got it wrong. It’s in the public interest to
support the arts and education, and if Big Bird helps bring in
lots of money in the process, he helps public broadcasting
support other, less-profitable artistic offerings.  The numbers back this up.  According to  the fact-checking
website PolitiFact.com, the Sesame Workshop, which produces
“Sesame Street,” raked in $140 million in revenue in 2008,
about 90 percent of which was from non-governmental sources.  Republicans are wrong when they argue that there is no
economic justification for government support of “Sesame
Street.” Beginning with its initial airdate on PBS in 1969, it
pioneered modern children’s programming by encapsulating early
education concepts in a fun, theatrical wrapper. There’s clearly
a role for the government to provide a public good when markets
may fail to do so.  When a painting hangs at a museum supported by public
money, it’s there for everyone to see, rather than in the living
room of some billionaire. If the museum didn’t exist, only a few
might ever be inspired by the great masterpieces. Public money
can also be justified to safeguard the interests of future
generations.  Public Benefit  The key is that great art creates a public benefit that
exceeds the private benefit. Shakespeare might have made some
money from his plays, but the benefit to all future generations
has clearly, vastly outstripped his own profit. Accordingly, one
might expect public markets to under-produce great works of
theater and art -- a solid justification for public support.  Public radio and television, then, are defensible to the
extent that they serve the public good by enriching the arts.
NPR and PBS, however, wandered far from this mission, providing
news content that is mostly indistinguishable from that provided
by left-leaning for-profit enterprises.  Public money for news programming can’t be justified;
nobody would seriously argue that the market fails to produce
it. Elected officials should maintain support for public radio
and television programming that focuses on arts and education
while prohibiting the use of public funds to support news or
commentary.  This way, Big Bird is safe and doesn’t have to share his
nest.    Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  