-- 
Three Stocks Hit New 52-Week Lows, Now Look Good: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-03-13T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/three-stocks-hit-new-52-week-lows-now-look-good-john-dorfman.html
Value investor John Neff is one of
my role models.  Neff ran the Windsor Fund from 1964 to 1995, when he
retired. During his years at the helm, the fund returned 13.7
percent annually, about three percentage points a year better
than the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. That may not sound like a
big edge, but over 31 years it meant that Neff’s cumulative
return was more than double that of the market.  Like John Templeton and David Dreman, two other value
investors I try to emulate, Neff believed in buying stocks with
prices low relative to per-share earnings, and in going against
the crowd.  One of Neff’s techniques that I like is scouring the list
of stocks that have reached 52-week lows. In his book “ John
Neff on Investing ,” Neff notes that some companies hitting new
lows will have to endure “more dismal days.” Others, though,
are “solid companies worth investigating.”  Over the years I have written more than a dozen columns
recommending stocks from the New Lows List. In general, I’ve
been satisfied with how these stocks panned out over a one-year
time frame, and even more pleased with how they did over a
three-year period.  Three years also happened to be the approximate average
holding period for a stock in the Windsor Fund. Patience is
helpful in profiting from out-of-favor stocks.  The fund now is distributed by  Vanguard Group  of  Valley
Forge ,  Pennsylvania , and is known as Vanguard Windsor Fund.  Toxic Dumps  In his book, Neff cites insurer  Cigna Corp. (CI)  as an example
of a successful pick he made after the shares fell to a new low.
At the time, Cigna’s property-and-casualty insurance business
seemed threatened by liability for toxic waste dumps.  Neff felt that the threat was exaggerated, and that Cigna’s
health insurance operation was underrated. Today, health
insurance is Cigna’s backbone.  “The investment process must begin somewhere. In my case,
all ladders start in the dusty rag and bone shop of the mart,
where the supply of cheap stocks replenishes itself daily,”
Neff concluded.  Let’s look at three potential bargains that joined the New
Low List in the first week of March.    Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  leads the group. The world’s largest
computer networking company has a market value of about $99
billion, yet has fallen from favor. It was 11 years ago, in
March 2000, that Cisco’s shares reached a high, $80.06 (adjusted
for splits).  On Friday, the  San Jose ,  California , company’s stock hit a
52-week low of $17.76. The current price is only 13 times
earnings.  Cisco’s Growth  In the fiscal year ending July 2010 Cisco had revenue of
$40 billion, more than double the level in 2000, when its shares
traded for more than four times today’s price.  By the same token, earnings in fiscal 2010 were $7.8
billion, compared with $2.7 billion in 2000.  To be sure, Cisco is no longer growing rapidly. Analysts
think that fully diluted earnings this fiscal year will fall
about 8 percent to $1.23 a share. If they are right, it would
still be Cisco’s third-best year ever for per-share earnings.    General Motors Co. (GM)  hit a 52-week low of $30.95 on Thursday.
It has fallen about 8 percent since I recommended it in
December. I still like its repaired balance sheet, less-onerous
labor contracts and price/earnings ratio of five.    DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  of Glendale, California, also
seems attractive. The stock sunk to a 52-week low of $25.71 on
March 9.  Spun off from parent DreamWorks LLC in 2004, this animated-
movie studio earned about $171 million last year on sales of
$785 million. That’s a nice profit margin, and the company has
been profitable each year since it went public.  Analysts’ Disdain  Analysts, however, hold the company in disdain. Of 16
analysts with opinions, only four rate DreamWorks Animation a
“buy.” Four say “sell,” a rude word rarely heard on  Wall
Street .  Sales of DreamWorks’ older successful films such as
“Shrek” are slowing. Analysts aren’t excited about its current
offerings such as the “ Kung Fu Panda ” series. And they aren’t
confident about what may come next.  I think DreamWorks Animation should get some credit for its
stellar balance sheet. It has no short- or long-term debt.  As for the pipeline, I think Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Katzenberg has assembled a good talent pool. Though we
don’t know which film will be the next “Shrek”, another
blockbuster will emerge.  Misunderstood Stocks  Scouring the new-lows list was, of course, only one of many
techniques in Neff’s arsenal. For example, he liked to buy
companies whose stock was depressed by excessive fear about
pending legal problems. He also liked companies that were
misunderstood, such as  Germany ’s Bayer AG, which traded like a
chemical company but got a third of its earnings from
pharmaceuticals.  An analogous situation today might be the  Washington Post
Co. (WPO) , which is known as a newspaper company yet gets most of its
revenue from the Kaplan chain of for-profit schools.  Perhaps most important, Neff refused to follow the crowd.
When the “Nifty Fifty” stocks were roaring upward in 1972,
Windsor Fund lagged the competition and Neff had to endure rough
criticism. But in 1973 and 1974 when those hot stocks fell to
earth, his bargain-priced stocks carried his fund back to the
forefront.  (John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:  John Dorfman  at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  