-- 
Refining Margins Surge in Asia After Japan Quake Knocks Out Power Plants

-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-14T10:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/refinery-margins-poised-to-surge-after-japan-quake-cuts-power-capacity-9-.html
The profit from making gasoil in  Asia  surged to the highest in 2 ½ years and  fuel oil ’s loss
narrowed the most in a month after Japan’s biggest earthquake
knocked out  power plants  and refineries.  The premium of gasoil, or diesel, to Dubai crude rose 13
percent to $23.26 a barrel, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fuel oil’s discount to the benchmark Middle East
crude narrowed 36 percent to $5.18 a barrel, the biggest drop
since Feb. 14. Utilities and factories may switch to
alternatives to replace lost output from nuclear plants.  Japan, the world’s third-largest crude importer, used an
average 430,000 barrels a day of fuel oil in December 2010,
according to  International Energy Agency  estimates, while diesel
consumption was 450,000 barrels a day. Asian fuel-oil premiums
doubled in July 2007 after an earthquake shut Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear plant, the world’s
biggest. The 8.9-magnitude temblor on March 11 shut 11 reactors
and 21 thermal plants, cutting 9 percent of the power output.  “This is a super bullish factor for the Asian middle
distillates and fuel-oil market,” said  Akira Kamiyama , an
energy derivatives trader at Mitsui & Co. in Tokyo. “Factories
which have their own generating facilities will begin to buy
diesel, while utilities will start purchasing fuel oil.”  Death Toll  The death toll from the earthquake and ensuing tsunami that
engulfed towns on the northern coast may top 10,000, according
to local media. More than 350,000 people are in emergency
shelters while the country grapples to contain its worst nuclear
accident after an explosion at a reactor north of the capital.  The quake, which was followed by a 6.2 magnitude aftershock,
has shut or disrupted supplies from refineries accounting for
about 29 percent of the nation’s processing capacity, or 1.3
million barrels a day. Refinery utilization may fall to about 65
percent following the earthquake, from 88 percent beforehand,
Edinburgh-based  Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.  said in a  report 
on its website.    Japan ’s Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said government still has 1.3 trillion yen ($15.8 billion) in
discretionary funds from this year’s budget that can be
allocated for quake relief.  Tokyo is threatened by blackouts as power supplies are cut
and the city will experience shortages for several weeks, Tokyo
Electric said. Areas will have no electricity for three hours at
a time, the company said.  Power Shortfall  Japanese utilities typically rely more on nuclear power,
natural gas and coal for electricity generation because they are
cheaper. They make up for shortfalls by burning more oil in
power stations. Japan imports most of its low-sulfur fuel oil
from Indonesia and  Malaysia , according to  Wood Mackenzie.   “Japan has had a series of problems with nuclear power
plants and this is many more times serious,” said  Anthony Nunan ,
assistant general manager for risk management at Mitsubishi Corp.
in Tokyo. “My gut feeling is that it will be bullish for oil
because they will have to make up for nuclear power. It’s going
to have a positive effect on fuel oil.”  Demand may also rise for so-called middle-distillate fuels
such as diesel, as factories use their generators to provide
electricity, according to Mitsui’s Kamiyama.  Nuclear Meltdown  Tokyo Electric is battling to prevent a meltdown of two
reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, after explosions at
the units. The permanent shutdown of the plant would have a
“tremendously big impact on the fuel market,” Kamiyama said.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp., Japan’s largest refiner, shut
plants in Sendai, Kashima and Negishi. Cosmo Oil Co.’s facility
in Chiba, outside Tokyo, was on fire, while Showa Shell Sekiyu
KK said it halted shipments at refineries in Keihin and
Yokkaichi. TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K., Exxon Mobil Corp.’s
Japanese refining unit, shut all major units at its Kawasaki
refinery near Tokyo.  “Japan is one of the most active gasoil exporters,” said
Kamiyama. “All the other Asian refiners, such as  South Korea ,  Taiwan  and  China , are likely to benefit from the loss of
refining capacities in Japan.”  Benchmark 180-centistoke fuel-oil cargoes loading from  Singapore  cost $651.50 a metric ton, while gasoil cost $129.45 a
barrel, according to Bloomberg data.  While Japan imported 790,000 barrels a day more oil
products than it exported last year, overseas diesel sales
exceeded purchases by 150,000 barrels a day, according to Wood
Mackenzie estimates.  Crude prices could drop because of the decline in refinery
utilization, Kamiyama said. A reduction in the country’s
economic activity as a result of the earthquake may also depress
the need for crude, according to Mitsubishi’s Nunan.  Oil futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  dropped for
a fifth day, sliding as much as 2.7 percent to $98.47 a barrel
and trading at $99.04 as of 6:22 p.m. in Singapore. Prices rose
to the highest in 29 months on March 7 amid output cuts in  Libya .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  