-- 
Renault’s Ghosn, Pelata Give Up Bonuses Over Bungled Spy Case

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-03-14T20:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/renault-spying-claims-sidelined-as-prosecutor-opens-fraud-case.html
  Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  gave up his bonus and turned down second-in-command
Patrick Pelata’s resignation after the company admitted
wrongfully accusing senior managers of spying.  The French carmaker also announced disciplinary action
against three of its security officers and pledged compensation
and reinstatement for upstream development chief Michel Balthazard and two other executives fired on suspicion of
selling company secrets.  Pelata’s resignation was rejected “in the interests of
Renault,” the CEO said on TF1 television. “I didn’t want to
add crisis to crisis.” Ghosn, Pelata and other executives
involved in the case will return 2010 bonuses and receive no  stock options  this year, the company said after an emergency
board meeting.  The carmaker retracted its espionage claims today after
Paris Chief Prosecutor Jean-Claude Marin said they had been
discredited by police. Pelata had pledged earlier this month
that managers would be held accountable “all the way up to me”
if the three were cleared.  “The situation at the company is such that they feel they
can’t take out their major players but they had to make some
kind of face-saving gesture,” said Alan Baum, an analyst at
industry consultant Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  Renault fell 2.58 euros, or 6.3 percent, to close at 38.18
euros in Paris before the board meeting ended. The shares have
dropped 12 percent this year, valuing the automaker at 11.3
billion euros ($15.8 billion).  Executives Fired  Balthazard, his subordinate Bertrand Rochette and deputy
electric-car program chief Matthieu Tenenbaum were fired in
January after a company investigation concluded they had
received payments from Chinese companies via foreign accounts.  The case against them was based on verbal information
obtained by security manager Dominique Gevrey from an
undisclosed source, for which Renault had paid more than 300,000
euros, the prosecutor said today.  “We were able to rule out the claims presented in
Renault’s complaint within a very short period,” Marin said at
a press conference, a day after Gevrey was jailed to face
charges of “organized fraud.”  No Banks Accounts  Cooperation from the Swiss and Liechtenstein authorities
rapidly established that the alleged bank accounts did not
exist, Marin said. Gevrey, a former French intelligence agent
who still refuses to say where he got the information, was
arrested March 11 at Paris Charles de Gaulle airport as he
prepared to board a flight to  Africa , he said.  “The attitude he is taking is that of a professional
protecting his source -- if any such source exists,” Marin told
reporters.  Gevrey’s attorney did not return calls or messages left at
his office outside of regular office hours.  In its statement, the carmaker announced closer supervision
of its security officials and a governance review designed to
“restore Renault’s image and trust in the company and its
leaders.”  Renault employees expected sanctions against “those
responsible for these mess-ups,” the carmaker’s CFDT union said
in an  open letter  to Ghosn earlier this month, while the main
CGT union said the affair had “dealt a blow to the credibility
of Ghosn and Pelata, who were both directly involved.”  No Replacement  The departure of Ghosn’s No.2 would have left Renault
“without an operating manager” and no obvious successor,
Philippe Houchois, a London-based analyst with UBS, said before
the announcement. The carmaker “hasn’t done a very good job of
managing succession, and Pelata is one of the few people who can
hold his own against Ghosn when necessary,” he said.  Renault did not name the security officials facing
disciplinary action or specify which other executives would
return their bonuses. Those involved in the investigation
included Odile Desforges, director of engineering and quality,
Laurence Dors, the company’s general secretary, human resources
manager Jean-Yves Coudriou and Legal Director Christian Husson.  Ghosn has also come under pressure over the mishandled
investigation after an earlier TF1 appearance in January, when
he insisted there were “multiple” findings to support the
espionage claims.  Personal Apology  In an earlier statement today, the CEO issued a personal
apology to the fired executives and promised reparations to
“restore their honor in the eyes of the world, taking account
of the serious prejudice they and their families have
suffered.”  Balthazard, a former management committee member, may seek
damages exceeding Ghosn’s 9.2 million-euro combined salary from
Renault and Japanese affiliate Nissan Motor Co. “Nobody would
be shocked if he left with eight, nine or 10 million euros,”
Balthazard’s lawyer Xavier Thouvenin said in an interview.  Tenenbaum will also be seeking “substantial material
compensation,” his attorney Thibault de Montbrial said in an
interview broadcast on  i-Tele .  “He was pushed out with no explanation, a criminal
complaint was filed against him, he was accused before the world
of being a spy and then CEO Ghosn told 10 million TV viewers
that he had proof,” de Montbrial said. “We’ll talk about all
that, and I’m sure we’ll reach an agreement.”  The unfolding fraud case acquired a fourth potential victim
today as the prosecution was joined by Philippe Clogenson, a
former Renault marketing manager dismissed in 2009 over
accusations that he received bribes. Clogenson’s formal filing,
announced by his lawyer Eric Moutet in an interview today, opens
the way for a possible damages award in the event of a
conviction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  