-- 
Renault’s Mishandling of Spy Case Paints Ghosn Into Corner on Nissan Pact

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-03-14T09:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/renault-s-mishandling-of-spy-case-paints-ghosn-into-corner-on-nissan-pact.html
  Renault SA (RNO) ’s mishandling of an
espionage investigation has weakened Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  in a tussle with the French state, its largest
shareholder, over the carmaker’s future, four people familiar
with the matter said.  Fallout from the spying affair, in which Renault says it
may have been hoaxed into firing three executives, will make it
harder to win government support for changes to an alliance with
Nissan Motor Co., said the people. Renault wants to reduce its
Nissan stake and allow the Japanese carmaker to vote as a
Renault shareholder, they said, declining to be named because
the matter is confidential.  “The market doesn’t appreciate the current alliance
structure because it has failed to unlock value for investors,”
said Torkell Eide, who helps manage $16 billion for Stavanger,
Norway-based Skagen Funds, Renault’s fifth-biggest private
shareholder. “The pressure on them to do something about it can
only increase.”  The maker of Megane hatchbacks and low-cost Dacia cars is
facing a management crisis after Chief Operating Officer Patrick Pelata voiced doubts March 4 about evidence behind the January
dismissals and offered to resign if all three executives are
cleared of selling secrets. The setback came three weeks after
Ghosn presented a medium-term plan to narrow the profitability
gap with Volkswagen AG, telling investors that Renault-Nissan’s
capital structure “can change over time and probably will.”  Ghosn’s Plans  Renault has discussed plans to reduce its 43.4 percent
Nissan stake and restore  voting rights  to the Japanese
carmaker’s reciprocal 14.5 percent Renault holding, according to
the same people, who have knowledge of discussions within the
alliance and the government. The government is wary of the move
because it would almost neutralize the voting clout of its own
15 percent stake, they said.  Ghosn, who also heads Nissan, encountered official
resistance when he took the proposal to France’s AMF market
regulator in 2008, then revived the idea this year, according to
the people. The espionage case makes it even less likely that
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s government will give the approval
needed to reduce Renault’s Nissan holding, they said.  “Renault currently has no plans to reduce its stake in
Nissan,” alliance spokeswoman Rachel Konrad said, declining to
comment further. AMF spokeswoman Christine Anglade said the
market watchdog had no comment.  Voting Rights  Nissan is barred from voting its shares because it is
deemed to be controlled by Renault under French law. A company
is  presumed  to be under the control of any single shareholder
with a 40 percent stake or more, which means Renault could open
the way for Nissan to exercise its votes by selling as little as
3.5 percent of the Japanese carmaker’s shares.  Renault’s 12 billion-euro ($16.8 billion) market
capitalization is almost 30 percent lower than the value of its
own stakes in Nissan,  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) , worth a combined
17 billion euros at the last market close.  Renault shares have risen 22 percent over the past 12
months, compared with a 56 percent gain for Fiat and a 67
percent increase for VW’s preferred stock. Renault dropped as
much as 5.1 percent today to 38.68 euros and was down 4 percent
as of 9:57 a.m. in Paris trading.  Investors frustrated by Renault’s low share price have
pressed for either a full Nissan merger -- which Ghosn has
refused to consider -- or a sale of the undervalued holdings.  “The French automaker run by the dynamic Carlos Ghosn has
underperformed the recovery of the auto sector,” New York-based
Jana Partners LLC said in a letter to investors ahead of
Renault’s strategy presentation.  ‘Negative Value’  Excluding it holdings, “Renault has a negative value,”
said the fund, which owns Renault stock among equity investments
that also include  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Apple Inc. The French
carmaker’s October sale of part of its Volvo stake will prove to
be “the beginning of a more comprehensive plan,” it predicted.  Besides lifting Renault’s stock, Ghosn believes that giving
Nissan a vote and narrowing the gap between the reciprocal
shareholdings would fairly reflect the Japanese carmaker’s
faster growth and bolster the alliance, three people said.
Nissan’s revenue has surged more than 45 percent in the decade
following its 1999 rescue from near-bankruptcy, while its
rescuer’s sales have shrunk 3 percent.  Renault now needs Nissan more than the reverse, and the
Japanese carmaker’s executives are sometimes frustrated by
French government-imposed constraints on the alliance, the
people said. One cited the decision to begin European electric-
car battery production in  France  as well as the U.K. and lower-
cost Portugal.  Salary Clash  Ghosn has also clashed with ministers over his 9.2 million-
euro ($12.9 million) salary and was last year forced to
backtrack on plans to transfer French production of the Renault
Clio subcompact to  Turkey , after Sarkozy summoned him for a
public dressing down. The bungled espionage case gives the
government more leverage in its regular face-offs with Renault’s
Brazilian-born boss.  “If it emerges that the three employees didn’t betray
their company, the CEO must take responsibility and apologize
publicly, or tender his resignation,” Marc Laffineur, deputy
leader of Sarkozy’s UMP party in the National Assembly, said
after the carmaker backed away from its earlier allegations.  Renault, which in January fired management committee member
Michel Balthazard and two other executives accused of spying,
acknowledged earlier this month that its case against them was
based on verbal information about foreign bank accounts for
which it paid 250,000 euros, without knowing who supplied it.  Police failed to find any trace of the alleged accounts in
Switzerland and Liechtenstein, where legal authorities
cooperated with the investigation.  Taking Responsibility  Dominique Gevrey, the Renault security official who passed
the banking information to managers without disclosing its
source, was charged yesterday with “organized fraud” and
jailed pending a formal investigation.  Renault second-in-command Pelata, who took over day-to-day
control from Ghosn in 2008, offered March 4 to resign if all
three executives are cleared, saying the company would hold
management accountable “all the way up to me.”  Under the mid-term strategy, Renault aims to restore its
auto division to consistent profitability by building more cars
outside western  Europe  and sharing more designs and production
with Nissan and Daimler.  It also expects to command a 40 percent share of the fast-
growing Russian market thanks to a $1 billion investment in OAO  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , now applauded by some analysts who initially thought
the 2008 purchase too risky.  “For the first time in a decade, they have everything they
need to deliver growth,” Philippe Houchois, a London-based
analyst with UBS, said in an interview.  “Then along comes the espionage scandal, with the
potential to undermine that,” Houchois said. “Renault needs
competent and credible operating management to take advantage of
its situation, but it’s not clear who would replace Pelata.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;  Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  