-- 
Trickle-Down Misperceptions Muddle Debt Debate: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-03-13T15:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/trickle-down-misperceptions-muddle-debt-debate-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
The American comic strip Pogo once
famously noted, “We have met the enemy, and he is us.” This
may be the best way to describe the current fracas in  Washington 
over the deficit.  Politicians of both parties have done a poor job of
educating the public, and voters are sending conflicting, and in
some cases, misguided, messages.  A Bloomberg National Poll published last week, in line with
other surveys, is instructive. Americans consider the widening
deficit and debt a big deal; they also reject most of the
measures necessary to deal with the threat by warning against
touching entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security or
popular discretionary spending programs. The public believes
significant  deficit reduction  is possible without raising
revenue, while also wanting to raise taxes on wealthier
Americans.  “The public embraces sacrifice in theory, but not in
practice,” says J. Ann Selzer, the  Des Moines ,  Iowa , pollster
who conducts the Bloomberg surveys. “The stalemate in Congress
has a doppelganger in individual Americans’ minds. People really
do not know what things cost and what cuts would have a
significant effect on the deficit. They know only what they
want.”  The bipartisan Bowles-Simpson commission laid out a
reasonable path to lowering the deficit, though it involves
difficult tradeoffs. Both President  Barack Obama  and House
Republican leaders have given it short shrift. The painful
political choices were specifically enumerated recently by the
economists Chris Payne and Ted Buckley in a white paper written
for Bloomberg Government.  60% of GDP  They say government debt would climb to 85 percent of the
economy, without any action, by 2020; the goal is to reduce it
to 60 percent of gross domestic product, generally recognized as
the standard for fiscal stability, over the next 10 years.  If this were done primarily on the revenue side, as some
Democrats suggest, that would involve repealing all the tax cuts
enacted under President  George W. Bush  -- Obama only wants to
end those for the more affluent -- and also raising another $2.7
trillion in taxes over the next decade. If the Republican
rhetoric about achieving this only on the spending side were
followed, it would entail cutting Medicare over the next 10
years by almost $1 trillion, Buckley and Payne calculate, and
Social Security by $1.2 trillion.  There aren’t many politicians who publicly acknowledge
those realities. And the Bloomberg poll offers comfort for some
who would choose avoidance.  Tax Increases Unnecessary  There’s appetizing fodder for the Republican sound-bites,
starting with the 61 percent who say raising taxes isn’t
necessary to reduce the  budget deficit .  By 53 percent to 44 percent, Americans say that when it
comes to creating jobs, it’s better to cut spending and lower
taxes than to invest in projects such as high-speed rail,
broadband Internet and new sources of alternative energy. That’s
an argument Republicans often make.  Also a majority believes Obama lacks “an effective
strategy” for dealing with the economy; by a 2-to-1 ratio
Americans oppose the central tenet of the health-care bill,
mandating insurance coverage.  There is even more for Democrats to cheer in this poll. The
public, while not high on Obama’s vision for the economy, thinks
it’s a lot better than the one put forth by Republicans.  No Entitlement Cuts  In the short term, Americans don’t like many of the cuts
Republicans are making in discretionary spending for the current
fiscal year. By a ratio of 2-to-1 or greater, they oppose
substantial changes in funding for the Environmental Protection
Agency, or education programs, like college loans, or federal
funding for medical and scientific research.  This battle, despite the current political clamor in
Washington, really is small-ball; the big fight will be over
longer-term measures.  On that point, the Republicans don’t do any better.
Reducing Medicare benefits is opposed 76 percent to 22 percent.
The proposal by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  to replace Medicare with vouchers is rejected.  Truly striking is the persistent perception that somehow,
this can be done on the cheap. More than 7-in-10 Americans think
foreign aid is a major government program, and want to
substantially cut it. The reality is that foreign aid is only 1
percent of the $3.8 trillion budget; even draconian cuts would
have negligible effects on the long-term deficit.  Withdrawing Troops  Frustrated by tradeoffs, a large majority of Americans say
they would favor withdrawing all troops from Iraq and  Afghanistan  to reduce the budget deficit. Even if that were
feasible or desirable, most of these expenditures wouldn’t
disappear.  Contradictions abound when it comes to the campaign vows of
many successful Republicans last autumn to undo much of the
agenda the Democrats enacted in the 111th Congress. A majority
of respondents, when asked directly, say the Obama health-care
law should be repealed. But when given options, 42 percent say
we ought to see how it works first, and another 12 percent say
it should be left alone.  And on the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory measure, fewer
than 1-in-5 say banks are now regulated too strictly, thus
hampering the economy; twice as many say banks still aren’t
regulated enough. The rest say the Dodd-Frank bill has struck
the right regulatory balance.  Although the American public is simply wrong on some issues
-- including foreign aid, which Republican and Democratic
internationalists alike think would be disastrous to sharply cut
-- their positions reflect the superficial character of the
political discourse and the lack of leadership from both sides.  “I don’t think that either party has the guts to deal with
the serious issues,” says Mark Violette, a 54-year-old Vermont
piano teacher and a poll respondent. “The Republicans don’t
want to raise taxes, and the Democrats seem to only want to
address cosmetic changes.”    Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 