-- 
Roubini Earthquake Gloom Meets ‘Shock Doctrine’: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-13T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/roubini-earthquake-gloom-meets-shock-doctrine-william-pesek.html
It always struck me as odd that
Japanese bookstores have not just earthquake sections, but
entire aisles of titles devoted to tectonic upheavals. After
Friday’s big one, I’m now a believer in quake-ology.  Temblors have a complicated place in the Japanese psyche.
There’s a widely held belief, a local mythology, that tectonic-
plate shifts can coincide with big ones above the ground, too.  An 1855 earthquake that destroyed much of modern-day  Tokyo 
bookmarked the twilight of the Tokugawa period, during which
Japan was isolated for two centuries. Rebuilding efforts after
the devastation of 1923 coincided with the rise of Japanese
militarism. Kobe’s 1995 tragedy dovetailed with the end of
Japan’s postwar industrial boom and the advent of deflation.  Might this latest trauma also signal historic change?  Economist  Nouriel Roubini  has a point when he says the
earthquake came at the “worst time” as Japan struggles to
reduce its massive debt. Let’s go the other way for a moment,
and explore three potential silver linings from this quake.  One, it’s a wake-up call. Japan dithered for years as
deflation deepened, wages stagnated and public debt exceeded
gross domestic product. Even after  China’s economy  blew past
Japan in 2010 and a  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade in January,
officials in Tokyo remained as paralyzed as ever.  The days before Friday’s quake saw Japanese politics at its
worst. Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , a 48-year-old who had
been tipped to be the next prime minister, was browbeaten into
resigning over a clerical error. His campaign received 250,000
yen ($3,053) since 2005 from a South Korean woman residing in
Japan. By Friday morning, before the quake, the opposition was
digging up similarly petty dirt on Prime Minister  Naoto Kan .  ‘The Shock Doctrine’  Such complacency and distraction is no longer an option.
Japan’s leaders must now roll up their sleeves to rebuild after
the strongest earthquake on record. And they must do so without
the luxury of massive borrowing. As Roubini, co-founder of
Roubini Global Economics LLC in  New York , says, a “shock like
this” complicates reining in the world’s biggest public debt.  Yet with a little political will, another kind of shock
could befall Japan, one author Naomi Klein explored in 2007’s
“The Shock Doctrine.” Klein’s focus is on free-market
ideologues who exploit crises to impose rapid and irreversible
change in nations around the world. Fate may have just handed
Japan a chance to unleash the doctrine on itself.  Japan might well benefit from any shakeup that encourages
entrepreneurship from the ground up, increases competitiveness
and imposes change on the decidedly change-resistant bureaucrats
who really run the nation. For years, pundits said only a major
crisis will bring about change in Japan. March 11 provided the
shock; leaders just need to act accordingly.    China  Ties  Two, a chance to make-up with China. The seemingly
inexorable rise of 1.3 billion people and the competitive forces
that come with such an economic event are bringing Japan and  South Korea  together, helping overcome hard feelings over a
colonial past.  Now, China’s rapid offer of help and condolences to Japan’s
earthquake victims could go a long way toward reducing tensions.
It’s the rare event that gets officials in Tokyo and Beijing to
put aside prickly disagreements over economic, territorial,
military and historical disputes. And here, we have one.  This Chinese solidarity stands in stark contrast to the
angry rhetoric of the past six months. The period saw anti-
Japanese demonstrations in Chinese cities, the scrapping of
tourist trips to  Japan , the cancellation of some diplomatic
exchanges and the rationing of rare-earth metals exports.  Working Relationship  If  Asia  is going to increase regional cooperation, the
leaders of Japan and China must have a decent working
relationship. Last week’s earthquake offers a chance for a fresh
start. Let’s hope it catalyzes a broader softening of relations.  Three, a boost to Japanese confidence. In the days since
the earthquake, editorials in Chinese newspapers shifted from
bashing Japan to exploring what Chinese can learn from Japan’s
speedy response and the orderliness of its people.  It’s a valid point. While it’s early days in the rescue
effort, Japan has much to be proud of, from the way Tokyo’s
skyline withstood the tectonic assault to the lack of looting
and social instability. The nation has shown itself to be a 
highly civil, stable and caring place.  Tough building codes, training and lessons from the 1995
Kobe earthquake that killed more than 6,000 people probably
saved thousands of lives this time around.  Brighter Days  Certainly, problems abound. The most immediate is
containing the worst nuclear accident in at least 33 years, at a
plant north of Tokyo. At a minimum, Japan must scrutinize the
safety record of Tokyo Electric Power Co. as never before.  Nor is the unpopular Kan distinguishing himself.
Information from his office has been lacking and downright
contradictory at times. Kan was basically on his way out before
the earthquake, and how he handles things in the next few days
will decide his political fate.  Yet in this time of devastation and uncertainty, Japan has
shown it runs well on many levels in spite of its government.
This is a moment for sorrow and reflection, yes. It’s also a
time to look ahead to brighter days. They could indeed be on the
way.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  