-- 
SINGAPORE DAYBOOK: Engro Corp., Popular Holdings, Sunright

-- B y   J a n   D a h i n t e n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-13T22:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/singapore-daybook-engro-corp-popular-holdings-sunright.html
Engro Corp., a building materials
supplier, said it and partner Jinan Iron and Steel Group doubled
the capacity of their ground granulated blast furnace slag in  China  to 1.2 million tons a year.  MARKETS:  *The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8 percent at Friday’s close.
*Singapore’s Straits Times Index retreated 1 percent at Friday’s
close.
*The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 0.5 percent at Friday’s
close.
*The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.9 percent at Friday’s
close.  EQUITY MOVERS:  *Engro Corp. (EGCL SP): The Singapore-based building materials
supplier said it and partner Jinan Iron and Steel Group agreed
to double the annual capacity of their ground granulated blast
furnace slag, a raw material used in cement-making, in China’s
Shandong Province to 1.2 million tons.
*Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP SP): The logistics company
that counts Japan as its biggest market reduced the estimated
damage to its total portfolio of properties in the country by 18
percent, from $47.5 million to $38.8 million. The company’s
earlier estimate of likely loss of rental income remains at
$10.8 million, it said.
*Mapletree Logistics Trust (MLT SP): The Singapore-based
industrial landlord said 13 of its 14 properties received either
no damage or minimal damage after  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake.
One property in Sendai was affected by the subsequent tsunami
and is intact based on a preliminary report, it said. The
company said it can’t provide an estimate for repairs because
there’s no access to the area.
*Popular Holdings Ltd. (POP SP): The bookstore chain said third-
quarter net income climbed 47 percent to S$11.5 million ($9
million) from a year ago.
*Saizen Real Estate Investment Trust (SZREIT SP): The owner of
residential apartments in Japan said it had viewed six
properties, all of which have sustained minor damage based on
preliminary reports. Property managers haven’t been able to
assess all properties because of restrictions to some areas.
*Sunright Ltd. (SUNR SP): The provider of semiconductor testing
services said first-half net income increased 84 percent to
S$3.3 million from the year before.
*Tan Chong International Ltd. (TCI SP): The distributor of
Nissan cars in  Singapore  said full-year net income increased to
HK$639.3 million ($82 million) from HK$523.5 million in the
previous year.  BTV Guests:  7:10 a.m.: CPPCC Delegate Selina Chow
7:40 a.m.: AMP Capital Senior Investment Strategist Nader Naeimi
8:10 a.m.: TFP Farrells Principal Gavin Erasmus
8:40 a.m.: JPMorgan Head of Equity Research Jesper Koll
9:10 a.m.: IMF Senior Resident Representative Il Houng Lee
9:20 a.m.: Macquarie Chief Asia Economist Richard Jerram
9:40 a.m.: Societe Generale Asia Equity Strategist Todd Martin
10:10 a.m.: CMC Markets Chief Market Strategist Michael McCarthy
11:10 a.m.: Fujitsu Research Institute Martin Schultz
11:40 a.m.: Former UN Ambassador Wu Jianmin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jan Dahinten at   jdahinten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jan Dahinten at   jdahinten@bloomberg.net  