-- 
‘Battle: Los Angeles’ Opens as Top Weekend Film for Sony

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-13T19:11:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/sony-s-battle-los-angeles-opens-as-top-weekend-movie-with-36-million.html
“Battle: Los Angeles,”  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s special-effects thriller about an alien invasion of the
second most-populous U.S. city, generated $36 million in weekend
ticket sales to lead the domestic box office.  Last weekend’s No. 1 film, the  Johnny Depp  animated comedy
“Rango,” fell to second place with $23 million in ticket sales
for  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount and Nickelodeon divisions.  “Rango” features Depp as a chameleon who tries to clean
up the Wild West town of Dirt. It marks another collaboration of
the actor and director Gore Verbinski, who oversaw Depp in
Disney’s successful “Pirates of the Caribbean” series.  “‘Battle: Los Angeles’ felt like a summer movie, and
audiences responded,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , the president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office division. “We need summer to get us
out of this box-office malaise. The overall box office did so-
so, but aliens had a great weekend. They had a great marketing
campaign and it paid off.”  “Red Riding Hood,” a  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  film with  Amanda
Seyfried  in the title role, opened in third place with $14.1
million in U.S. and Canadian sales, Hollywood.com Box-Office
said today in an e-mailed statement. “Mars Needs Moms,” a 3-D
animated feature by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , took in $6.8 million for
fifth behind ‘The Adjustment Bureau.”  Several of the movies offer filmgoers a something-for-
everyone weekend: “Battle: Los Angeles” for boys and young
men, “Red Riding Hood” for teen girls and women, and the
animated “Rango” and “Mars” for kids.  ‘Word of Mouth’  “‘Rango’ has had great word of mouth, and that’s really
worked,” Dergarabedian said. “Male audiences came out for
‘Battle: Los Angeles’ and families came out for ‘Rango’.”  In “Battle: Los Angeles,” Aaron Eckhart plays a decorated
Marine leading a platoon trying to save the survivors of an
alien attack. Portions of the movie were filmed in  Louisiana ,
which has offered subsidies to producers for almost 20 years.    Michelle Rodriguez  and Bridget Moynahan co-star in the
film, which was expected to take in about $27 million, the
estimate of Gitesh Pandya, the editor of Box Office Guru. Sony’s  Columbia Pictures  spent an estimated $100 million making the
movie, according to the Internet Movie Database.  “Rango” has taken in $68.7 million in two weeks of
release, Hollywood.com said.  Werewolf  Warner Bros.’ retelling of the “Red Riding Hood” tale
replaces the hungry wolf with a werewolf and adds a forbidden
love story with Valerie, played by Seyfried, planning to run off
with Peter, played by  Shiloh Fernandez . Gary Oldman plays Father
Solomon, a werewolf hunter.  “Red Riding Hood” was directed by  Catherine Hardwicke ,
whose credits include the first movie in the “Twilight”
vampire-romance series. The film was expected to generate about
$22 million, according to Pandya.  “Mars Needs Moms” features the voice of Seth Green as
Milo, whose mother played by Joan Cusack is kidnapped by
Martians. Milo undertakes a rescue and gains a new appreciation
for his mother along the way. The film was expected to take in
$17 million, Pandya said on his  website .  “The Adjustment Bureau,” starring  Matt Damon , fell to
fourth place from second with $11.5 million in sales for  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  Damon plays a politician, David Norris, who glimpses his
future and takes another route, pursuing a love interest played
by  Emily Blunt .  John Slattery , from television’s “Mad Men,” is
part of the team trying to put Norris’s life back on its
intended course. The film is based on Philip K. Dick’s short
story.  ‘Beastly’  “Beastly,”  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s retelling of the “Beauty and the
Beast” tale, fell to seventh place from third with $5.1
million.    Alex Pettyfer , also in theaters in the movie “I Am Number
Four,” plays a  New York  teen who is turned into a monster and
must find true love to reverse the curse. Vanessa Hudgens, known
for her role in Disney’s “High School Musical,” co-stars as
Pettyfer’s love interest and Mary-Kate Olsen is the witch who
casts a spell on him.  Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend fell 12.8 percent
to $118.4 million from a year earlier, according to
Hollywood.com. Domestic box-office sales this year have declined
20.3 percent to $1.85 billion. Attendance is off 21.5 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 11-12 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Theo Mullen at   tmullen11@bloomberg.net  