-- 
South Korea Wins Rights to U.A.E. Oil Field Development, Boosting Reserves

-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-14T04:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/south-korea-wins-rights-to-u-a-e-oil-fields-boosting-reserves.html
  South Korea ,  Asia ’s fourth-largest
buyer of crude, signed its first oil-field contract with the  United Arab Emirates , helping to assure future supplies for a
nation dependent on imports for most of its energy needs.  Starting in 2014, state-run Korea National Oil Corp. will
be included in ventures formed by Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. to
develop fields with reserves of more than 1 billion barrels of
oil worth 110 trillion won ($97 billion) under terms of a
preliminary agreement signed yesterday, South Korea’s
presidential office said in an e-mailed statement.  The agreement came during South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s visit to the U.A.E., his first trip there since December
2009 when state-run  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760)  beat General
Electric Co. and Areva SA to win the Gulf Arab nation’s first
nuclear power plant contract.  Korea National, or KNOC, joins international  oil companies 
such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc in
developing fields in the U.A.E., the fourth-largest crude
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The deal will help raise South Korea’s output from its
stakes in overseas fields to 15 percent of the nation’s energy
needs, from the current 11 percent, the statement said.  Anyang, South Korea-based KNOC will be allowed to join
development projects in Abu Dhabi when current contracts that
expire starting in 2014 are renewed. Details including which
fields the South Korean company will join will be discussed
later, the statement said.  South Korea was also given rights to exploit  Abu Dhabi ’s
three undeveloped blocks, which initial estimates show have
reserves of 570 million barrels of oil. The countries will sign
a contract on that within the year, and those fields may start
production as early as 2013 with a daily output of 35,000
barrels.  South Korea will to help store 6 million barrels of crude
oil free-of-charge for Abu Dhabi, a reserve the Asian country
can tap to meet emergency needs, the statement said.  South Korea and the U.A.E. agreed to closely cooperate in
building “the best quality” nuclear reactors, according to a
separate statement after the summit between President Lee and
his counterpart Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan amid concerns
over safety of nuclear power as  Japan  struggles with reactors
crippled by an  earthquake and tsunami .  President Lee will attend the ground breaking ceremony
today for the U.A.E.’s first nuclear power plant at the proposed
Braka site.  The U.A.E. is the second-largest supplier of oil to South
Korea. Two-way trade totaled $17.6 billion in 2010, according to
the presidential office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  