-- 
State Department's Philip J. Crowley Resigns, Citing WikiLeaks Comments

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-03-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/state-department-s-crowley-quits-citing-wikileaks-comments-1-.html
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  has resigned following comments criticizing the U.S.
military for its treatment of Private First Class Bradley
Manning, a soldier detained on allegations he shared classified
documents with the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, according to a
statement from the agency.  Crowley, known as P.J., said on March 10 the military has
mistreated Manning and described the conditions of his detention
as “ridiculous and counterproductive and stupid,” according to
a blog posted by BBC reporter Philippa Thomas.  President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.  Department of Defense 
assured him that Manning is not being mistreated. Crowley said
yesterday the “impact of my remarks” led to his decision to
leave the State Department.  “My recent comments regarding the conditions of the pre-
trial detention of Private First Class Bradley Manning were
intended to highlight the broader, even strategic impact of
discreet actions undertaken by national security agencies every
day and their impact on our global standing and leadership,”
Crowley said in the statement. “The exercise of power in
today’s challenging times and relentless media environment must
be prudent and consistent with our laws and values,” he said.    Michael Hammer  will take on Crowley’s former position as
assistant secretary for public affairs on an acting basis, said
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who praised Crowley.  “P.J. has served our nation with distinction for more than
three decades, in uniform and as a civilian. His service to
country is motivated by a deep devotion to public policy and
public diplomacy, and I wish him the very best,” she said.  The Department of Defense responded to Crowley’s reported
remarks by insisting it was adhering to U.S. laws and Pentagon
policy in its treatment of Manning, which the department said
includes keeping him in solitary confinement and a requirement
that his underwear be removed during sleeping hours. Manning
“has since been issued a garment to sleep in at night,” the
statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  