-- 
Manchester United, City to Meet in F.A. Cup Semifinal; Stoke Plays Bolton

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-03-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/stoke-city-defeats-west-ham-united-2-1-to-reach-the-f-a-cup-semifinals.html
Manchester City will play local
rival  Manchester United  in the F.A. Cup semifinals after a 1-0
win over Reading yesterday. Stoke City defeated West Ham 2-1
to set up a game with Bolton.  Fullback Micah Richards gave City its win at Eastlands as
the club seeks to win the competition for a first time since
1969. Stoke last reached the final four in 1972.    Robert Huth  and Danny Higginbotham scored for the Potters
at the Britannia Stadium, with Frederic Piquionne getting a goal
for West Ham.  “It’s a fantastic achievement,” Stoke manager  Tony Pulis 
told reporters. “We’ve got tremendous character and spirit and
that was evident again.”  Both semifinals will be held at Wembley Stadium in London
on April 16/17.  Pulis’s team had chances to take the lead in the opening
minutes, including a header from ex-Hammer Matthew Etherington
that forced goalkeeper  Robert Green  to make a diving save.  Stoke was ahead after 12 minutes as the visitors struggled
to defend against a long throw by Rory Delap. Huth arrived
unmarked to head the ball into the net from six yards.  The Hammers were struggling to create chances, but did tie
the game in the 30th minute. Thomas Hitzlsperger lifted a pass
over Stoke’s defense for Piquionne, who lobbed over  Thomas Sorensen .  Piquionne, who was injured in scoring the goal and had to
be substituted, appeared on TV replays to have used his upper
arm to control the ball.  Penalty Save  Stoke had an opportunity to re-establish its lead in the
opening minute of the second half. Etherington fell in the
penalty area, although replays showed little contact by  Scott Parker , and referee Mike Jones awarded a spotkick. The winger’s
penalty was saved by Green.  Higginbotham fired in from a 20-yard free kick after 63
minutes, with Green only able to push the ball against a post
then into the net.  Victor Obinna and Robbie Keane had shots saved by Sorensen
as West Ham looked for an equalizer, while Matthew Upson headed
against the bar.  Four-time champion City faces 11-time winner United as it
attempts to win a first major trophy since the League Cup in
1976. It overcame Reading, which plays in the second-tier
Championship, on a 74th-minute header from Richards.  The goal came from a David Silva corner, with Richards
firing his header past goalkeeper Alex McCarthy to settle the
match.  “It was very difficult,” Richards told ESPN. “As the
game went on it got harder and harder. Reading defended very
well.”  Two days ago, United beat Arsenal 2-0, and Bolton defeated
Birmingham 3-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 