-- 
Supermodels Might Help Jocks With Labor Fights: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-13T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/supermodels-might-help-jocks-with-labor-fights-scott-soshnick.html
Professional athletes are
surrounded by publicists, agents, lawyers and advisers.  Yet, financially speaking, the confidants they need most
are the supermodels. Gisele Bundchen, wife of New England
Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , and her genetically blessed co-
workers are the only folks on the planet who can, on matters of
money and retirement, be compared with well-paid jocks.  Both have a short period to 1) make as much money as they
can and 2) make it last a lifetime.  And, as  Chris Dudley , a former National Basketball
Association player with an economics degree from Yale wondered
aloud not long ago: Unlike the all-too-common tale of the lost-
it-all athlete, when was the last time you heard some sad story
about a supermodel spending her way to insolvency?  “You can’t compare athletes to any other profession except
a runway model,” said Dudley, a partner in Filigree Advisors,
which the former  Oregon  gubernatorial candidate describes as a
wealth design and management company in  Lake Oswego , Oregon.  Until professional athletes, as supermodels seem to have
learned, understand and embrace the basics of personal finance
they will never stand a chance to win one of these routine and
long-running labor disputes with owners.  The owners -- management, really -- not only have the
money, they know how it works. Simple things like compound
interest, liquidity and  cash flow . Try asking some teenage or
20-something jock to explain those.  Financial Understanding  Too many professional athletes still haven’t devoted enough
time to understanding the fundamentals of their financial
future, even though they know well the history of labor acrimony
and predecessors who have ended up broke.  That goes a long way toward explaining why unions
representing  National Football League  and NBA players simply
don’t have the resources to weather long work lockouts.
Advantage owners.  The players need the money because too many haven’t heeded
the warnings of their  unions , which have urged their members for
more than a year to stockpile a work-stoppage emergency fund.  Don’t forget what Patrick Ewing, president of the  National
Basketball Players Association  at the time, said during the
1998-99 lockout that resulted in lost regular-season games for
the first time.  “Sure, we make a lot of money,” Ewing said, “but we
spend a lot, too.”  Ewing was lambasted for the remark, which critics pointed
to as another example of athletes being out-of-touch with the
lives of paycheck-to-paycheck customers.  Speaking the Truth  Ewing should have been lauded. He spoke the truth. The
comment might have served as a warning siren, a wake-up call for
athletes to change their behavior. Spenders to savers.  It’s hard to persuade your average young adult to save,
say, 10 percent of each paycheck, let alone a professional
athlete whose vision of personal invincibility is one of the
reasons he reached the pinnacle of the profession.  Show me the pro sports franchise that makes financial
literacy an integral part of its program for new players. It
will be the first. Teams provide countless coaches to tutor a
teenager on his drop-step, but no one to discuss direct deposit.  Both the NFL and NBA unions have distributed lockout
preparedness playbooks to its members. The NBA’s 56-page booklet
urges players to prepare for a work stoppage by swearing off
big-ticket items like homes, cars or jewelry. It recommends
grounding the private jet, and giving up the presidential suite
when staying in a hotel.  The NFL’s booklet even suggests that players turn down the
thermostat to save on home heating costs.  When Paychecks Stop  Dudley says players, especially those in their early 20s,
just don’t seem to understand the need to plan for a retirement
that might span 60 years. They don’t foresee the day when the
paychecks stop. Every player’s goal, wealth managers say, should
be to plan so that there is no change in lifestyle once the
games end.  Both the NFL and NBA unions have a lockout fund that can be
distributed to players. But that’s giving a man a fish, not, as
the adage says, teaching him to fish.  Jim McIlvaine, a retired basketball player and former
treasurer of the union, says no matter how much warning players
get there’ll always be those who ignore the advice.  Maybe the supermodels can get their attention.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  