-- 
Syria to Auction Offshore Exploration Rights This Month

-- B y   L i n a   I b r a h i m   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-13T15:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/syria-to-auction-offshore-exploration-rights-this-month-1-.html
  Syria , struggling to halt a decline
in crude oil output, plans to auction offshore exploration
rights this month, Oil Minister Sufian Alao said.  “All documents are ready and we will start notifying the
qualified companies soon,” Alao said in an interview from
Damascus today.  The Arab country has announced plans to auction three
offshore blocks in the  Mediterranean Sea  covering a total of
more than 5,000 square kilometers (1,900 square miles).  Syria is seeking foreign investment in energy developments
to help stabilize oil output this year at a rate of 386,000
barrels a day, he said. Crude production peaked at 583,000
barrels a day in 1996, and the country will deplete existing
reserves within 18 years, according to its reserves-to-
production ratio calculated by BP Plc.    Total SA (FP) ,  Eni SpA (ENI) , China National Petroleum Corp. and 10
other foreign companies have submitted bids to explore in eight
onshore blocks in Syria, Deputy Oil Minister Hassan Zainab said
on Dec. 15.  “Offers of some companies were very similar to each other
and we asked them to improve the conditions of their bids,”
Alao said. Should offers be “unsatisfactory and insufficient”
blocks would not be awarded and will be offered in a new bidding
round, he said.  Natural-Gas Pipeline  Syria, Iran and  Iraq  are planning to start the construction
of a joint natural-gas pipeline by early 2013, Alao said. The
pipeline, which may cost as much as $3 billion, is due to
provide Syria with a daily amount of 20 million cubic meters of
gas by 2015, he said.  An international consultancy company will be chosen in
April to prepare the process to ask international companies to
bid for the construction of the pipeline, he said.  Syria will also import gas from  Iran  via  Turkey  starting
early 2012 after a pipeline that connects Syria and Turkey
becomes operational, he said. Syria will complete its part of
the link in April, while Turkey should build its part in
November, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net .;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  