-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall on Concern About Japan Quake’s Toll on Economy

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-14T21:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/u-s-stock-futures-fall-on-concern-about-quake-s-damage-to-japan-economy.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a third time in four days,
as investors struggled to assess how much damage Japan’s worst
earthquake on record will do to the global economy.    General Electric Co. (GE)  slumped 2.2 percent as Japan worked to
contain radiation at a damaged nuclear plant, compelling other
nations to review atomic energy plans. Coach Inc. and Tiffany &
Co. sank at least 5.2 percent on concern Japan sales will
suffer.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino company with most of
its business in Asia, lost 3.6 percent as Jefferies & Co. cut
its rating on the stock.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  surged
11 percent on bets demand for alternative energy will grow.  The  S&P 500  slid 0.6 percent to 1,296.39 at 4 p.m. in New
York, paring an earlier drop of as much as 1.4 percent as oil
settled little changed at $101.19 a barrel. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  sank 51.24 points, or 0.4 percent, to
11,993.16. The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ) , a U.S. exchange-
traded fund, tumbled 7 percent, the most since 2008.  “The market is pricing in a better understanding of the
enormity and complexity of the natural disasters that struck
Japan,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co. “The immediate impact will be felt through lower global
aggregate demand, disrupted supply chains, and funds flows into
Japan.”  Retreat From 2011 High  U.S. stocks fell last week, sending the S&P 500 down 1.3
percent, after American and Chinese reports damped optimism
about the global economy. The benchmark gauge of U.S. stocks is
down 3.5 percent from its 32-month high in February, while still
more than 90 percent above its bear-market low in 2009.  The selloff in  Japan  spread to Europe and the Americas as
workers battled to contain radiation at a damaged nuclear plant
north of Tokyo following a second blast. No large release of
radiation was detected after the explosion, which didn’t breach
the reactor and followed a build-up of hydrogen gas, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo today. The
risk of a large leak is very small, he said.  The Bank of Japan poured a record amount of cash into the
financial system and doubled the size of its asset-purchase
plan. The central bank pumped 15 trillion yen ($183 billion)
into money markets today. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his
board enlarged a program buying assets from government bonds to
exchange-traded funds by 5 trillion yen, about one-tenth the
size of the  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing.  ‘Further Weakness’  “The Japanese earthquake has the potential to prompt
further weakness in stock prices,” said David Sowerby, a
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based money manager at Loomis Sayles
& Co., which oversees $150 billion. “While you’ll see the Bank
of Japan provide intense liquidity and economic activity
increase due to rebuilding, there’s a lot of uncertainty. Still,
if we have a 3 percent to 5 percent correction in stocks, we’d
likely look at what’s attractively priced.”  General Electric declined 2.2 percent, the most in the Dow
average, to $19.92.  The potential meltdown at a nuclear plant struck by Japan’s
record temblor may be “a big dampener” on India’s program,
Shreyans Kumar Jain, chairman of the Nuclear Power Corp. of
India, said in Mumbai. The accident may become a factor in the
drafting of China’s energy plans,  Xie Zhenhua , vice chairman of
the National Development and Reform Commission, said in Beijing.
Germany will suspend a planned extension of the lifespan of
nuclear plants pending the outcome of an inquiry into their
safety,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  No Change  GE, which is in talks to sell reactors to India, won’t
change its plans for the country after the Japan accident, Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said today. Immelt expects the
company’s Indian operations to grow 30 percent this year.  Uranium stocks slumped on concern demand will slow after
the Japan accidents. U.S. shares of Canada’s  Denison Mines Corp. (DML) 
plunged 22 percent to $2.55.  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  declined 4.9 percent
to $70.09. The operator of nuclear power plants was cut to
“market perform” from “outperform” by BMO Capital Markets.  Las Vegas Sands slid 3.6 percent to $38.62 after Jefferies
cut its recommendation for the shares to “hold” from “buy.”
The 12-month share-price estimate is $45.  Solar stocks rallied amid investors’ expectations that the
companies may benefit as demand for alternative energy grows.
MEMC Electronic Materials, the maker of wafers for the
semiconductor and solar industries, advanced 11 percent to
$13.37, the biggest gain in the S&P 500.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) 
increased 5.1 percent to $146.91.  Coal Companies    Consol Energy Inc. (CNX)  gained 4.7 percent to $50.87. The coal
and natural gas producer led other U.S. coal companies higher on
expectations that the shutdown of Japanese nuclear reactors will
lead to more coal use.    Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  soared 28 percent to $134.68. Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to buy the largest
producer of lubricant additives for about $9 billion in the
company’s second-biggest acquisition in the past five years.    Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  added 2.1 percent to $102.10 for the
biggest gain in the Dow. The world’s largest construction
equipment maker may be among the U.S. companies to benefit as
Japan rebuilds after the world’s strongest earthquake since 2004
hit last week, according to analysts at Susquehanna Financial
Group and Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  Sale or Spinoff    Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  rose 1.8 percent to $19.81. The world’s biggest
drugmaker is reviewing the sale or spinoff of business units
that may shrink the company’s revenue by almost half, said Tim Anderson, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Pfizer
would split off four non-pharmaceutical businesses as well as
other units to reduce annual revenue to $35 billion to $40
billion from $67 billion, Anderson said in a research report
today, citing a meeting with Chief Executive Officer Ian Read.  U.S. industrial production probably rose in February for a
third month in the last four, indicating manufacturing remains a
stalwart of the expansion, economists said before a report this
week. Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.6
percent after a 0.1 percent decrease in January, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Federal
Reserve figures on March 17. Other data may show less home
construction and contained inflation excluding food and fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  