-- 
Voters Cast Ballots in Benin as President Boni Yayi Bids for Second Term

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-03-13T09:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-13/voting-starts-in-benin-s-presidential-election-as-boni-yayi-seeks-new-term.html
Voters in  Benin  cast their ballots
in a twice-delayed presidential election today, deciding whether
to hand a second term in office to President Thomas Boni Yayi
after a year marred by the collapse of a  Ponzi scheme  and
devastating floods.  Opposition leader Adrien Houngbedji had threatened to
boycott the vote over concerns that as many as 300,000 people
had been unable to register. On March 11 he said had decided to
contest as last-minute voter sign-ups continued.  Voting in parts of the commercial capital, Cotonou, was
delayed due to a lack of balloting materials, said Joseph Gnonlonfoun, president of the electoral commission, by phone
today. Polling areas around the city were provided with lists of
registered voters only late yesterday, he said.  Boni Yayi faces 12 rivals in the election, which will go to
a second round on March 20 if no candidate wins more than 50
percent.  “I’m happy the election is taking place as it was twice
delayed,” said Justine Amingban, a 57-year-old fish seller as
she waited to vote in Godomey, a town near Cotonou. “I will vote
for the candidate that I think will bring peace and happiness
for the next five years.  Fraud, Floods  Boni Yayi, 58, was tarnished by the June collapse of ICC
Services. ICC was the largest of a group of microcredit lenders
that defrauded 150,000 depositors of the equivalent of 5 percent
of the West African nation’s gross domestic product, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . He appeared in photographs
with officials from ICC Services before it collapsed while
denying any knowledge of the scheme.  The country, which borders  Nigeria , Niger, Togo and  Burkina
Faso , was inundated by heavy rains in September and October. The
floods cut the outlook for growth this year to 3.4 percent from
4.4 percent, Finance Minister Idriss Daouda told the Washington-
based IMF in a letter published on the lender’s website Feb. 25.  Houngbedji, 69, who lost to Boni Yayi in a runoff in 2006,
and Abdoulaye Bio Tchane, a former head of the West  African
Development Bank , are seen as the top two challengers to the
president’s bid for a second five-year term in office.    Benin ’s democracy will triumph over any political crisis,”
said Bio Tchane in remarks broadcast by state-owned Office de
Radiodiffusion et Television du Benin after he voted in his
hometown of Djougou, 410 kilometers (255 miles) north of Cotonou.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 