-- African Unrest Puts Europe's Natural Gas Supply at Risk as Oil Passes $100
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2011-02-02T07:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/african-unrest-puts-europe-s-gas-supply-at-risk-as-oil-gains.html
The unrest in  Egypt  that forced  BG
Group Plc  and  Statoil ASA  to stop drilling threatens a region
that represents more than 15 percent of Europe’s natural gas
supply and 4 percent of the world’s crude oil.  No disruptions to gas pipeline shipments under the
Mediterranean Sea or to oil tankers through the Suez Canal have
been reported so far in North Africa after popular unrest
erupted last month. Concern pushed Brent crude oil on Jan. 31 to
more than $100 a barrel for the first time since 2008.    Algeria , the third-largest gas supplier to Europe, last
month suffered riots over food prices similar to those that
kicked off a broader protest in  Tunisia  and toppled President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14. In Egypt, President Hosni Mubarak failed yesterday to quell protests after saying he will
step down later this year after almost 30 years in power, about
10 years less than Muammar Qaddafi has held sway in  Libya .  “It’s especially southern Europe that’s exposed to a
supply halt from Algeria and Libya,” said Thina Saltvedt, an
analyst at Nordea Markets in Oslo. “As Europe’s third-largest
gas supplier, unrest in Algeria would especially put southern
Europe’s security of supply to the test.”  Algeria and Libya combined export about 70 billion cubic
meters of gas, or about 15 percent of the EU’s annual
consumption. The two members of the Organization for Petroleum
Exporting Countries also pump a combined 2.8 million barrels a
day of crude, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Suez Canal  Egypt pumped 742,000 barrels of crude a day and 62.7
billion cubic meters of gas in 2009, according to  BP Plc  data.  Egypt’s Suez Canal is the main artery for shipping more
than 2.2 million barrels of oil a day headed for Europe and
North America. Last year 368 liquid-natural gas vessels also
went through the Suez to the Mediterranean carrying 30.3 million
tons of the fuel, according to PanEurasian Enterprises Inc.  Egypt produces about 3 percent of the world’s LNG from two
export plants at  Gas Natural SDG SA ’s Damietta and BG’s Idku LNG
facilities, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and Energy
Intelligence Group’s World LNG Review.  “Any supply disruption will certainly impact the balance
of the European gas market, potentially putting upward pressure
on natural gas prices,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts
including Alejandro Demichelis said in a report this week.  Brent oil for March settlement traded at $101.68 a barrel,
down 6 cents, on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London  as of
7:24 a.m. It gained 0.7 percent to $101.74 yesterday, the
highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  Little Disruption  The month-ahead gas for delivery at the Dutch Title
Transfer Facility has slipped 14 percent this year to about
21.15 euros a megawatt-hour. The TTF is the most liquid mainland
European gas hub. The equivalent U.K. gas contract, the most
traded market in Europe, has fallen 14 percent this year.  So far, there has been little disruption in supplies to
Italy from Algeria via the Transmed pipeline from Tunisia. The
link flowed at a rate of about 87 million cubic meters a day on
Jan. 31, according to  Snam Rete Gas SpA ,  Italy ’s pipeline
operator. Algeria also ships through the Maghreb Europe pipeline
to Spain, while Libya sends fuel through a link to Sicily.
Algeria may also open the Medgaz pipeline to  Spain  this month.  “It’s important to emphasize that even if the problems
spread to one of these countries it is not necessarily the case
that energy supplies would be disrupted,” Goldman analysts led
by  Jeffrey Currie  in London said in a weekly note on Jan. 31.
“History has shown that energy can still flow even under very
adverse political conditions.”  Perceptions  All Arab countries except Lebanon and Iraq are classified
as authoritarian regimes in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s
2010 Democracy Index. Egypt, Algeria and Libya rank in the
bottom half, below 65th-placed Tunisia, in the latest survey of
corruption perceptions in 180 nations by Transparency
International in Berlin.  According to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Austria’s  OMV
AG ,  Repsol YPF SA , and  Eni SpA , have the largest exposure to
“political risk” in North Africa. OMV and Repsol have about 20
percent of their reserves in North Africa and Yemen, while Eni
has 17 percent, according to the U.S. bank.  “As far as we’re concerned it’s a problem in Egypt, and
we’re experiencing no problems there at all,” Kristian Rix, a
Repsol spokesman, said by phone from Madrid this week.  No Impact  The unrest in Tunisia and Egypt has “no impact on our
business activities at the moment,” Michaela Huber, a
spokeswoman for OMV in Vienna, said by phone on Jan. 31. She
declined to comment on potential developments.  In Egypt, BG and Statoil halted drilling as the
protests began to take a toll on the industry.  Apache Corp .,
which got about a third of its production revenue from Egypt in
2009, said it shut its Cairo offices.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and
Transocean Inc. also closed offices. BP, the largest foreign
investor in Egypt, made plans to evacuate the families of
expatriate workers.  BP is also the biggest investor in Algeria, according to
its website. The company is seeking to raise money to pay for
the cleanup in the Gulf of Mexico after the Macondo spill, and
Algeria’s government said last month it’s examining the
possibility that assets in the country may be part of that sale.  Three people were killed and 420 injured in clashes with
police this month in Algeria during rallies against high food
prices and a lack of public housing. Three men set themselves on
fire, emulating the Tunisian university graduate whose self-
immolation a month ago began the wave of demonstrations that
culminated in the fall of Ben Ali, El Khabar newspaper reported.  A surge in food and energy costs is stoking inflation in
emerging markets and causing riots that may topple governments,
said Nouriel Roubini, the New York University economist who
predicted the financial crisis, in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” on Jan. 26.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 