-- Cheapest Saudi Shares Signal Gains After Egypt Pummels Middle East Stocks
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r ,   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2011-02-02T14:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/cheapest-saudi-shares-signal-gains-after-egypt-pummels-middle-east-stocks.html
The selloff in  Persian Gulf  stocks
triggered by protests in  Egypt  is “completely unjustifiable”
as  government spending  and rising oil prices underpin economic
growth in the region, Schroder Investment Management Ltd. said.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  fell 5.2 percent
from Jan. 24 through yesterday and fetches 1.9 times net assets,
the cheapest level relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
since Bloomberg began compiling the monthly data in April 2006.
Qatar’s QE Index trades at 2 times book value, a 29 percent
discount to the average level since June 2005, the data show.  “Any contagion into the Gulf Cooperation Council markets
is completely unjustifiable, putting aside company specifics
with exposure to Egypt,” said Rami Sidani, the Dubai-based head
of Middle East and North Africa investment at Schroder, which
oversees about $230 billion of investments worldwide. The crisis
“is a good entry point in stocks we like,” he said.  Stock indexes in the GCC, which stretches from Kuwait to
Oman, tumbled as protesters took to streets in Cairo in an
attempt to oust President  Hosni Mubarak , even as oil-fueled
economies in the Gulf help cushion their citizens from the
hardship that sparked popular anger in the North African nation.  Saudi’s Tadawul index rallied 2.2 percent today in  Riyadh ,
while the  QE index  was little changed. The Dubai Financial
Market General Index jumped 3.3 percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX
General Index rose 1 percent.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  Mubarak said late yesterday he won’t run for another term
and would make way for a new leader in presidential elections in
September. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh told parliament
today he won’t seek to extend his term when it expires in 2013
and called for the formation of a national unity government.
Demonstrators have been calling for Saleh to step down.  “Any weakness in stock prices in places like Saudi, Qatar
and Abu Dhabi is a buying opportunity,” Mark Diab, a money
manager at GLG Partners who runs the Ocean MENA Opportunities
fund and Ocean GCC Opportunities fund, said in an interview from
Doha. “It may push some governments in the broader region to be
a lot more pro-active.”  Nationals in some Gulf countries such as  Kuwait , Qatar and
the  United Arab Emirates , which are monarchies, receive
government benefits including housing loans, marriage grants and
free medical services.  Purchasing Power  Gross domestic product was $23,395 per person in Saudi
Arabia in 2009, $48,631 in Kuwait and $57,744 in the U.A.E.,
according to purchasing-power adjusted terms data compiled by
Bloomberg. In Egypt it was $5,673.  Saudi Arabia has about 20 percent of the world’s proven oil
reserves, the U.A.E. and Kuwait each about 7 percent and Qatar 2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The risk of contagion into the GCC is extremely low,”
said  Paul Cooper , Dubai-based managing director at Sarasin-Alpen
& Partners Ltd., which oversees more than $500 million in the
Middle East. “The derisking of portfolios would see some money
coming out of the region, but the relative attractions of the
GCC will go up.”  In the medium term, “fund managers will rebalance
portfolios heavily toward GCC countries and not North Africa,”
he said.  Demonstrations  The Egyptian demonstrations, which have left about 300
dead, according to preliminary United Nations data, followed a
revolt in  Tunisia  that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
on Jan. 14. Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators filled
Cairo’s Tahrir Square yesterday in the eighth day of protests.  Egypt’s EGX30 stock index has lost 21 percent since the
fall of the Tunisian president. Egypt’s bourse, which has been
closed since Jan. 30, will decide whether to open on a day-by-
day basis, the exchange’s communications manager, Hisham Turk,
said yesterday.  Global-depository receipts of Egyptian companies traded in  London  soared yesterday as the latest protests in Cairo passed
off relatively peacefully.  Orascom Construction Industries ,
Egypt’s biggest publicly-traded builder, jumped almost 20
percent, after having lost 29 percent in the preceding six
sessions.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  surged 9.4 percent and
Commercial International Bank SAE gained 14 percent.  Egypt’s dollar bonds gained for the first time in six days
yesterday and credit risk fell the most on record on speculation
that the government will honor its debt payments even amid the
unrest.  Any deterioration in the political situation in Egypt could
hit markets in the Gulf, said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu
Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Bonds Rise  International funds may dump investments in the Middle East
if “the scenario of banks, stocks and currency failures
occurs,” in Egypt, Farhat said in an interview.  The $321 million Schroder International Selection Fund-
Middle East, run by Sidani, has lost 6.7 percent this year,
worse than 69 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It returned 25 percent in 2010, beating 80 percent of
peers, the data show.  The fund holds 7 percent of its assets in Egypt and 60
percent in the GCC, according to Sidani. The firm favors  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar because “both markets offer great prospects of
growth where drivers are domestic,” Sidani said.  Qatar Stadium  Qatar, projected by the  International Monetary Fund  to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, plans to spend $4
billion to build nine stadiums and refurbish three others as it
prepares to host the soccer  World Cup . A planned rail and metro
network will cost more than $25 billion.  The $81 billion Qatari economy expanded 16 percent in 2010,
after 8.6 percent growth in 2009, the IMF said in its World
Economic Outlook report in October.  Economic growth in Saudi Arabia will accelerate to 4.5
percent in 2011 from 3.4 percent in 2010, the IMF said. Saudi
Arabian companies stand to benefit from the government’s 1.44
trillion-riyal ($384 billion) development plan approved Aug. 9.  Credit Suisse Group AG and EFG-Hermes Holding SAE
recommended Saudi Arabian shares in reports last month, citing
the possibility of an easing of foreign ownership restrictions
in the Persian Gulf’s biggest stock exchange. The banks said
Qatari shares may benefit from a possible upgrade to emerging
markets status at MSCI Inc.    Saudi Basic Industries Corp ., the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, trades for 14 times profits, compared with
the average of 37 times for global peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock is poised to rise 29 percent in
the next 12 months, according to the average of three analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg since Jan. 24.  The shares gained 4.5 percent today, the most since Nov. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 Zhankir@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 Cmaedler@bloomberg.net  