-- Euro Declines After Ireland's Rating Is Cut by S&P; U.K. Pound Strengthens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2011-02-02T15:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/dollar-trades-near-three-month-low-versus-euro-before-u-s-employment-data.html
The euro fell against the dollar for
the first time in three days after Ireland’s credit rating was
cut by Standard & Poor’s, reviving concern that  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis may worsen.  The single currency weakened from an almost three-month
high against the greenback and erased its gains against the yen
as  Germany  ruled out allowing the European Financial Stability
Facility to fund bond buybacks. The pound rose against the
dollar for a third day as a  Bank of England  policy maker said
borrowing costs should be increased. Egyptian President  Hosni
Mubarak  sought to reclaim Cairo’s streets.  “We’re at overbought territory for the euro, so it needed
an excuse to come off; the Irish story was part of it and
Germany saying the EFSF can’t buy bonds is big deal,” said
Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in  New York . “Geopolitical tensions have come
back today -- Mubarak is not going away quietly.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent against the dollar to $1.3809 at
10:56 a.m. in New York. Earlier it rose to $1.3862, the highest
level since Nov. 9. Against the yen, the single currency was up
0.2 percent to 112.70 per euro after rising earlier as much as
0.4 percent.  The negative Irish outlook reflects “our view of the
uncertainties surrounding the size of Ireland’s additional
capital needs for its largely state-owned financial sector,”
S&P said.  Rescue Facility, Pound  The euro weakened against most of its 16 major counterparts
as a German government official briefing reporters before a Feb.
4 European Union summit said the 440 billion-euro ($608 billion)
EFSF lacks the legal authority to purchase outstanding debt to
ease finances of countries including  Greece .  “There’s been excitement about changes to the EFSF; that
has helped the euro rally,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova
Scotia currency strategist in Toronto. “The market is shifting
its focus back to Europe.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six of
its peers, was little changed at 77.063, after touching an
almost three-month low of 76.883 as the euro rallied. The 17-
nation currency constitutes 57.6 percent of the index.  Britain’s pound rose 0.4 percent to $1.6205, after reaching
$1.6230, the highest level since Nov. 5. It appreciated 0.5
percent to 85.28 pence per euro.  U.K. Building Activity  A gauge of U.K. building activity in January, based on a
survey of purchasing managers rose to 53.7 from 49.1 the
previous month, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said today. That beat the
median forecast of 49.5 from 11 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.    Andrew Sentance , a member of the Bank of England Monetary
Policy Committee, told City A.M. newspaper interest rates must
be raised now at a steady pace to avoid a large increase later.
Sentance, who voted for a rate increase at the bank’s previous
meeting, said Britain will face difficulty stabilizing prices
should the “inflation genie get out of the bottle.”  “The fact that we are getting members of the Monetary
Policy Committee coming out and making their feelings about
fighting inflation clear has been an upward force on sterling,”
said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. in London.  The Swiss franc erased earlier losses against the euro as
investors looked for a safe haven amid renewed concern over
turmoil in  Egypt . Supporters of President Mubarak tried to storm
the building of an independent Cairo-based newspaper. Opposition
leaders and protesters rejected the president’s concession he
won’t run in presidential elections in September.    Switzerland ’s currency was little changed against the euro
at 1.2939, rebounding from a 0.3 percent decline. The franc was
0.2 percent weaker at 93.68 centimes per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  