-- Health-Care Law Goes to Appeals Courts, Opposing States Weigh Enforcement
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/health-care-law-goes-to-appeals-courts-as-states-differ-on-statute-s-scope.html
The fight over President Barack Obama’s health-care law, after federal judges split on whether
it’s constitutional, is headed to three U.S. appeals courts as
states examine whether the statute is enforceable.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires
citizens over age 18 to obtain health coverage as part of the
Obama administration’s goal of  near-universal health care . A
federal judge in  Pensacola ,  Florida , ruled on Jan. 31 that the
mandate exceeded Congress’ power to regulate commerce and
invalidated the entire law.  Three other judges in Virginia and Michigan have weighed in
on the law -- two affirming its legality and one striking it
down in part.  While the Florida lawsuit was filed on behalf of 26 states,
all four cases will be on an equal footing at the appellate
level as the dispute moves toward the U.S. Supreme Court. Those
cases -- from Detroit and Richmond and Lynchburg in Virginia,
along with the Florida suit -- will now rise to three-judge
panels of the U.S. courts of appeal in Cincinnati, Richmond and
Atlanta.  In the interim, states are mulling whether the law remains
enforceable and are considering a request for expedited  Supreme
Court  review, Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff said
yesterday in a phone interview.  Supreme Court  The ruling by U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in Pensacola
left attorneys general questioning how they should handle the
law in their states, said Shurtleff, a Republican whose state
joined the Florida lawsuit. “The question is: Is the law stayed
in the 26 states? That needs to be resolved.”  “We don’t think we can advise that this law is void,”
Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, a Republican who opposes the
act, said yesterday in a phone interview. “It will get resolved
fairly quickly with a court decision. I would hope the U.S.
Supreme Court would find a way to expedite this.”  While the appeals are pending, the federal government may
seek to enforce the health-care law outside of judicial
districts where part or all of it has been invalidated. The
states involved in the Florida lawsuit discussed their options
during a phone conference yesterday, Shurtleff said.  “There is clear and well-established legal precedent that
Congress acted within its constitutional authority in passing
this law and we are confident that we will ultimately prevail on
appeal,”  Justice Department  spokeswoman  Tracy Schmaler  said in
an e-mailed statement following the Jan. 31 ruling.  Law’s Requirements  The 955-page law bars insurers from denying coverage to
people who are sick and from imposing lifetime limits on costs.
It includes projects to test ideas such as incentives for better
results and bundled payments to medical teams for patient care.  In addition to appealing Vinson’s ruling, the Justice
Department is seeking to overturn the Dec. 13 decision by U.S.
District Judge Henry Hudson in Richmond, in which he invalidated
the purchase requirement.  Vinson, appointed in 1983 by President  Ronald Reagan , a
Republican, said the mandate for coverage was tied so
inextricably to the entire law as to invalidate it in its
entirety. Hudson, appointed to the bench in 2002 by President  George W. Bush , a Republican, held that the provision was
severable from the remainder of the legislation.  Both interpretations clash with a Nov. 30 ruling by U.S.
District Judge Norman Moon in Lynchburg, who rejected a
challenge to the statute brought by Liberty University. Moon was
appointed in 1997 by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat.  Appeal Arguments  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in
Richmond is scheduled in May to hear arguments on the rulings by
Hudson and Moon. The Obama administration said it will appeal
Vinson’s ruling to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 11th
Circuit in Atlanta.  On Oct. 7, U.S. District Judge George Caram Steeh in  Detroit  rejected a challenge to the health-care law in a case
filed by the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center.
Steeh was appointed to the bench in 1998 by Clinton.  The center, which opposes the law, is asking the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati to overturn
Steeh’s ruling.  “I think there’s momentum with the states,” Oklahoma
Attorney General Scott Pruitt said in a phone interview. He
filed his own challenge to the legislation on Jan. 21 in federal
court in Muskogee,  Oklahoma . He seeks to have the entire act
declared void. “Now we’ve got two separate rulings where the
individual mandate has been stricken,” he said.  Law Invalidated  Vinson took the additional step of invalidating the entire
measure, Pruitt said.  That decision ought to mean the act is nationally null and
void, said Pruitt, a Republican. “Normally that would cause the
federal government to cease its enforcement of the law” unless
application of the ruling is stayed, he said.  “The attitude out of  Washington  is that this is not going
to happen,” Pruitt said. He said the Obama administration has
been “pretty dismissive” of Vinson’s ruling.  The U.S. hasn’t filed a response to Pruitt’s lawsuit.  In a statement yesterday,  Wisconsin  Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen , a Republican opposed to the law and a participant in
the Florida lawsuit, said he doesn’t believe the federal statute
needs to be enforced following Vinson’s ruling.  “For Wisconsin, the federal health-care law is dead --
unless and until it is revived by an appellate court,” Van
Hollen said. “Wisconsin was relieved of any obligations or
duties that were created under terms of the federal health-care
law.”  Wisconsin, part of the U.S. Seventh Circuit, isn’t within
the federal court districts where the law has been litigated.    Virginia ’s Stance  Kenneth Cuccinelli, the Virginia attorney general who won
the December ruling finding the mandate unconstitutional, also
said the law is no longer in effect.  “Even the things that have gone into effect are no longer
in effect,” he said yesterday in a phone interview. “The
Constitution means the same thing everywhere.”  Virginia won’t cease enforcement of provisions of the
health-care law as a result of Vinson’s decision, he said.  “Why waste time?” he said. The federal government will
ask for a stay of Vinson’s order, which the appeals court
“likely” will grant, he said.  Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi didn’t immediately
respond to an interview request.  Tim Jost, a law professor at the Washington &  Lee
University  in Lexington, Virginia, disputed the conclusions
reached by Cuccinelli and Van Hollen.  States ‘Presumptuous’  “The statute has been upheld by two other courts in full
and in another court, other than the individual mandate,” Jost
said in a phone interview. “It would be presumptuous to say the
law is no longer valid and the states are off the hook.”  “I don’t think it’s absolutely clear how far this judgment
goes,” Jost said of Vinson’s decision. “I would expect that
that’s an issue the Justice Department is trying to get
clarified.”  Schmaler, the Justice Department spokeswoman, said the U.S.
is still analyzing the ruling and considering what steps, if
any, to take pending appeal.    Utah ’s Shurtleff said he expects the federal government will
file its notice of appeal with the U.S. court in Atlanta and
then ask it to block enforcement of Vinson’s decision.  “We’re not going to oppose a stay,” Shurtleff said.
“That puts us at ease. That will at least pause it.”  The 26 states’ attorneys general then would file a request
for expedited hearing before the Supreme Court, he said.  “We want to get this done,” Shurtleff said.  The cases are State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola); Commonwealth of Virginia v.
Sebelius, 11-01057, and Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-
02347, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond);
Thomas More Law Center v. Obama, 10-02388, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 