-- Financial Institutions in New York Warned by FBI of Al-Qaeda Terror Threat
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/fbi-says-it-told-new-york-finance-firms-of-non-specific-al-qaeda-threat.html
Financial institutions in  New York 
were told by the FBI that they face a potential terrorist threat
from al-Qaeda, a spokesman for the bureau said.  The banks were given briefings last month on the possible
threats from al-Qaeda after published reports surfaced focusing
on those businesses, said Jim Margolin, a spokesman for the New
York office of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  “The threat information is that it’s not imminent and not
specific,” Margolin said yesterday in a phone interview.  The FBI and members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force,
which includes the New York Police Department, regularly give
briefings to the public sector about terrorist threats, he said.  “In the nearly 10 years since 9/11, we give briefings as
circumstances warrant,” Margolin said. “This threat was in the
course of a periodic updates given to them in the evolving
threat stream.”  In January, an editorial written by Anwar al-Awlaki was
posted on the Internet magazine Inspire, published by al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemeni branch of the terrorist
organization that took credit for Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  The Yemeni-American cleric supports violence against U.S.
targets and encourages the targeting of major Western financial
institutions under an editorial titled: “Is it halal to
dispossess the wealth of the disbelievers in America and other
Western Countries?”  Suggested Targets  “We therefore suggest that the following should be
targeted: Government owned property, banks; global
corporations,” he wrote. “Wealth belonging to disbelievers
with known animosity towards Muslims.”  Al-Awlaki, who was born in the U.S., also has posted videos
on the Internet justifying the killing of American civilians and
urged Muslims in the U.S. Army to kill their fellow soldiers.  Both the U.S. government and its citizens should be
targeted, he said.  “The reasoning behind comparing the booty to hunting and
wood gathering is because the property which exists in the hands
of the disbelievers is not considered to be rightfully theirs,”
al-Awlaki said.  In October,  Faisal Shahzad , who drove a bomb-laden vehicle
into New York’s crowded Times Square in May, was sentenced to
life in prison.  “The Koran gives us the right to defend, and that’s what
I’m doing,” Shahzad told U.S. District Judge Miriam Cedarbaum
in New York at his sentencing. “Brace yourself, because the war
with Muslims has just begun. Consider me only a first droplet of
the flood that will follow me.”  Printer Cartridges  U.S. authorities have been closely monitoring the use of
mail and shipping as a potential method for terrorists attacks
after two bombs were discovered in printer cartridges being
shipped on U.S.-bound aircraft in October.  Investigators have been looking at whether the shipments
were staged as rehearsals for a future attack, a U.S. official
has said.    United Parcel Service Inc . said the FBI checked packages on
three jets from  Europe , while  FedEx Corp . embargoed shipments
from Yemen in October after a parcel from the country was seized
by officials at its Dubai facility.  The attempted bombings seem to be the work of al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula, said  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s top counterterrorism adviser, in a November television
interview.  The sophistication of the bombs “shows that it was an al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula effort,” Brennan said on ABC’s
“This Week” program.  A spokesman for the New York Police Department, who didn’t
give his name, declined to comment when asked about the FBI
threat announcement yesterday.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 