-- Freescale Said to Pick Deutsche Bank, Citigroup to Handle IPO
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/freescale-semiconductor-is-said-to-hire-deutsche-bank-citigroup-for-ipo.html
Freescale Semiconductor Inc., the
chipmaker owned by private-equity firms including  Blackstone
Group LP  and TPG Capital, picked  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Citigroup
Inc . to handle its initial public offering, three people
familiar with the decision said.  The chipmaker also enlisted  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Barclays Plc ’s Barclays Capital to work on the sale, said two of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the decision
hasn’t been made public.  Freescale, taken private in a $17.6 billion transaction in
2006, would use funds raised in an IPO to pay down $1.2 billion
of debt coming due in 2014, Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer
said in December. The largest supplier of computer chips to U.S.
automakers, Freescale piled on debt when it was taken private by
Blackstone, TPG, Carlyle Group and Permira Advisers LLP.  Rob Hatley, a spokesman for Austin, Texas-based Freescale,
and Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, declined to
comment. Duncan King, a spokesman for Credit Suisse; Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for  Barclays Capital ; and Mark Costiglio,
a spokesman for Citigroup, also declined to comment.
Representatives of the private-equity firms declined to comment
or didn’t return requests for comment.  Freescale’s net loss narrowed to $102 million in the fourth
quarter as sales rose 24 percent to $1.18 billion, the company
said Jan. 27.  Freescale’s Decline  Freescale has debt of about $8.2 billion, according to the
statement. Of that, about $3 billion comes due in 2016,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the past two years, CEO Beyer has cut jobs, closed
plants, and negotiated with bondholders to lower what was once a
$10 billion debt burden.  Freescale’s 2006 buyout was the biggest technology deal of
the private-equity boom. Then the financial crisis hit and the
company suffered as car sales plummeted in 2008 and 2009.  Adding to its woes, Freescale’s single-largest customer,
Motorola Inc. , hemorrhaged market share in the face of
competition and its failure to release a bestselling handset to
follow the Razr. Motorola is now called Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 