-- Goldman Sachs Creates Block Trading Strategy to Work With Algos
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2011-02-02T18:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/goldman-sachs-introduces-blockstrike-system-for-block-trades.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s new
BlockStrike strategy for handling large orders from clients is
meant to help firms trade blocks more efficiently while they
execute in smaller pieces on exchanges and other venues.  The Goldman Sachs Electronic Trading unit is aiming to
boost trading efficiency in a marketplace of more than 50  stock
exchanges  and other venues, including broker-run dark pools, or
private venues that execute transactions without displaying bids
and offers in advance, said Dave Johnsen, head of liquidity
strategy at GSET. Traders must currently juggle execution
tactics as they transact orders in the public market through
algorithms, or automated trading strategies, and submit orders
to dark pools.  A trader at a mutual fund or investment firm may send part
of a block order to an algorithm that seeks to exceed the
stock’s volume-weighted average price, another portion to a
strategy that executes pieces in many dark pools, and another to
a pool specializing in bigger trade requests, Johnsen said.  “It’s a lot of pots on the stove,” he said. Goldman’s
BlockStrike strategy will try to find block liquidity while
managing the other parts of the order using a trading algorithm
to execute smaller buy or sell requests on the  New York  Stock
Exchange, BZX Exchange and other markets. “The bases here are
all covered with one order,” Johnsen said.  ‘Check a Box’  “In the past, traders had to decide whether to commit
their order to an algorithm or try to negotiate a block in a
dark pool,” Greg Tusar, managing director and co-head of
Goldman Sachs Electronic Trading, said in a statement yesterday
announcing the strategy. “With BlockStrike, our clients now
have the ability to accomplish both simultaneously -- and all
they have to do is to check a box.”  Goldman had the third-largest equity trading market share
among brokers for orders from institutional investors, according
to a June report from Greenwich Associates, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The ranking was weighted by commissions paid.  BlockStrike will employ what the broker calls contingent
block orders that submit bids or offers to multiple dark pools
to find bigger trading interest from other firms. Johnsen refers
to these as “block-share placeholders.”  The number of shares made available to those venues can be
as large as the total order. When block matches become possible,
the venue checks with Goldman’s algorithm to make sure the
entire size is still available and then executes the trade. This
is done automatically with no human interaction, he said.  Contingent Orders  The firm will initially send contingent orders to Goldman’s
Sigma X dark pool and  Bids Trading LP , the New York-based
operator of a dark pool used by brokers and asset managers, both
of which are able to accept those requests. BlockStrike will
also place traditional orders for a large minimum number of
shares that can be traded immediately in other pools. The
default minimum is 10,000 shares or $200,000 in value. Others
among the approximately 10 pools Goldman accesses may receive
contingent orders if they decide to handle them.  Using contingent or uncommitted orders encourages “size
discovery,” or the ability to execute blocks at a specified
price, which is important to mutual funds,  hedge funds  and
brokers whose algorithms are executing in small pieces over a
period of time, said Tim Mahoney, chief executive officer at
Bids. Finding someone to trade with in a dark pool allows those
firms to reduce the price impact their orders may otherwise have
in the market, as speculators seek profits by trying to figure
out what’s being bought or sold, he said.  ‘Information Leakage’  “Block trading is an important way to control information
leakage,” Mahoney said. “If you trade 250,000 shares in
thousand-share lots, each time a print hits the tape, you’re
giving away information to the marketplace.” The tape refers to
the public record of all transactions. He said Goldman is
helping customers by giving them more ways to trade blocks and
will increase the liquidity available in his pool. Bids is a
joint venture with a consortium of firms including Goldman.  Goldman is also expanding its electronic trading offerings
in Canada and Latin America, Tusar said. This includes
algorithms, order-routing tools and transaction cost analysis
that evaluates the benefits of trading through particular
strategies. He said Goldman is considering introducing its Sigma
X dark pool to  Canada . Sigma X was the second-largest U.S. pool
in November, with 1.6 percent of equities trading, according to
Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  Growth Markets  So-called growth markets are also a “hugely important
focus area for our firm,” said Todd Lopez, co-head of sales for
the Americas at GSET. In addition to  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China , markets such as  South Korea ,  Mexico ,  Indonesia  and  Turkey 
are important, he said. Goldman is focusing on those countries
whose securities regulations encourage competition among market
centers and currently have low electronic adoption, he said.  Brazil, which has introduced new high-speed connections to
its stock and futures exchanges and co-location, or the ability
to place computer servers near a venue’s trading engine, is
likely to continue to attract high-frequency trading firms whose
investment and execution models rely on “robust technological
infrastructure,” he said.  Over the last two years, Goldman has also increased the
information it gives customers about how its algorithms operate
and where they trade, Tusar said. Asset managers want to
understand more about how and why the trading logic behind the
automated strategies they use changes over time, and which
venues provide better executions. More firms are also
customizing the strategies to their own needs and views about
how particular stocks trade, he said.  Algorithm Limits  Clients are specifying more limits on how they want
algorithms to operate, Lopez said. A fund, for instance, may
decide that if the price of a stock under $10 moves 500 basis
points away from its level when Goldman received the order, the
algorithm should stop trading until the client decides what to
do. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Customers also want to know “how we’re going to handle the
orders in abnormal circumstances,” Tusar said. That concern was
driven by increased interest in the workings of algorithms among
asset managers over the last two years and fueled by the May 6
plunge that briefly erased $862 billion in equity value, before
the market recovered, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 