-- Obama Turns to a Former Diplomat to Deliver Bad News to Mubarak
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2011-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/obama-s-troubleshooter-in-egypt-has-ties-to-largest-bank.html
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
heard the U.S. message that it was time to go from a retired
American diplomat, Frank Wisner, who has deep ties to Egypt’s
political, military and economic sectors.  Wisner, 72, was U.S. ambassador to Egypt from 1986 to 1991
and has maintained ties to the country, people who know him
said. He has served on the board of Cairo-based  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE , the country’s largest private-
sector lender, since 2009.  Wisner met with Mubarak on Jan. 31, carrying Obama’s
message that the Egyptian leader’s time in office was nearing an
end, an administration official familiar with Wisner’s visit
said yesterday.  Mubarak, beset by mass protests, announced yesterday that
he wouldn’t run for another term and would allow elections and a
transfer of power in the next few months. It would be the first
change of regime in Egypt in three decades.  The thousands of people in Cairo’s main square roared
following the television statement. Some reacted with anger to
the president’s plan to remain in office until elections are
held.  The turmoil has investors concerned about revolt spreading
to other Arab countries and the impact on operation of the  Suez
Canal .  Leslie Gelb, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations in  New York , described Wisner as “a super diplomat.”  “What he brings is decades of experience on how to handle
the toughest situation and difficult people,”  Gelb said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Unusual’ Contacts  During his tenure as the U.S. ambassador to Egypt, Wisner
established contacts with Egyptians outside the government,
which is “unusual for an American ambassador,” Gelb said.  Wisner is familiar with all political players, including
“the Muslim Brotherhood in all its dimensions,” Gelb said, and
if he “wanted to see anyone, I’ve no doubt they would see
him.” As an unofficial emissary, Wisner wouldn’t be bound by
U.S. rules prohibiting contact with certain groups, Gelb said.  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said Jan.
31 that Wisner was in Cairo to “gain a perspective” on
Mubarak’s thinking and “reinforce”  Obama’s call for political
and economic changes.  “Frank knows and understands the role of investment and
development in Egypt,” Thomas Pickering, former U.S.
undersecretary of State for political affairs, who preceded
Wisner as U.S. ambassador to  India  from 1992 to 1993, said in a
telephone interview.  Complex Assistance Program  During Wisner’s term as ambassador in Egypt, he “looked
after one of the largest and most complex U.S. assistance
programs,” Pickering said. The U.S. provides $1.5 billion of
aid to Egypt annually, including military and economic grants.  The continued turmoil in Egypt may lead to a surge in bank
withdrawals by customers, which “would be the biggest
concern,” Robert McKinnon, chief investment officer at ASAS
Capital in Dubai, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 30.
Authorities are likely to keep the financial system closed to
avert the risk, he said.  Wisner also has ties to some of the largest U.S.
corporations, including a previous stint on the board of  American International Group Inc . of New York. He served as a
director from 1997 to 2003 and later held the position of vice
chairman of external affairs until February 2009.  He continues to serve on the boards of Houston, Texas-based  EOG Resources Inc ., formerly Enron Oil & Gas Co., as well as  Ethan Allen Interiors Inc ., the Danbury, Connecticut-based
furniture maker.  He is a foreign affairs adviser in New York for Washington-
based  Patton Boggs  LLP.  Diplomatic Assignments  In his U.S. government roles, he has held diplomatic
assignments in locales as varied as Algeria and  Vietnam ,
according to his Patton Boggs profile. He served as the U.S.
undersecretary of Defense for policy and the U.S. undersecretary
of State for international security affairs.  In 2005, then-Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  picked
Wisner to be country’s special representative to the Kosovo
Status Talks that led to the country’s independence from  Serbia 
in 2008.  Wisner stayed involved in  Egypt  long after he left the U.S.
embassy there, Pickering said.  Knows Mubarak Well  Wisner has “kept up with Egypt and knows Mubarak very well
as well all the Egyptian players,” said Pickering, now vice
chairman of Hills & Co., a consulting firm in  Washington . He has
a “very strong feel for what the street is interested in,”
Pickering said.  Wisner also has known  Omar Suleiman , the newly appointed
vice president, who previously has served as the country’s
intelligence chief, Pickering said.  In September 2005, after Mubarak won his fifth six-year
term in the first multi-candidate election, Wisner called it a
“major development” in Egypt  in an interview  published by the  Council on Foreign Relations .  Egypt’s government “wants to, as was decided by Mubarak,
move Egypt down the road to democratic reform, democratic
inclusion,” Wisner said in the interview, posted on the website
of the nonpartisan New York think tank. “But like everything
that has typified his presidency, he’ll be very careful about
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  