-- Oil Extends Decline as U.S. Supplies Rise, Egypt Risk Subsides
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-02T06:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/oil-trades-near-91-after-falling-as-egypt-supply-disruption-threat-eases.html
Oil dropped a second day in  New York 
as crude stockpiles in the U.S. rose and concern eased that
unrest in Egypt will disrupt supplies through the Suez Canal.  Futures slumped 1.5 percent yesterday after canal officials
said traffic is moving normally on the waterway that carries
more than 2.2 million barrels of oil a day. U.S. stockpiles
increased for a fourth week, the American Petroleum Institute
said. An Energy Department report today may also show supplies
climbed. New York crude’s discount to Brent widened after the
API said inventories at the Cushing oil hub climbed to a record.  “The news has filtered out that the Suez Canal hasn’t been
disrupted and the chances of contagion from Egypt to other big
oil producers is relatively small,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals
and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by telephone today. “It’s caused a little bit
of a sell-off in the crude market.”  Crude for March delivery fell as much as 32 cents, or 0.4
percent, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , trading at $90.49 a barrel at 2:12 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract dropped to $90.77. Prices settled
at $92.19 on Jan. 31, the highest since Oct. 3, 2008. Oil is up
17 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for March settlement traded at $101.42 a barrel,
down 32 cents, or 0.3 percent, on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . It gained 0.7 percent to $101.74 yesterday,
the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  Brent Premium  Brent’s premium over New York futures widened to $10.90 a
barrel today. The difference was $8.82 on Jan. 31.  The American Petroleum Institute reported that U.S. crude
stockpiles increased 3.77 million barrels to 346.5 million last
week. An Energy Department report today may show inventories
climbed by 2.5 million barrels, according to the median of 15
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Supplies in Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for West
Texas Intermediate crude futures, gained 667,000 barrels to 38.4
million barrels, the most since Bloomberg data from the API
begins in 2004.  The premium paid for April contracts in New York over March
futures, known as the contango, rose to $2.76 a barrel in New
York, the highest since May, as rising supplies depress nearer-
term prices.  Crude Rally  About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through  Egypt  via the Suez Canal and the adjacent Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said he won’t stand down
until elections due in September, angering the hundreds of
thousands gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square to demand an
immediate end to his regime.  Crude capped the biggest two-day rally since May on Jan. 31
on concern the unrest in North Africa will spread to crude-
producing countries in the Middle East. Jordan announced a
change of government yesterday following protests last week.
Prime Minister Samir Rifai resigned and King Abdullah asked
Marouf Bakhit, to form a new government.  The Jordanian announcement and Egyptian protests follow a
revolt in  Tunisia  that forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
into exile on Jan. 14.  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates 
and  Kuwait , three of OPEC’s biggest oil producers, are located
on the Arabian Peninsula and haven’t seen unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  