-- Orban's Deficit Pledge Convinces Investors Spooked by Unorthodox Hungary
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-02-02T10:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/orban-s-pledge-convinces-investors-spooked-by-unorthodox-hungary.html
Hungarian Premier  Viktor Orban  is
winning over investors with a pledge to cut spending after the
reception to his unorthodox policies last year turned the forint
into the worst-performing major currency.  Hungary’s 10-year government bonds were the best performers
in emerging  Europe  since the government first outlined plans to
trim spending on Jan. 12. The forint today rose to a three-month
high against the euro. The benchmark BUX stock index gained 6.5
percent in January, its best month since March 2010.  Orban’s Cabinet will approve changes in pension and welfare
spending on Feb. 28 to save $3.3 billion a year by 2013 as he
seeks to avert a debt downgrade to junk. The government last
year spurned international loans and compared its finances to  Greece ’s while relying on the effective nationalization of
private-pension funds and extra taxes on energy, financial,
retail and telecommunication companies to plug budget holes.  “Orban had made the impression that he views the market as
an enemy,” Thomas Kirchmair, who helps manage $4.1 billion in
European debt at Deka Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , said by
phone. “What we are hearing out of Hungary now is that it may
be turning around and structural reforms to be announced at the
end of February could be a positive.”  Kirchmair upgraded Hungarian debt to “neutral” from
“underweight” last month. The yield on the benchmark five-year
bond fell to 7.02 percent on Jan. 27, the lowest since Nov. 15,
according to Bloomberg data. The forint gained 2.1 percent, its
biggest monthly rally since September. It traded up 0.2 percent
against the euro at 269.96 as of 10:24 a.m. in Budapest.  Credit-Rating Threat  Orban wants to reduce  government borrowing  in the European
Union’s most indebted eastern nation after winning elections
nine months ago on a pledge to boost growth and end five years
of austerity.  Credit-rating companies have said the government needs to
take additional measures to prevent the budget gap from widening
in the coming years. Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings 
and Standard & Poor’s all rate Hungary’s debt at their lowest
investment grade. A negative outlook signals they are more
likely to be cut than raised or left unchanged.  Orban’s government “has a knack for thinking outside the
box,” which created risks for investors, Timothy Ash, head of
emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  London , said in an e-mail.  The planned measures include reducing spending on pensions,  unemployment benefits  and state subsidies for drugs, Orban said
in a Wall Street Journal interview published on Jan. 13, a day
after the first outlines of the new steps emerged.  Rehn’s Invitation  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  invited Hungarian Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  to
discuss the planned measures as soon as possible, his spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said in an e-mail yesterday. The effect of the
pension measures, which will improve the  budget deficit  this
year, will be mostly temporary, he wrote in response to
questions from Bloomberg.  Hungary may wait for the government’s announcement before
selling foreign-currency bonds, as the plan may push down yields
further, Debt Management Agency Deputy Director Laszlo Andras Borbely said in a Jan. 28 phone interview. The risk of a
downgrade to junk is being priced out, he said.  “There’s momentum in Hungarian assets,”  Dmitry Gourov , a
Vienna-based strategist at UniCredit SpA, said in a phone
interview. “Investors have been underweight for the last couple
of quarters and are starting to reassess this, pouring money
into local assets and pushing yields down.”  In the first six months of Orban’s four-year term, the cost
of protecting Hungarian debt against non-payment for five years
using credit-default swaps rose more than for any other country
except Portugal and  Spain .  ‘Partly Successful’    Hungary ’s swaps fell to 312.52 basis points today, the
lowest since Nov. 19, according to data compiled by CMA. They
may fall to 300 in the “next couple of months” to match
Romania’s and Croatia’s, Gourov said.  “The recent performance of Hungarian assets suggests this
strategy is indeed partly successful,”  Piotr Kalisz  and Cezary
Chrapek, Warsaw-based Citigroup Inc economists, wrote in an e-
mail. “Hopes that Hungarian economic policy could make a U-turn
towards sustainable fiscal adjustment helped to strengthen the
forint and pushed forint-denominated bond yields lower.”  With stocks, bonds and the currency rallying, the pressure
is on the government to deliver on the promised changes or risk
a market backlash, said Akos Ruzsonyi, a currency trader at
Commerzbank AG in Budapest.  “There is a saying which is a cliché but is very true: buy
the rumor, sell the fact,” Ruzsonyi said. “That is very
appropriate for Hungary. If the new measures disappoint and it
turns out they’re not sustainable then in a less optimistic
global environment we could easily go into reverse again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  