-- Paulson Group Said to Hire Law Firm for Resort Bankruptcy Advice
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2011-02-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/paulson-winthrop-group-said-to-hire-law-firm-for-resort-bankruptcy-advice.html
The lenders that seized eight  luxury
resorts  from Morgan Stanley’s real estate funds hired a law firm
to explore a bankruptcy filing for the properties that may come
as early as today, said a person familiar with the talks.  Paulson & Co.,  Winthrop Realty Trust  and Capital Trust Inc.
asked Kirkland & Ellis LLP to evaluate a bankruptcy as they
pursued an extension of senior debt due today, according to the
person, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
They have failed to reach agreement with holders of a $1 billion
securitized mortgage, the person said.  Paulson and the other investors seized the resorts in a
foreclosure auction on Jan. 28. A bankruptcy filing would enable
the investors to suspend interest payments while they try to
restructure the debt. The court would appoint a receiver and
provide a venue and format for the loans to be reworked.  The $1 billion mortgage, backed by five of the former CNL
Hotels & Resorts Inc. properties, and $500 million of additional
debt mature today. Midland Loan Services, a unit of  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc ., is the special servicer for the
mortgage. Frederick Solomon, a PNC spokesman, declined to
comment.  Douglas McLemore, executive director of Chicago-based
Kirkland & Ellis, didn’t respond to a telephone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, didn’t
respond to an e-mail after regular business hours yesterday.  Decline in Value  The resorts have fallen in value since Morgan Stanley
acquired them for $6.7 billion in 2007. The Paulson group held
junior debt that helped finance Morgan Stanley’s acquisition of
CNL Hotels, positioning them to foreclose on the equity
ownership after the bank defaulted on the debt.  Winthrop Realty and Bill Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP previously tried to wrest control of  Manhattan ’s
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village with junior debt and ended
up selling their stake to representatives of the senior lenders,
who were poised to foreclose on the apartment complex.  The former CNL properties are the Grand Wailea Resort Hotel
and Spa in  Hawaii ; the La Quinta Resort and Club and adjacent
PGA West golf course in La Quinta,  California ; the  JW Marriott
Desert Ridge Resort  and Arizona Biltmore Resort and Spa, both in
Phoenix; the Doral Golf Resort and Spa in Miami; the JW Marriott
Grande Lakes and Ritz-Carlton Grande Lakes, both in Orlando,  Florida ; and the Claremont Resort & Spa in Berkeley, California.  Erica Platt, a spokeswoman at  Morgan Stanley , declined to
comment. Beverly Bergman, a spokeswoman for Boston-based
Winthrop, referred questions to Paulson. Douglas Armer, head of  investor relations  for Capital Trust, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Morgan Stanley financed its CNL acquisition with $1.5
billion of senior debt, $1 billion of mezzanine debt and $800
million of corporate debt, which was previously restructured.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  