-- Portugal Must Fight Crisis by Saving, Ex-IMF Official Ter-Minassian Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2011-02-02T11:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/portugal-needs-more-public-private-savings-ter-minassian-says.html
  Portugal  must raise public and
private savings as it seeks to curb its budget gap and weather
the European debt crisis, said Teresa Ter-Minassian, a former
director of fiscal affairs at the  International Monetary Fund .  Ter-Minassian, who negotiated the IMF’s 1983 stand-by
agreement with Portugal, said the “instruments” the nation can
use now to tackle the crisis differ from those it employed then.  “Now there’s no possibility of using the  exchange rate ,”
she said yesterday in an interview in Lisbon. Portugal has a
larger external debt now and “needs to increase private and
public savings” as it seeks to improve competitiveness,
“through increases in productivity and various structural
reforms, which take more time.”  Portugal sold 1.26 billion euros ($1.7 billion) in bills
today as it aims to convince investors it can trim its budget
gap further by raising taxes and implementing the deepest
spending cuts in more than three decades after the Greek debt
crisis led to a surge in borrowing costs. Ireland in November
became the second euro member after  Greece  to seek a bailout
from the European Union and the IMF.  “I think the IMF can help the credibility of an adjustment
effort,” Ter-Minassian told reporters at a conference in Lisbon
yesterday. “Institutions like the IMF were created to
facilitate and not to impose macro-economic adjustments,” she
said during the conference.  Investor Demand  Portugal doesn’t need to tap financial assistance from the
EU or the IMF, Carlos Costa Pina, the nation’s secretary of
state for treasury and finance, said at the Bloomberg European
Debt Briefing conference hosted by Bloomberg Link in  New York  on
Jan. 25. The government aims to continue obtaining financing
through markets, he said.  The country’s borrowing costs fell today as it sold 455
million euros of six-month bills and 800 million euros of 12-
month bills. The government debt agency has said that Portugal
intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros worth of bonds this
year to finance its budget and redeem maturing debt. It also
plans to sell a new bond through banks in the first quarter.  Before today’s auction, the country had already raised more
than 4 billion euros this year selling securities through
auctions and private placements. Borrowing costs also fell at a
sale of 750 million-euros of 12-month bills on Jan. 19 and at an
auction of 599 million euros of 10-year bonds on Jan. 12.  EFSF Discussions  European officials are nearing a consensus to enable the
euro rescue fund to buy distressed governments’ debt in private
placements, said four people familiar with the discussions.
Agreement on allowing the 440 billion-euro  European Financial
Stability Facility  to purchase bonds from the issuers may mark a
step toward a broader overhaul of the rescue fund.  Bond buying is part of the crisis-fighting package that
leaders will examine at a Feb. 4 summit in Brussels, though
decisions on the details will be put off until another summit in
late March.  Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos on
Jan. 20 said Portugal backs a proposal to provide the European
rescue fund with additional resources and expand its possible
roles to include the purchase of government debt from any euro-
region country.  The  Portuguese government  is counting on exports such as
paper and wood products to support growth in 2011, when the Bank
of Portugal forecasts gross domestic product will shrink 1.3
percent. Saving is a “key element” in responding to the debt
crisis, central bank Governor Carlos Costa said on Oct. 18.  Portugal will report a 2010 deficit equivalent to or less
than 7 percent of GDP, narrower than the 7.3 percent gap the
government had forecast, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said on
Jan. 28. That follows a shortfall of 9.3 percent in 2009.  The difference in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark government securities,
reached a euro-era record of 484 basis points on Nov. 11. The
spread was 359 basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 