-- Cyclone Yasi, Winds Stronger Than Katrina, Nears Australia Coast
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2011-02-02T11:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/queensland-s-cairns-braces-for-huge-life-threatening-cyclone.html
Tropical Cyclone Yasi, with winds
stronger than  Hurricane Katrina  that hit  New Orleans , is
forecast to reach Australia’s coastline tonight as residents of
the northeast city of Cairns packed into shelters.  People are being told to remain indoors as Yasi intensifies
as a “catastrophic” category 5 storm with landfall due at
midnight and winds expected to peak in excess of 290 kilometers
(180 miles) per hour, the  Bureau of Meteorology  said. Thousands
of people have evacuated low-lying areas of Cairns and
Townsville, 341 schools are closed and more than 200 hospital
patients have been airlifted to Brisbane.  “The next 24 hours are going to be very, very tough ones
for everybody,” Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh  told reporters in
Brisbane, the state capital, today. “Without doubt we are set
to confront scenes of devastation and heartbreak.”  The cyclone, coming just weeks after Brisbane was hit by
the worst flooding since 1974, is “likely to be more life
threatening than any experienced during recent generations,”
according to the weather bureau.  It’s forecast to be more severe than  category 4  Cyclone
Larry, which wiped out most of  Australia ’s banana crop and
devastated sugar cane fields almost five years ago.  Hurricane
Katrina , which devastated New Orleans in Aug. 2005, had winds of
as much as 175 miles per hour.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said Yasi is the worst cyclone
Australia has seen and that locals face “many dreadful,
frightening hours ahead.”  Barrier Reef  Some 10,680 people are being sheltered in more than 20
evacuation centers along the coast to avoid a  storm surge  that
is forecast to trigger flooding, Bligh said.  Five evacuation centers in Cairns are now full and turning
away late arrivals, the Cairns Post reported on its website. The
city of more than 120,000 people, about 1,700 kilometers north
of Brisbane, is a tourist destination and gateway to the Great
Barrier Reef.  Yasi was 165 kilometers east-southeast of Cairns at 8 p.m.
local time, moving west-southwest at 26 kilometers per hour, the
 weather bureau  said. The storm may affect more than 900
kilometers of coastline between Cape Flattery and Sarina, and
the core is expected to cross the coast between Cairns and
Ingham close to midnight.  The last category 5 cyclone to strike the Queensland coast
was in 1918, Bligh said. The storm could take at least 24 hours
to weaken after it makes landfall, senior bureau forecaster
Gordon Banks told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  “There’s still potential for it to become stronger,” he
said. “As a strong category 5 we could see wind gusts in excess
of 320 kilometers per hour, which is just horrific.”  Recovery Effort  More than 3,000 people in north Queensland have lost power,
Brisbane’s Courier Mail reported on its website.  Coastal residents were warned of “an extremely dangerous”
storm tide as the cyclone approaches, the Queensland government
said in a statement. “The sea is likely to steadily rise up to
a level which will be very dangerously above the normal tide,
with extremely damaging waves, strong currents and flooding of
low-lying areas extending some way inland.”  Queensland is beginning a recovery effort estimated to cost
at least A$5 billion ($5 billion) as its economy prepares for
slower growth because of flooding since November, Bligh said Jan.
28. The state contributes about 19 percent of Australia’s
economic output, producing 80 percent of the country’s coking
coal, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last month.  Cyclone Yasi will have a “huge impact” on the economy of
Cairns and surrounding areas, which have only just started to
rebound from a slump in international tourism following the
global financial crisis, Mayor Val Schier told reporters today.  ‘Extremely Worried’  “I am extremely worried,” Bligh said. “This is an event
outside of anything this region has experienced.”  As many as 30,000 homes may be affected by a storm surge in
Townsville, where about 5,000 dwellings were cleared today, the
local city council said on its website.  Tourists in Cairns, the Whitsundays and Townsville, popular
centers for cruises to the Great Barrier Reef, rushed to board
flights late yesterday before airports were closed.  Losses to the sugar cane industry in the region, which
accounts for about a third of Australian production, may be
A$500 million, Steve Greenwood, chief executive officer of
industry group Canegrowers, said in an e-mail today.  Bananas, Zinc  Banana plantations in the region, which account for 85
percent of national production, face “catastrophic” losses
while a fifth of the state’s A$3.3 billion cattle herd may be
wiped out, the National Farmers’ Federation said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “We are anticipating a lot of damage to the main
production area, and it just remains to be seen how devastating
the winds will be,” Australian Banana Growers’ Council chief
executive officer Jonathan Eccles said today by phone.  Century, the world’s second-largest zinc mine, is slowing
operations because of the cyclone, Bruce Loveday, a spokesman
for Minmetal Resources Ltd.’s MMG unit, said today by phone.  Kagara Ltd . shut its Mt. Garnet zinc mine and treatment plant,
Chairman Kim Robinson said by phone.  Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc  closed coal mines, while
ports and rail lines are shut. At least 32 coal ships have
headed out to sea after Hay Point harbor and the Abbot Point
export terminal were closed, according to North Queensland Bulks
Ports Corp. and Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty.  Tropical Cyclone Larry crossed the north Queensland coast
near Innisfail, south of Cairns, in 2006. It caused an estimated
A$500 million of damage to infrastructure and crops, damaging
about 10,000 homes and disrupting road and rail access for
several days, the weather bureau said on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  