-- U.S. Senate Democrats Agree to Bipartisan Push for Moratorium on Earmarks
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-02-02T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/u-s-senate-democrats-accede-to-demands-for-earmark-moratorium.html
U.S. Senate Democrats reversed
themselves and decided to accede to bipartisan demands to
suspend the practice of funding legislative pet projects, known
as earmarking.  “The handwriting is clearly on the wall,” Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye, a Hawaii
Democrat and longtime defender of earmarks, said yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  “has stated unequivocally that he
will veto any legislation containing earmarks, and the House
will not pass any bills that contain them,” Inouye said. “Given
the reality before us, it makes no sense to accept earmark
requests that have no chance of being enacted into law.”  Many senators have resisted the push to crack down on
earmarking, saying they see as part of their jobs the right to
direct federal agencies to spend money on specific projects.  Individual lawmakers in both parties typically earmarked
more than $100 million in annual spending. Some, such as Inouye
and Mississippi Republican Thad Cochran, were responsible for
more than $350 million per year, according to calculations by
the Washington-based Taxpayers for Common Sense.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, last
week called Obama’s threats to veto earmarks, issued in his
State of the Union address, “a lot of pretty talk” that is
“the wrong thing to do” because “it is only giving the
president more power.” In November, the Senate defeated a
proposal by Oklahoma Republican  Tom Coburn  to ban the projects
for three years.  Shorthand for Voters  The reversal by Senate Democrats is a victory for House
Republicans, who last year adopted an earmark moratorium --
later accepted by their Senate counterparts -- in a bid to show
Tea Party activists they were serious about cutting spending.
Even though earmarks represent only a sliver of federal spending  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  