-- Tunisian Minister Says Security Services Spark Unrest to Thwart Transition
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2011-02-02T13:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-01/tunis-interior-minister-says-predecessor-arrested-update1-.html
Tunisia’s new interior minister
accused members of the security services of instigating unrest
to thwart efforts to establish democracy following the ouster of
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Farhat Rajhi also announced the detention of his
predecessor, Rafik Belhaj Kacem, who led the crackdown in
December and January against protesters seeking to end Ben Ali’s
23-year rule. Kacem will spend a renewable period of three days
under arrest for interrogation, Rajhi told  Hannibal TV  channel.
Forty-two senior security officials were replaced, including the
heads of general security and presidential security, he said.  “There is a conspiracy against state security,” said
Rajhi, who alleged that some of the security forces were behind
recent looting incidents, including those in which gangs entered
schools in the capital of Tunis.  Ben Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia  on Jan. 14, ending a 23-year
rule, after the army refused to put down demonstrations that
overwhelmed his internal security forces. The transitional
government took over, vowing within six months to hold the North
African nation’s first free elections since independence from  France  in 1956.  “Violence and chaos is right now the biggest risk to a
transition to democracy,” Mohsen Marzouki, a Tunisian who heads
the Qatar-based  Arab Democracy Foundation , said by telephone.
“The old regime is sending a signal that it still holds key
positions and that the purge against its members should not go
far, as it can make life difficult for any new leadership.”  Attacks were carried out on schools, public buildings and
shops in Kasserine, Sfax, Beni Khlad and Medenine, with police
failing to intervene, the  Assabah  newspaper reported today.  ‘Stakes Are High’  “The stakes are high for the transitional government,”
Maouia Kaabi, a financial consultant in Tunis, said in telephone
interview. “Security is needed if we are to fill our 200,000
hotel beds with tourists.”  Tourism accounts for 7 percent of the $40 billion economy
and employs 400,000 people. Unemployment exceeds 13 percent of
the workforce and two of every three jobless Tunisians are below
30, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The movement against Ben Ali started in mid-December as a
protest against poverty.  Mohamed Bouazizi , a street vendor in the central town of
Sidi Bouzid, set himself on fire when a municipality official
confiscated his wares and humiliated him, sparking the unrest,
according to local media. The United Nations Commissioner for
Human Rights said the death toll was at least 219.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Tunis at
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 