-- 
‘Proper Medicine’ Needed for Economy, CEA Nominee Krueger Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-22T15:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/-proper-medicine-needed-for-economy-cea-nominee-krueger-says.html
The U.S. needs “proper medicine”
in the form of economic policy to spur growth and aid recovery,
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead his  Council of Economic
Advisers  told lawmakers today.  “While time may heal many of the wounds in the economy,
applying the proper medicine will help those wounds heal more
quickly,” Alan B. Krueger said at a Senate Banking Committee
confirmation hearing in Washington.  Krueger, who formerly served as an assistant Treasury
secretary in the Obama administration, said his background as a
labor economist, Princeton University professor and economic
researcher would aid his efforts to present the president with a
“wide variety of views and relevant evidence.”  The nomination is being weighed by senators as the
president wrangles with Congress over which policies to pursue
in efforts to lower unemployment rates and prevent a return to
recession. Republicans in the House and Senate have fought
efforts to increase spending, while Democrats continue to debate
the merits of Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan.  Krueger would be Obama’s third CEA chairman in as many
years, joining an economic team that has been almost entirely
revamped in the president’s first term. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  is the only one of Obama’s original core
economic advisers who remains in the administration.  ‘All Hands’  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Banking Committee, urged his colleagues to move quickly on
the nomination. “At this point in the economic recovery, the
administration’s economic team must have all hands on deck,”
Johnson said.  Krueger, who received his Ph.D from Harvard in 1987,
returned to Princeton in November after serving as the Treasury
Department’s chief economist for two years. He will replace
 Austan Goolsbee , who stepped down to return to the  University of
Chicago .  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the Banking Committee’s
senior Republican, said that Krueger is an “accomplished labor
economist” and that he believed he would be confirmed by the
full Senate. He urged Krueger to move away from the policies
Obama has pursued during the first half of his term.  “After more than two years of failed Keynesian programs,
the president needs to be provided with better advice that will
help grow our economy, not the size and scope of government,”
Shelby said.  The panel also is hearing testimony from David Montoya, the
nominee to be inspector general for the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, and Cyrus Amir-Mokri, the nominee for
assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions.  Amir-Mokri, who served as senior counsel to the chairman of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, has played a role in
the agency’s implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as
its work with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the
President’s Working Group on Financial Markets.  Regulators must “continue to carefully implement the
reform agenda embodied by that legislation in a coordinated and
measured fashion consistent with the intent of Congress, Amir-
Mokri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  