-- 
M&S, Interflora Both Claim Victory in Case Over Internet Ads

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-22T12:18:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/m-s-may-win-challenge-over-trademarked-internet-keywords-eu-court-rules.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  and
florist network Interflora both claimed victory following a
European Union court ruling on whether companies can use rival’s
trademarked terms to trigger advertisements on  search engines .  While Marks & Spencer and Interflora argued a ruling by the
 EU Court of Justice  today is in their favor, a U.K. national
court will have to make the final decision on whether Marks &
Spencer’s use of the Interflora trademarks “jeopardizes” the
reputation of Interflora’s intellectual property.  Interflora, which has operated a flower-delivery network in
the U.K. since the 1950s, is suing Marks & Spencer in the U.K.
for violating its trademark rights by using keywords, such as
Interflora, Intaflora and Interflora Delivery, to trigger ads on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search engine.  “This ruling is a score-draw,” said Nick Rose, head of
intellectual property litigation at law firm Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP. “This is helpful for brand owners” such as
Interflora “and it leaves some room for Marks & Spencer to
claim they’re not liable in this case.”  The  High Court  in  London  in 2009  referred  the case to the
EU’s top tribunal for guidance on how to interpret the bloc’s
trademark rules in such cases.  ‘Wiggle Room’  Interflora will be pleased “because they have a lot more
scope to argue that what Marks & Spencer did has infringed,”
Rose said in a telephone interview. “However, Marks & Spencer
still got some wiggle room and some arguments they can raise.”  The EU court said the U.K. tribunal can consider the
general knowledge of the English public as to whether or not
Marks & Spencer is part of the Interflora network, said Rose.  “It’s a long way from being an open and shut case for
Interflora,” said Rose.  London-based Marks & Spencer said in an e-mailed statement
it was “encouraged by today’s judgment as we have always
believed this is fair competition.”  Interflora said it was “delighted” by the decision “in
their favor.”  “This ruling will enable brand holders across  Europe  to
deliver quality service and ensure that trademarks guarantee the
origin of the goods bought by consumers online,” Interflora
said in an e-mailed statement. “Keyword advertising is a very
powerful tool and so it is vital for consumer protection that
Internet search results take consumers immediately to the brands
they were looking for.”  Google Case  In a ruling last year in a dispute between Google and  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the EU court ruled that brand
owners can sue advertisers who buy protected keywords and
display ads on the search engine’s website that make it
difficult for users to see whether they sell original or fake
products.  FTD Group Inc., the florist whose symbol is the winged god
Mercury delivering flowers,  bought  Interflora in 2006 to enter
the European market. FTD Group was acquired by Internet retailer
 United Online Inc. (UNTD)  in 2008.  The EU court clarified that trademark owners can prevent a
company from using a trademarked term as a keyword to trigger
adverts where the competitor “takes unfair advantage of the
distinctive character or repute of the trademark, free-riding,
or where the advertising is detrimental to that distinctive
character.”  The case is: C-323/09, Interflora Inc, Interflora British
Unit v. Marks & Spencer Plc, Flowers Direct Online Limited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  