-- 
AB InBev, Budvar Can Both Keep U.K. Budweiser Right, Court Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-22T09:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/ab-inbev-budvar-can-both-keep-u-k-budweiser-right-court-says.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and Czech
competitor Budejovicky Budvar NP can both use U.K. trademarks
for the word Budweiser, the European Union’s top court said.  U.K. consumers “are well aware of the difference” between
the products of AB InBev and Budvar, the EU Court of Justice
said in a statement after its ruling today.  “A long period of honest concurrent use of the two
identical trademarks concerned neither has, nor is liable to
have an adverse effect” on AB InBev’s trademark, which was
filed earlier than Budvar’s, the Luxembourg-based EU court said.
Budvar’s “later Budweiser trademark need not be declared
invalid.”  While AB InBev, the world’s largest brewer, and Budvar were
both granted U.K. trademark rights to Budweiser by an English
court in 2000, AB InBev argues that its right is the only one
that should prevail. AB InBev told the EU court at a hearing
last year that its market for Budweiser was 10 times bigger,
rejecting Budvar’s arguments of a long co-existence.  Budvar has been active in the British market since 1973 and
Anheuser-Busch since 1974, according to the EU court. Anheuser-
Busch applied in 1979 to get a trademark for Budweiser, covering
beer and ale. Budvar opposed that step and several years later
also applied for the trademark.  “The case will now be returned to the U.K. Court of
Appeals where it will be determined whether the doctrine of
honest concurrent use should prevent cancellation of Budejovicky
Budvar’s Budweiser trademark registration,” Leuven, Belgium-
based AB InBev said in a statement.  U.K. Ruling  “Even if we are unsuccessful before the U.K. Court of
Appeals, it will not negatively impact our Budweiser trademark
in the U.K. which remains valid and can no longer be challenged
by Budvar or other third parties,” AB InBev said.  Following a decision by a U.K. court of appeal, both
companies were able to register the trademark Budweiser in the
country on May 19, 2000. Almost five years later, Anheuser-Busch
filed for a declaration of invalidity of Budvar’s trademark.  The two brewers have been entangled in a fight going back
to the early 1900s over the right to the Bud or Budweiser names
for beer, merchandising and other products.  Budvar claims the rights because its beer comes from Ceske
Budejovice, which is called Budweis in German. Anheuser-Busch,
founded by German-born immigrant to the U.S. Adolphus Busch,
says it started using the Budweiser trademark in 1876, 19 years
before Budvar was formed.  The case is C-482/09, Budejovicky Budvar, narodni podnik v
Anheuser-Busch, Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  