-- 
UBS Trader Adoboli Faces Additional Fraud Charge, Doesn’t Apply for Bail

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-22T14:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/adoboli-may-have-lost-more-than-2-3-billion-prosecutor-says.html
Kweku Adoboli, the  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader
charged with fraud and false accounting that may have resulted
in a $2.3 billion loss, said through his lawyer that he was
“sorry beyond words” after facing an additional fraud charge
at a court hearing today.  The 31-year-old, who holds a Ghanaian passport, didn’t
apply for bail when he appeared at a magistrates court in
London. Prosecutor  David Levy  said the alleged loss may exceed
$2.3 billion. Adoboli wasn’t required to enter a plea today and
another hearing was scheduled for Oct. 20.  The trader is “sorry beyond words for what happened
here,” said Patrick Gibbs, Adoboli’s lawyer. He apologized for
his “disastrous miscalculations,” Gibbs said.  Adoboli, who appeared today wearing a dark grey suit, white
shirt and navy tie, has been in police custody since he was
arrested Sept. 15 on suspicion of making the unauthorized
trades.  Prosecutors charged him Sept. 17 with fraud and false
accounting dating back to 2008. The prosecution today added a
charge to extend the fraud allegations to 2008 as well.  If convicted, he faces as many as 10 years in prison,
according to sentencing guidelines. Time spent in custody
beforehand would be deducted from any sentence.  Louise Hodges, another of Adoboli’s lawyers, declined to
comment after the hearing. Yves Kaufmann, a spokesman for UBS in
Zurich said “the loss arising from the unauthorized trades is
$2.3 billion, as we have stated” previously.  ‘Dishonestly Abused’  Adoboli “dishonestly abused” his position as a senior
trader on the global synthetic-equity desk “to make a gain”
for himself and “to expose UBS to a risk of loss,” prosecutors
said in court papers. He was “expected to safeguard, and not to
act against, the financial interest of UBS,” they said.  Adoboli worked for UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
to speculate on, or hedge the performance of, a basket of
securities. The group also trades using the bank’s own money.
UBS has said that no client positions were affected.  UBS’s loss came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX
and EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months,
according to the bank. The risk of the trades was masked by
fictitious positions, UBS said.  FSA Probe  Adoboli may not have asked for bail because he believed he
wouldn’t get it, said Steven Francis, a regulatory lawyer at
Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, who isn’t involved in the case.  The Financial Services Authority and the Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority last week opened a joint
investigation into control failures at UBS that allowed the
trades to go undetected. The joint regulatory probe will be
conducted at the same time as investigations by police,
prosecutors and an internal review by Zurich-based UBS.  The FSA and the Swiss regulator, known as Finma, said their
investigation will focus on the details of the allegedly
unauthorized trades, control failures that allowed them to
happen, and an assessment of the bank’s methods to prevent
fraudulent trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  