-- 
Madoff Trustee Sues Atlantic Security Bank for $120 Million

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-09-22T22:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/madoff-trustee-sues-atlantic-security-bank-for-120-million-1-.html
The trustee overseeing the
liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm sued Atlantic Security
Bank, one of at least four suits filed today demanding almost
$190 million for the con man’s investors.  The $120 million suit against the bank is one of several
filed by  Irving Picard  in recent months to recoup what he said
is “customer property” from companies that invested with
Fairfield Sentry Ltd., a so-called feeder fund that placed money
in the con man’s Ponzi scheme.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits, is pursuing
comparatively small amounts from investors who redeemed money
from feeder funds before Madoff’s 2008 arrest, as he fights
court challenges to his multibillion-dollar suits against banks
such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Atlantic Security Bank is incorporated in the Cayman
Islands and has offices in Panama, according to Picard’s suit
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  The trustee filed at least four similar suits today,
including a $42 million complaint against the Bureau of Labor
Insurance, a present or former agency of  Taiwan  that also
invested with Fairfield, he said in a filing. He sued two other
companies for about $27 million combined, not saying where they
were located and giving only the names of trust companies that
were their “contacts.”  Trustee’s Settlement  Atlantic Security Bank is affiliated with Credicorp Ltd. of
Peru, according to its website. Calls seeking comment on the
lawsuit from Credicorp were referred to lawyer William Morales,
and then put on hold. A working phone number for Atlantic
Security Bank couldn’t be immediately located. Jerry Lin, a
press officer for Taiwan in  Washington , said he couldn’t
immediately comment and would seek a response later.  The trustee’s settlement with Walter Noel’s Fairfield
Sentry was approved in court in June.  On Aug. 18, Picard sued at least seven companies demanding
return of funds they allegedly received from investments made
with by Fairfield, which is in liquidation in the British Virgin
Islands.  Separately, Picard’s plans to facilitate information-
gathering for his lawsuits was challenged today by  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other banks he has
sued. Picard is trying to “abrogate” a previous
confidentiality agreement and make defendants carry the cost of
giving him access again to documents already produced under that
agreement, according to a court filing today by UniCredit, which
is fighting a $59 billion suit by Picard.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, said the trustee’s plan
didn’t abrogate any confidentiality agreements. It would be
presented at an Oct. 5 court hearing and would “resolve the
matter,” she said in an e-mail.  The Atlantic case is Picard v. Atlantic Security Bank, 11-
02730, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 