-- 
Lagarde Says ECB Must Continue ‘Reliable’ Funding: Tom Keene

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-22T16:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/lagarde-says-the-ecb-must-continue-reliable-funding-for-banks-tom-keene.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the  European Central
Bank  must continue to provide “solid, reliable” funding for
euro-area banks and economies as parliaments in the region pass
measures into law to fight the region’s debt crisis.  The ECB “plays and can play and I hope will continue to
play a critical role,” Lagarde, who took the helm at the IMF in
July, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Tom Keene 
today. Investors should also “allow the time for democracy” in
euro countries that need to approve changes to the bailout
mechanism agreed upon by leaders in July.  The Washington-based IMF this week cut its global growth
forecast and predicted “severe” repercussions if Europe failed
to contain its debt turmoil. The ECB started buying Italian and
Spanish government bonds last month after investors demanded
euro-era record yields while policy makers grew increasingly
divided over the best way to fight the crisis.  IMF chief economist  Olivier Blanchard  said this week it is
“essential” that funding rates for Italy be kept low, a role
currently played by the ECB, or the country’s debt level would
become “unsustainable.”  “We’re in it together and we will be able to solve it
together,” Lagarde said in the interview. “There is a path to
recovery if there is collective drive and determination to
address it.”  Stocks and commodities tumbled, 30-year Treasury yields
dropped to a record and the Dollar Index climbed to a seven-
month high today amid concern that central banks are running out
of tools to prevent another recession. A measure of banks’
reluctance to lend to one another in the region rose to the
highest in 2 1/2 years.  Market ‘Trepidation’  Lagarde said the IMF’s action “is not driven by the
trepidation of the markets on a day-to-day basis,” and that the
business of the fund is not to “either calm or generate
anxiety.”  While agreeing that political bickering in  Europe  doesn’t
help and urging policy makers to implement the measures already
agreed on, Lagarde said that investors have not taken into
account “very solid fiscal consolidation” undergone by some
nations in the 17-country euro region.  “I would hope that analysts would actually look under the
skin of budgets of economies, of policies, to appreciate their
solidity,” she said.  The ECB lends banks in the euro region as much cash as they
need against eligible collateral for up to six month. It said
last week that it will provide, along with peers in the U.K.,
 Switzerland ,  Japan  and the U.S., unlimited three-month money to
lenders in three tenders, starting in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  