-- 
Taiwan, Japan Sign Investment Accord in ’Stepping Stone’ to FTA

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-09-22T08:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/taiwan-japan-sign-investment-accord-in-stepping-stone-to-fta.html
Taiwan  and Japan signed their first
investment accord, strengthening economic ties and stepping
closer toward negotiating a free-trade deal.  The treaty provides for investment protection, promotion
and liberalization, Peng Run-tsu, chairman of Taiwan’s East Asia
Relations Commission, said today in Taipei after signing the
agreement with Mitsuo Ohashi, the chairman of the Japan
Interchange Association.  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-jeou, striving for re-election
in January on a platform of economic progress, aims to lure more
investment into the island’s $355 billion economy. At the same
time, Japanese companies such as Panasonic Corp. plan to move
production abroad as a stronger yen hurts profits, and after
Japan’s March 11 temblor damaged factories, showing the benefits
of diversifying overseas.  “Taiwan has always wanted to attract investment from  Japan ,
and with the strengthening yen, Japan may find the timing is
right for such an agreement,” Aidan Wang, an economist at
Yuanta Securities Investment Consulting Co. in Taipei, said
before the announcement. “This pact may be a stepping stone
toward a free-trade agreement.”  The yen has surged more than 10 percent against the dollar
in the past year and reached a post-World War II high of 75.95
last month, buoyed by the search for so-called safe havens to
counter risks from a faltering global recovery. Taiwan’s Taiex
stock index slid 3.1 percent today as investors pare bets on
emerging markets.  Free-Trade Deal  The Taiwan-Japan accord gives citizens of both economies
equal treatment in certain investments, the Ministry of Economic
Affairs said in a statement today.  The investment deal with Japan, Taiwan’s second-largest
trading partner, paves the way for further talks about trade
liberalization, Taiwan’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said in a
separate statement.  Japan’s magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami killed
thousands, disrupted power supplies and reduced production at
companies from Toyota Motor Co. to Sony Corp.  “Disruption after the March earthquake has prompted
Japanese firms to diversify risk,” said  Tony Phoo , an economist
at Standard Chartered Plc in Taipei. Taiwan’s proximity to Japan
is among the reasons that “bode well” for its role as a backup
production base, he said.  Taiwan and its former civil-war foe  China  signed their
first trade deal last year, part of a rapprochement that’s
boosted Ma’s scope to seek similar accords with neighbors such
as Singapore without irking officials in Beijing.  Talks with  Singapore  over a free-trade agreement continue
and have yet to reach a conclusion, Taiwan’s Minister of
Economic Affairs Shih Yen-shiang told journalists earlier today.  Taiwan’s export-led economy expanded 5.02 percent in the
three months through June from a year earlier, the slowest pace
since a 1.21 percent contraction in the third quarter of 2009.  Japan, which ruled Taiwan for 50 years until its defeat in
World War II, has invested $16.5 billion in Taiwan since 1952,
according to Ministry of Economic Affairs data.  China views Taiwan as part of its territory and has
threatened to invade if the island declares independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  