-- 
Taiwan Dollar Weakens Below NT$30 for First Time in Eight Months

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-09-22T01:45:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/taiwan-dollar-weakens-below-nt-30-for-first-time-in-eight-months.html
Taiwan ’s dollar weakened for a
fourth day, sliding to an eight-month low, on concern that
slowing global growth will weaken demand for the island’s
exports and slow  job creation . Bonds rose.  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday the central bank will
buy bonds with maturities of six to 30 years through June, while
selling an equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less
as it sees “significant downside risks” to the economy. The
island’s jobless rate likely rose to 4.4 percent in August from
4.37 percent in July, according to the median estimate of nine
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Data are due at 4 p.m. today.  “The Taiwan dollar is following the trend in Asian
currencies,” said Tarsicio Tong, a Taipei-based trader at the
Union Bank of Taiwan. “But I don’t think the central bank will
allow the currency to depreciate a lot and they will come in. We
are concerned about European and American markets even though
 China ’s demand is still resilient.”  The Taiwan dollar slid 0.9 percent to NT$30.22 against its
U.S. counterpart as of 9:26 a.m. local time, the lowest level
since Jan. 6, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asian Dollar Index dropped 0.5 percent to 115.28, the
weakest level since January.  Data this week showed Taiwan’s export orders, an indication
of shipments in the next one to three months, increased 5.26
percent in August from a year ago, the slowest pace in almost
two years. Taiwan’s real-estate developers plan to halve home
projects for the Sept. 28 Teachers’ Day holiday due to the weak
economic outlook, the Economic Daily News reported yesterday,
citing Myhousing, a monthly property magazine.  Local-currency bonds rose. The yield on the 2 percent notes
due July 2016 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
0.987 percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market show.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  