-- 
Saad Group’s Al-Sanea Wins End to $9.2 Billion Asset Freeze

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T15:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/al-sanea-9-2-billion-asset-freeze-lifted-by-court-saad-says.html
Maan al-Sanea, founder of Saudi
Arabia’s  Saad Group , won dismissal of a $9.2 billion asset
freeze in the  Cayman Islands  after Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi &
Brothers Co. admitted failing to disclose evidence.  Algosaibi agreed it “breached its duty of full and frank
disclosure” when it won the asset freeze against al-Sanea in
2009, the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands ruled yesterday.
Algosaibi applied last month to voluntarily dismiss the freeze
after it found new evidence that should have been revealed
earlier. Al-Sanea still faces a fraud lawsuit filed by Algosaibi
in  New York  and probes in Bahrain and  Switzerland .  “Since AHAB started its litigation scheme over two years
ago, I have been resolute in my complete rejection of its
desperate claims that I somehow defrauded the Algosaibis,” al-
Sanea said today in a statement, using Algosaibi’s initials.  The asset freeze was part of a global legal dispute between
the companies after they defaulted in 2009 on a total of about
$15.7 billion in loans from more than 100 banks. Al-Sanea, one
of  Saudi Arabia ’s richest men who married into the Algosaibi
family before founding Saad Group, faces claims he forged
signatures to take out as much as $10 billion in fake loans
through Algosaibi’s Money Exchange unit, which he ran.  The dismissal of the asset freeze doesn’t prove al-Sanea’s
innocence or reduce his legal troubles, said  Eric Lewis , a legal
coordinator for the Algosaibi family. Al-Sanea has refused to
appear in court in the Cayman Islands, Lewis said.  ‘Procedural Maneuvers’  Algosaibi “voluntarily withdrew the freezing order and did
not seek a new one, despite all the essential allegations of
fraud and forgery having been proven correct,” Lewis said.
“Maan al-Sanea has spent two years in procedural maneuvers to
avoid a court from considering his vast fraud.”  The discovery of the documents three months ago in Saudi
Arabia forced Algosaibi to drop its defense in June in a $250
million U.K. case filed by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and four other
banks. The company decided the judge would reject its argument
that the losses were a result of fraud by al-Sanea.  Al-Sanea, who denies forging signatures, said the documents
found by Algosaibi prove his claim the company was aware of the
loans he took out. The Cayman Islands court ordered Algosaibi to
pay al-Sanea’s legal fees and will hold hearings to determine
whether damages should be awarded as a result of the
“wrongful” freeze, al-Sanea said.  Algosaibi’s admission prompted HSBC and the other lenders
in the U.K. case, including London-based British Arab Commercial
Bank Ltd., to question how Algosaibi planned to pay them back.
Algosaibi has said it can’t pay them back in full.  The London case includes HSBC’s $85 million claim, British
Arab Commercial Bank’s $19 million claim, Arab Banking Corp.’s
claims totaling $140 million and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s $6 million
claim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  