-- Ambac Financial Files Third Amended Plan of Reorganization
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-27T18:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/ambac-files-amended-reorganization-plan-after-reaching-wisconsin-agreement.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABK) , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, filed a new
plan to restructure more than $1.25 billion in senior notes
after a proposed settlement with the  Internal Revenue Service .  The proposed agreement would include a payment from its
Ambac Assurance Corp. unit of $100 million; a payment by Ambac
Financial of $1.9 million; and Ambac Financial’s agreement to
give up a tax credit from losses on credit-default swap
contracts to the extent that such losses exceed $3.4 billion,
Ambac Financial said in a statement today.  “The IRS has not yet accepted this settlement offer and
there are no assurances that such offer will be accepted,”
Ambac Financial said in the statement.  According to the new restructuring plan filed in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court, its terms would allocate $3.65 billion rather
than $3.8 billion of the tax losses, known as “net operating
losses” to its Ambac Assurance unit. The allocation could be
less, depending on certain conditions.  The third restructuring plan updates a second one filed in
September, when Ambac Financial said it had an accord with a
Wisconsin regulator overseeing the wind-down of its operating
unit, Ambac Assurance. That agreement, made after months of
negotiations, was about how the parent company, Ambac Financial,
would share tax benefits with Ambac Assurance.  2008 Crisis  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages
swamped the company with claims. It guaranteed about
$256 billion of $1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ambac Financial, which
relied on dividends from the operating unit, filed for
bankruptcy in November 2010, about two years after Ambac
Assurance stopped selling new policies in 2008.  The IRS had questioned how Ambac Financial used
$7.3 billion in net operating losses, or NOLs, to account for
its losses from credit default swaps.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABKFQ) , 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  