-- 
Orbitz Can Continue to Sell American Airlines Tickets, Appeals Court Rules

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-09-22T18:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/american-airlines-must-allow-orbitz-to-sell-its-tickets-court-rules.html
American Airlines  must continue to
supply flight and fare information to  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , the
second biggest U.S. online travel agency, an appellate court has
ruled.  The decision, handed down yesterday by a Chicago-based
panel of the state’s intermediate-level court of appeal, upholds
a Chicago judge’s June 1 order compelling  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
to reinstate Orbitz.com’s ability to issue tickets for its
flights.  “Customers searching for travel packages want to book the
flights they find,” the unanimous three judge panel wrote.
“When American frustrates that purpose by not allowing the
customers to use Orbitz to book its flights, customers will
likely look to other online agencies.”  Orbitz allows consumers to view airline flight schedules
and fares and purchase tickets online through its website.
When negotiations on a new contract between the two companies
failed, American said it would terminate its contract with
Orbitz on Dec. 1.  Orbitz filed suit on Nov. 5, and asked for a restraining
order. American had stopped displaying and selling tickets
through Orbitz on Dec. 21 after defeating Travelport Ltd.’s
initial bid for an order blocking that action. Travelport owns
55 percent of Chicago-based Orbitz.  Favorable Ruling  After Cook County Circuit Court Judge Martin Agran issued
that ruling, he was transferred, Travelport moved for
reconsideration and won a favorable ruling from successor Judge
Lee Preston.  “The ruling further supports one of Travelport’s damages
claims against AA, given AA’s improper termination of Orbitz’
ticketing authority,” Travelport said today in a press
statement.  “We are disappointed by the Illinois court decision and
are evaluating our options,” said Ryan Mikolasik, a spokesman
representing American, a unit of  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR.  “In the meantime, the injunction issued against American
terminated by its own terms on Sept. 1,” Mikolasik said. “We
have a new interim agreement with Travelport that provides for
our continued participation in Orbitz, and we do not expect that
to change in the near term.”  Using Content  Eric Bock, chief legal officer for Atlanta-based Travelport
said in the statement that the company was “pleased with the
appellate court’s recognition” of its contractual rights.  “Those rights are critical to protecting our agencies’
ability to have and fully use AA’s content,” Bock said.  The appellate case is Travelport LP v. American Airlines
Inc., 2011 IL App (1st) 111761, at the Illinois Appellate Court,
First District ( Chicago ).  The lower court case is Travelport v.
American Airlines, 10CH48028, Circuit Court of Cook County,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 