-- 
Andean Market Struggles to Lift Stock Trading Dwarfed by Brazil’s Volume

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-09-22T15:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/andean-market-struggles-to-lift-stock-trading-dwarfed-by-brazil.html
Trading in a market created to
combine stocks from  Colombia , Chile and  Peru  is languishing as
transactions in the first four months totaled $2.9 million, or
the equivalent of about 20 seconds of average volume in  Brazil .  Juan Pablo Cordoba, president of Bolsa de Valores de
Colombia, said he aims to fix that.  “The biggest challenge moving forward is how to get
volumes to pick up,” Cordoba, who passed up a post in President
 Juan Manuel Santos ’s cabinet to help spearhead the project, said
in a Sept. 14 interview in Bogota. “The baby was born but needs
to be nurtured.”  Cordoba said 23 cross-border accords between brokerages in
the Andean nations are a sign that trading in  Mila , as  Latin
America ’s first combined trading platform is known, will gain
momentum. In May he said the new exchange would act as an
“alternative” to investing in Brazil, home to Latin America’s
largest equity market where daily trading averages $4 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Mila platform has generated 183 transactions totaling
$2.9 million since its May 30 start through Sept. 16, according
to data compiled by the Santiago exchange.  Chilean, Colombian and Peruvian stocks have a combined
value of $578 billion, surpassing  Mexico ’s $387 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil’s BM&F Bovespa
has a market value of $1.2 trillion.  Average daily traded volume in the past three months was
$193 million in  Chile , $83 million in Colombia and $25 million
in Peru, Bloomberg data show. That compares with $723 million in
Mexico.  Growth Slows  Mila executives aim to tap into some of the fastest growth
rates in the region to spur demand for equities. The economies
of Chile, Peru and Colombia will expand 6.5 percent, 6.2 percent
and 4.9 percent, respectively, this year, driven by commodity
exports and surging domestic consumption, according to a Sept.
20 report by the  International Monetary Fund . Growth is poised
to slow to 4.7 percent, 5.6 percent and 4.5 percent next year,
respectively, the IMF said.  Exchange officials aim to convert Mila into a single
trading platform in the coming years from its current form as an
order-routing system that enables investors in one country to
trade stocks in the others through their local brokers.  Colombia’s benchmark index, the IGBC, is beating its Mila
peers this year, having fallen 12 percent through yesterday
after a 34 percent surge in 2010. Peru’s IGBVL has declined 15
percent this year while Chile’s IPSA has slumped 18 percent as
the global economic slowdown crimps demand for emerging-market
assets. Brazil’s Bovespa is down 19 percent and Mexico’s main
index 12 percent.  Share Offerings  Companies probably will begin tailoring share offerings to
the Andean region this year, Cordoba said. Pension funds and
brokerages in each of the countries have begun designing
products tailored for cross-border investing and  Standard &
Poor’s  began its Mila 40 Index last month.  S&P will lead negotiations with providers of exchange
traded funds to create an ETF for Mila stocks, Maria Jose
Ramirez, vice president of the  Bolsa de Valores de Colombia (BVC) ,
said at the Bloomberg Mila conference in New York today. Other
countries, such as Panama or Mexico, are likely to enter the
Mila before a market for fixed-income securities is developed on
the three-country exchange, Ramirez said.  Global Turmoil  Trading on the Mila platform may have been damped by global
market turmoil and as the election of Ollanta Humala as Peru’s
president triggered concern the one-time ally of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  would boost state control of the economy,
said  Rupert Stebbings , Colombia country manager for Celfin
Capital SA. Peru’s benchmark stock index plunged 12 percent the
day after Humala won in a June 5 runoff vote.  Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, the operator of the Bogota
exchange known as BVC, fell 1.6 percent on June 9 after then
economic adviser Kurt Burneo said Humala might renegotiate parts
of the Mila arrangement if benefits weren’t fairly shared.  “When there’s a lack of confidence, people tend to invest
in what’s close to home,” Stebbings said.  BVC shareholders postponed June 16 a vote on a proposed
corporate merger with the Lima bourse and the two exchanges
shelved the plan last month, saying they would focus instead on
strengthening Mila.  “It was a joint decision, to be politically correct,”
Cordoba said.  Capital Markets  Mila trading may pick up should Humala prove over time to
favor capital market growth, Stebbings said.  Resolving regulatory issues, such as restrictions on
Chilean pension funds’ foreign holdings and differences in tax
treatment, can help deepen integration, Manuel Bulnes, the head
of Larrain Vial SA’s brokerage unit, said at the Bloomberg Chile
Economic Summit in Santiago last month.  It takes time for investors to warm to new products, as was
the case with Novo Mercado, a listing segment of BM&F Bovespa
for companies that issue only voting shares, said Guillermo Larrain, former Chile chief securities regulator. Novo Mercado,
which now has 122 listings and accounted for 10 of the 11
initial public offerings in Brazil this year, garnered little
interest in its first two years of operation, Larrain said at
the same summit.  Cross-Border Deals  Beyond Mila, Andean region integration is reflected in
cross-border expansions of financial-services firms including
Larrain Vial and Celfin Capital and companies such as  Grupo de
Inversiones Suramericana SA (GRUPOSUR) ,  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , Colombia’s
 Interconexion Electrica SA (ISA)  and Peru’s  Grana y Montero SA. (GRAMONC1)   ING Groep NV (INGA)  created a mutual fund that invests in the
three countries and Global X Funds started a regional exchange-
traded fund. The increase in regional investments by companies
has triggered cross-border capital raising. A unit of Chilean
retailer  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  sold bonds in Colombia this month while
Banco de Credito del Peru tapped Chile’s debt market in 2009.  ING agreed in July to sell most of its Latin American
insurance operations to Suramericana, the parent company of
Colombia’s largest bank, for about 2.7 billion euros ($3.9
billion). Suramericana, which plans to offer shares worth as
much as $2.1 billion in October, may lead the way in tailoring
share sales to investors across the Andean region, Cordoba said.  “You can’t increase volumes out of thin air between the
three countries,” Stebbings said. “Where Mila has been a
winner is at a more corporate level. Companies realize there are
huge funds in Latin America and they don’t have to go to  London 
or  New York .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  