-- 
Apple Trailing Target in China Stores May Be Android Opening

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T05:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/apple-trailing-target-in-china-stores-may-be-android-opportunity.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is opening stores in the
China region at a quarter the pace it forecast 19 months ago,
giving rival makers of smartphones and tablet computers time to
gain users in the world’s biggest mobile-phone market.  Apple opened its third store in  Shanghai  today and will
open its first one in Hong Kong tomorrow, bringing the total to
six in a region with the company’s highest-grossing outlets.
That compares with the 25 stores that  Ron Johnson , then Apple’s
head of retail, said last year it targeted by February 2012.  The iPhone maker is only “scratching the surface” of
Chinese demand after sales in the region surged six-fold to $3.8
billion last quarter, Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
said in July. Still, delays in store openings may give makers of
smartphones and tablets equipped with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software room to gain market share, said  Shaun Rein , managing
director of China Market Research Group.  “In many ways they are still behind the curve, and they
are opening stores too slowly,” said Rein, whose Shanghai-based
company advises retailers and other clients about operating
businesses in China. “Before, Apple had clear dominance in
terms of technology, but now the gap is being lowered because of
Android.”  Apple is expanding distribution of its products including
the iPhone and iPad in China as competition with Android device
makers including Samsung Electronics Co. and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) 
intensifies. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman at Apple, declined to
give the company’s latest target for store openings in China.  Leaving for Penney  The company, the world’s biggest by market value, accounted
for 13 percent of China’s smartphone market by shipments in the
second quarter, third behind  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s 36 percent and
Samsung’s 15 percent, according to estimates at research firm
Gartner Inc. Apple ranks first worldwide, according to
researcher  Strategy Analytics .  Apple aimed to have as many as 25 stores in the China
region over two years, Johnson said Feb. 25, 2010, when the
Cupertino, California-based company only had one store in the
mainland. Johnson left in June to become J.C. Penney Co.’s chief
executive officer.  “I don’t think anyone really expected them to come up with
25 stores in 24 months,” said David Wolf, CEO of Wolf Group
 Asia , a Beijing-based marketing strategy consulting firm.
“Apple set a very high bar for themselves in a market where the
logistical challenges are profound.”  ‘Larger, Better’  China’s Jiefang Daily, citing Johnson, reported this
February that the company may delay the 25-store target to focus
on “larger and better” locations. Apple’s Huguet declined to
confirm or deny the comments.  “They have been quite cautious so far,” said Sun Peilin,
an analyst at research firm Analysys International in Beijing.
“For Apple, they have now seen the benefits and potential of
the market, and I think they will speed up the store openings.”  The new Shanghai store is the company’s biggest in China.
The one in  Hong Kong  is located at the International Finance
Center in the central business district.  “It’s a big store, and the design is quite good,” said
Cui Lizhen, who traveled from his home province of Jilin and
waited 40 hours outside the new outlet in Shanghai before the
opening at 9:00 a.m. local time today.  In Hong Kong, about 10 people camped outside Apple’s store
with their backpacks and folding chairs at 7:45 a.m. local time
today, more than 25 hours before the opening tomorrow.  Retail Partners  A lack of stores hasn’t stopped growth. Shipments of the
iPhone, Apple’s best-selling product, jumped to 2 million in
China in the second quarter, compared with 300,000 a year
earlier, according to Gartner analyst Sandy Shen. The figures
include sales through unauthorized channels, or the so-called
gray market, she said.  Having more stores would mean higher sales not only at the
company’s own retail locations, Wolf said. The “halo” effect
of the stores boosts the image of the products and lifts sales
even at the resellers, he said.  Apple has more than 900 sales agents in mainland  China ,
including stores operated by Studio A Inc., a unit of  Taiwan ’s
Cheng Uei Precision Industry Co. That company’s chairman is Gou Tai-chiang, brother of billionaire Terry Gou, head of Apple
supplier Foxconn Technology Group. In 2009, Apple started
selling the iPhone through China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., its
carrier partner in China.  Apple’s distribution network in China has failed to keep up
with demand, forcing customers to buy from vendors not
sanctioned by the company. Only half of the 1.07 million Apple
iPads sold in China in the second quarter were through
authorized vendors, according to Analysys.  Apple may have scaled back the pace of store openings in
China to focus on flagship locations, Wolf said.  “Location is important and iconic,” he said. “Apple’s
performance is excellent, but not quite outstanding. I’d give
them a strong B+.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  