-- 
Argentine Court Presses Lawmakers, Journalists on Price Reports

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-22T21:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/argentine-court-presses-lawmakers-journalists-on-price-reports.html
Argentine opposition lawmakers and
newspapers were asked by a federal judge to provide details on
sources and personal information related to inflation stories
that contradict government reports.  Federal Judge Alejandro Catania asked lawmakers to disclose
their sources for inflation reports that they began releasing
after private researchers were fined for saying prices are
rising at more than double the official rate, lawmaker Silvana
Giudici told reporters today in  Buenos Aires . Some newspapers,
including El Cronista Comercial, were also asked to provide
names and personal information of reporters who write about
inflation.  “We won’t unveil the sources of those researchers because
we have freedom, and our role is to release the information that
we want,” said Giudici, head of the Committee for the Freedom
of Expression in the lower house. “They seek to install a state
of fear and intimidation. They started with the researchers
being fined, then asked for information on reporters who write
about inflation and at last they have come for us.”  Economists including former central bank President Alfonso Prat-Gay have questioned the official reports since 2007, when
then President  Nestor Kirchner  began changing personnel at the
national statistics institute in a bid to “improve
operations.” The institute, Indec, said prices rose 9.8 percent
in August from a year earlier, less than half the 24 percent
reported by lawmakers.  Calls to Catania’s office by Bloomberg News weren’t
answered.  500,000-Peso Fines  Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno filed charges
against M&S Consultores SA on July 8, saying the company stood
to profit by reporting prices in  South America ’s second-biggest
economy rose faster than reported by Indec. Moreno also fined
Ecolatina and Orlando Ferreres & Asociados 500,000 pesos
($121,000) each. The researchers were among about 10 companies
and individuals who were fined a similar amount in February.  The  International Monetary Fund  noted the gap between
official data of inflation and gross domestic product and the
reports released by economists in its Sept. 20  World Economic
Outlook .  “The authorities have committed to improve the quality of
 Argentina ’s official GDP and CPI, so as to bring them into
compliance with their obligations under the IMF’s Articles of
Agreement,” the lender said in a footnote to the report.
“Until the quality of data reporting has improved, IMF staff
will also use alternative measures of GDP growth and inflation
for macroeconomic surveillance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  