-- 
Harper’s Free-Market Views Tested by Canada’s Capital Inflows

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-09-22T04:02:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/harper-s-free-market-views-tested-by-canada-s-capital-inflows.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , an economist who has pursued free-trade agreements from
 Costa Rica  to  India , is prepared to stem capital flows if they
jeopardize domestic control of key industries or fuel
speculative currency gains.  Harper said he will “proceed with caution” when it comes
to foreign takeovers of important companies, even as he seeks to
encourage business spending to generate growth. Policy makers
also won’t tolerate a speculative jump in the country’s dollar
that could hurt the economy, Harper said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  “As much of an advocate as I am of free markets, I don’t
think that governments realistically can just make the
assumption that everybody else is operating on a market basis,”
Harper said, referring to foreign investment.  Canada  can’t
assume “that the country’s only interest would be in simply
letting the so-called market, which isn’t always a free market,
decide all these things.”  Harper is dealing with the impact of record capital inflows
at a time when other countries have been implementing investment
controls or trying to offset upward pressure on their
currencies. Harper, 52, is also trying to balance encouraging
foreign investment while ensuring the country maintains control
over its resources amid emerging market demand for Canada’s
commodities.  “Canada can’t afford to go protectionist if it wants to
become an energy superpower,” said Goldy Hyder, a general
manager with lobby firm Hill & Knowlton Canada who was an aide
to former Conservative Prime Minister Joe Clark. “But he’s
reminding people that this isn’t going to be a garage sale.
These deals need to make sense for Canada.”  Freeing Foreign Investment  The Canadian government is looking at ways to liberalize
foreign investment in various industries, Harper said in the
interview. The challenge is to ensure that the loosening of
foreign-ownership rules doesn’t trigger the “loss of all
Canadian presence in the sector,” he said.  “The important issue for me is that Canada continue to
have head offices and some economic leadership in the world,”
Harper said. “I don’t think we would want a situation,
especially one that might not be driven entirely by market
forces, where the Canadian economy were entirely owned and
operated essentially from headquarters and offices based in
every place but Canada.”  Almost half of the country’s top 20 companies by market
value, including Toronto-based  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  BCE
Inc. (BCE) , the Montreal-based phone company, are subject to ownership
limits.  Majority Government  Harper’s Conservative government - which won a majority of
seats in May elections after five years of minority rule - has
taken steps to encourage businesses to invest in Canada. The
government has pressed ahead with cuts in the corporate  tax
rate , eliminated all tariffs on imported machinery and equipment
for manufacturing, and is allowing manufacturers temporary tax
breaks on investments.  The country’s record on generating foreign direct
investment remains mixed. Canadian direct investment abroad has
outpaced foreign direct investment in Canada by a quarterly
average of C$3.7 billion over the past 14 quarters.  Harper has tried to reassure potential investors that
Canada remains open to foreign takeovers since the government in
November rejected a proposed bid for fertilizer maker Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. by Australia-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   ‘Strategic Positioning’  “If it had been in  Australia , to put the shoe on the other
foot, I don’t believe that takeover would have been approved,”
he said. “I think the objectives of BHP, in fairness, probably
were beyond merely what we would consider good business in a
market sense, but probably more an issue of strategic
positioning, and that strategic positioning was obviously not in
the interest of the Canadian economy.”  The government welcomes investment by  China  and other
countries, as long as such acquisitions are “economic in nature
and don’t have other strategic or political objectives,” he
added.  Harper also has been an advocate of the country’s energy
industry, which is forecast to bring C$2.08 trillion in
investment over the next 25 years, the Canadian Energy Research
Institute estimates.  To secure those investments, Harper’s government has been
promoting  Alberta ’s  oil sands  as a source of energy for the
U.S., over the objections of environmentalists who say their
output requires extensive upgrading and refining in a process
that generates more greenhouse-gas emissions than conventional
crude production.  Keystone Pipeline  TransCanada Corp. is awaiting approval from the U.S. State
Department for the Keystone  XL pipeline , which would transport
crude from the oil sands to U.S. refineries near the  Gulf of
Mexico .  Harper said U.S. approval of TransCanada’s proposed $7
billion pipeline is a “no-brainer” because it will create jobs
and add to America’s secure energy reserves.  “The need for energy in the U.S. is enormous, the
alternatives for the U.S. are not good, on every level,” Harper
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. Harper said he’s
“confident” the pipeline will be built.  Foreign investors have bought record amounts of bonds in
the past two years, helping to support a Canadian dollar that
has risen more than 60 percent against the U.S. currency since
2002. The appreciation has hurt the profitability of companies
such as Guelph, Ontario-based auto-parts maker  Linamar Corp. (LNR) ,
and the share of exports in national output has fallen more than
10 percentage points over the past decade.  ‘Positive Reflection’  Harper said that the currency’s strengthening over the past
decade has been “to a large degree a positive reflection on the
country’s economic state and its economic policies.” He added
policy makers are prepared to act to stem an appreciation caused
by speculative capital inflows that could undermine the economy.  Canadian monetary authorities “would be prepared to
intervene if they thought there were movements in the currency
that were contrary to the country’s interests and not being
driven by actual underlying fundamentals,” Harper said in the
interview.  Harper said he doesn’t want to see another “speculative
spike” like the one in 2007, when the currency rose to a record
high of about $1.10. The Canadian dollar depreciated 1.6 percent
yesterday to C$1.0081 per  U.S. dollar , from 99.27 cents the day
before.  “We did have a speculative spike on the currency I think
in 2007 and as you know I did eventually express my concern
about,” Harper said. “I would not want to see an incident like
that repeated. I don’t believe under the  Bank of Canada  today it
would be repeated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ,
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 