-- 
Harvard Endowment Rises 21% on Hedge-Fund Gains

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/harvard-endowment-rises-21-.html
Harvard University , the world’s
richest school, said its investments rose 21 percent in the past
year, outperforming benchmarks and extending the rebound from
record losses in 2008.  The value of the university’s endowment climbed $4.4
billion to $32 billion as of June 30, according to a report
yesterday by Harvard Management Co., which oversees the fund.
The increase in value also reflects gifts from donors and
distributions to help finance operations at the Cambridge,
Massachusetts, university.  Jane Mendillo, who took over as chief executive officer of
Harvard Management in July 2008, plans to shift more money in-
house as she continues to cut the endowment’s use of outside
asset managers. She has overseen the fund’s rebound from a 27
percent loss in the wake of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
collapse in September 2008.  “Some have taken advantage of the lessons of 2008, others
have not,” said  Steven Drobny , author of “The Invisible Hands:
Top Hedge Fund Traders on Bubbles, Crashes and Real Money.”
With markets so volatile, “you’ll start to see a wider
dispersion in endowment return numbers going forward.”  Harvard’s investments rose in all categories during the
fiscal year. Returns on hedge funds, real assets such as
commodities, and fixed-income assets beat internal benchmarks,
while gains by private equity, real estate and public stocks
fell short of targets, the report shows.  “We’re on a really good trajectory with this portfolio,”
Mendillo, who turned 53 on the third anniversary of Lehman’s
Sept. 14 bankruptcy filing, said yesterday in an interview.
“We’ve done a lot of restructuring. We’re past the midpoint in
the turnaround in this portfolio.”  ‘Policy Portfolio’  Harvard Management, which is based in  Boston , measures its
performance against a theoretical “policy portfolio” that it
says reflects the most appropriate mix of assets for the
university. The endowment beat the 20 percent gain by the
benchmark in the past year, as well as the 19.5 percent increase
of a hypothetical portfolio of 60 percent stocks and 40 percent
bonds. Harvard’s fund returned 5.5 percent, 9.4 percent and 13
percent in the past 5, 10 and 20 years, topping the policy
portfolio, the report said.  The endowment also outperformed the average of 20 percent
return in the past year of endowments and foundations tracked by
consultant Wilshire Associates in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Harvard Management lowered the amount of cash in the policy
portfolio to zero from the 2 percent it established in the two
years after the Lehman bankruptcy, the five-page report shows.  “Our portfolio was much more locked up and illiquid,”
Mendillo said. Harvard has $5 billion to $6 billion in
commitments to private-equity and real estate funds, down from
$11 billion about two years ago, according to Mendillo.  Meyer, El-Erian  About 30 percent of the endowment was overseen in-house
when Mendillo became CEO and “it makes good sense for Harvard
to allocate a larger proportion of the total portfolio to
internal management in the coming years,” Mendillo wrote in the
report. Now, about 35 percent of the endowment is overseen
internally, with the rest allocated to outside managers, she
said.  Harvard managed as much as 85 percent of its money
internally under  Jack Meyer , who ran the fund for 15 years
before leaving in 2005 following alumni complaints about pay.  After a nine-month search, Harvard named Mohamed El-Erian,
who oversaw emerging-markets investments at Pacific Investment
Management Co., to succeed Meyer. El-Erian resigned after less
than two years to return to  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco, where he became co-chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer. Under El-Erian, the percentage of money
Harvard managers handled fell to about 30 percent.  Manager Pay  Harvard fired workers, sold $2.5 billion in bonds and
delayed construction projects after the Lehman bankruptcy
crippled financial markets. The 375-year-old school suffered its
first endowment loss in seven years and the biggest in four
decades. The fund, which finances about one-third of the
university’s budget, is $4.9 billion away from its peak of $36.9
billion as of June 30, 2008.  In 2009, as the fund began to rebound, Mendillo was paid
$3.5 million, making her the fourth highest-paid  money manager 
at the endowment. The fund’s top internal managers on her staff
earned about $25.3 million combined that year. Last year’s
compensation numbers haven’t yet been released.  Changing Managers  Harvard is the second  Ivy League  school to report its
endowment earnings. The  University of Pennsylvania  in
Philadelphia said Sept. 15 its fund gained 19 percent in the
year ended June 30, helped by rising stock markets. Colleges
with the biggest endowments are set to announce their results in
the next month or two. There are eight northeastern U.S. schools
in the Ivy League.  In the past year, Harvard’s stocks overall gained 28
percent, boosted by a 35 percent gain in U.S. equities, while
foreign and emerging markets underperformed, the report said.
Private-equity investments increased 26 percent, public
commodities jumped 27 percent and foreign bonds rose 22 percent.  Real estate investments rose 11 percent. Fixed income beat
targets across U.S. Treasuries, inflation-linked bonds and
sovereign debt, increasing 9.1 percent.  Hedge funds  gained 12
percent, after the endowment restructured its managers
“significantly over the past few years,” Mendillo wrote.  ‘Now Happier’  The fund is “now happier with the mix of managers and
strategies it contains: a variety of approaches to generating
value ranging from purely opportunistic to long-short to unusual
investments such as royalty streams,” Mendillo said. The stakes
will likely help to stabilize returns when “public equity
markets do not do as well as they did this past fiscal year,”
she wrote.  The endowment has also been reshaping its real estate
portfolio and has sold some “fully leased core properties”
while setting up “a number of promising joint venture
partnerships and is making investments in inefficient pockets of
the global real estate market,” Mendillo wrote.  “Since the end of the fiscal year, the markets have been
exceptionally volatile, driven by concern and uncertainty
related to the debt ceiling debate, the fate of the  euro zone ,
the S&P downgrade of the U.S. Treasury securities and
indications of slowing growth in economies at home and abroad,”
Mendillo wrote. “The impact of these issues on our portfolio is
unavoidable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 