-- 
As Libya War Winds Down, Security Consultants Tout Iraq, Afghan Experience

-- B y   S a r a h   A .   T o p o l
-- 
2011-09-22T08:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/as-libya-war-winds-down-security-consultants-tout-iraq-afghan-experience.html
Want to do a deal in post-Qaddafi
 Libya ?  Head to the Cafe Oya in the back of Tripoli’s Radisson Blu
Al Mahary, where visitors without proper ID must check their AK-
47s at the hotel door.  Diplomats, reporters, businessmen, and representatives of
the National Transitional Council, the rebel government set up
in February, sit at a dozen small tables discussing the
country’s volatile future through a haze of cigarette smoke.
Conversation over strong coffee flits between the fighting
around Sirte, who will hold positions in the soon-to-be-created
interim government -- delayed by bickering between Islamists and
secular Libyans -- and who gets the billions of dollars of
still-frozen Qaddafi assets.  Never far from view are the hulking frames of security
details, mostly British ex-military men, transparent wires
corkscrewing out of their ears. Their taciturn shadows tail the
diplomats and visiting members from the transitional government
they protect.  Other security consultants are staked out at the hotel in
search of the business that inevitably accompanies Mideast
turmoil. One rebel council insider compares the consultants to
flies buzzing around. Contractors are trying to gather as much
information as possible about anybody willing to pay--security
companies,  oil companies , business ventures who are already here
or want to start here.  Former Marines  Scott Wilcox and Jonny Hart sit at a table wearing matching
blue shirts with  SicuroGroup  emblazoned on the back in white
letters. They’re collaborating with GardaWorld, represented in
Tripoli by Andrew Gibson. The two companies have worked
separately in Iraq,  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan , Yemen, and  Haiti .
Wilcox, strategy director for SicuroGroup, and Hart are former
Royal Marines; Gibson is ex-British army. While in the military
they did tours in  Northern Ireland ,  Kosovo , Albania, and
Afghanistan.  GardaWorld’s parent company,  Garda World Security Corp. (GW) ,
trades on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, and it
generated $1.2 billion in fiscal 2011 revenue by transporting
cash from banks with armored cars, running airport security in
 Canada , and protecting  oil fields  and NGOs in tough parts of the
world.  In Libya, the two companies figure they can offer
traditional security services for oil installations, reopened
embassies, and aid missions. “We’re there to facilitate the
reentry of clients in Libya,” says GardaWorld President Oliver Westmacott. GardaWorld is much larger than the privately held
SicuroGroup, which had $11 million in revenue last year and is
based in Dubai.  ‘Not Iraq’  The companies also say they have a special expertise in
tracking devices which, when affixed to vehicles or people, can
help move personnel safely around a country rife with
flashpoints. Tracking technology can also be used to help
Tripoli’s city government develop a more effective ambulance
system--one project SicuroGroup and GardaWorld are pursuing with
a local partner. Both companies have experience bringing
together security personnel, drivers, translators, and cultural
advisers for special projects.  What’s missing from Libya for now is violence toward
foreigners. “It’s not  Iraq  or Afghanistan, we understand that,”
Wilcox says. Gibson adds: “We’re not here like these Guns ‘R’ Us
guys: They want a high-threat environment. We’re looking at the
long term.”  Potential Clients  The trio arrived Sept. 11 to set up their own operations in
a villa, a compound where they’ve ensured security is good (but
no blast walls like in Iraq), and services include Internet, TVs
and  DVD players , and housekeeping staff. They are scouting for
other residences to turn into secure outposts for potential
clients.  Being first on the ground comes with complications.
SicuroGroup and GardaWorld need a business license: There’s
nowhere to apply for one. “We want to be compliant. If you tell
me there’s tax to be paid, I’m happy with it, tell me the
rules,” Wilcox says. Yet, he adds, every official they speak
with is afraid to sign anything now, for fear of being accused
of abusing his interim power.  Wilcox says an NTC official has approached them to create a
medical care and evacuation network. The idea is to connect the
rebel forces besieging the pro-Qaddafi stronghold of Sirte to
hospitals in Misrata. The tricky part is securing and insuring a
plane to fly the seriously wounded from Misrata to hospitals in
Amman or  Rome . The cost of a flight can reach $300,000.  NTC officials are taking their time making up their minds
about whom to hire for the medical evacuation service, while
Wilcox and Gibson worry about whom they could trust to sign a
legitimate contract. For now, there’s nothing to do but sit in
the Cafe Oya and wait.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Topol in Libya, through the New York newsroom at  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  