-- 
Asian Stocks Set for Lowest Close in a Year on Economic Risks

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-22T08:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/asian-equities-set-for-lowest-close-in-a-year-as-fed-cites-economic-risks.html
Asian stocks tumbled, sending the
regional benchmark index toward its lowest close in more than a
year, after the U.S.  Federal Reserve  warned of “significant
downside risks to the economic outlook” and Moody’s Investors
Service cut its debt ratings on some American banks.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s No. 1 lender by market value,
plunged 3.6 percent in Hong Kong as the currency union’s risk
watchdog said threats to the financial system have increased
“considerably.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, slumped 4 percent in Sydney as copper futures entered a
 bear market .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  declined 1.7 percent in  Tokyo 
and South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co., which makes close to
80 percent of its revenue overseas, dropped 2.8 percent in Seoul.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 3.7 percent to 113.52
as of 5:02 p.m. in Tokyo, set for its lowest close since July 7,
2010. About nine stocks fell for each that advanced on the
measure, which closed little changed yesterday ahead of a
Federal Reserve meeting. The gauge has dropped in the past two
weeks amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is spreading and signs
of slowing U.S. growth.  “The Fed delivered exactly what had been expected,” said
 Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “All underlying measures of credit risk
are rising and there are numerous examples of banks having to
resort to unusual measures to obtain funding. Under the surface,
we are moving quickly into a secondary credit crisis.”  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 2.1 percent and
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 2.6 percent. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed after a report showed
the nation’s economy almost stalled last quarter. South Korea’s
Kospi Index lost 2.9 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 4.9 percent following a
report that a measure of Chinese manufacturing weakened in
September. Developers led declines on reports  China  may attempt
to restrict their funding sources.  The MSCI All-Country World Index fell 2.2 percent to 284.13
today, dropping 21 percent below a May 2 high, a decline that
indicates the gauge has entered a so-called bear market.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.4 percent
today. In  New York  yesterday, the index slid 2.9 percent for the
biggest drop since Aug. 18 after the Fed said it will purchase
longer-term debt and sell shorter maturities to sustain an
economic recovery, confirming speculation it was planning an
“Operation Twist” similar to a 1960s central-bank program.  ‘Significant Risks’  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed statement said. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  expanded use of
unconventional monetary tools for a second straight meeting
after U.S. job gains stalled and the government lowered its
estimate of second-quarter economic growth.  BHP Billiton fell 4 percent to A$35.63 in Sydney and Rio
Tinto Group slid 6.5 percent to A$65.10. Toyota, the world’s
biggest carmaker, dropped 1.7 percent to 2,628 yen in Tokyo, and
Samsung retreated 2.8 percent to 790,000 yen in Seoul.  Banks dropped after the Federal Reserve’s warning of
growing “strains in global financial markets” and the European
Systemic Risk Board said threats to the financial system have
increased “considerably” amid a worsening debt crisis in
Europe. The  International Monetary Fund  said the sovereign-debt
issue has generated as much as 300 billion euros ($410 billion)
in credit risk for European banks.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender
by market value, lost 1.5 percent to 332 yen in Tokyo and HSBC,
which receives more than half its revenue from Europe, sank 3.6
percent to HK$60.65.  ‘Downbeat Statement’  “Markets are reacting to the Fed’s downbeat statement,”
said Belinda Allen, a senior investment analyst at Colonial
First State Global Asset Management in Sydney, which oversees
about $150 billion. “Even though Operation Twist delivered more
than expected, the end result on the economic recovery could be
less than hoped.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 7.2 percent drop by the  S&P
500  and an 18 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.9 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 11.7 times for the
S&P 500 and 9.5 times for the Stoxx 600.  “The version of Operation Twist the Fed announced was
pretty much as expected, but having said there are now
‘significant downside risks’ to the  U.S. economy , it isn’t
enough,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100
billion under management. “Investors have reacted by selling
shares, commodities and other growth assets. More quantitative
easing is now inevitable.”  Developers Plunge  Chinese developers listed in  Hong Kong  plunged after
Reuters reported that the nation’s banking regulator ordered
 trust companies  to report dealings with Greentown China Holdings
Ltd. Greentown, the largest builder in eastern Zhejiang province,
plunged 16 percent to HK$4.49. KWG Property Holding Ltd. tumbled
12 percent to HK$2.85.  The report may be a sign China is trying to restrict
financing sources for developers, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst
Jinsong Du wrote in a note today. China’s developers can pay as
much as 25 percent to borrow from private trust companies to
skirt tighter lending rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  