-- 
Asian Currencies Decline to 2011 Low, Prompting Central Bank Intervention

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-22T10:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/asian-currencies-decline-to-eight-month-low-on-global-growth-concern.html
Asian currencies slumped, even as
traders said  Indonesia  and South Korean authorities intervened
to slow declines, after the U.S. Federal Reserve said there are
“significant downside risks” to the world’s biggest economy.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell to the lowest
level this year and the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares
tumbled the most in six months. Data today showed Thai export
growth slowed in August and indicated  China ’s manufacturing will
shrink for a third month in September. Bank Indonesia, which
said it intervened when the currency slumped on Sept. 14, will
remain in the market to boost confidence, Hendar, the central
bank’s director of monetary policy, said in Jakarta today.  “Investors are trimming their portfolios and selling their
holdings of emerging-market assets in  Asia  on  risk aversion ,”
said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-
markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Asia
can’t avoid a slowdown in exports due to the conditions in the
U.S. and  Europe . The downgrade of U.S. banks’ credit ratings is
worsening sentiment.”  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, declined 1.3 percent to
114.43 as of 6:45 p.m. in Hong Kong. The won slumped 2.6 percent
to 1,179.85 per dollar, Taiwan’s dollar weakened 1.4 percent to
NT$30.372 and  India ’s rupee dropped 1.9 percent to 49.23,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s central bank will intervene in the foreign-exchange
market to curb volatility in the rupee, though it isn’t doing so
at the moment, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters
in  New York  yesterday.  Offshore Yuan  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
2011 global economic growth to 4 percent from 4.3 percent this
week, and that for 2012 to 4 percent from 4.5 percent,
predicting a “severe” fallout if Europe fails to contain its
debt crisis. Global funds sold $3 billion more Taiwanese, South
Korean and Indonesia equities than they bought this month
through yesterday, exchange data show.  China’s yuan weakened the most on record in  Hong Kong ,
sliding to the biggest discount to the onshore  exchange rate 
since the currency began trading in the city last year.  The yuan sank 0.9 percent to 6.4440 per dollar, a 0.9
percent discount to the rate in  Shanghai . The currency fell 0.10
percent to 6.3884 in the domestic market, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  “It’s a textbook example of funds leaving Asia and buying
the dollar on risk-off mode,” said Carlos Cheung, a Hong Kong-
based foreign-exchange dealer at Bank of Communications Ltd.
“Market expectations on yuan appreciation have dwindled.”  Sustained Downturn  The won fell to a one-year low as overseas investors pulled
money from Korean stocks, adding to net sales of $918 million
this month through yesterday. The potential outflow of foreign
capital from  South Korea  is a major concern, Financial Services
Commission Chairman Kim Seok Dong said today in a CBS radio
interview. The current global economic difficulties will likely
drag on for “quite a long” period, Kim said.  “The Fed’s emphasis on economic downside risks raised fear
among investors, boosting dollar demand” said Yun Se Min, a
Seoul-based currency dealer at Busan Bank. “There was
speculation the government intervened to prevent the won from
weakening below the 1,180 per dollar level.”  Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.3 percent to 9,103 against the
dollar, paring earlier losses of as much as 3.1 percent. The
decline will be temporary and the central bank will keep the
rupiah’s movement in line with regional currencies, the central
bank’s Hendar said.  Central banks intervene in currency markets by arranging
purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Indonesia has $125
billion in reserves with which to defend the rupiah.  China Demand  Taiwan ’s dollar slid to this year’s low on concern slowing
global growth will weaken demand for the island’s exports.
China’s preliminary index of purchasing managers fell to 49.4 in
September after final readings of 49.9 for August and 49.3 for
July, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. China
is the No. 1 export market for Taiwan and South Korea.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso declined 0.6 percent to
43.772 per dollar, Malaysia’s ringgit slumped 0.5 percent to
3.1575 and Thailand’s baht dropped 0.8 percent to 30.71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  