-- 
At Least a Dozen People Killed in Clashes Around Yemeni Capital

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-09-22T18:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/at-least-12-people-killed-in-clashes-around-yemeni-capital-1-.html
At least a dozen people were killed
today during anti-government demonstrations in Yemen’s capital,
Sana’a, bringing to almost 100 the number of deaths this week.  Snipers attacked protesters outside the headquarters of
Yemeni state television, killing at least six people, said
Mohammed Saeed, a rally organizer. At least four tribesmen and
soldiers were killed in raids at a military camp, the  Defense
Ministry  said on its website. Two civilians died in an attack on
Sheikh Hamir al-Ahmar, the deputy speaker of parliament, who was
unharmed, according to opposition website al-Sahwa.  Heavy fighting, with explosions and artillery fire,
occurred in the al-Hasaba neighborhood, north of the capital,
targeting the house of Sheikh Sadiq al-Ahmar, leader of Yemen’s
most powerful tribal confederation, according to Majed Mahyoub,
a resident, who spoke by phone. Ahmar supporters and pro-
government forces fought around the Ministry of Interior, a few
hundred meters from al-Ahmar’s house, which was heavily shelled
in May and June.  Gunfire by snipers continued after nightfall at Change
Square in central Sana’a, said Mohammed al-Sharabi, a protest
activist, speaking by phone. Fighting also spread in other parts
of the city.  The fighting escalated this week after the Organization
Committee of the Popular Youth Revolution urged Yemenis to
intensify protests for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s
31-year rule. Saleh has been in neighboring  Saudi Arabia  since
June, recuperating from wounds he suffered during an attack on
his compound.  At least four military tanks and armored vehicles belonging
to the defected First Armored Division stood briefly outside the
home of Vice President Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi today. An Arab
Gulf-brokered plan this year called for Saleh to hand over power
to Hadi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  