-- 
Latvia’s AirBaltic Seeks Legal Protection in Dispute

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-09-22T12:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/latvia-s-airbaltic-seeks-legal-protection-from-state-in-dispute.html
AirBaltic AS, the Latvian airline
majority owned by the state, filed for court protection amid a
dispute between the government and the minority shareholder over
the future of the company.  The Latvian government reached a preliminary agreement with
Baltic Aviation Systems, the minority owner, on Sept. 6 to raise
AirBaltic’s capital after a 34.2 million-lati ($65.3 million)
loss last year. The capital increase has yet to be implemented,
while the state demands Chief Executive Officer Bertolt Flick, a
German who controls AirBaltic from Berlin, step down as a
condition.  The government “has neglectfully and repeatedly delayed
any decisions regarding the capital increase,” said Flick in a
 statement  on the company’s website last night.  Flick left  Latvia  after the anti-corruption bureau
conducted a series of raids that included AirBaltic offices in a
probe that also targeted a member of parliament. The government
is considering investing in the airline’s capital, selling its
stake in the company or creating a new airline, it said in a
 statement  today.  The government today received a letter from BAS containing
the names of the company’s ultimate beneficial owners, Leta
 reported , citing its own information. The Riga-based newswire
identified one of the two investors as Flick and a Russian
citizen it didn’t name.  Government Requests  The government on Sept. 20 had called on Baltic Aviation to
release the names of the ultimate beneficial owners of the
company, which is partly held in a Bahamas-registered fund.  Should a court grant the company’s request for legal
protection, “the management of AirBaltic will not change during
the period of legal protection, and all the creditors of the
carrier will receive the outstanding debts,” AirBaltic said in
the statement.  Leta newswire reported that the court has delayed a
decision until Oct. 21 as the request was missing documentation.  The airline unexpectedly canceled flights to five cities on
Sept. 13, stranding the nation’s president, foreign minister and
other passengers outside the country.  Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said during a Sept. 11
pre-election television debate that the airline’s minority owner
had tried to take control of the company by registering fake
shares, though the shareholders agreement cedes control to
Baltic Aviation.  Capital Increase  AirBaltic has secured about 10 million euros ($13.6
million) in financing because its owners haven’t agreed on the
capital increase, Flick said in an e-mailed statement on Sept.
12, which may make the state a minority shareholder.  Flick said he plans to release documents and memoranda from
the shareholder meetings on the agreement after submitting them
to the general prosecutor.  The state owns 52.6 percent of AirBaltic while Baltic
Aviation Systems has 47.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  