-- 
Australian Lawmakers Begin Debate on Gillard’s Changes to Migration Laws

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-22T07:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/australia-lawmakers-debate-migration-changes.html
Australia ’s parliament adjourned
until next month after opening debate on proposed changes to the
country’s migration law that would make it legal to send asylum-
seekers to another nation for processing.  The government began debate on the changes today on the
bill after it was introduced yesterday, rather than waiting
until the next session that begins Oct. 11.  “This is a matter of the national interest, it’s a matter
of some public interest and I think it’s appropriate that the
parliament begin considering it today,” Immigration Minister
Chris Bowen told reporters in Canberra.  The migration issue has dominated national politics since
the High Court last month rejected Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s policy of assessing refugee claims for asylum
offshore. The proposed changes don’t have the support of the
opposition Liberal-National coalition or the Greens lawmakers
Gillard depends on for her parliamentary majority.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , who has criticized the prime
minister for failing to stem a flow of Asian boat people lured
by Australian economic growth, introduced today his own
amendments to enable offshore processing in Nauru, an option the
government has rejected as too costly.  “A prime minister who is incapable of protecting the
borders of our country is a prime minister who has manifestly
failed in the highest task she has,” Abbott told parliament
today.  Malaysia  Deal Blocked  Gillard is seeking to resurrect a deal with Malaysia to
process illegal immigrants in that country after the  High Court 
blocked the policy. Under the deal Australia would have accepted
4,000 people verified as legitimate refugees by the  United
Nations  from Malaysia, which would accept 800 asylum seekers
deemed to have arrived illegally.  The refugee issue is among reasons Labor’s support has
slumped to a record-low 26 percent, according to a Newspoll
published by the Australian Sept. 20.  The government aimed to make a political point by pushing
the legislation to a vote even though parliament was likely to
defeat it, John Warhurst, a professor at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra said yesterday in an interview.  “They want to pin down the Greens and opposition to vote
it down. This way they can say ‘we tried.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  