-- 
Australia Stock Futures Drop as Recession Concern Intensifies

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-22T23:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/australian-stock-futures-decline-as-global-recession-concern-intensifies.html
Australian stock futures fell as
concern intensified that policy makers worldwide are running out
of tools to avoid another global economic recession.  American depositary receipts of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s No. 1 mining company, slumped 3.4 percent as crude oil
and metal prices tumbled yesterday. Those of  Alumina Ltd. (AWC) , a
partner in the largest global producer of the material used to
make aluminum, retreated 3 percent. ADRs of  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  fell 1 percent. Asian exporters such as Li & Fung Ltd.,
the biggest supplier of clothes and toys to retailers including
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., may also be active.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.9 percent
to 3,890 as of 6:58 a.m. in Sydney. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
slumped 1.7 percent in Wellington. Japanese markets are closed
today for a public holiday.  “It would be flippant to suggest this is just a blip,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “The aggressive selling of
equity markets seems to reflect a heightened probability that
the world is moving toward a recession. There’s also a sense
that policy makers globally are limited in their ability to
alleviate the situation because of the need for fiscal
austerity.”  Global share declines sent the MSCI All-Country World Index
of 45 nations into a  bear market  for the first time in more than
two years, after the worsening European debt crisis and threat
of a U.S. recession erased more than $10 trillion from equities
since May. The MSCI index has lost more than 20 percent since
peaking on May 2, meeting the common definition of a bear market.  Global Stocks Tumble  U.S. stocks slumped yesterday in  New York , sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to its biggest two-day decline since
December 2008, amid investors’ concern that policy makers are
running out of tools to avoid another global economic recession.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 3.2 percent. Futures on  S&P
500 Index  gained 0.4 percent today.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index tumbled 4.6 percent yesterday to
a two-year low after the Federal Reserve signaled “significant
downside risks” to the world’s largest economy and Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded three U.S. banks.  A measure of primary metals traded in London fell 6.4
percent yesterday for a fifth straight daily decline, while
copper futures for December delivery dropped 7.3 percent in New
York. Crude oil for November delivery dropped 6.3 percent on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific ex Japan Index lost 21 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 10 percent drop for the
 S&P 500  and a decline of 22 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 10.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 11.4 times for the
S&P 500 and nine times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 