-- 
Lawmakers Urge FCC to Resist Political Pressures on LightSquared

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-09-22T19:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/lawmakers-urge-fcc-to-resist-political-pressures-on-lightsquared.html
U.S. regulators should “resist
political pressures” to approve  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared
wireless service, two Republican lawmakers said today.  The Federal Communications Commission should bear in mind
benefits from the global-positioning system, which may be
disrupted by LightSquared, Representative Thomas Petri of
 Wisconsin  and Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  said in a letter
to FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  LightSquared wants to offer wholesale service through a
network of 40,000 base stations using airwaves previously
reserved mainly for satellites. GPS devices rely on satellite
signals, and makers of GPS gear say LightSquared’s network would
disrupt navigation by planes, boats, tractors and automobiles.  Seven  House Republicans  earlier asked for records of
contacts between the White House and Falcone, citing concerns
about possible political pressure on U.S. agencies.  The Reston, Virginia-based company, backed by Falcone’s
Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, needs FCC approval to
start service. At the FCC’s directive, GPS companies and federal
agencies tested LightSquared signals for interference between
January and June, and more tests are planned.  “We have never seen the entire federal government and so
many private companies directed to expend such considerable
financial resources and man hours to accommodate a single
company’s desires,” Grassley and Petri said in the letter.  Grassley serves on the Senate Agriculture Committee, and
Petri is chairman of the House subcommittee on aviation.  Controversial Proposal  “It is odd that the FCC has pegged the hopes” of more
wireless high-speed  Internet service  “on such a controversial
proposal by a single applicant,” the lawmakers said. “We urge
you to resist political pressures to grant LightSquared an
authorization that could jeopardize the nation’s unique spectrum
resource -- GPS.”  Tammy Sun, an FCC spokeswoman, and Chris Stern, a
Washington-based spokesman for LightSquared, declined to
comment.  Some U.S. officials have been reluctant to testify on GPS
interference and agencies haven’t provided information,
Representative Ralph Hall, of  Texas , chairman of the House
Committee on Science, Space and Technology, and six colleagues
wrote in a letter Sept. 20.  The White House “ fully respected the FCC’s independent
process” and administration witnesses testifying before
Congress identified GPS problems, Eric Schultz, a White House
spokesman, said in an e-mail on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  