-- 
Baht Weakens to 11-Week Low on Fed Statement, Export Outlook

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-22T01:42:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/baht-weakens-to-11-week-low-on-fed-statement-export-outlook.html
Thailand ’s baht slid to an 11-week
low after the  Federal Reserve  said there are significant
“downside” risks to the economy, hurting the outlook for Asian
exports and reducing demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency fell the most since June after Moody’s
Investors Service cut its ratings of Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co ., saying policy makers are
“more likely” to allow a large bank to fail than they were
during the financial crisis. Thai exports rose 27 percent in
August from a year earlier, compared with a 38 percent increase
in July, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey before official data due at 2 p.m. local time.  “Investors are trimming their portfolios and selling their
holdings of emerging-market assets in  Asia  on risk aversion,”
said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-
markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “Asia
can’t avoid a slowdown in exports due to the conditions in the
U.S. and  Europe . The downgrade of U.S. banks’ credit ratings is
worsening sentiment.”  The baht slumped 0.7 percent to 30.69 per dollar as of 8:18
a.m. in Bangkok and touched 30.71 earlier, the weakest level
since July 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency may slide toward 31 by the end of this month, Shiroki
said.  International investors sold $331 million more Thai
equities than they bought this month through yesterday,
according to exchange data.  Government bonds  gained for a second day. The yield on the
5.25 percent notes due May 2014 declined three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.55 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  