-- 
BofA Said to Seek $800 Million in Deal to Divest Pizza Assets

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/bank-of-america-said-to-seek-800-million-in-sale-of-pizza-hut-franchise.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
divesting assets to raise capital, is in exclusive talks to sell
its stake in the biggest U.S. Pizza Hut franchisee for more than
$800 million, said two people with knowledge of the discussions.  Two private-equity firms teamed up to bid for NPC
International Inc., which operates 1,140 Pizza Hut restaurants,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are confidential. One hurdle in closing the transaction is
arranging debt financing for  Overland Park , Kansas-based NPC as
credit markets for buyouts tighten, the people said.  “They’ve got to do two things -- reduce riskier assets and
continue to reallocate capital to other businesses,” said
Jonathan Finger, whose family-owned investment company, Finger
Interests Ltd., owns 1.1 million Bank of America shares. “These
asset sales achieve both those goals, it’s a step in the right
direction to slim the company down.”  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
has agreed to sell almost $50 billion in assets and units ahead
of stricter international rules on capital. The firm said in
April it was unwinding its flagship buyout fund because private-
equity holdings will require a larger capital cushion under
recommendations from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender, declined to comment. Troy Cook, NPC’s
chief financial officer, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  28 States  The bank inherited  NPC  in its 2009 takeover of Merrill
Lynch & Co., which bought the pizza purveyor in May 2006 for
$615 million, according to a filing. NPC was founded in 1962 and
accounts for about one-fifth of U.S. Pizza Hut restaurants, the
firm said in August. Its stores are spread across 28 states,
mostly in the Midwest and South, with about 26,000 employees.  The price being negotiated may be a premium to what fast-
food franchise operators typically trade for. Rivals may be
valued at 6 to 7 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, said Bryan Hunt, a Wells Fargo &
Co. analyst. That would mean about $630 million to $735 million
for NPC, which posted $105.5 million in Ebitda last year.  NPC is “highly leveraged,” which could hurt the firm’s
ability to raise capital or repay debt, the company said in a
February regulatory filing. The operator said it had $402.4
million in loans at year-end, $44.2 million in cash and $58.1
million available under a credit facility.  Asset Sales  Bank of America accelerated asset sales amid concern that
the firm, which reported a record $8.8 billion second-quarter
loss, will have to issue stock to bolster capital. The lender
has lost more than half its market value this year. Moynihan has
said repeatedly that the bank will reach capital targets by
divesting assets deemed less important to customers, rather than
issuing shares or divesting core units.  Bank of America agreed last week to sell its stake in U.S.
hospital operator HCA Holdings Inc., another asset acquired by
Merrill Lynch’s private-equity arm in 2006. Bank of America had
$3 billion in proceeds from that investment, including dividends
and a March initial public offering, the firm said.  Last month, the bank announced deals to divest a Canadian
credit-card unit for C$7.5 billion ($7.3 billion) and sell about
half its stake in China Construction Bank Corp., the world’s
second-biggest lender by market value, for $8.3 billion in
proceeds.  Moynihan is shrinking the bank through an initiative known
as Project New BAC, which involves slashing 30,000 jobs from
 consumer banking  and back-office operations. The firm expects to
trim $5 billion in annual expenses by the end of 2013.  “We don’t have to be the biggest company out there,”
Moynihan said at a Sept. 12 investor conference in  New York .
“We can get out of things we don’t need to do, make the company
leaner, more straightforward, more driven.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  