-- 
BofA Case May Be Followed by More Mortgage Suits by Counties

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/bank-of-america-filing-fee-case-may-open-new-front-in-mortgage-lawsuits.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is among a
group of lenders that may face a wave of new lawsuits claiming
cash-strapped counties were cheated out of millions of dollars
by a system used for more than a decade to register mortgages.  Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins said state
attorneys general and county officials across the U.S. have
expressed interest in his lawsuit against Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc. and Bank of America, filed in Texas
state court on Sept. 21. Dallas County could be owed as much as
$100 million in filing fees, he said.  “This is a big new front,” said Christopher L. Peterson,
associate dean and professor at the University of Utah S.J.
Quinney College of Law. “This case is scary because if  Dallas 
wins then there are a lot of other counties around the country
that are going to follow.”  MERS, a unit of Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp Inc., says
on its  website  that its aim is to place every mortgage in the
country on an electronic, rather than a paper, system that
allows members to buy and sell mortgages.  MERS acts as the lender’s nominee and remains the mortgagee
of record as long as the note promising repayment is owned by a
MERS member. Dallas County claims this allows banks to buy and
sell loans without properly recording transfers with counties
and paying the fee.  ‘Practices are Legal’  “The MERS business model and practices are legal and
comply with the recording statutes and regulations of Texas,”
Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Merscorp, said in an e-mail. The
claims in the lawsuit “are without legal or factual merit.”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by
assets, declined to comment on the suit.  Liability in the Dallas case could exceed $1 billion, based
on the number of mortgages in the county, Peterson said. Local
laws impose substantial penalties, as well as back payments of
fees and taxes, if false documents were filed in land
transactions, said Peterson, who has advised private plaintiffs
making similar claims.  Faulty mortgages and foreclosures have already cost the
five biggest home lenders $66 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America’s credit rating was cut
on Sept. 21 by Moody’s Investors Service in part because the
bill for mortgage disputes may climb past the $39 billion
committed since 2007. County clerks in  Kentucky  have also sued
MERS, while officials in  Massachusetts  and  Michigan  say they are
exploring the possibility.  Half of Mortgages  MERS, operating since 1997, has registered more than half
of all U.S. home mortgages. The company came under scrutiny last
year after  attorneys general  in all 50 states began
investigating claims that banks and loan servicers used faulty
documentation in foreclosures.  Merscorp said on Feb. 16 that it will propose a rule change
to stop members from foreclosing in its name.  Damages in the MERS claims won’t rival the tens of billions
of dollars of losses banks have suffered due to faulty
mortgages, said Chris Gamaitoni, a bank analyst with Washington-
based Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.  The banks are more threatened by lawsuits that question the
way mortgages were originated, pooled and securitized, Gamaitoni
said in an interview.  “This is going to test the foresight of the people who
created MERS,” said  Peter Henning , a law professor at  Wayne
State University  in Detroit.  The prospects for the lawsuits are difficult to determine
because every state has its own property laws and requirements,
Henning said.  ‘Will Pursue’  “It will depend on what they say constitutes a transfer of
a mortgage,” he said. “Counties sure could use these revenues,
so if they can find an opening there they will pursue it.”  MERS is owned by financial institutions including  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Stewart Title
Guaranty Co., and industry trade groups including the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  and the American Land Title Association.
It’s also partly owned by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
housing finance agencies now controlled by the U.S. government
after being bailed out in the 2008 financial crisis.  Dallas County called that crisis “a direct result of the
financial system’s commoditization, packaging, securitization
and sale of tens of millions of mortgages throughout the U.S.,”
according to the complaint. “Without the fiction of the MERS
system, these activities would not have been possible.”  ‘Avoiding Recordation’  The county said that through MERS, notes and mortgages are
being “sold, assigned or transferred” without being recorded
in county deed records. The defendants “misrepresented the true
beneficial owner of notes and related mortgages filed by them in
Dallas County,  Texas , for the purpose of avoiding the
recordation of subsequent transfer and payment of attendant
filing fees.”  Watkins, 43, is seeking reimbursement for fees lost,
punitive damages and a judgment of $10,000 a violation.  He asked the court to find that a violation of the Texas
code occurred each time MERS was identified as a mortgagee or
beneficiary under a deed of trust when it had no interest in the
note secured by that deed. According to the complaint, MERS was
the “grantee” in 157,319 records in Dallas as of Sept. 11.  The lawsuit also seeks a court order preventing the
defendants from filing anything in deed records that identified
MERS or anyone as a beneficiary who doesn’t have an interest in
the secured note. The county said Bank of America “knew or
should have known” the MERS system would cause improper filing.  ‘More Banks’  “We expect more banks will be in this before it’s over,”
Watkins said in an interview. The litigation could spread, he
said. “This is not just going to be a Texas deal.” He wouldn’t
specify which states or counties had contacted him or his
lawyers about the suit.  Peterson, the Utah professor, who wrote an academic article
on MERS that is cited in the Texas complaint, said he has
advised plaintiffs in whistleblower cases against MERS in
California, Nevada and Tennessee. The California case was
dismissed when the court determined the purported whistleblower
didn’t meet filing standards. A Nevada court said state law
didn’t require recording the assignment of a mortgage.  The clerks of Kentucky’s Christian and Washington counties
sued MERS, Chase Home Mortgage Corp., CitiMortgage, Wells Fargo,
Bank of America and others in federal court in Louisville in
April, seeking to represent all 120 counties in the state.  “According to MERS’s own website, its system saves money
for its members and is specifically designed to avoid paying the
fees” to county clerks, according to the April 25 filing.
“MERS president, R.K. Arnold, testified in 2009 that assuming
each mortgage has been resold and recorded just once, it would
have saved the industry $2.4 billion in recording expenses.”  ‘Immediately Cease’  The Kentucky suit seeks compensatory and punitive damages
and an injunction ordering defendants “to immediately cease the
practice of nonrecording of assignments of mortgages.”  Dennis Pantazis Jr., attorney for the counties, declined to
comment on the suit.  Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan
Chase, and Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, declined to comment.  The banks and MERS asked the court to dismiss the case,
saying Kentucky law doesn’t require recording transfers of
promissory notes or interests in loans. MERS remains the
“mortgagee of record” during these transactions, so no duty to
record is triggered, the companies said in a July 1 filing.  Oakland County, Michigan is “evaluating a possible suit”
against MERS, said Keith Lerminiaux, corporate counsel. The
county has sued Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in federal court in
Detroit alleging they failed to pay transfer taxes on
foreclosure sales.  Massachusetts Probe  Martha Coakley , the Massachusetts attorney general, said
this year that she’s investigating MERS. The probe includes
complaints by registers of deeds in the state over unpaid filing
fees, said Brad Puffer, a spokesman for Coakley.  Delaware  is also investigating MERS, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  John O’Brien, register of deeds for Southern Essex County,
Massachusetts, said he was among the officials pushing Coakley
for an investigation. He estimates that since 1998 his district
has lost $44 million in fees and the state has lost $250 million
to $300 million.  “I’m hopeful that she will be filing the same type of
lawsuit against MERS,” he said in an interview. If Coakley
doesn’t sue, O’Brien said, there’s a “very strong” chance he
would do it himself.  Fees Vary  Recording fees vary and may depend on the length of a
filing, Watkins, the Dallas district attorney, said. A county
may charge $21 for the first page of a document and $9 for each
succeeding page, he said. The recording fee for assignment of a
mortgage in Christian County is about $13, according to the
Kentucky lawsuit.  The Dallas county clerk has estimated that at least
$58 million in fees have gone unpaid as a result of MERS-related
transactions, dating back to 1997, Watkins said. “Our research
shows it could be more than $100 million,” he said.  Claims against Bank of America stem mainly from loans
originated by Countrywide Financial Corp., the subprime mortgage
company acquired in 2008 when it was on the verge of collapse.  The mounting costs of buybacks, settlements and litigation
helped push Bank of America’s stock to levels last seen in early
2009. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, has sold at
least $40 billion of assets and preferred shares to bolster the
company’s finances.  Budget Woes  U.S. states have already dealt with four straight years of
budget imbalances and closed gaps totaling about $511 billion,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures in
Denver. Dallas county has a budget shortfall of $36 million,
Watkins said.  “We’re in the position that we can’t even provide basic
services,” he said. Had MERS not existed, “we could have
collected those fees,” he said.  The Texas case is Dallas County v. Merscorp Inc.,
CC-11-06571-E, County Court at Law, Dallas County, Texas. The
Kentucky case is Christian County Clerk v. Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc., 5:11-cv-00072, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Kentucky (Louisville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  