-- 
Axa’s Barr Rosenberg to Pay $2.5 Million SEC Fine, Is Banned From Industry

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-22T21:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/barr-rosenberg-sued-by-sec-for-securities-fraud-to-pay-2-5-mln.html
Axa Rosenberg Group LLC’s co-
founder Barr M. Rosenberg agreed to pay $2.5 million to settle
claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
accused him of  securities fraud  for concealing a coding error in
his firm’s investment model.  Rosenberg, 68, who learned of the error in June 2009,
directed others to conceal it and didn’t inform clients until
April 2010, according to a statement on the agency’s website.
Rosenberg agreed to a lifetime securities industry ban, the SEC
said.  Axa Rosenberg, a unit of Paris-based insurer Axa SA, last
year said it overhauled its management team after learning of
the error, which cost clients $217 million in losses. Rosenberg
stepped down as part of the overhaul, while Axa Rosenberg in
February repaid clients the $217 million in losses and agreed to
pay the SEC a $25 million fine.  “Investors in quant funds trust their advisers to develop,
maintain and operate the quant models that drive a fund’s
performance,” Bruce Karpati, co-chief of the SEC enforcement’s
asset-management unit, said in today’s statement. “Rosenberg
betrayed investors when he failed to disclose the material
coding error.”  Jonathan Bass, an attorney for Rosenberg, said his client
“is distressed by the events that occurred at Axa Rosenberg.”  “He never acted with any intention to cause harm to Axa
Rosenberg clients or to gain any advantage or benefit for
himself,” Bass, a partner with Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass
LLP in  San Francisco , said in a telephone interview. “He is
relieved that the matter is now concluded.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Zurich at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  