-- 
Billionaires Pay Most for Hong Kong Homes as Prices Rise 10%, Savills Says

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-22T06:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/billionaires-paying-most-for-homes-in-hong-kong-savills-says.html
Hong Kong has the world’s most
expensive average home prices for billionaires, with per square
foot value of those properties almost double that of  London ,
according to a survey conducted by  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Homes bought by billionaires in Hong Kong cost 6,700 pounds
($10,360) a square foot at the end of June, a 10 percent climb
from six months earlier, London-based Savills said in an e-
mailed statement today. That compares with 5,190 pounds in
 Tokyo , 3,270 pounds in Paris and 3,090 pounds in London, the
brokerage said. Sydney, which had the lowest value among top 10
markets, posted the biggest price gain, jumping 40 percent.  The 10 most expensive cities in the survey saw prices of
those homes rise by an average 10 percent in the first half. The
real estate market of the 10 cities, which also include Moscow,
 New York ,  Shanghai ,  Singapore  and Mumbai, “have more in common
with each other than the mainstream markets” of their own
countries, according to Savills.  The housing market for billionaires will continue to fare
better than other cities, driven by a global commodities boom,
according to the report.  Demand will also be driven by political turmoil and war,
which “will ensure that there is continued demand from the
international elite for safe havens,” the group said.
Billionaires will seek properties in both “old world cities”
including New York, Paris and London, and “new world cities”
such as Hong Kong, Shanghai, Singapore and Mumbai, Savills said.  Surge in Millionaires  The number of millionaires in 10 major Asian economies will
more than double to 2.8 million by 2015, with 1.4 million high
net worth people in  China , according to a Julius Baer Group and
CLSA Asia Pacific Markets report on Aug. 31 that covered China,
 India , Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong,
Singapore, the Philippines and Malaysia. Chinese millionaires
will hold $8.76 trillion of the $15.81 trillion that these
countries’ rich are expected to have, it said.  Growth in leisure or second-home properties has been more
subdued, climbing 33 percent between December 2005 and June
2011, compared with a 77 percent increase for city properties
during the same time, Savills said.  “Second homes nestled in the city’s hinterland are more
prone to the condition of the domestic, and even the rural
economy than the wealth being generated in the city state,”
Savills said. “Leisure property is a discretionary purchase and
was one of the first luxuries to go in the downturn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  