-- 
Billionaire Bogolyubov Sees ‘Strong’ Manganese Demand in China

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-09-22T08:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/billionaire-bogolyubov-sees-strong-manganese-demand-in-china.html
Consolidated Minerals Ltd., owned
by Ukrainian billionaire Gennadiy Bogolyubov, is benefiting from
“strong” Chinese demand for manganese, used to harden steel.  “I’m a big believer in the  steel industry ,” Bogolyubov
said today in an interview in Sydney after visiting the
company’s mining operations in Western  Australia . “As long as
they produce steel, there will be demand for manganese, and we
feel strong demand. We have issues with the price sometimes, but
not with demand. We can sell everything that we have.”  Bogolyubov, who already owns iron, coal, oil, gas and steel
businesses, took control of Consolidated in January 2008 with a
A$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) acquisition. The company is
targeting manganese output of 1.5 million metric tons this year
at its Woodie Woodie mine in Australia, the billionaire said.  Bogolyubov said he doesn’t “see this as the right time”
for an initial public offering of Consolidated shares in
Australia or the U.K. The company was studying a potential
listing in London or Sydney, Glenn Baldwin, chief executive
officer of the St. Helier, Jersey-based company, said in June.  Consolidated would consider selling its stake in manganese
producer  OM Holdings Ltd. (OMH)  if that company’s management fails to
improve “corporate governance,” Bogolyubov said.  “If things don’t change, we’ll think about it,” he said.
“It’s possible.”  Consolidated, which owns manganese mines in Ghana and
Australia, is the largest shareholder of OM with an 11.35
percent stake. Consolidated in July cited “poor corporate
governance” and “ineffective leadership” that led to a loss
of about $130 million in the value of the shares since March.  Consolidated doesn’t plan to take over OM, whose shares
have slumped 52 percent in Sydney trading this year, Bogolyubov
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 