-- 
Blackstone Offers Highest 2011 Rates on Travelport Swap: Corporate Finance

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-09-22T17:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/blackstone-offers-highest-rates-on-travelport-corporate-finance.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is offering the
highest interest seen on a loan this year if lenders agree to
swap debt in Travelport Ltd. for longer-dated obligations, or
else it may put the parent of the second-largest travel-
reservation system provider into bankruptcy.  Travelport said in a Sept. 19  regulatory filing  that
lenders who accept the plan will be paid 13.5 percentage points
more than benchmark rates for a $287.5 million term piece, as
the Atlanta-based company tries to restructure $715 million of
payment-in-kind debt that comes due next year. That margin is
the widest on a first-lien loan of more than $100 million this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Blackstone, which bought Travelport from Cendant Corp. in
June 2006 for $4.3 billion, needs to restructure the company to
avoid falling out of compliance with a debt-to-earnings ratio
requirement in its loan agreement. Travelport expects earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to fall as
a result of UAL Corp.’s merger with Continental Airlines Inc.  “They’re kicking the can down the road,”  Roger King , an
analyst at New York-based research firm CreditSights Inc., said
in a telephone interview. “The market has gotten tough and
Ebitda isn’t growing and there is concern that the business
model is weakening.”  The company’s 9 percent senior unsecured bonds due 2016
fell 7 cents on the dollar to 64 cents at 9:52 a.m. today in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Those bonds, which now
yield 22.16 percent, have fallen 20 percent since the beginning
of the month.  Lender Consent  Travelport is asking lenders to consent to a restructuring
of its $715 million PIK loan that matures March 2012, according
to the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. PIK
notes allow borrowers to pay interest with more debt instead of
cash and typically pay margins double those of senior-ranking
loans.  If the company doesn’t receive unanimous consent from the
holders of the debt it intends to begin voluntary Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceedings at the holding company in order to
complete the transaction. Holders of a majority of the PIK loans
have agreed to the restructuring, the filing said.  Travelport Holdings began soliciting votes for its
prepackaged bankruptcy plan yesterday, according to a regulatory
filing today.  S&P Downgrade  Standard & Poor’s cut Travelport’s long-term corporate
credit yesterday to CC from CCC, citing the company’s weak
liquidity and high leverage. The restructuring would be viewed
by New York-based S&P as a distressed-debt exchange and if the
transaction is consummated the firm will lower Travelport’s
rating to selective default, according to yesterday’s report.  Evan Goetz, a spokesman for Travelport, declined to
comment.  The restructuring will exchange the PIK loan for $85
million in cash to pay down the debt; $207.5 million in a new
second-lien PIK  term loan  due Dec. 2012; a $287.5 million PIK
loan that matures Dec. 2016; and a $135 million PIK loan that
expires Sept. 2012, which if not repaid in one year would
convert into a second-lien portion due in 2016, according to the
filing. Lenders would also get a stake of 15 percent to 44
percent in Travelport’s parent company, depending on when the
PIK loans are repaid.  $3.2 Billion  The $287.5 million term loan that pays 13.5 percentage
points over the London interbank offering rate will be issued by
Travelport’s holding company, which would make the debt
subordinated to the securities issued at the operating company
level, according to the Sept. 19 filing. The operating company
had $3.2 billion of debt outstanding as of June 30, according to
its quarterly filing.  The company’s leverage, measured as debt to Ebitda, was
5.16 times as of June, according to an Aug. 16 report by Moody’s
Investors Service. The leverage covenant in Travelport’s credit
agreement currently allows the company a ratio of 5.75.  That covenant becomes more restrictive over time and will
adjust to 5.5 in December and 5.25 in June, Moody’s said. Ebitda
last year was $545 million, after accounting for the sale of its
Gullivers Travel Associates Ltd. business, Moody’s said.  “Moody’s believes that the company’s ability to meet
covenants will be challenged both by the recent trend in
earnings as well as the gradual step-up in covenant levels,”
the analysts led by Richard Morawetz wrote in the report.
Moody’s lowered Travelport’s rating to Caa1 on Aug. 16.  Leverage Ratio  If the restructuring succeeds, the company’s leverage ratio
covenant would be loosened to 8 times until June 2013, when it
would be reset to 7.75 times, according to the filing.  Total leverage at the company in 2011 will increase to 7.1
times after the completion of the transaction, according to a
Sept. 19 report by KDP Investment Advisors Inc. KDP expects
leverage to rise in 2012 to 7.7 times.  Travelport sold its Gullivers Travel Associates business
for $720 million in May and used the proceeds to repay $655
million of debt under its credit agreement, according to a June
30 regulatory filing. Net debt was reduced by $635 million in
the period, after accounting for currency fluctuations, Philip Emery, chief financial officer of the company, said in an Aug. 4
conference call to discuss second-quarter earnings.  ‘Refinancing Risk’  The company’s Ebitda has fallen for the past two years, and
it has forecast that it will decline as much as $60 million a
year as a result of the UAL-Continental deal, Emery said.  “While first-lien leverage is unchanged, total leverage
will rise and this will impact liquidity and heighten
refinancing risk in the future given the higher levels of debt
in the structure,”  Barbara Cappaert , an analyst at KDP, wrote
in the report. She said the company wouldn’t be able to afford
it debt payments if the business suffered further deterioration.  Through Travelport, Blackstone as of June 30 held about 55
percent of Orbitz Worldwide Inc., the third-biggest U.S. online
travel agency based on sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Priceline.com Inc. and Expedia Inc. are the two
largest companies in that industry, Bloomberg data show.  Travelport also owns Galileo and Worldspan, which operate
in 160 countries with more than 67,000 travel agency clients.
The companies handle information for 350 airlines, more than 310
hotel chains and 25 car rental companies.  Blackstone was founded in 1985 by Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  and  Peter G. Peterson , who held several economic
posts in the U.S. government under President  Richard Nixon . Its
holdings include Hilton Worldwide Inc., SeaWorld Parks &
Entertainment and home nursing company Apria Healthcare Group
Inc.  Blackstone Dividend  The initial PIK loan, in March 2007, was used to finance a
dividend to Blackstone and affiliated equity owners, according
to today’s filing.  The Travelport parent has $693 million outstanding under
its senior unsecured PIK term loan that expires March 2012,
according to the June 30 filing. If the company were to
restructure or refinance those obligations or if creditors
exercised a change of control then Travelport’s senior secured
credit agreement would require it to offer to purchase all
outstanding notes at 101 percent, plus accrued interest.  “We may not have the ability to repay such amounts or make
such note purchases which would result in a default under the
notes,” the company said in the regulatory filing.  If Travelport were to file a prepackaged bankruptcy to
force a restructuring it would do so at the holding company
level, Travelport Holdings, and it wouldn’t affect the
operations at Travelport Ltd., the company said in a Sept. 19
press statement.  “This makes the noteholders’ position a little less
tenable if there is a restructuring at their level because there
is so much more leverage,” said CreditSights’s King. “They are
short maturity notes with high yields so they are tempting but
the fundamentals right now are weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 