-- 
Blackstone Said to Consider Backing Ex-SAC Trader’s Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-09-23T13:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/blackstone-said-to-consider-backing-ex-sac-trader-s-hedge-fund.html
Ali Akay, a former trader at SAC
Capital Management LLC,  is seeking financing from  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  to start a hedge fund, said two people with knowledge
of the matter.  Akay, 34, is in advanced talks with Blackstone to provide
so-called  seed capital  for his fund, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
Akay, in a phone interview yesterday, said he intends to start
trading in December and that his London-based Carrhae Capital
LLP will focus on emerging-market investments. He declined to
comment on whether Blackstone will give him financing.  Some money managers have turned to Blackstone and other
firms for startup financing, because after the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled financial markets,
investors such as pension funds sought stability in big,
existing  hedge funds . Two-thirds of the $118 billion of asset
growth for hedge funds since 2009 has been at firms managing
more than $5 billion, according to  Hedge Fund Research Inc.   “I’ve been able to make money in all types of markets,”
said Akay, who plans to restrict investments into his fund once
assets under management reach $500 million. “What I’m excited
about is that there are various dislocations occurring in the
market and the prospect of having fresh capital to arbitrage
these dislocations.”  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, declined to
comment.  SAC Capital  Akay in June left the European unit of SAC Capital, the $14
billion hedge fund founded by  Steve Cohen  that has produced
gains of about 30 percent a year since it opened in 1992. Akay
previously traded for Dallas-based HBK Investments LP, the hedge
fund started by Harlan Korenvaes in 1991.  He also worked for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Principal
Strategies unit, the proprietary stock-trading team that shut
down last year in response to new U.S. regulations restricting
banks from risking their own capital on speculative bets.  Carrhae Capital’s six-person investment team will include
two other former traders from SAC Capital. The hedge fund will
invest in the stocks of companies based in emerging markets and
companies that generate their profits from doing business in
developing countries. Carrhae Capital derives its name from an
ancient military battle in Akay’s native  Turkey  in which the
Parthian Empire defeated the Roman Republic.  August Declines  The Roman general leading the campaign lost because of
“arrogance, an inability to listen to his local allies,
impatience and a lack of understanding of the local
circumstances,” Akay said. “It reminds us that when you are
going into emerging markets, you definitely want to know the
local conditions and have a local network.”  Hedge funds focused on investing in emerging markets
declined 4.6 percent in August, their worst month since May
2010, according to Hedge Fund Research. Hedge funds broadly fell
2.5 percent last month, according to the Chicago-based firm.  The losses were triggered by concerns about slowing global
economic growth that prompted investors to sell assets of
 developing countries  and buy holdings considered safer such as
U.S. Treasuries.  Money managers founded 578 new hedge funds during the first
six months of 2011, the best six months for startups since the
first half of 2007, according to Hedge Fund Research data.  Blackstone-Backed Firms  Blackstone provides hedge funds with startup capital in
exchange for a cut of a money manager’s fees and an equity stake
in the company. Hedge funds, private pools that try to make
money whether markets are rising or falling, typically charge
clients 2 percent of assets managed and 20 percent of any
investment gains.  Hedge funds that have received startup financing from
Blackstone in the past two years include Taylor Woods Master
Fund Ltd., Marcato Capital Management LLC and Senrigan Capital
Group Ltd. Blackstone typically gives between $100 million and
$150 million to hedge funds the company invests in.  Taylor Woods is led by George “Beau” Taylor, the former
head of global commodity proprietary trading at Credit Suisse
Group AG, and Trevor Woods, who previously oversaw global energy
proprietary trading at the Zurich-based bank.  Richard McGuire , a
former partner at  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, started Marcato Capital last year.  Senrigan Capital, founded by former Citadel Investment
Group LLC executive Nick Taylor, oversees about $1 billion after
it started trading in 2009 with $150 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  