-- 
France’s BNP, SocGen Beat Retreat as Europe’s Crisis Deepens

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-23T09:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/bnp-paribas-joins-socgen-to-beat-retreat-as-european-debt-crisis-deepens.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and Societe Generale
SA,  France ’s two largest banks, are trimming about 300 billion
euros ($405 billion) off their balance sheets as Europe’s
deepening debt crisis threatens to make them too big to save.  At the end of March, French financial firms had $672
billion in public and private debt in Greece, Portugal, Ireland,
 Italy  and  Spain , according to Basel, Switzerland-based  Bank for
International Settlements . That’s the biggest exposure to the
euro-area’s troubled countries and almost a third more than
German lenders. The four largest French banks have 5.9 trillion
euros in total assets, including loans and bond holdings, or
about three times France’s gross domestic product.  “The banks are entering a slimming cure, which is forced
by the sovereign crisis,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps
manage $10 billion, including the two French lenders, at Banque
Martin Maurel in Marseille, France.  Rather than tap the market for capital, BNP Paribas and
 Societe Generale (GLE)  are seeking to free up a combined 10 billion
euros through asset cuts and disposals. Paris-based BNP Paribas
plans to cut $82 billion of corporate- and investment-banking
assets, while Societe Generale may exit businesses such as
aircraft and real-estate finance in the U.S.  The banks have been forced to act after concerns about
their sovereign debt holdings made funds reluctant to lend to
them, crimping liquidity options. At the end of 2010, France’s
three largest banks had at least 500 billion euros of short-term
and interbank funding rolling over within three months or less,
according to a  Barclays Capital  note dated Sept. 7.  ‘Problematic’ Rescue  “If liquidity conditions worsen, their size and the weight
of their trading books would make it more problematic for the
government to replicate a rescue like in 2008,” said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris.  France provided about 20 billion euros to bolster capital
levels at its largest banks after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s September 2008 bankruptcy. President Nicolas Sarkozy also
set up a 320 billion-euro fund to guarantee bank debt.  “If guarantees had to be put in place again like in 2008,
it would represent close to 20 percent of GDP,” Nijdam said.
With French public debt set to rise to almost 90 percent of GDP
in 2012, it would “be more problematic today,” he said.  Credit markets signal a squeeze at French banks, with
increased risk of default. Credit-default swaps on BNP Paribas
have soared to 299.6 basis points from 110 in July, according to
CMA. Contracts on  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  have climbed to 297 from
130, and those for Societe Generale have surged to 410 from 128.  ‘Drastic and Disorderly’  “If it persists, the banks would have no choice but to
delever their balance sheets in a very drastic and disorderly
fashion,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., wrote in an opinion piece on the
website of the Financial Times yesterday.  The effort to shrink operations reverses French banks’
buying binge and expansion in the last decade. French lenders
spent about $173 billion on acquisitions since 2000, according
to Bloomberg data. Outside of France, they invested in Italy,
Belgium, Germany and the U.S.  “When the euro was established, there were spots to be
among the big regional banking players,” said  Francois Chaulet ,
who helps manage 250 million euros at Montsegur Finance in
Paris. “A race for size started not just in France, but
throughout  Europe . French banks went into southern Europe
because these banking markets were still fragmented, with
retail-banking margins higher than in northern Europe.”  Tumbling Shares  That expansion has now come back to haunt French banks.
Their exposure to Europe’s problem areas and a tightening in
U.S. dollar funding are weighing on their shares.  Before today, Societe Generale had declined by 63 percent
since the start of July, making it the worst performer in the
46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.
BNP Paribas fell 57 percent in the period, the third-worst
performance, while  Credit Agricole  dropped 59 percent, the
second-worst performance.  Societe Generale rose as much as 3.4 percent today, while
BNP Paribas gained up to 3.6 percent and Credit Agricole added
as much as 5.4 percent  Moody’s Investors Service lowered the credit ratings of
Societe Generale and Credit Agricole last week and said it may
downgrade BNP Paribas.  French financial firms top the list of Greek creditors with
about $57 billion in overall exposure to private and public debt
at the end of March, according to the BIS.  Buying Binge  In Italy, whose sovereign rating was cut by Standard &
Poor’s this week, French financial firms at the end of March
carried $410 billion in government and private debt, according
to BIS data. That’s the most for financial firms from any
foreign country.  French lenders’ debt holdings in Spain stand at $146
billion, in Ireland $30 billion and in  Portugal  $28 billion.  Credit Agricole spent about 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to
amass a controlling stake in Emporiki Bank of Greece SA and then
increased its holding over time. Societe Generale has a
controlling stake in unprofitable Athens-based Geniki Bank SA.
BNP Paribas, which has exposure to Greek sovereign debt, doesn’t
have a branch network in the country.  In Italy, French financial companies spent at least 20
billion euros since 2006 to buy banking and insurance assets in
the euro-area’s third-largest economy.  ‘Not an Issue’  BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole bought two of Italy’s 10
largest lenders. BNP Paribas acquired Rome-based Banca Nazionale
del Lavoro SpA in 2006 for 9 billion euros. Credit Agricole’s
Cariparma unit in Italy operates about 960 branches.  The three biggest French banks say their exposures are
manageable, rejecting suggestions that they need to
recapitalize.  “Our situation is under control in terms of liquidity and
 shareholders’ equity ,” BNP Paribas Chief Executive Officer
 Baudouin Prot  said in a French radio interview yesterday.
Injection of capital by the state “is neither part of our
working hypothesis nor what we want,” he said.  Greece  “is not an issue” for Societe Generale, CEO
Frederic Oudea said Sept. 12. A hypothetical writedown of as
much as 50 percent would result in net losses of between 100
million euros and 150 million euros, he said. The bank said it
has “low, declining and manageable sovereign exposure” of 4.3
billion euros to Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece.  Capital Buffers  The European debt crisis has generated as much as 300
billion euros in credit risk for European banks, the
 International Monetary Fund  said this week, calling for capital
injections to reassure investors and support lending.  “Without additional capital buffers, problems in accessing
funding are likely to create deleveraging pressures at banks,
which will force them to cut credit to the real economy,” the
IMF said.  French banks have so far rejected such calls.  “French banks have no capital problem,” said Oudea, who
is currently the head of the French Banking Federation.  Not all investors and analysts are convinced.  “These banks operate in countries where the public debt is
under attack,” said Montsegur’s Chaulet. “That’s the threat.”  Faced with the specter of a Greek debt default, U.S. money-
market investors have curbed funding to European banks. At the
end of July, the 10 largest U.S. money funds eligible to
purchase corporate debt, had cut their exposure to European
banks by 20 percent from May 31, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Scared Markets  “When the market gets scared, you have this short-dated
paper that matures and it is not renewed,” AlphaValue’s Nijdam
said. “Because it is in big chunks, the liquidity squeeze can
go much faster than, let’s say, a traditional bank run from
retail customers.”  French banks say they can cope with the slump in U.S.
money-market funding. On Sept. 15, the  European Central Bank 
said it will ensure euro-area lenders access to dollars in
coordination with the  Federal Reserve .  French banks also have diversified sources of profit,
including less cyclical businesses such as insurance, that
allowed them to weather the 2008-2009 crisis, said Montsegur’s
Chaulet. The lenders’ domestic retail business -- their mainstay
-- remains strong, Oudea said this month.  “The banks don’t want to recapitalize and focus on highly
profitable businesses or on their domestic retail markets,”
said Martin Maurel’s Forneris. “If the sovereign debt crisis is
solved, these stocks have a huge potential of rebound over the
medium term.”  Underestimated Crisis  For now, the scarcity of short-term U.S dollar funding and
sovereign debt crisis that is both deepening and widening is
driving banks’ efforts to slim down.  Societe Generale said it plans to free up 4 billion euros
in capital through disposals by 2013. Its disposals may come
from its Global Investment Management and Services division,
Oudea has said, without giving further details. Analysts
estimate the bank is shrinking its balance sheet by about 100
billion euros, a number the bank declined to confirm or deny.  BNP plans to cut its total assets by 10 percent, or about
200 billion euros. It’s shrinking its corporate- and-investment
banking unit, where there will be “significant” job
reductions, Prot said yesterday. On Sept. 19, the bank said it
will discontinue its “pure retail” banking activity in  Russia ,
where it operates 26 branches.  BNP Paribas is shrinking its balance sheet after total
assets rose 34 percent to 2.24 trillion euros in the three years
through June 2010. Total assets were at 1.93 trillion euros in
June, about the same size as France’s GDP.  ‘Not Enough’  “It’s a step in the right direction, but maybe it won’t be
enough,” said AlphaValue’s Nijdam. “To cut the balance sheet,
it’s quicker to adjust through the trading books. BNP and SocGen
lack the ambition to reduce the size of trading books.”  The banks are also late in taking such steps, said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps manage about $14 billion at Landesbank
Berlin Investment GmbH and holds shares in the two banks.  “They underestimated how big the crisis could get in
Europe,” Roehmeyer said. “But this is not a new crisis, it’s
just the aftermath of the 2008 banking crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  