-- 
BNP Paribas Plans ‘Significant’ Job Cuts at Investment Bank

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-22T15:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/bnp-plans-significant-job-cuts-at-investment-bank-prot-says.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s largest
bank, plans “significant” staff reductions at its investment-
banking unit as the lender cuts total assets by about 10
percent, Chief Executive Officer  Baudouin Prot  said.  “It’s essentially at our corporate- and investment-banking
platforms,” Prot said in an interview on BFM radio today. “It
will be a significant magnitude, but without reaching at all the
figures announced by other banks, especially Anglo-Saxon ones,”
he said, declining to give further details.  Prot also denied that the bank is making specific attempts
to attract a Middle Eastern investor, as reported in the
Financial Times.  BNP Paribas fell as much as 5.8 percent in Paris trading,
and was down 1.04 euros, or 4.7 percent, to 23.42 euros by 4:49
p.m., valuing the bank at 28.3 billion euros ($38 billion). The
stock has fallen 51 percent this year.  European banks are slashing jobs this year as concerns
about the creditworthiness of  Italy ,  Spain  and France roil
financial markets and reduce revenue from fixed-income trading,
stock and bond underwriting as well as mergers and acquisitions.
Financial firms are also cutting costs as regulators force banks
to hold more and better quality capital.  Rival Moves  BNP Paribas in August reported second-quarter pretax profit
at the corporate- and investment-banking division climbed 2.4
percent to 1.33 billion euros. That contrasts with a drop in
investment-banking earnings in the period at rivals Credit
Suisse Group AG and UBS AG, which both reported a 71 percent
decline. Barclays Plc had a 27 percent slide in investment-
banking pretax profit.  UBS said last month it will eliminate about 3,500 jobs,
with about 45 percent of the reductions coming from the
investment bank. Credit Suisse has announced plans to cut about
2,000 total positions at the company, while Barclays will axe
3,000 workers.  Prot said in August that he had no plans to cut staff at
the division and that there was “no reason to make any brutal
adjustments” in the unit’s cost structure.  The French lender has 21,000 people across more than 50
countries at the corporate- and investment-banking division,
according to bank data.  “No particular measure is to be expected” for job cuts at
BNP Paribas’s consumer bank networks, especially in  France , the
CEO said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  