-- 
Bodies Pile Up as Detroit Morgue Outsources to Reduce Costs

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-09-22T19:24:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/bodies-pile-up-as-detroit-morgue-plans-outsourcing-to-cut-costs.html
The bodies line up in the morning
at  Wayne County ’s Detroit morgue, each bagged on a cold steel
gurney awaiting an autopsy by one of five pathologists, three
fewer than the county could afford a year ago.  It’s not dissecting 2,400 corpses a year that causes
strain, said Chief Medical Examiner Carl Schmidt.  “The paperwork is astounding,” he said, shaking his head.
The morgue’s workload disqualifies it from national
accreditation, Schmidt said, although “we are very good at what
we do.”  As local governments struggle to fund services -- half of
500 U.S. counties in a February  survey  reported fewer employees
than in 2010 -- Wayne County is turning to academia to deal with
the dead. In a contract approved today by the county commission,
Wayne, which has faced budget gaps for the past three years,
will pay the  University of Michigan  to do autopsies, saving $1.5
million over three years.  It is the busiest morgue operation to transplant its
primary function to a university medical school, Schmidt said.
Autopsies will still take place at Wayne County’s 50,000-square-
foot morgue on  Detroit ’s east side, though the pathologists will
work for the school.  “The old ways aren’t going to work anymore,” said Wayne
County Executive  Robert Ficano . “The bottom line is, over three
years we save $1.5 million, and at the same time we have a
prestigious medical institution that’s become a partner and
allows us to be more efficient and effective.”  Work Piling Up  The morgue budget has been cut to $6.2 million from $8.1
million in 2007, and its staff reduced to 31 from 52, said
Dennis Niemiec, a spokesman for the state’s largest county. The
deal will bring it down to $5.7 million, he said.  The morgue drew national attention in 2009 and 2010 when it
stacked  unclaimed bodies  -- at one point more than 100 -- in a
refrigerator and temporary trailer. The backlog was caused by
red tape and relatives who couldn’t afford to bury or cremate
loved ones, Schmidt said.  No longer do staff photographers document the faces and
damaged bodies that flow through. Required photos are taken by
technicians or a dwindling number of investigators who do double
duty in the naturally lit examination area.  “People say they’re surprised how light it is in here,”
said chief investigator Albert Samuels. Of the musty odor: “You
get used to it.”  Looking for Respect  Under the contract with the Ann Arbor university, morgue
pathologists will become medical-school faculty. The county will
pay the school $7.5 million over three years for services, said
Niemiec. The morgue will escape paying pathologists’ salaries
and benefits, and five other positions will be eliminated,
according to a news release. The school will have access to a
facility to teach forensic pathology.  The  University of Michigan  will boost pay to $160,000 a
year for the forensic pathologists, whose salaries now top out
at $120,000, Schmidt said. He said the university doesn’t offer
benefits as generous as does the county, which has a 401(k) plan
with a 5-to-1 match in contributions.  Schmidt, 54, said he hopes the new arrangement gains the
morgue accreditation by the  National Association of Medical
Examiners . The organization recommends no more than 250
autopsies per year for morgue pathologists, and 325 maximum.
Without the university, Wayne County’s pathologists each would
face almost 500 autopsies a year, twice the recommended limit.  The switch will occur Oct. 1, Niemiec said.  Corpses to Colleges  Wayne County’s morgue is not the first to link with higher
education. The University of  New Mexico  has run its state’s
 medical examiner’s office  since 1978 and performs about 2,000
autopsies a year with nine forensic pathologists, said
Operations Director Amy Boule.  The University of  North Carolina  is home to the state chief
medical examiner’s office, where state-paid pathologists teach
and perform about 1,500 autopsies a year, about one-third of the
state’s total, said Patricia Barnes, administrator for the
office. Others are done at facilities around the state,
including two affiliated with two other medical schools.  The relationship between the medical examiner’s office and
the school provides resources for investigations, and also
offers fellowships for students who want to pursue forensic
pathology, she said.  “There are few resources for training in pathology, and
the medical examiner’s office provides that training,” Barnes
said.  Burnout and Mistakes  Besides saving Wayne County money, the University of
Michigan affiliation may attract people to a field that needs
them, Schmidt said. Last year, about 40 U.S. medical students
became forensic pathologists.  “We need two or three times that many,” said Mary Ann
Sens, 62, chairman of pathology at the University of  North
Dakota  in Grand Forks and medical examiner for Grand Forks
County. She is president of the national association.  The U.S. has about 500 certified forensic pathologists and
needs at least 1,000 more, according to a  2009 report  by the
 National Academy of Sciences .  Meanwhile, morgues are absorbing budget cuts.  Iowa Chief Medical Examiner Julia Goodin, 54, said her
office lost four positions, including one of five forensic
pathologists. Her state appropriation was cut to $852,000 from
$1.1 million this year for a facility that conducts more than
700 autopsies a year, she said.  “Everybody is feeling the pain,” said Goodin. “We’re
concerned about burnout, concerned about making mistakes and
keeping the facility open.”  Death and Revenue  In  Florida , the  Miami-Dade  Medical Examiner department cut
18 positions, or 25 percent of its staff, in the past four
years, according to a document provided by the department. The
office’s general fund budget has fallen 8.4 percent since 2009.  The toxicology laboratory has gone from closing 90 percent
of its cases within 90 days in 2009 to closing 60 percent, said
Larry Cameron, director of operations.  The Los Angeles County coroner’s $23 million budget was cut
10 percent this year without hurting services, Ed Winter,
assistant chief of operations, said in a telephone interview.  Death Never Rests  Wayne County’s morgue is a busy operation. The Detroit-
Livonia-Dearborn metropolitan area ranks No. 2 in the nation for
murder and negligent manslaughter, at 18.2 deaths per 100,000
residents, according to the FBI’s 2010 Uniform Crime Report. It
trails only the New Orleans area’s 20.8.  Of the 3,200 bodies taken to the morgue each year, about
2,400 undergo autopsies. Of those, about 400 are homicides,
Schmidt said. Last year, the county spent $3.2 million on
upgrades, which included adding a refrigerator to expand its
capacity to 300 bodies.  Without the university agreement, Wayne County would have
to spend more than $800,000 to improve lab equipment, Schmidt
said. Instead, the university will take over blood, tissue and
toxicology tests.  Schmidt said homicides are among the least-challenging
cases. The job, he said, transcends identifying causes of death
to solving medical mysteries that help the living.  He’s found advanced coronary disease in gunshot victims in
their 30s. He warned relatives to get their cholesterol checked.  With the university, “we will have access to resources,”
Schmidt said. “If we find something strange we can ask them,
‘Can you find what this is?’ It might be important to that
family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  