-- 
Congress at Impasse Over Spending, Disaster Aid That Threatens Shutdown

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-24T15:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/boehner-challenged-as-debt-ceiling-deal-comes-back-to-haunt-house-leaders.html
Congress is at an impasse over a
federal spending bill amid a partisan dispute on funding for
disaster assistance, escalating a fight that threatens a
shutdown of government operations by month’s end.  The Senate yesterday rejected, 59-36, a House-passed
stopgap measure to fund the government until Nov. 18 and provide
$3.65 billion in aid to victims of Hurricane Irene, tornadoes,
flooding and other natural disasters. Senate Democratic leaders
opposed the House bill’s $1.6 billion in spending cuts to offset
the disaster aid and said it didn’t provide enough money to help
affected communities.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , saying leaders in both
parties need to “cool off,” offered an alternative to fund the
government and provide the House-approved level of disaster aid
without the spending offsets. The Senate plans a test vote on
the measure Sept. 26.  Without new money, the  Federal Emergency Management Agency 
will run out of funds for responding to disasters on Sept. 27,
spokeswoman Rachel Racusen said in a statement. The rest of the
government will run out of money Sept. 30. Both houses had been
scheduled to be on recess next week.  No House votes are scheduled until Oct. 3. Still,
Republican Whip Kevin McCarthy’s office advised members in an e-
mail that they would be told “as soon as possible” of any
“change to our schedule.”  Reid said at a news conference yesterday his plan should
gain broad support in both chambers. The Nevada Democrat said he
won’t consider other ways to offset disaster spending, while he
and other Democratic leaders urged Republicans to meet to
discuss how to end the standoff.  ‘Fair Solution’  “Now it is the time to work toward a reasonable and fair
solution to fund disaster relief and avoid an unnecessary and
destructive government shutdown,” said Senator  Charles Schumer 
of New York, the third-ranking Democratic leader.  Republican leaders signaled they aren’t ready to
compromise. House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters he spoke
by telephone with Reid and “there wasn’t much progress made.”  “If we are back in Washington, it means Harry Reid has
shut down FEMA and denied disaster victims their relief,” said
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican.  Senate Democrats  last week pushed through their chamber a
$6.9 billion disaster assistance bill. They object to the
House’s approach of partly offsetting the cost with spending
cuts elsewhere, a break with the typical practice of approving
disaster aid without accompanying reductions.  Republican Cuts  Democrats also oppose Republicans’ program cuts of $1.5
billion from a loan program to encourage the development of
green-technology automobiles and $100 million from a program
that provided a $535 million federal loan guarantee to Solyndra
LLC, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  this month.  A bipartisan group of four governors whose states suffered
damage by  Hurricane Irene  and Tropical Storm Lee urged Congress
in a statement to “to put aside politics” and provide help.  “It’s been 28 days since Irene and Lee started battering
our states” said Democratic Governors Andrew Cuomo of New York
and Bev Perdue of  North Carolina  and Republican Governors  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey  and Tom Corbett of  Pennsylvania . In 2005,
they said, Congress took 10 days to enact $60 billion in
emergency aid after  Hurricane Katrina  destroyed communities
along the  Gulf Coast .  Vermont Representative  Peter Welch , one of six Democrats
who voted for the House measure,  said he was worried about
assistance for flood victims in his state if the  disaster-relief 
fund is not replenished soon.  ‘Just a Spectacle’  Congress’s inability to act is “just a spectacle,” Welch
said in an interview. “There should not be roadblocks to
getting disaster assistance to people when rivers are rising and
fires are burning.”  Earlier this year, Congress averted a government shutdown
and, later, a default of obligations to government bondholders
when compromises gained enough support from House Democrats to
outweigh the opposition of Tea Party-backed Republicans.  The protracted fight over extending the U.S. government’s
borrowing authority to avert a debt default “rattled people’s
confidence” and left them wondering “in a fundamental way
whether Congress is dysfunctional,” Welch said. So the
“inability to act quickly” on disaster relief “is another
example of that,” he said.  Cantor said Reid’s decision to scuttle the House-passed
measure provides further evidence of “why people just don’t
have respect for this institution and this town anymore.”  Boehner Setback  On Sept. 21,  House Republicans  unhappy with the plan’s
overall cost joined Democrats to derail an earlier version of
the measure, 230-195. The vote was a setback for Boehner, who
has faced challenges in managing his large freshman class of Tea
Party-backed Republicans.  The dispute carries political risk for Republicans because
polls show the public is weary of the rancor that marked
previous battles over the budget. Disapproval ratings for
Congress are at historic highs, and Republicans are faring worse
than Democrats in polls.  In a Sept. 10-15 CBS News/ New York  Times poll, 72 percent
of adults surveyed disapproved of the job performance of
Republicans in Congress and just 19 percent approved. Democrats
had a disapproval rating of 63 percent and an approval rating of
28 percent. The poll of 1,452 adults had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3 percentage points.  The higher disapproval ratings for Republicans stem largely
from perceptions that Boehner and other party leaders are
unwilling to compromise with Democrats on key issues, said
Michael Dimock, research director of the Pew Research Center.  ‘No One Cares’  Still, Welch said “no one cares” in storm-ravaged areas
who is to blame politically for the delay in disaster aid.
“Back home people are just interested in what’s going on” and
want lawmakers “to get the job done,” he said. “All the blame
we assign here doesn’t matter.”  The new legislation would set spending levels for the
“discretionary” budget for the upcoming fiscal year that were
agreed to last month in a compromise to raise the U.S. debt
limit. Democrats say they have no intention of reopening that
debate.  Schumer said this week, “You can’t shake hands on an
agreement at the end of July and then they say ‘oh no, it’s up
for negotiation again’ in September.”  The measure rejected by the Senate is H.R. 2608.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  