-- 
BofA Said to Sell $880 Million of Commercial Mortgage Loans

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-09-23T02:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/bofa-said-to-sell-880-million-of-commercial-real-estate-loans.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  agreed to
sell about $880 million in commercial mortgages to a venture of
Square Mile Capital Management LLC,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , and a fund
managed by Canyon Capital Realty Advisors LLC, according to a
person with knowledge of the deal.  The lender is selling the portfolio at a discount of about
20 percent to 25 percent from face value, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the transaction is private.
The loans are backed by buildings in 12 states, and about three-
quarters of them are performing, the person said.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets, has
been divesting assets to raise money ahead of stricter
international rules on capital. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based company is in talks to sell its stake in the biggest U.S.
Pizza Hut franchisee for more than $800 million, two people with
knowledge of the matter said today. Deals announced in the past
month have included the sales of its stake in HCA Holdings Inc.
and half its holdings in China Construction Bank Corp.  Jefferson George, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the commercial-property loan sale. The transaction
was reported earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  Jeffrey Citrin, managing principal at New York-based Square
Mile, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.
Steve Sugerman, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Canyon Capital,
declined to comment. Bill Hensel, a spokesman for Invesco in
Atlanta, said he didn’t immediately have a comment.  California  Buildings  The biggest portion of the mortgage portfolio, which
includes all commercial real estate classes as well as senior
housing, is $250 million in loans backed by industrial buildings
in California, according to the person with knowledge of the
deal. The sale likely will be completed in the next few weeks,
the person said.  Two private-equity firms have teamed up to bid for NPC
International Inc., which operates 1,140 Pizza Hut restaurants,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are confidential.  Bank of America reported a record $8.8 billion second-
quarter loss. The shares fell 5 percent to $6.06 at the close of
New York trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  