-- 
Borders to Sell Customer Data to Barnes & Noble Under Privacy Opt-Out Deal

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 2 3 2 5 0 7 ]   T i f f a n y   K a r y   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-26T22:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/borders-intellectual-property-sale-delayed-by-privacy-issue-judge-says.html
     Sept. 26 (Bloomberg) --Borders Group Inc., the bankrupt
bookseller, won court approval for the sale of its intellectual
property, including a customer database, to competitor  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  after resolving a dispute over shoppers’ privacy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today
approved the transaction after reviewing new terms between  Ann
Arbor , Michigan-based Borders and Barnes & Noble that will
protect the privacy rights of 48 million customers.  Barnes & Noble, based in New York, won a Sept. 14 auction
to buy most of the trademarks and intellectual property of
Borders for $13.9 million. In addition to Borders’ trade names
and the database, Barnes & Noble bought the Waldenbooks and
Brentano’s marks. Including other asset sales, the auction
brought in $15.8 million to Borders’ creditors.  The terms of the sale are “fair and reasonable and provide
appropriate protection to privacy interests of many people who
have become part of the Borders customer database,” Glenn said.
The proposed sale marks the transfer of some of Borders’ last
main assets.  Once the second-largest bookstore chain after Barnes &
Noble, Borders has been liquidating its stores since July under
a deal that sold most of its inventory to Hilco Merchant
Resources and Gordon Brothers Retail Partners LLC.  Closing Stores  Borders had 642 stores when it entered bankruptcy in
February and operated 399 when the liquidation began. It listed
assets of $1.28 billion and liabilities totaling $1.29 billion.  Glenn adjourned a hearing on the sale last week after a
privacy ombudsman said the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of
Consumer Protection and  New York ’s attorney general had
expressed concern about the transfer of customers’ personal
information. The ombudsman, Michael St. Patrick Baxter, told
Glenn today that the agreement resolved those concerns.  All former Borders’ customers will be told by e-mail that
they can choose not to have personally identifiable information
transferred with the sale, Borders’ lawyer Andrew Glenn, said in
court today. (He isn’t related to the judge.) Otherwise, all
data, regardless of when it was collected or whether customers
previously opted not to share it, will be transferred to Barnes
& Noble, with the exception of video titles.  An ad will also be placed in  USA Today  to publicize the
opt-out program, Andrew Glenn said. Barnes & Noble agreed to
purge any information for which it has no commercial use.  Baxter had recommended that Barnes & Noble protect
personally identifiable information and not obtain any
information on the genre, title or other details of audiovisual
materials. The Video Privacy Act of 1988 bars the disclosure of
personal information by companies that rent movies or other
audio-visual media, including adult films.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 