-- 
BP Tanzania Apologizes to Government Over Wholesale Permit

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-09-22T15:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/bp-tanzania-issues-apology-to-government-over-wholesale-permit.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s Tanzanian unit apologized
to the East African nation’s government for events that led to
the suspension of the company’s wholesale-fuel license by the
industry regulator last month.  Tanzania’s Energy and Water Utilities Authority in August
suspended BP Tanzania Ltd.’s permit for three months amid a fuel
shortage the regulator said was a protest against lower prices.  “BP Tanzania regrets the unfortunate events that led to
the suspension of our wholesale license,” Managing Director
Engelhardt Kongoro said in an interview today in Dar es Salaam,
the commercial capital. “What we are apologizing for is holding
supply.”  BP Tanzania, which has an 11.9 percent share of the
Tanzanian market according to the regulator, said it will
withdraw two appeals against the regulator pending at the Fair
Competition Tribunal. BP Tanzania was one of the companies that
appealed to the tribunal Aug. 18 to scrap the regulator’s new
pricing formula.  The regulator will consider lifting the suspension, Haruna
Masebu, the body’s director general, said in an interview in  Dar
es Salaam .  “As soon as we get a written letter from BP stating that
they are issuing a public apology, withdrawing the case they had
filed against us, and that they are willing to pay legal fees,
we will consider lifting the suspension,” Masebu.  Gasoline Price Fall  BP Tanzania withheld supply after the regulator cut prices
of petroleum products and the company sought clearance from
shareholders to comply with the ruling, Kongoro said. The
regulator changed its pricing formula, reducing gasoline prices
by 9.2 percent.  “BP Tanzania had concerns with this formula as it would
have had the impact of selling product below cost,” Kongoro
said.  Puma Energy assumed control and management of BP Tanzania
Sept. 1 after acquiring 50 percent stake from BP Africa Ltd. The
other half of the company belongs to the Tanzanian government,
according to public notice issued by the company in Dar es
Salaam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  