-- 
British Land May Benefit From Shrinking Supply of London Office Properties

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-09-22T10:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/british-land-may-benefit-from-shrinking-office-supply-in-london.html
British Land Co. may benefit from a
slowdown in office development in  London  after finding tenants
for about half of the properties it’s building, according to
Michael Burt, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank who
attended a briefing by the company.  British Land, the U.K.’s second-largest real-estate
investment trust, told analysts and investors yesterday that
office demand declined in recent months as companies delayed
expansion plans, Burt said. The London-based company expects
strong rental growth in the medium to long-term, according to
the analyst.  “Does it reassure us? On a 36-month outlook, yes it does,
but maybe not in the short term,” Burt said. “In the short
term, demand remains very hard to predict with the risk that
occupiers push out decisions on relocations.”  On Sept. 20, British Land announced an agreement to lease
145,000 square feet (13,500 square meters) to retailer Debenhams
Plc for a new headquarters. As a result, about 50 percent of the
company’s  office developments  have been rented ahead of
completion, British Land said in a statement about yesterday’s
meeting.  Gordon Simpson, a spokesman for British Land, declined to
comment on what was said in the presentation.  ‘Insufficient Supply’  About 30 million square feet of office leases are due to
expire in London from 2012 to 2015, British Land said in
documents posted on its website yesterday. A low volume of
development will result in “insufficient supply to satisfy even
low demand” in both the  City of London  and the West End
district, British Land said.  The company told analysts it expects UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s
biggest bank, to sign an agreement by year’s end to lease the 5
Broadgate development. The new London office building, jointly
owned with private-equity firm Blackstone Group LP, will have
about 700,000 square feet of space, making it British Land’s
biggest project.  “Construction of UBS’s new building is continuing as
planned and on schedule,” said Richard Morton, a spokesman for
UBS in London.  Rents are “in a slower phase right now, but ultimately the
growth prospects still look very attractive” and British Land
has opportunities to “create value through selective
development,” said Andrew Saunders, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon & Co. who was also at yesterday’s meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 