-- 
Build America Bonds Set for Rally by Narrowing Treasuries Gap: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/build-america-bonds-closing-treasury-gap-may-rally-muni-credit.html
Build America Bonds, the federally
subsidized securities spawned by President Barack Obama’s
economic-stimulus program, are the cheapest relative to
Treasuries in nine months and may be poised to rally as
investors seek higher yields.  Issuance of the Build America Bonds ended Dec. 31 when
Congress declined to extend the program after almost $188
billion in sales. The taxable borrowings, part of the $814
billion stimulus, enabled states such as  California  and
 Massachusetts  to win purchases from international investors.  Treasury yields have fallen faster than rates on Build
America Bonds, which were 241 percent of those on government
debt as of Sept. 20. That’s higher than this year’s average of
202 percent, according to a Wells Fargo index. In the fourth
quarter, the gap may attract purchasers looking for relative
value, said Mikhail Foux, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc.  “Because it’s widened so much there will be more buyers,”
Foux said in a telephone interview. “You could see more
trading.”  Build America Bonds are already outperforming Treasuries
and corporate debt this year.  The total 2011 return on Build America Bonds was 20.5
percent through yesterday, compared with 6.9 percent for
corporate securities, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, which include price changes and interest income.
Treasuries gained 8.9 percent.  Higher Returns  Build America Bonds have produced higher returns because
rates on those securities dropped this year after they were
priced in 2010 and 2009 with yields above Treasury and corporate
rates, said Peter Demirali, who manages $350 million of taxable
municipals at New Jersey-based Cumberland Advisors.  Yields on Build America Bonds have fallen by 128 basis
points this year to 5.06 percent yesterday, just above the two-
year low of 5.04 percent on Sept. 19, Wells Fargo data show.  “When the original deals came, many of these benchmark
issues came well over 300 basis points above corresponding
Treasuries and to some extent almost double the spread of
similar-rated corporate debt,” Demirali said in a telephone
interview from Vineland, New Jersey. “They were significantly
undervalued in the marketplace.”  Spreads Narrow  An A+ rated New Jersey Turnpike Authority Build America
Bond sold on Dec. 8 and maturing January 2041 priced with a 7.1
percent yield, 264 basis points above that day’s 30-year
Treasury rate.  Intel Corp (INTC) , the world’s largest computer
chipmaker, Sept. 14 sold an A+ rated $1 million bond maturing
October 2041 at 4.85 percent, 160 basis points above the 30-year
Treasury index.  Yesterday, the yield on the Turnpike’s bond had narrowed to
242 basis points above Treasuries.  A limited supply of Build America Bonds resulting from the
program’s end also helps the municipal securities produce
greater returns than corporate bonds, Demirali said. Build
America Bonds account for almost half of Cumberland’s $350
million taxable fund, he said.  The Obama administration created Build America Bonds to
lower borrowing costs for localities with a 35 percent federal
subsidy on interest. The program financed clean-water projects
in  Ohio , highways in  Kansas , dormitories at  Rutgers University 
in  New Jersey  and a bridge spanning the  San Francisco Bay .  California and  New York City , two of the three largest
issuers of municipal debt, marketed the bonds to overseas
investors, who typically invest in corporate debt and can’t take
advantage of the U.S. tax exemption available on traditional
municipals.  International buyers boosted their holdings of U.S. munis
to $73 billion by the end of 2010 from $50.5 billion in 2008 on
the strength of the taxable securities, according to Federal
Reserve data.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  CONNECTICUT STATE HEALTH & EDUCATIONAL FACILITY AUTHORITY,
which sells bonds on behalf of hospitals, colleges and
universities, will sell as soon as today $260 million of revenue
bonds for  Hartford HealthCare . The securities are rated A, S&P’s
fifth-lowest rating. Citigroup Inc. will lead a syndicate of
banks on the sale. (Updated Sept. 22)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  