-- 
Burson-Marsteller Chief Mark Penn on How to Handle a Crisis

-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 
2011-09-22T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/burson-marsteller-chief-mark-penn-on-how-to-handle-a-crisis.html
“As a leader, you have to balance
the desire to say something right away with the need to get the
facts,” Mark Penn, chief executive officer of Burson-
Marsteller, says in Bloomberg Businessweek’s Sept. 26 edition.
“People typically err on the side of saying something too soon
and then have to eat most of what they said.  There are two phases: the hurricane and the cleanup. During
the hurricane, you’re trying to keep the house standing and keep
your organization functioning. Whether you win, lose, or draw,
unless all the employees are on board and focused, you’ve lost.
When the immediacy of the crisis is over, then you figure out
what changes to make and how you rebuild your image. It can be a
two-year process, but most companies recover.  Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  is the best crisis
responder I’ve ever worked with. He’s a strong leader, and he’s
goal-oriented to solve the problem, whether it’s the nation’s
deficit or impeachment. He won by going against the conventional
wisdom of  crisis management . People think you should get out
there and apologize and everything will be fine. That’s not
always true.  In some industries you can anticipate what the likely
crisis will be. You need a plan and the right person out there
as the central voice. Don’t throw your chief executive officer
in the middle of every story. In the BP Plc crisis, CEO  Tony Hayward  underplayed the gravity initially, and then he arguably
overplayed it because he was on the defensive. Was there a
workaround? Sure. He could have hired General  Colin Powell . If
there’s a massive incident in the  Gulf of Mexico , the person
you’d have the most confidence in is someone from the American
military.”  (Penn is the worldwide CEO of Burson-Marsteller.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Brady in New York at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  