-- 
Buy Australian, Short Canadian Equities, Brockhouse Cooper Says

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-09-22T17:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/buy-australian-short-canadian-equities-brockhouse-cooper-says.html
Investors should buy Australian
stocks as the country may cut  interest rates  to boost growth,
and bet against the benchmark Canadian equity index, according
to Brockhouse & Cooper Inc.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index may start to perform better
than Canada’s Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index as a
softening Australian economy will force policy makers to lower
interest rates to spur growth, according to  Pierre Lapointe ,
global macro strategist at the firm, and economist Alex Bellefleur. They said the gauges will move more in tandem as
they are affected by the same economic fundamentals, such as
dependence on raw materials and emerging markets.  “We wonder how long Australia can keep raising interest
rates while the rest of the developed world is lowering them,”
Lapointe and Bellefleur, who are based in  Montreal , wrote in a
report yesterday. “We see potential  Reserve Bank  of Australia
rate cuts as a catalyst for the relative underperformance of
Australia to come to an end.”  Canada’s benchmark stock gauge has outperformed the
Australian index by about 30 percentage points since March 2009,
when both gauges reached their lowest levels since 2003 during
the financial crisis, according to Brockhouse & Cooper. The
price-earnings ratio of the Canadian equity market is 21 using a
10-year moving earnings average, while the Australian price
multiple is 16, the firm said.  ‘Risk-Neutral’  “This is another risk-neutral way to play this theme, as
both countries are exposed to relatively similar drivers and
risk factors,” the report said. “The correlation between both
markets is very high, so a long Australia/short  Canada  position
aims to reveal the relative value in the two indices.” Short
investors bet against a security by selling borrowed shares with
the hope of repurchasing them at a lower price. Long investors
buy shares betting the price will rise.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has kept
the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent, the highest in
the developed world, since November on concern inflation may
accelerate even amid signs the economy is slowing. Bank of
Canada Governor Mark Carney said yesterday he may keep interest
rates low beyond when full output is restored as the domestic
recovery is hobbled by a weak economy in the U.S., the nation’s
biggest trade partner.  The Australian central bank cut its 2011 growth forecasts
last month, saying shipments of coal, Australia’s most valuable
goods export last year after  iron ore , took longer than expected
to recover after two months of floods struck Queensland state at
the start of the year.  The bet “should be considered risk-neutral in the sense
that it does not require a clear directional view of where the
world economy and risk assets are headed in order to play out,”
the strategists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 