-- 
Cameron Urges Euro Countries to Beat Market With Bold Measures

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-09-22T21:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/cameron-urges-euro-countries-to-beat-market-with-bold-measures.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
urged European leaders to agree on measures that will put
support for the euro beyond doubt, saying their current inaction
poses risks to stability around the globe.  Without giving specific policy recommendations, Cameron
said the heads of the 17 euro-region governments need to get
ahead of the markets, as the U.K. did with its plans to
eliminate the structural  budget deficit  by 2015. He called for
new thinking to help a global economy that is still reeling from
the “financial bust and economic collapse” of 2008.  “We’re not quite staring down the barrel, but the pattern
is clear,” Cameron said in a speech to the  Canadian Parliament 
in Ottawa today, according to extracts released by his office.
“The problems in the euro zone are now so big that they have
begun to threaten the stability of the world economy.”  The comments, Cameron’s most outspoken on the subject, show
increasing impatience from the British prime minister toward his
European counterparts, who he accused of “kicking the can down
the road.” The premier was also preparing the ground for
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who arrives in
 Washington  today to work on proposals with other finance
ministers to stop uncertainty over the Greek economy affecting
the rest of the single currency area.  “While these problems aren’t being solved, while they
grow, businesses don’t invest, confidence is sapped,” Cameron
said. “In the euro area itself and, increasingly, worldwide
also. Euro-zone countries must act swiftly to resolve the
crisis.”  ‘Political Will’  To start with, European leaders must implement the rescue
plans they have already agreed on and demonstrate “they have
the political will to do what is necessary to ensure the
stability of the system” by tackling excessive debt and
recapitalizing their weakest banks, Cameron said.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the world’s biggest economies need to strengthen
cooperation to restore stability to global financial markets.  “What is lacking today” among global officials “is the
collective momentum and the spirit” demonstrated at the Group
of 20 meeting in  London  in April 2009, Lagarde said today at a
news conference in Washington.  Earlier today, Cameron and five other leaders of Group of
20 nations sent a letter to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to
urge him to use his chairmanship of the body to find agreement
on actions to boost the global economy.  “We need decisive action to support growth, confidence,
and credibility,” the six wrote in the letter released by
Cameron’s office. “We have not yet mastered the challenges of
the crisis.”  The letter was also signed by Canadian Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper , as well as Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , Indonesian President Susilo Yudhoyono, South Korean
President Lee Myung-Bak and Mexican President Felipe Calderon.  “Britain’s experience contains an invaluable lesson: it is
possible to earn credibility and get ahead of the markets
through decisive action,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in New York at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  