-- 
Canadian Currency Falls Most in 16 Months on Outlook for U.S.; Bonds Climb

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-22T21:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/canadian-currency-tumbles-the-most-in-16-months-on-outlook-for-u-s-economy.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped the most
since May 2010 against its U.S. counterpart amid concern the
biggest market for Canadian exports is faltering and the  Federal
Reserve  is running out of tools to resuscitate it.  The currency, called the loonie for the image of the bird
on the C$1 coin, reached the weakest since October as stocks and
commodities tumbled. Volatility touched a 16-month high and
Canadian bond yields fell to record lows. The Fed said yesterday
the  U.S. economy  faces “significant downside risks” and it
will replace $400 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
securities to spur growth, a move dubbed “Operation Twist.”  “After the Fed’s announcement yesterday, the markets
including the loonie were clear in shedding risk,” said  John Curran , senior vice president at the online foreign-exchange
dealer CanadianForex Ltd. “The Fed is between a rock and hard
place, and you’re only talking millimeters of space for
assisting global growth.”  The Canadian currency slid 2 percent to C$1.0284 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0081 yesterday. It fell as
much as 2.8 percent and touched C$1.0361, the weakest level
since October. The four-day losing streak is the longest since a
seven-day drop that ended Aug. 8. One Canadian dollar purchases
97.24 U.S. cents.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds climbed as investors sought
safety, pushing yields on the 10-year note as much as 11 basis
points lower to 2.011 percent and driving down 30-year bond
yields as much as nine basis points to 2.676 percent, the lowest
levels on record. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The loonie is off on a major risk-aversion move,” said
 David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives at the
brokerage Le Groupe Jitney Inc. in Montreal, in an e-mail.
“Everyone thought the Fed would save the markets with
‘Operation Twist.’ It seems they have spooked the market more
than anything.”  Fed policy makers said after a two-day meeting that risks
to the economic outlook included “strains in global financial
markets.” They said the shift in the central bank’s portfolio
holdings should “put downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative.”  “Ultimately, there’s a fear about how much is left in the
policy toolkit, and what’s out there to be saved,”  Mark Chandler , head of fixed income strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto, said. “You’re
left with the idea that people want more policy action, and
there’s a frustration that it’s not there.”  Raw Materials  Slide  November futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
plunged 6.5 percent to $80.35 a barrel in New York. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials fell 4.4 percent.
Raw materials including oil account for about half of Canadian
export revenue. About three-quarters of the nation’s exports go
to the U.S.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 3.2 percent.  One-month implied volatility for the Canadian dollar and
the greenback surged to as high as 16, the most since May 2010,
from 11.8 yesterday. It was the biggest intraday jump since
March. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency.  The 14-day relative strength index for the  currency pair 
declined to 28.8, the lowest since Aug. 8. A reading lower than
30 signals that an asset, in this case the loonie, may be due
for a rebound.  Commodity Currencies Fall  Currencies of other commodities exporters also weakened
against the U.S. dollar as investors sought refuge.  New
Zealand ’s dollar fell 2.6 percent, and the Australian dollar
lost 2.9 percent.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the loonie and
the Australian and New Zealand dollars are falling because
investors are moving into U.S. dollars as they lose confidence
in  Europe ’s efforts to stem the sovereign-debt crisis that began
in  Greece  almost two years ago.  “This is a flight to the U.S. dollar as the world currency
and so our currency vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar has shown some
modest decline,” Flaherty told reporters today in Ottawa before
leaving for meetings with his Group of 20 colleagues in
 Washington . “That is part of this difficulty that we are in
right now that needs to be resolved in Europe.”  ‘Welcome’ Decline  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told Bloomberg News in an
interview in  New York  yesterday that Canadian policy makers are
prepared to act to stem an appreciation of the country’s
currency caused by speculative capital inflows. Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  has often singled out the strength of the
Canadian dollar as a “competitiveness challenge” to the
country.  “In some sense, this decline in the loonie will be
welcome,” said RBC’s Chandler. “We’ve had our policy makers
talking about the strength of the currency. Be careful what you
wish for: you don’t have it as much anymore.”  Canada’s dollar has lost 2.9 percent this year versus nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar has gained 0.4 percent, and
the yen has climbed 7.6 percent. The loonie strengthened 5.5
percent versus the greenback in 2010 and surged 16 percent in
2009 as global growth burnished the allure of the currencies of
commodities exporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  