-- 
Canada Banks May Lose Haven Status as Premium to Peers Soars

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-09-22T20:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/canadian-banks-may-lose-haven-status-as-premium-to-peers-soars.html
Canadian bank stocks have soared
relative to their global peers, prompting investors to rethink
their stakes in the world’s safest financial-services firms.  The S&P/TSX Commercial Banks Index is trading at a higher
premium relative to the  MSCI World Bank Index (MXWO0BK)  since at least
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium for
Canadian banks surged to 37 percent on Sept. 6 and ended
yesterday at 32 percent. Canadian banks traded at a 30 percent
discount in May 2009 and had the same price-earnings ratio as
their global counterparts as late as Aug. 10, 2010.  “Canadian banks deserve a premium, I just think that
premium has reached its peak,” Stephen Lingard, director of
research at Franklin Resources Inc.’s Franklin Templeton Multi-
Asset Strategies group, which oversees about $31.4 billion, said
in a phone interview from Toronto. “We’re still basking in the
glow of our significant outperformance, and that could be
dangerous.”  The eight-company S&P/TSX Commercial Banks Index and the
MSCI World Bank Index traded at about 11 times forecast earnings
on Aug. 10, 2010. The S&P/TSX index traded at 10 times analysts’
profit estimates yesterday, versus 7.6 times for the world
gauge, which had dropped to 7.4 on Sept. 12, the lowest since at
least 2005.  The MSCI World Bank Index, KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S.
lenders and Stoxx 600 Banks Index of European financial firms
have each declined at least 49 percent, including dividends,
since the end of 2007. The declines come amid investor concern
that the European debt crisis, the prospect of another U.S.
recession and low  interest rates  will crimp profits.  Canadian Banks Fell  The Canadian banks index fell 2.3 percent at 4 p.m. today,
compared with the 2.7 percent decline of the KBW Bank Index.  Canadian banks, which are part of a financial system judged
the soundest by the  World Economic Forum  for four consecutive
years, have returned 18 percent with dividends since 2007.  Relative to book value, Canadian banks are more than twice
as expensive as U.S. banks and three times pricier than European
lenders.  “The price-to-book comparison is out of line,” said Chris Wain-Lowe, who oversees about C$200 million ($199 million) of
financial shares at Portland Investment Counsel Inc. in
Burlington, Ontario. “If an investor has a two-plus-years
outlook, when we believe banking will get back to more normal
earnings levels, there’s far greater uplift in holding a well-
diversified global bank than a Canadian bank.”  Buying Abroad  Wain-Lowe said he has sold shares of  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) 
in the past three months and bought lenders in other countries,
including New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , London-based
Barclays Plc and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA of Paris.  Paul Vrouwes, who helps manage 12 billion euros ($16
billion) at ING Groep NV’s investment-management unit, said he
sold RBC and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  this year and added insurers
and exchange operator Deutsche Boerse AG.  “I prefer to be in other safe havens versus those that are
relatively expensive,” Vrouwes said in a phone interview from
The Hague.  National Bank of Canada (NA) ’s Altamira Investment Management
was among investors to pare Canadian bank holdings in July and
August as it sold Toronto-based RBC, Toronto-Dominion and  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , according to Bloomberg data. MD Management Ltd.,
part of the Canadian Medical Association, sold 1.13 million RBC
shares and added banks including New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
JPMorgan and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the data show.  Some investors still see value as the index of Canadian
banks trades at 11.2 times trailing 12 months’ earnings,
compared with a five-year average of 14.4, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Special Case’  Anil Tahiliani, who helps manage about C$1 billion at
Calgary-based McLean & Partners, bought Scotiabank shares last
week. He said the $2 trillion in writedowns suffered by other
countries’ financial firms since 2007 makes an international
comparison based on price-earnings ratios misleading.  “You almost have to look at the Canadian banks as a
special case given how strong they are,” Tahiliani said in a
telephone interview. “They’re always going to trade at a higher
valuation relative to other global banks. The other banks have
so much credit exposure to  Europe .”  Scotiabank Chief Executive Officer Richard Waugh said
Canadian banks should be able to outperform global competitors
and maintain their valuation premium.  “When we analyze our business model for all these changes
in regulation, we’re not in Europe, we’re not in the  United
States ,” Waugh, 63, said in an interview yesterday. “We don’t
have the legacy assets that the Americans and Europeans have, or
the litigation.”  ‘Slow-Growth Environment’  Canadian lenders aren’t immune to what Royal Bank CEO
Gordon Nixon this month called “significant headwinds”
sweeping the global banking sector.  “We are operating in a slow-growth environment,” Nixon,
54, said in a Sept. 20 interview. “That’s what we’re going to
have to be used to for an extended period.”  Profit estimates for Canadian banks will fall short of
consensus over the “near- to medium-term,”  Peter Routledge , a
National Bank analyst, said in a Sept. 14 note.  “A big part of the premium that you’re paying for Canadian
banks is not just stability and high capital and so on, but also
a little bit more confidence in their ability to earn a required
return,” Darko Mihelic, an analyst at Cormark Securities Inc.
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think,
longer-term, the premium is sustainable because U.S. banks, and
any other bank for that matter, will over time figure out how to
make money and an appropriate return.”  Franklin Templeton ’s Lingard said he would prefer to invest
in places where “problems” are already discounted.  “At some point that could be European or U.S. banks, but
it’s too early,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net 
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  