-- 
Canada’s Harper Says Budget Cuts Needed to Avoid Global Slump

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-09-22T21:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/canada-s-harper-says-budget-cuts-needed-to-avoid-global-slump.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said the global economy will slip back into recession
unless governments cut their budget deficits, refrain from
erecting trade barriers and stop manipulating their currencies.  The prime minister said “dangerous levels of
indebtedness” in some countries are pushing the world closer to
a recession that could have “devastating consequences.”  Harper said a recession is unavoidable “without a
commitment by governments to cut rising deficits and reduce what
are, in some cases, dangerous levels of national indebtedness.”
He made the remarks to lawmakers in Ottawa before introducing
British Prime Minister  David Cameron , who is scheduled to
address a joint session of Canada’s Parliament.  The U.K. and Canada have both tried to convince heavily
indebted nations to slash spending and restore investor
confidence. Both governments are facing calls within their own
countries to put off austerity measures and introduce more
public spending to stimulate their economies.  Harper said “key countries” must take “systemically
appropriate and coordinated economic measures,” while resisting
protectionism and accepting the need for flexible exchange
rates.  Harper urged Group of 20 countries to follow through on
deficit reduction commitments made at the G-20 summit in Toronto
in June 2010, calling the targets “an essential element for
rebuilding the economic health of industrialized nations.” He
hailed Cameron for being a “leader by example.”  “Prime Minister, here in  Canada  we have followed your
progress carefully, and I can safely say that where it matters
most, your thinking parallels that of our own Government,”
Harper said in his prepared remarks, which were provided to
reporters beforehand.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday at the  United
Nations  that governments need to take “urgent and coordinated
action” to avert another recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 