-- 
Canada July Retail Sales Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-22T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/canada-july-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's retail sales report for July as released by
 Statistics Canada .  Retail sales declined 0.6% to $37.5 billion in July,
after increasing the previous three months. Lower sales
were reported in 7 of 11 subsectors, with motor vehicle
and parts dealers accounting for most of the decline.
Excluding motor vehicle and parts dealers, retail sales
were flat.  In volume terms, retail sales decreased 0.9%.  Retail sales decline in July  Lower sales at new car dealers accounted for the
decline at motor vehicle and parts dealers. The 3.5% drop
in sales at new car dealers offset gains made in June.
Declines at used car dealers (-2.0%) and automotive parts,
accessories and tire stores (-0.4%) were offset by a
fourth consecutive monthly gain in the "other  motor
vehicle  dealers" (+2.3%) category.  Furniture and home furnishings stores registered a
third consecutive decrease, falling 2.2%. Lower sales at
furniture stores (-2.9%) were the main contributor to this
decline.  Sales at sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores
decreased 2.3% in July, more than offsetting gains made in
the previous two months.  Following June's decline, which was the second in 12
months, sales at gasoline stations in July were
essentially unchanged.  Food and beverage store sales rose 0.5%, a second
consecutive monthly increase. This gain came mainly from
higher sales at supermarkets and other grocery stores
(+0.9%).  General merchandise store sales advanced 0.8%, the
sixth increase in seven months. The category of "other
general merchandise stores" led the gain, rising 1.9%.
Following four consecutive monthly increases, department
store sales declined 0.6%.  Sales down in most provinces  Retail sales fell in eight provinces in July.  Ontario reported the largest decrease in dollar terms,
with sales down 0.7%. This followed three consecutive
monthly gains. Lower sales of new motor vehicles were the
major reason for this drop.  Sales in  Alberta  (-1.2%) declined for a second
consecutive month.  After a 1.7% rise in June, sales in QuÚbec edged down
0.1% in July.  Nova Scotia retailers registered a fifth consecutive
monthly sales increase with a rise of 1.2%. It was the
only province where the number of new motor vehicles sold
rose in July.  It is possible to consult the tables of unadjusted data
by industry and by province and territory from the Tables
by subject module of our website.  For information on related indicators, refer to the
Latest statistics page on our website.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Total retail sales by volume are measured by deflating
values in current dollars of the various trade groups
using consumer price indexes. This retail sales in chained
dollars series (2002) is a chain Fisher volume index with
2002 as the reference year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  