-- 
Carl Lewis Won’t Be on Ballot for New Jersey State Senate Seat, Court Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-22T17:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/carl-lewis-won-t-be-on-ballot-for-new-jersey-state-senate-seat-court-says.html
Carl Lewis , the former Olympic gold
medalist, lost a federal appeals court ruling that strips his
name from the ballot for a  New Jersey  state senate seat.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia today reversed
its earlier decision to restore the former track-and-field star
to the Nov. 8 ballot. The same three-judge panel that initially
ruled for Lewis reversed course today after hearing additional
arguments from state Republicans who filed an emergency appeal.  The panel upheld a Sept. 6 ruling from a U.S. judge who
said Lewis’s constitutional right to equal protection won’t be
violated if he’s kept off the ballot. New Jersey Secretary of
State Kim Guadagno, a Republican who is also lieutenant
governor, ruled in April that the Democrat was ineligible to run
because he didn’t meet a four-year residency requirement.  “It is unfortunate that the voters of the Eighth
Legislative District are being denied a meaningful choice in
this election by today’s decision,” William Tambussi, an
attorney for Lewis, said in an e-mailed statement. “The extreme
measures taken by the  Republican Party  to keep Carl Lewis off
the ballot truly do a disservice to the voters.”  Lewis, 50, a nine-time Olympic gold medalist, seeks to
represent New Jersey’s Eighth Legislative District. He won an
uncontested primary election in June after the appeals court
temporarily barred enforcement of Guadagno’s ruling.  Ruling Vacated  The same appeals panel vacated that decision earlier this
week but left Lewis’s name on the ballot while reconsidering.  Guadagno said that while Lewis bought a New Jersey house on
Nov. 16, 2007 -- eight days after the cutoff -- he also voted in
California in 2008 and 2009 and filed a state income tax return
there in 2008. In its opinion today, the panel said that given
those circumstances, Lewis can’t say his rights were violated.  “Lewis cannot point to a similarly situated person who,
having voted as a citizen of another state less than three years
before a general election in New Jersey, was deemed eligible to
run for statewide office,” the panel ruled.   “Lewis has
failed to show that, as applied to him, the four-year state
residency requirement for the office of state senator in New
Jersey has treated him unequally.”  State Republicans asked for an “en banc” rehearing, with
all 13 circuit court judges considering the case. The court can
decide how many judges should hear a case, and the original
panel agreed to a rehearing, Tambussi said. Lewis could appeal
for an “en banc” hearing or petition the U.S. Supreme Court.  New Jersey Ties  Lewis grew up in New Jersey and competed for Willingboro
High School before moving to Texas and  California . Lawyers for
the former long jumper and sprinter said he had a condominium in
 Mount Laurel  in 2005 and then bought a home in nearby Medford in
2007, where he lives.  Lewis has been campaigning to represent a district that has
traditionally elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego,
a Republican, was appointed to fill the vacancy left by  Phil Haines , who was named as a state court judge.  The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden). The appeal is
Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-3401, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  