-- 
Carlyle Group Is Said to Be Among Final Bidders to Acquire TI Automotive

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-09-22T15:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/carlyle-group-said-to-be-among-final-bidders-for-ti-automotive.html
Carlyle Group  LP is among the final
suitors bidding to acquire TI Automotive, a closely held auto-
industry supplier, four people familiar with the matter said.  TI Automotive, a maker of fuel tubes, lines and tanks, will
pick the winning bidder in two to four weeks with a goal of
closing this year, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private. The company,
registered in Oxford,  England , with headquarters in  Auburn
Hills , Michigan, may sell for about 900 million pounds ($1.38
billion), two of the people said.  Four bidders had been interested in the automotive supplier
and that pool narrowed to three in recent weeks, one of the
people said. A tightening in the high-yield market since August
has made a deal more difficult to reach, the person said. The
 auto industry  hasn’t been a recent focus for private-equity
firms even though they hold $400 billion in cash, Waltham,
Massachusetts-based consulting firm PRTM said last month.  “There’s been a gradual thawing in the interest level of
private equity as it pertains to automotive,” said Don Luciani,
a managing partner at Amherst Partners LLC, a Birmingham,
Michigan-based investment-banking firm, said. “There’s a sense
that we’re not in this boom-and-bust cycle anymore and that
autos may be a better landscape for investment.”  Frank Buscemi, a spokesman for TI Automotive, and  Chris Ullman , a Carlyle spokesman, declined to comment.  Rising Sales  Products made by TI Automotive, which had $2.5 billion in
revenue last year, are on two-thirds of the world’s vehicles,
Chief Executive Officer William Kozyra said last month at a
presentation at an auto conference near Traverse City, Michigan.
Twenty percent of its revenue, forecast to rise to $3 billion
this year, comes from North America, he said.  Kozyra said in February that the company was considering an
initial public offering. TI Automotive, which supplied fuel
lines to  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Model T, traces its roots to 1919 when
it was known as Tube Investments Ltd. in Birmingham, England. It
now has about 18,500 employees in 130 locations in 28 countries.  Carlyle, the second-largest manager of private-equity
funds, registered for an initial public offering of $100 million
of its shares by next year, the company said in a filing Sept. 6
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That figure is
a placeholder to calculate filing fees; the final amount may
vary.  PRTM was acquired by New York-based PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP on Aug. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 