-- 
Castilla Sees Peru Sol Rebound as Global Easing Spurs Inflow

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T21:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/castilla-sees-peru-sol-rebound-as-global-easing-spurs-inflow-1-.html
Peru ’s currency will probably
rebound from a three-month low as central banks loosen monetary
policy worldwide, spurring flows into the Andean country as
investors hunt for yield, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said.  Peru will see “large” amounts of investment, leading to
increased demand for the sol, Castilla said today at the
Bloomberg Mila conference in  New York .  The sol tumbled to its lowest level since June today as
global stocks fell amid concern that policy makers in developed
economies are running out of tools to avoid another global
recession. Copper, Peru’s top export, fell the most since
January 2009 in New York.  “Expansionary policies are going to boost global liquidity
and Peru may be a place where those resources go,” Castilla
said. “What we’re going to have to manage is exchange rate
appreciation more than depreciation.”  The sol weakened 0.5 percent to 2.7715 per  U.S. dollar 
after earlier falling as much as 1.1 percent. It has declined
1.5 percent over the past five days, the biggest weekly loss
since May 2009.  Peru’s central bank sold $200 million in the  spot market 
today, its first sale since April 27. The bank also issued 490
million soles of dollar-linked certificates of deposit, as it
sought to ease the sol’s decline.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 5.99 percent today, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to own
Peruvian dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries climbed 34
basis points today to 281, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  Bond Offering  Peru is seeking a window of opportunity to sell bonds
internationally and may tap markets “soon,” Castilla said. The
country hasn’t issued debt in the international markets since
selling $2.5 billion Nov. 10.  Peru has posted an average 5.7 percent economic growth in
the past decade as policy makers tapped into a global mining
boom while curbing inflation and the  budget deficit .  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 cut its growth
forecast for Peru to 6.2 percent this year from 6.6 percent
previously. The IMF said the country will post the fastest
growth in the Americas next year with a 5.6 percent rise in
gross domestic product, up from 5.2 percent previously.  Investment Flows  “With capital inflows coming into Peru, FDI, long-term
capital and more money put into the world economy, I hope those
flows come into our country,” Castilla said. “Unfavorable
external conditions may slow down some of those flows, perhaps,
but the president is absolutely committed to keep the economy
growing at fast rates.”  Foreign direct investment will probably rise 17 percent to
$8.58 billion this year compared with 2010, and hold at that
level next year, according to the central bank.  Peru’s policy makers are braced for a worsening global
outlook next year that may curb private investment and demand
for commodities, which account for three-quarters of the
nation’s exports.  The central bank kept its benchmark lending rate at 4.25
percent for a fourth straight month Sept. 8 and signaled it is
ready to cut rates for the first time since 2009 if global
markets deteriorate.  Government Stimulus  Spending cuts by the previous government and surging tax
income allowed Peru to unveil stimulus measures worth almost 1.3
billion soles to protect the Andean country from stalling growth
in  Europe  and the U.S. The government is implementing stimulus
“moderately” and will become more “aggressive” if necessary,
Castilla said.  The government projects a budget surplus of 1.5 percent of
gross domestic product for this year even after stimulus
measures equivalent to 0.5 percent of GDP, he said.  Peru is seeking private investment for $10 billion of
projects, including  power lines , hydroelectric plants and
irrigation, Castilla said.  “We’ve been growing at Asian levels for the past 10
years,” Castilla said. “We’re with Chinese, Indians and
Vietnamese. We want to keep in that club of fast-growing
countries and for that you need investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  