-- 
Spain’s Richest Region Catalonia Aims to Beat Deficit Target

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-22T11:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/catalonia-spain-s-richest-region-aims-to-beat-deficit-target.html
Catalonia,  Spain ’s richest region
as well as one of its most indebted, is pushing to beat its 2011
budget-deficit target to help the nation avoid becoming the next
victim of  Europe ’s sovereign crisis.  “We understand even the smallest reduction of the deficit
below our 2.66 percent of GDP forecast will be appreciated,”
Albert Carreras de Odriozola, Catalonia’s state secretary for
economy, said by telephone yesterday from Barcelona. Any drop
below that target will prove “our seriousness and capacity to
control spending.”  Catalonia, the wealthiest of Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous
regions with an economy the size of  Portugal ’s, had the third-
largest budget gap in 2010, at 3.86 percent of gross domestic
product. It also had the second-highest debt, at 19.2 percent of
GDP in the second quarter.  Spanish regions control over a third of public spending,
including health and education, playing a crucial role in the
nation’s battle to cut its deficit to 6 percent of GDP this year
from 9.2 percent. Under Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, Spain is struggling to avoid following Greece, Ireland
and Portugal into a bailout as its borrowing costs surge amid
contagion from Europe’s debt crisis.  Carreras said his region’s officials met with the  Finance
Ministry  in Madrid last week following Finance Minister  Elena Salgado ’s pledge on Sept. 8 to discuss adjustment plans with
each of the 12 regions that registered a deficit above 0.75
percent in the second quarter. Catalonia’s shortfall was 1.01
percent at the end of June, according to figures released that
same day, which aren’t directly comparable with the data
employed in the final calculation of public-sector deficits.  Madrid Meetings  In the Madrid talks, Catalonia officials said they aim to
exceed their budget goals because of deficit-cutting steps
they’ve taken, even though they didn’t “dare fix a lower target
because it’s a huge effort as it is,” Carreras said. Spending
will be cut 10 percent this year and finances will also benefit
from extra income, such as from the sale and leaseback of
regionally-owned buildings, he said.  Catalonia and Castilla-La Mancha have committed to
“minimize possible slippage” from their deficit goal this
year, and the other regions have pledged to meet the 1.3 percent
target in 2011, the Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  Deputy Finance Minister Juan Manuel Lopez Carbajo has held
meetings with regional officials and their plans to rein in
their deficits will be published in the “coming weeks,” the
ministry said.  Spain holds elections Nov. 20 and opposition leader  Mariano Rajoy , who leads in opinion polls, has pledged stricter budget
rules as the country seeks to avert a credit-rating downgrade.
He’s also vowed to stick to Spain’s current 4.4 percent deficit
goal for 2012 and to cut “superfluous” spending, as the
European Central Bank props up the nation’s debt by purchasing
its bonds on the secondary market.  Regions’ Shortfall  The combined budget deficit of the regions, which use
different methodology for year-end figures, of 1.2 percent of
GDP in the first half is not “a cause for concern,” Salgado
said on Sept. 8. “One can hope” the regions meet their deficit
goal this year of 1.3 percent of GDP as they are all “are
committed to their fiscal targets,” she said.  Catalonia forecasts it will reach the 1.3 percent target
next year by further reducing spending and increasing revenue,
Carreras said.  Fitch Ratings Director Douglas Renwick said on Sept. 13
that slippage by the regions “adds to pressure on the central
government to make the needed cuts to meet the general
government deficit targets” and that risks to Spain’s sovereign
credit rating are “clearly on the downside.” Fitch downgraded
five regions including Andalusia and Catalonia last week, saying
debt is climbing and the weak recovery will undermine revenue.  Separately, Moody’s Investors Service termed the first-half
regional budget data “credit negative,” and last month cited
the regions’ fiscal backsliding as a reason for putting Spain’s
credit rating on review for a downgrade. The review is due to be
completed by the end of October.  Spain’s Senate approved the inclusion of budget rules in
the constitution on Sept. 7, paving the way for final adoption.
The amendment, only the second in the charter’s 30-year history,
will bind all levels of government to deficit targets and fiscal
rigor including the regions, which was not previously the case.  “Catalonia’s deficit figures have regularly been revised
upward in the last years,” Carreras said. “It’s difficult, but
we’re taking steps to try to avoid that from happening again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  