-- 
Central Falls, Rhode Island, Receiver Submits Fiscal Rescue Plan to Court

-- B y   T o m   M a s h b e r g
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/central-falls-rhode-island-receiver-submits-fiscal-rescue-plan-to-court.html
The receiver for Central Falls, the
 Rhode Island  city that declared bankruptcy last month, proposed
a five-year plan for fiscal recovery that shields bondholders
from losses while cutting benefits to retirees, imposing
givebacks on unions and raising property taxes.  Pension benefits would shrink as much as 55 percent for
some retirees under the plan proposed by Robert Flanders, a
former state  Supreme Court  justice named to oversee the city.
Other beneficiaries and most current members of city unions also
would be required to pay 20 percent of their health-care
premiums and forgo some cost-of-living increases under the plan.  “We will not give in to any temptation for one-time
gimmicks or other short-term approaches that will simply push
this crisis down the road,” Flanders told reporters at a City
Hall briefing after submitting the plan yesterday to the  U.S.
bankruptcy court  in Providence. “We are setting a new course.”  The proposal doesn’t require discounts or givebacks from
the city’s bondholders, Flanders said. The plight of Central
Falls, with about 18,000 residents 6 miles (10 kilometers) north
of Providence, echoes imbalances that have dogged municipalities
across the U.S. and has raised alarm in the Ocean State, where
many public pensions are “considerably underfunded,” the state’s
auditor-general said in a report last year.  Staving Off ‘Purgatory’  The Central Falls plan was designed to stave off “financial
purgatory” for the city and state by “taking all steps necessary
to protect access to municipal capital markets,” Flanders said.
He was appointed receiver by the state earlier this year.  “I am hopeful that the  bond market  will be receptive to
this plan, that it will serve as further proof that Rhode Island
is taking the responsible course of action,” he said.  Central Falls has about $20.8 million in outstanding bonds,
according to court documents and an Aug. 2 report from Moody’s
Investors Service. Moody’s rates the city’s general-obligation
debt Caa1, fifth lowest, and has it under review for a possible
downgrade because of unfunded pensions, a lack of cash reserves
and constraints on the revenue-raising ability of the state’s
poorest city.  One of the city’s pension plans may run out of money for 56
beneficiaries next month without additional funding or
concessions from current and retired workers, Moody’s said.  Flanders and state revenue officials said they sought $6
million in savings over five years to put the city’s $16 million
annual budget in balance and to begin restoring investor
confidence. The city has about $80 million in unfunded pension
and benefits liabilities, the result of “years of unrealistic
over-promising” by city officials, said Governor Lincoln Chafee.  Workers Bear Brunt  City workers and retirees bear the brunt of the cost-
cutting in the plan presented by Flanders. He said that while
unions have been negotiating “in a very cooperative mode,” he
has “cram down” authority to impose cuts if unions reject them.  “No one whose pension is below $10,000 a year will take any
kind of haircut as a result of these changes,” Flanders said.
The cuts “are not happy numbers but taking these steps now will
prevent even more Draconian changes,” he said.  Union officials and members will need time to study all the
details before they can decide whether to accept the proposals,
said J. Michael Downey, president of Rhode Island Council 94 of
the American Federation State, County and Municipal Employees,
which represents city workers.  “It’s the main position of our members to keep Central
Falls as a thriving community,” Downey said yesterday. “But a
55 percent cut is extremely Draconian.”  Fewer Services  Residents face the loss of a  community center  and some
police and fire services. The city library, which lost its paid
workers in July, already relies on volunteers to keep it open.  State Revenue Director Rosemary Booth Gallogly said she
plans to call Moody’s and other credit-rating companies to
assure them that “the earliest additional tax revenues would be
used to pay for bonds and to show the credit markets that any
kind of haircut was not part of the plan.”  “We don’t want Central Falls to become a contagion that
spreads around the state,” Gallogly said at the briefing
yesterday. “Uncertainty can sweep up and down the credit
markets. We want to show very clearly that our priority is to
pay these obligations.”  The case is In re City of Central Falls, 11-13105, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Rhode Island (Providence).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mashberg in Central Falls at  Mashberg@rcn.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 