-- 
CFTC May Alter Dodd-Frank Speculative Trading Limit CME Opposed

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-09-22T20:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/cftc-may-alter-dodd-frank-speculative-trading-limit-cme-opposed.html
U.S. derivatives regulators may
pull back from a January proposal setting speculation limits
that  CME Group Inc. (CME)  said would reduce spot trading on the
world’s largest futures exchange, according to a person briefed
on the discussions.  The  proposal , issued under the Dodd-Frank Act by the  U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission , aimed to curb speculation
by limiting the portion of the derivatives market controlled by
any one trader.  CME, based in Chicago, objected to the rule’s different
treatment of the physical-delivered derivatives market, which it
dominates, and the cash-settled derivatives market primarily
controlled by its competitor, Atlanta-based
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   As written, the CFTC rule could discourage traders from
holding positions in both kinds of derivatives markets. The
agency may have proposed the regulation on the premise that
cash-settled contracts have a less-direct impact on the price of
the physical commodity.  The January proposal would set limits on derivatives
trading based on the market for an underlying commodity such as
oil. A trader could hold a derivatives position no larger than
125 percent of the size of the estimated deliverable supply of
the commodity, as long as the derivatives were cash-settled only
and the trader controlled no more than 25 percent of the
physical market. The limit wouldn’t be as generous for traders
with positions in both physical-delivered and cash-settled
derivatives.  “The only obvious motivation for conditional limits is
favoritism of the cash-settled market for all physical
commodities,” Kathleen M. Cronin, managing director and general
counsel at CME, said in an Aug. 15 letter to the CFTC.  Narrowing Differences  The agency may change the rule to narrow differences
between the two derivatives markets, according to the person
briefed on the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the rulemaking is private. The final rule may allow
traders to have positions in both cash-settled and physical-
delivered derivatives without reducing their aggregate limits.
The change under consideration would allow all derivatives
traders to have a physical-delivered position equal to 25
percent of the estimated deliverable supply and a cash-settled
position four times that size, the person said.  CME  If physical-delivered futures contracts are held until
expiration, they result in crude oil or gold actually changing
hands. Cash-settled contracts held to expiration are finalized
when the investor either pays or is paid the difference of where
the trade was entered and where it ended.  CME owns the  New York Mercantile Exchange , which offers
futures contracts based on oil, natural gas and metals that can
be physically delivered. The Chicago exchange also offers
physical delivery on bond futures such as 10-year Treasuries.
 Intercontinental Exchange ’s Brent crude oil future is cash-
settled. Most futures traders buy or sell contracts to balance
out their positions prior to expiration so they don’t have to
take delivery of the underlying commodity.  Bart Chilton, a CFTC commissioner, declined to comment on
the internal discussions. “As a policy matter, I believe that
cash-settled futures contracts can be price discovery contracts
and therefore need reasonable limits just as physically-
delivered contracts,” he said in a telephone interview.  The position-limits rule may be considered during an Oct. 4
CFTC meeting. The rule is among the most contentious aspects of
Dodd-Frank, the regulatory-overhaul enacted in July 2010. The
January proposal spurred more than 13,000 letters to the agency
from supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and opponents such
as  Barclays Capital .  CFTC rules will govern trades conduct by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Cargill Inc., among other
companies.  “The rule is still in progress and it’s before the
commissioners and until they vote on it we can’t consider this
final,” said  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  