-- 
Chicago Retiree Tower Is Year’s Largest Muni Default

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-09-23T20:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/chicago-tower-for-retirees-skips-payment-in-year-s-largest-muni-default.html
(Corrects disclosure source in the second paragraph of
story originally published Sept. 22.)  A housing development for retirees
in  Chicago  with about $229 million of long-term debt became the
largest municipal bond default this year when it missed a Sept.
1 payment after occupancy failed to meet expectations.  The Clare at Water Tower, a 53-story apartment building
with Lake Michigan views and near luxury retailers north of
downtown, won’t make further payments until debt-restructuring
talks are done, according to Sept. 20  disclosure statement  by
the Franciscan Sisters of Chicago Service Corp., which developed
the property. The developer said it skipped a September payment.  The default is the largest in the $2.9 trillion municipal-
 bond market  this year, said  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the
Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter in  Miami Lakes ,  Florida .
Including it, this year’s total topped $1 billion, while still
trailing 2010’s $3.6 billion.  “In a typical year, we have about $1 billion of
defaults,” Lehmann said.  The weak economy and a housing-market slump for the past
three years led to “challenges” that kept occupancy rates and
revenue below projections, Judy Amiano, president and chief
executive officer of the Franciscan group, said in a statement.  First Step  “This is the first step in a process of working
collaboratively with our lenders to identify a permanent
solution for the structure of the Clare’s debt,” said Amiano,
whose organization is based in Homewood,  Illinois . The debt was
sold through the Illinois Finance Authority.  The  Clare  bills itself as Chicago’s first and only high-
rise retirement community. The building, on Loyola University’s
Water Tower campus near Chicago’s Magnificent Mile, has 248
apartments in 600,000 square-feet of space and offers common
dining rooms, three chapels and fitness and aquatic centers.  The bonds traded most recently on Sept. 6 at about 35 cents
on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Other
trades in recent months have ranged from 12.625 cents on the
dollar to 38.188 cents on the dollar. The bonds have been held
by BlackRock Advisors LLC, Lord Abbett & Co. and Invesco Ltd.,
according to the data.  The default triggered a mandatory tender for $125 million
of the issuer’s variable-rate debt, the trustee for the
securities, Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said today in a
separate disclosure statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  