-- 
China, Japan Say Europe Must Fix Own Debt Crisis, No ‘Blank Check’ for Aid

-- B y   S h o   C h a n d r a ,   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-23T03:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/china-can-help-europe-world-economy-at-the-margin-pboc-s-yi-gang-says.html
Officials from China and  Japan , the
world’s second- and third-biggest economies, indicated that
their support for Europe will have limits and the region needs
to solve its own debt crisis.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said in  Washington  
yesterday  that while his nation can buy European Financial 
Stability Facility bonds if needed, there is no blank check.  “At the margin we can do quite a bit to help,” Chinese
central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said in a panel discussion
yesterday at the  International Monetary Fund  in the same city.
At the same time, “the real solution of the European sovereign
debt crisis has to be done by Europeans themselves.”  Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged coordinated efforts to 
tackle rising risks as  Greece  teeters on the brink of default 
and stocks plunge around the world. Weak growth, high
unemployment, sovereign stresses and turbulence in financial
markets are “renewed challenges facing the global economy,”
the officials said in a statement released late Sept. 22.   Azumi said that euro-area nations had “said that this is a
euro-area problem, and that the euro-area nations should be the
ones to solve the problem. We don’t reject that view, we
respect it.”   While additional aid is “a possibility” if Europe
succeeds in creating a system for dealing with crises, “it’s
not like we’re going to provide a blank check,” Azumi told
reporters.  Seeking China’s Help  Yi Gang’s remarks came amid investors’ expectations that
 China  may help stabilize the euro region, after  Italy  this month
followed Spain, Portugal and Greece in seeking investment from
the world’s fastest-growing major economy. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , facing calls to widen support for indebted European
countries, signaled this month developed nations should cut
deficits and open markets rather than rely on China to bail out
the world economy.  Also this month, other Chinese officials indicated the
country is prepared to offer assistance.  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice
chairman of China’s top economic planning agency, said the
nation is willing to buy euro bonds from countries involved in
the sovereign debt crisis “within its capacity.”  In the panel discussion yesterday, Yi said his nation’s
involvement could be at the country level or with the European
Union, and could also extend to cooperation with the IMF.  Odds of a Slump  “We’ve consistently invested in  Europe ,” Yi said. “We
will continue to do so.” A unified and prosperous European
economy and a stable euro are “good for the world,” he added.  It is unlikely that the global economy will slide into
another slump, in part because “the whole world is still at a
very low level” of activity, Yi said. “We have a very moderate
recovery” following the financial crisis, which indicates
global growth “won’t decrease too much,” he said.  “The probability of that is still rather limited,” Yi
said, referring to a double-dip recession. With the right
combination of policies, countries can manage the debt crisis
and “we can still have moderate growth” in the global economy,
he said.  One hurdle is that most nations are constrained in
implementing further fiscal and monetary policy measures as they
already used them to recover from the last slump, he said.  “Fiscal capacity is very limited,” and “monetary policy
is already used pretty much to the limit” in terms of  interest
rates , quantitative easing and other tools in developed and
developing nations, Yi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sho Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  