-- 
China Eyes Costa Rica for Refinery, Infrastructure Investments

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/china-eyes-costa-rica-for-refinery-infrastructure-investments.html
China  is interested in building an
oil refinery in Costa Rica and investing in the Central American
nation’s infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, Commerce
Minister Anabel Gonzalez said.  The two nations are currently engaged in investment talks,
Gonzalez said during a dinner in Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla’s honor in  New York  yesterday.  “China is an increasingly important partner,” Gonzalez
said. “We are looking at a number of investments in areas to
improve our competitiveness.”  In June, Chinchilla signed into law a free trade accord
with China that would benefit about 70 percent of Costa Rica’s
exports. Trade between the two nations has grown 14-fold since
2000, reaching $1.3 billion last year, according to the
president’s office.  Costa Rica ’s  central bank  lowered its 2011 growth forecast
to 4.2 percent this month, down from 4.5 percent in July. The
country must tighten its budget to withstand a slowdown in the
U.S. and help Central America’s second-largest economy maintain
at least 4 percent growth, central bank President Rodrigo Bolanos said in a Sept. 14 interview.  Chinchilla has proposed a 14 percent value-added tax that
may raise $1 billion in extra revenue and narrow the deficit to
5 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product. Lawmakers
rejected the proposal earlier this year.  The tax proposals are likely to pass after the Citizen
Action Party, the country’s largest opposition party, announced
this month it would support the legislation if Chinchilla
exempted medicine and basic foods from higher taxes.  Costa Rica had its  credit rating  raised to investment grade
by Moody’s Investors Service last year. Moody’s boosted the
rating to Baa3, the same level as Panama and  Brazil , from Ba1.  The yields on Costa Rica’s 9.995 percent bonds due in 2020
rose 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 4.853 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign direct investment may total $1.9 billion this year
as  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone operator, and America
Movil SAB, Mexico’s largest wireless provider, prepare to enter
the country’s cellular phone market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  