-- 
China’s Stocks May Drop Further on Slowing Growth, UBS Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-22T07:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/china-stocks-may-fall-in-4th-quarter-on-slowing-growth-ubs-says.html
China ’s stocks, which have slumped
to record-low valuations, may extend declines in the fourth
quarter as economic and corporate earnings growth slows and
liquidity remains tight, according to UBS AG.  Fourth-quarter profit may drop 7.7 percent from a year
earlier as companies clear inventories, hurting margins, Chen Li, head of China equity strategy at UBS, wrote in a report
dated yesterday. Earnings growth may slow to 6.8 percent this
year for non-financial companies from the analysts’ current
“consensus” of 22 percent, the report said.  “The slowest earnings growth may appear in the fourth
quarter or the first quarter next year and we estimate earnings
projections will be lowered by a large margin,” Chen wrote in
the report. “The fourth quarter is a critical stage for de-
stocking particularly in the property industry.”  UBS’s outlook is in contrast to Citic Securities Co. and
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., which predicted stocks may
rebound in the quarter as inflation eases and the government
relaxes its tight monetary policies. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index fell 2.8 percent to 2,443.06 at the 3 p.m.
close, a 13 percent slide this year, amid concern slowing global
growth and faster inflation will hurt the economy.  Property sales growth may slow to 15 percent next year and
10 percent in a worst-case scenario as the government extends
restrictions on the number of homes households can buy to
smaller cities, UBS said. Sales rose 24 percent in the first
eight months of the year, according to the statistics bureau.  Valuations  The Shanghai index is valued at 11.2 times estimated
earnings, the lowest on record, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg dating back to January 2006. Earnings for
companies on the measure rose 24 percent in the first half,
slowing from 38 percent in the first quarter, data showed.  Chen, who didn’t give a fourth-quarter target for the
index, recommended food and beverage companies, retail stocks,
telecommunication equipment providers and banks, according to
the report.  Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, said
this week the Shanghai Composite may rise to as high as 2,800 in
the last three months of the year. Shenyin & Wanguo, ranked
China’s most influential research provider by New Fortune
magazine last year, predicted it may climb to as high as 2,700.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  