-- 
Chinese Manufacturing May Contract for Third Month, Preliminary PMI Shows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-22T04:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/china-s-manufacturing-may-contract-for-a-third-month-hsbc-survey-shows.html
China ’s manufacturing may shrink
for a third month in September, the longest contraction since
2009, after a preliminary index of purchasing managers showed
measures of export orders and output declined.  The reading of 49.4 for the index released by HSBC Holdings 
Plc and Markit Economics compares with a final 49.9 for August 
and 49.3 for July. The gauge was below 50, the level that 
separates expansion from contraction, for eight months through 
March 2009, according to previously released figures.  Today’s data adds to evidence the world’s second-biggest
economy is slowing after the central bank raised borrowing costs
and curbed lending to cool inflation. China has joined policy
makers in Asian economies from  South Korea  to  Malaysia  in 
limiting monetary tightening as Europe's debt crisis deepens
and the risk of a renewed U.S. recession increases.  “The index points to continued moderation in manufacturing
growth,” said Chang Jian, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Hong Kong  who formerly worked for the  World Bank . “But the fact
that the number is hovering around 50 should reduce concerns
over a sharp slowdown and which would support the authorities in
keeping their current policy stance largely in place.”  Slowdown Concern  Stocks in China extended their decline after the data were
released. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index was 1.7 percent
lower at 2469.36 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break. The gauge
has slumped 12 percent this year as the government tightened
policies to cool inflation and concern deepened that faltering
growth in developed economies will sap export demand.  HSBC’s preliminary index, known as the Flash PMI, is based
on 85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of
executives in more than 400 companies. The final reading will be
released on Sept. 30.  A gauge of output dropped below 50 in September after
expanding the previous month, orders contracted at the same rate
and a measure of new export orders contracted at a faster pace,
today’s statement showed. Sub-indexes for output prices and
input costs rose at a faster pace compared with August, today’s
report showed, indicating inflationary pressure hasn’t abated.  The preliminary index has matched the final reading twice
since HSBC began publishing the series in February. The index
fell below 50 in July for the first time in a year. The official
manufacturing index released by the statistics bureau and the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing had a reading of
50.9 in August.  Hard-Landing Fears  A final reading below 50 for the third month “implies that
China’s manufacturing sector will see weakening sequential
growth in the coming months,”  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC, said. “Fears of a hard landing are
unwarranted” as the nation is less dependent on overseas sales
than during the last crisis and domestic investment and  consumer
spending  are “resilient,” he said.  In contrast, Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Daiwa Capital Markets Ltd. said he’s “extremely concerned”
about the outlook for the economy. Concerns the economy will
experience a hard landing “are not unwarranted,” he said.  Downside Risks  Economists including Shen Jianguang at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. and Lu Ting at Bank of America Merrill Lynch have said
the HSBC PMI focuses on small and medium-sized companies that
have been affected more than state-owned enterprises in the
government’s tightening campaign.  The official PMI, which surveys more than 800 companies in
20 industries, hasn’t dropped below the 50 line that divides
expansion from contraction since February 2009.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week cut its forecast
for global growth to 4 percent for 2011 from a June estimate of
4.3 percent, and said “downside risks are growing” as  Europe ’s
debt crisis widens. The Washington-based lender also lowered its
estimate for China’s expansion because of monetary tightening
and a weaker outlook for exports.  The IMF now projects the Chinese economy will grow 9.5
percent this year, down from a forecast of 9.6 percent in June,
and 9 percent in 2012.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this month the slowdown is within
the government’s expectations and that stabilizing prices
remains the top economic priority.  Mixed Outlook  A central bank survey last week showed inflation
expectations among households rebounded in the third quarter
even as August consumer-price gains eased to 6.2 percent from a
three-year high in July.  Signs are mixed on the outlook for the economy. While
industrial output growth moderated in August for the second
straight month, exports grew more than expected and imports
climbed to a record, indicating demand is holding up.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining group,
said this week that “a policy-induced hard landing remains
unlikely” and that the long-term outlook for demand from China
is “positive.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  