-- 
China Stocks Fall Most in 6 Weeks on Factory Data, Funding Risks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-22T07:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/china-stock-index-futures-fall-on-federal-reserve-comments-resources-tax.html
China ’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index down by the most in six weeks, as a measure of
manufacturing weakened and Credit Suisse Group AG said funding
may be tightened for property developers.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
nation’s biggest developers, plunged by more than 5 percent
after Credit Suisse said the risk of default by developers is
rising on possible credit tightening and weak sales. Coal
producer China Shenhua Energy Co. slid the most in a month and
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  led declines for  oil companies 
after a preliminary manufacturing index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 49.4.  “Companies’ earnings will slide in the third quarter as
the tight monetary policy curbs economic growth and increases
lending costs,” said Yang Delong, a  fund manager  at China
Southern Fund Management Co., which oversees $21 billion.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 2.8 percent to 2,443.06
at the 3 p.m. local time close. The measure has slumped 13
percent in 2011, extending last year’s 14 percent plunge, as the
government increased measures to cool inflation that’s at the
highest in almost three years. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  dropped 3.1
percent to 2,686.69 today.  Stocks on the Shanghai gauge trade at 11.2 times estimated
profit, matching the lowest level on record set on Sept. 19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, after a
preliminary index of purchasing managers showed measures of
export orders and output declined. The preliminary reading of
49.4 compares with the final reading of 49.9 for August and 49.3
for July. A reading below 50 indicates a contraction.  Slowing Growth  The pace of the nation’s economic growth will see a
“noticeable” decline in 2011 to 2015 compared with the
previous 10 years,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of
China, said in an interview with Internet portal  netease.com. (NTES)  It
would be unrealistic to expect growth of above 9 percent in the
next three years although expansion may be above 8 percent, he
said.  A gauge tracking energy producers in the CSI 300 Index slid
3.2 percent. China Shenhua, the biggest coal producer in the
country, retreated 3.4 percent to 25.68. China Petroleum &
Chemical, or known as Sinopec, dropped 2.6 percent to 7.03 yuan.
PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest oil producer, fell 1.7
percent to 9.60 yuan.  China will levy a tax on resources based on their value and
volume, according to a statement on the government’s  website ,
citing a decision from a State Council meeting presided over by
Premier  Wen Jiabao . The country currently imposes resource taxes
on producers of oil and gas as well as coal mining companies
based on volume.  Profits Cut  China will set a benchmark rate of 5 percent that will vary
across commodities,  Du Ying , vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, the top economic planner,
said July 2010. The tax increase will cut profits of oil
explorers including PetroChina, Sinopec and coal miners
including China Shenhua and China Coal Energy Co.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index sank 4.2
percent, the lowest close since March 2009. Poly Real Estate,
China’s second-biggest developer, retreated 6.9 percent to 9.65
yuan. China Vanke Co., the largest developer, slid 5.2 percent
to 7.46 yuan.  A Reuters report that the China Banking Regulatory
Commission ordered  trust companies  to inform the regulator of
business dealings with Greentown China Holdings Ltd. may be a
sign that China is trying to restrict financing sources for
developers, Credit Suisse analyst Jinsong Du wrote in a report
today. Greentown’s shares are traded in  Hong Kong .  Financing Concerns  “If the Greentown news was true, investors are worried
that the regulator will further tighten developers’ financing
through trust funds,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst of CIMB-GK Securities Research. “Financing
through trusts accounts for quite a big pie of developers’ total
financing, especially for those non-listed small and mid-sized
developers.”  Greentown said in a statement to the Hong Kong exchange it
hasn’t received a notice from the banking regulator and there is
no investigation into the group. Tiffany Cheung, a Hong Kong-
based head of  investor relations  at the company, didn’t respond
to three messages left on her office voicemail, while two phone
calls to the CBRC’s news department weren’t answered.  China’s stocks may drop in the fourth quarter as economic
and corporate earnings growth slows and liquidity remains tight,
according to UBS AG.  Fourth-quarter profit may drop 7.7 percent from a year
earlier as companies clear inventories, hurting margins, Chen
Li, head of China equity strategy at UBS, wrote in a report
dated yesterday. Earnings growth may slow to 6.8 percent this
year for non-financial companies from the analysts’ current
“consensus” of 22 percent, the report said.  ’Operation Twist’  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 3.6 percent on concern the
 Federal Reserve ’s plan to buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June, replacing shorter
dated debt, will curb profit margins for global banks. The plan,
dubbed “Operation Twist” after a similar program in 1961, will
probably fail to lower the 9.1 percent unemployment rate,
according to 61 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the announcement.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
fell 5.3 percent to 29.07 yuan.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. (000878)  lost
4.4 percent to 18.41 yuan.  The three-month copper contract on the London Metal
Exchange fell as much as 3.1 percent to $8,039.75 per metric ton
to the lowest price since Nov. 17.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  