-- 
Christofias Says Turkey’s Moves on Cyprus Oil Risk New Conflict

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-22T17:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/christofias-says-turkey-s-moves-on-cyprus-oil-risk-new-conflict.html
Cypriot President Demetris Christofias said  Turkey ’s moves to extract oil and gas from
waters off the divided Mediterranean Sea island are illegal
provocations that risk a renewal of hostilities.  “Turkish naval maneuvers in the region of Cyprus’s
Exclusive Economic Zone, where exploration is being carried out,
are provocative and a real danger for further complications in
the region,” Christofias said in a speech today to the  United
Nations  General Assembly.  “I wish, from this esteemed podium, to condemn this
illegal act which constitutes a provocation, not only for the
Republic of Cyprus but also for the entire international
community,” Christofias said. “Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot
leadership are trying to create tension and new illegal faits-
accomplis.”  Turkey, which invaded Cyprus in 1974 and is the only
country to recognize the Turkish Cypriot north as an independent
nation, disputes Cyprus’s right to explore for hydrocarbons in
its Exclusive Economic Zone and has sent warships to the area.  Reunification talks resumed in 2008 after Greek Cypriots,
who run the internationally recognized Republic of Cyprus in the
south, rejected a UN-sponsored settlement plan.  A Turkish vessel will sail tomorrow to begin seismic
exploration for oil and gas in waters of the Mediterranean north
of Cyprus, Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said today.  Also today, in a statement released by his government’s
press office, Christofias gave a “guarantee” that Turkish
Cypriots will benefit from offshore discoveries before the
island is unified. The continental-shelf agreement announced
yesterday by Turkey and northern Cyprus is “unacceptable,”
Christofias said in the statement.  Christofias also told the General Assembly that the
unification talks have been set back by what he described as
Turkish Cypriot “retracting on the negotiation table, including
from previously found convergences.” The change in the Turkish
Cypriot position, he said, “feeds on recent negative and
provocative policy of Turkey in the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  