-- 
Chronic Fatigue Not Tied to Mouse Virus in Repudiation of Earlier Findings

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-09-22T18:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/chronic-fatigue-not-tied-to-mouse-virus-in-repudiation-of-earlier-findings.html
Nine U.S. laboratories were unable
to confirm early reports that chronic fatigue syndrome stems
from infection with a newly discovered mouse virus, including
researchers at the facilities that first raised the possibility.  The authors of the first study in 2009 linking the virus
known as XMRV to chronic fatigue syndrome also retracted a
portion of the findings, saying DNA samples they received were
contaminated before they reached the laboratory. The study and
the partial retraction were released today online in a
publication of the journal  Science .  The results add to evidence that chronic fatigue isn’t
caused by XMRV or related viruses and show the nation’s blood
supply shouldn’t be routinely tested for them, the researchers
said. Newly designed laboratory tests for novel viruses should
be thoroughly evaluated before they are widely used, said senior
author  Michael Busch  from the Blood Systems Research Institute
and the University of  California ,  San Francisco .  “There is no question several of the lab tests represented
in the study are flawed,” Busch said in a telephone interview.
“They are calling positive results somewhat randomly in
patients and healthy donors.”  Researchers took blood from 15 people who previously tested
positive for XMRV or a related virus known as P-MLV, including
14 with chronic fatigue syndrome. Blood was taken from another
15 people with no signs of either virus. The samples were
divided into numerous vials and sent to laboratories including
those run by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the  Food and Drug Administration , the Whittemore
Peterson Institute, Abbott Laboratories and Gen-Probe Inc.  Negative Findings  Seven of the laboratories were unable to detect any sign of
the viruses. The two laboratories that generated positive
results found the virus in samples taken from patients with
previous signs of infection and no previous signs of infection.
In several cases, they found the virus in one sample of blood
taken from a donor and not in a separate sample taken from the
same person.  The study was funded by the  U.S. Department of Health  and
Human Services. Another study testing blood taken from 150
people with chronic fatigue and 150 without the condition is
under way. Those results are expected by the end of the year.  The original study led the American Red Cross, the largest
U.S. supplier of blood products, in December 2010 to ban blood
donations from sufferers of the disease.  ‘No Threat’  “The results of this study, along with other recent
findings, reassure us that these viruses do not pose a threat to
the safety of the nation’s blood supply,” said Susan B. Shurin,
acting director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
“These data add to the mounting evidence that there is no need
to screen blood donors for them at the present time.”  More than 1 million people in the U.S. have chronic fatigue
syndrome, more than those with multiple sclerosis, lupus, or
 lung cancer , according to the Atlanta-based CDC. The condition,
which saps people of energy for months or years, has no proven
cause and mostly affects women ages 30 to 50, according to the
 National Institutes of Health . Women are four times more likely
than men to develop the disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 