-- 
Coal India to Use $9.2 billion Cash to Increase Output, Dividend

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-09-22T18:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/coal-india-to-use-9-2-billion-cash-to-increase-output-dividend.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s
biggest producer of the fuel, plans to use its $9.2 billion of
cash to increase output and pay more dividend as investors
clamor for higher returns.  The state-run company will spend 370 billion rupees ($7.5
billion) in the five years starting April 1, 2012, to raise
annual production by 250 million metric tons, or more than half
of its capacity, Chairman Nirmal Chandra Jha said in an
interview. Dividend this year may be higher than the 3.90 rupees
a share it paid in the year ended March 31, he said.  “While keeping the money in the bank helps our biggest
shareholder, the government, minority shareholders are
deprived,” Jha, 60, said in  New Delhi  yesterday. “We also need
to expand to better use the cash we generate.”  Kolkata-based Coal  India , owned 90 percent by the
government, is seeking assets overseas as environmental hurdles
and red tape prevent it from starting new mines and expanding
existing ones. The Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP,
Coal India’s second-largest shareholder, wants it to shun
acquisitions and spend its record 450 billion rupees cash to
boost returns by developing reserves at home.  Coal India fell 2.4 percent to 375.35 rupees yesterday in
Mumbai. The stock has gained 53 percent since its Nov. 4 debut,
compared with a 20 percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive
Index in the same period.  Mozambique ,  Indonesia   Coal India is planning to develop two mines in Mozambique
and is considering a venture to develop a mine in Indonesia, Jha
said, without giving details.  “When domestic projects are not proceeding as fast as we
would like, we have to go for imports or stakes in overseas
mines,” Jha said.  The company should focus on increasing domestic production,
instead of seeking overseas acquisitions, Coal Minister
Sriprakash Jaiswal said. Demand for coal in India is increasing
at more than the world average, he said, without elaborating.  “I’d promote domestic expansion,” he had said in an
interview on Sept. 21. “I’m not fond of Coal India making
overseas acquisitions or importing coal.”  India’s coal production has trailed demand from utilities,
 steel mills  and cement makers in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing
major economy. Output in the year ending March 31 is expected to
reach 559 million tons, falling short of demand by 137 million
tons, Jaiswal said on Sept. 5.  Forest Coal  A group of ministers on Sept. 20 agreed to allow companies
to seek approval to mine coal in some dense forest areas,
overturning a 2009 ban imposed by the environment ministry, two
government officials said Sept. 20. The coal ministry wants more
areas opened for mining coal, used to fire more than half of
India’s power-generation capacity.  The ban on mining in forest areas has held up production of
660 million metric tons of coal a year from 203 blocks, which is
enough to generate 130,000 megawatts of power, according to
government estimates. About 400 million tons of  Coal India ’s
reserves lie beneath dense jungles.  India has abundant reserves and returns on investment in
the country are higher than elsewhere, Oscar Veldhuijzen, a
partner at The Children’s Investment Fund, said in an Aug. 25
interview.  Coal India produced 431.3 million tons in the year ended
March 31, accounting for 81 percent of the nation’s output,
according to its annual report. The company may also invest
about 270 billion rupees to upgrade equipment to help reduce the
time taken to load the fuel on to railways wagons by 20 percent,
Jha said.  “Railways have limited tracks and wagons, so it’s critical
to bring down the turnaround time,” Jha said. “The mechanized
system can help us reduce loading time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  