-- 
College Athletes Shouldn’t Get Salary for Playing, Seton Hall Survey Finds

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/college-athletes-shouldn-t-get-salary-for-playing-seton-hall-survey-finds.html
Almost two-thirds of people polled
by  Seton Hall University  said student-athletes shouldn’t be paid
a salary to participate in intercollegiate sports.  The finding comes a month after the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  said it’s investigating the  University of
Miami  athletic department over possible payments to at least 72
athletes from 2002 through 2010. Ohio State is awaiting the
NCAA’s decision on the suspensions of five football players for
selling memorabilia to the owner of a tattoo parlor.  “I thought with all of the hoopla surrounding the
suspensions of the kids at Ohio State and Miami and others,
there would be a little bit of a shift,” poll director  Rick Gentile  said yesterday in a phone interview. “But that’s been a
consistent thing. People do not think student-athletes should be
paid.”  Sixty-five percent of respondents were against paying
student-athletes, while 27 percent were in favor, with 8 percent
saying they didn’t know.  “The public is not buying the idea of paying them,”
Gentile said. “They think they’re getting scholarships and a
free education.”  Thirty percent of respondents said they favor adding a
wild-card team in each league in the Major League Baseball
playoffs, while 45 percent were against such a move.  Sixty percent said baseball should have an instant replay
system similar to the one already used by the  National Football
League , while 23 percent were opposed.  “People are satisfied that the NFL gets it right and
there’s too many times that they watch a baseball game and the
umpires get it wrong,” Gentile said.  The survey of 959 randomly dialed people across the U.S.
had a margin of error of 3 percent and was conducted by The
Sharkey Institute at South Orange, New Jersey-based Seton Hall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  