-- 
Columbia Toughens Faculty Conflict Rules

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/columbia-toughens-conflict-rules-after-inside-job-revelations.html
Columbia University  plans to
release next week more stringent disclosure rules for faculty
who advise  Wall Street  and other industries that include posting
outside professional activities online.  Professors who teach undergraduates will also need to
inform deans about their time commitments outside the
university, Michael Riordan, chairman of the economics
department, said this week. The university’s law and business
schools ratified similar guidelines in April and May.  Ties between the financial world and academia have been
scrutinized since the release of “Inside Job,” a film that won
the Academy Award for best documentary in February. Columbia
Business School Dean Glenn Hubbard and finance professor
Frederic Mishkin were portrayed offering their expertise without
revealing they were paid by interested parties. While Columbia
adopted universitywide ethics policies in 2009, professors said
the movie spurred them to look at how they could be sharpened.  “ ’Inside Job’  has brought the subject to the fore,’’
Riordan said in an interview. “I don’t think it uncovered a
serious problem in the profession but to the extent it has
prompted a debate and caused people to think more carefully,
that’s all for the good.”  $124,000 From Iceland  The policy and planning committee of the  Faculty of Arts &
Sciences , the professors who teach courses in subjects such as
economics, history and biology, approved a draft of the new
rules Sept. 20, said Riordan, who headed a subcommittee that
wrote the guidelines. They were sent to Nicholas Dirks, the
executive vice president for arts and sciences, who may enact
the rules next week, Riordan said.  The film asserts that Columbia professor Mishkin wrote a
positive paper about Iceland’s economy in 2006 after receiving
$124,000 from that country’s chamber of commerce. Mishkin didn’t
disclose the payment in the paper, according to the film. In
2008, Iceland’s banking industry collapsed, defaulting on $85
billion and sending its currency down 80 percent against the
euro.  Under the 2009 universitywide rules, Mishkin would have had
to reveal the financial connection in the paper, said Gita
Johar, senior vice dean at the business school. The new business
school rules would also require him to post them in his online
resume.  Mishkin didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Policy Reviews  Some professors at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , and  Harvard Business School  were also criticized
in “Inside Job.” Harvard adopted a universitywide policy in
2010 and all its individual schools will draft specific
guidelines for their professors by the end of the 2011-2012
academic year, said B.D. Colen, a Harvard spokesman.  Columbia’s faculty committee looked at standards set by
other colleges including Cambridge-based  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology , Riordan said.  The Columbia Business School rules, approved by the faculty
in May, also require professors to list outside activities on
their online resumes and to notify the dean’s office about them
and how much time they require. Professors must also adhere to
2009 guidelines that require them to disclose in publications if
they have financial ties that relate to their research.  While the business school’s rules weren’t motivated solely
by the film, it made their adoption more urgent, Johar said.  ‘Classroom Conversations’  “The financial crisis and ‘Inside Job’ were definitely in
the background and made the issue more salient,” Johar said.
“The school has been trying to address these issues since 2009,
long before ‘Inside Job’ came up in classroom conversations with
students.”  Columbia Law School  adopted rules in April prompted by
“Inside Job,” said  Harvey Goldschmid , a law professor and
former member of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
who co-chaired the committee that drafted the policy.  “Inside Job and other things have spurred that type of
sensitivity to financial disclosure,” Goldschmid said. “It’s
just good sense to respond. There is generally a greater
distrust of institutions, including academic, in society.
Certainly the movie did spur some reactions and I think they are
healthy.”  “Inside Job” also depicted Hubbard, the Columbia business
dean and former White House economic adviser under  George W. Bush , getting angry when asked about his consulting clients. The
film noted that he was paid $250,000 annually to serve on the
board of  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and consulted for other financial firms.
It also described a 2004 paper Hubbard co-wrote with  William Dudley , then the chief economist for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
praising  credit derivatives .  Income Sources  In an e-mailed statement, Hubbard said he has always
disclosed his outside activities and sources of income.  Posting outside interests online allows the public to make
their own judgments about professors’ biases, Johar said.  “If faculty are quoted in the press or when you are
interviewed, it’s about your research, but all those disclaimers
and disclosures aren’t part of their public press presence,”
Johar said.  Columbia’s policies also need to require professors to
mention if they have a financial connection when testifying
before Congress or governmental agencies, said  Charles Ferguson ,
the director of “Inside Job.”  “Very full disclosure should be required and the new
policies don’t go far enough,” Ferguson said in a phone
interview. “But they are a step forward.”  Riordan said that such connections would have to be
disclosed in any written testimony submitted to Congress.  Ferguson said professors should also disclose how much they
are paid by outside sources. In some cases -- such as being paid
to testify before Congress -- outside compensation should be
banned, he said.  The business school considered and rejected requiring
faculty to inform the dean about how much they received from
outside sources, Johar said.  “It’s pretty intrusive,” Johar said. “There’s a limit to
what you can require without getting into privacy issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  