-- 
Constancio Says Sustained ECB Bond Buying Would Delay Needed Fiscal Remedy

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 
2011-09-22T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/constancio-says-sustained-ecb-bond-buying-would-delay-fiscal-fix.html
European Central Bank Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said sustained bond purchases by the
central bank would only delay the fiscal adjustments that euro-
area governments need to make.  “The secondary market purchases are not, and cannot be
used to circumvent the principle of budgetary discipline as a
pillar of Economic and Monetary Union,” Constancio said at an
event in Frankfurt last night, according to a text of his speech
published by the ECB. “Sustained buying of government paper by
the central bank would only postpone problems and delay the
necessary fiscal adjustments, ultimately resulting in a build-up
of inflationary pressures.”  The comments underscore the ECB’s reluctance to continue
buying the bonds of distressed euro-area governments to contain
a sovereign debt crisis that’s now threatening to engulf Italy
and  Spain . It was forced to re-start the purchases last month
after governments failed to convince investors they can solve
the crisis which, according to a research paper published by the
ECB yesterday, is putting the survival of the euro at risk. ECB
Executive Board member  Juergen Stark , a co-author of that paper,
resigned this month to protest the bond purchases.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the ECB must continue to provide “solid, reliable”
funding for euro-area banks and economies as parliaments in the
region pass measures into law to fight the region’s debt crisis.  The ECB “plays and can play and I hope will continue to
play a critical role,” Lagarde said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Tom Keene  yesterday.  ‘Potentially Damaging’  Constancio said an intensification of turbulence in
financial markets “is leading to very high  interest rates  in
some countries, to potentially damaging volatility, and to very
low trading volumes in some government bond markets that at
times cease to function appropriately.”  He said the tensions are “in some respects” more broad-
based than those seen in May last year, when  Greece ’s fiscal
meltdown prompted the ECB to enter bond markets for the first
time. “It is clear that sovereign debt challenges in individual
euro-area countries -- no matter their size -- can undermine the
stability of the euro area as a whole,” Constancio said.  The ECB argues that its bond purchases are aimed solely at
ensuring the transmission of its monetary policy. Stark has said
they also blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy by
reducing borrowing costs for governments with big debts.  Relative Size  Constancio said the relative size of the ECB’s bond-
purchase program makes it “easier to implement.” The ECB’s
purchases amount to “just 1.6 percent” of euro-area gross
domestic product, against 13.7 percent of GDP for the  Bank of
England  and the 11.4 percent for the  Federal Reserve , he said.  “The ECB continues to comply strictly to its mandate to
ensure  price stability  and does not allow inflation to increase
as a way of easing the burden of the debt,” Constancio said.  He said a full and timely implementation of the measures
agreed upon by heads of state at a July 21 summit is “crucial”
to combat the crisis.  The ECB has also stepped up its provision of liquidity to
euro-area banks to prevent a credit crunch as institutions
become more wary of lending to each other.  “The total value of marketable securities already
presented and approved for Eurosystem credit operations amounts
to 1.7 trillion euros and our counterparties have at their
disposal almost 4 trillion euros out of the overall total of
existing eligible securities of about 14 trillion euros,”
Constancio said. “This confirms that there is no liquidity or
collateral shortage for the euro-area banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in  Frankfurt  at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  