-- 
Corn Futures Drop Most in Year, Soybeans Slump as Crop-Demand Outlook Dims

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T19:54:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/corn-soybeans-plunge-as-dimming-economic-outlook-curbs-demand.html
Corn fell the most in almost a year
and soybeans dropped to a six-month low on mounting concern that
a slumping economy will curb demand for crops used in food,
livestock feed and biofuel.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities plunged
as much as 5.2 percent, led by silver, copper and crude oil. The
dollar rose to a seven-month high against a basket of six
currencies, eroding the appeal of commodities, after the  Federal
Reserve  said yesterday that the  U.S. economy  faces “significant
downside risks.” Corn exports fell 49 percent in the week ended
Sept. 15, the government said today.  “The Fed action pushed the dollar higher and commodities
lower on increasing fears that the U.S. economy will slow global
growth,”  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst for Northstar
Commodity Investment Co. in  Minneapolis , said in a telephone
interview. “The perception is the Fed is running out of policy
measures to revive the economy.”  Corn futures for December delivery fell 35.75 cents, or 5.2
percent, to close at $6.50 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade, the biggest drop since Oct. 1. Earlier, the
price touched $6.475, the lowest since July 12. Prices have
fallen more than 15 percent since Aug. 31 on slowing demand for
shrinking U.S. production.  Soybean futures for November delivery dropped 37.5 cents,
or 2.8 percent, to $12.83 a bushel, the eighth decline in nine
sessions. Earlier, the price touched $12.81, the lowest since
March 15. The oilseed has dropped 12 percent this month as the
rising dollar increased demand for cheaper supplies from Brazil
and Argentina, the largest exporters after the U.S.  Speculator Holdings  Hedge funds  and large commodity traders may have sold
25,000 contracts of corn and 8,000 contracts of soybeans today,
according to  Charlie Sernatinger , a vice president for ABN Amro
Clearing LLC in Chicago.  Hedge-fund managers reduced their bets on higher corn
prices by 10 percent in the week ended Sept. 13, from a week
earlier, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. Net-long positions in soybeans fell 8.9 percent, the
second straight drop, the agency said in a report.  “We still have plenty of spec longs that are unhappy and
getting margin calls, and with the end of the quarter coming up,
for many of them, enough was enough,” Sernatinger said today in
a note to clients. “Look for more blood in the water before
this is done.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 