-- 
German, French Bond Risk Climb to Records on Economic Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-09-22T16:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/corporate-bond-risk-surges-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring sovereign
bonds jumped across  Europe  with credit-default swaps on  France 
and  Germany  surging to records as the global economy slows.  Contracts on Germany rose 13 basis points to 109, swaps on
France jumped 16 to 205 basis points and  Belgium ,  Italy  and
 Spain  also reached records, according to CMA prices at 5 p.m. in
London. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of debt
swaps on 15 governments climbed eight basis points to an all-
time high of 362 based on closing prices.  Federal Reserve policy makers talked down the prospects for
economic growth yesterday as they sought to revive the faltering
recovery in a move known as “Operation Twist.” In Europe,
manufacturing output contracted for the first time in more than
two years, according to data from London-based Markit Economics,
adding to concerns the economy could slide back into recession.  “The market decided to react to a worsening economic
climate instead of the announcement of Twist itself,” said
Jeroen Van Den Broek, a strategist at ING Groep NV in  London .
“The whole sovereign crisis has a huge effect and is starting
to take wider scope.”  Credit-default swaps on Germany have almost tripled from 39
basis points in July, while France is up from 80, CMA prices
show. Contracts on Belgium surged 26 basis points today to 304,
while Italy rose 14 to 536 and contracts on Spain climbed 7
basis points to 437, according to CMA. Swaps on Ireland
increased 14 basis points to 817 and  Portugal  rose 46 to 1,184.  Bank Downgrades  Ratings downgrades of banks in Italy and the U.S. also
soured investor sentiment.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Mediobanca SpA and two other Italian
banks had their credit ratings cut by  Standard & Poor’s  after
the company downgraded Italy on Sept. 20 for the first time in
five years. The government’s rating was lowered by one level to
A with a negative outlook on concern that weakening growth and a
“fragile” government mean the nation will struggle to reduce
the euro-region’s second-largest debt burden.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co .
had their credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday.  Noting “strains in global financial markets,” the Fed
said it will boost the maturities of the bonds it holds by
buying $400 billion of long-term debt and selling a similar
amount of short-term notes.  “Sure, they used very negative language but what do you
expect them to say to justify a $400 billion package?” said
 Gary Jenkins , head of credit at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. “In and of itself the move is neutral to slightly
supportive, but you have to use negative language.”  Corporate Risk  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps on 50 companies
with mostly high-yield credit ratings rose for a fourth day,
climbing 41.5 basis points to 846.5, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. That’s the highest since April 2009 and the biggest daily
increase since Sept. 9, when the previous series of the index
increased 59 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings climbed 12.5 basis points to 199.5,
near the highest since March 2009.  Bank bond risk also soared, with the Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of swaps on the senior debt of 25 lenders and
insurers rising as much as 29 basis points a record 318, before
paring the advance to 302. The subordinated-note gauge increased
as much as 53 basis points to an all-time high of 555, before
trading at 540.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.5 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  