-- 
Dairy Prices May Recover in 2012 on Demand, Fonterra Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T04:56:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/dairy-prices-may-recover-in-2012-on-demand-fonterra-says-1-.html
Global dairy prices may recover
early next year on steady demand from  Asia  and a seasonal
tightening of supply, according to Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd., the world’s largest exporter.  “We called the fall, it has fallen,” Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Ferrier said on a conference call today. “We
expect the market to recover in the second half of our fiscal
year and early calendar 2012.” Fonterra, based in Auckland,
accounts for about 40 percent of the global dairy trade.  Fonterra said in March prices were at the “high end of the
cycle” after whole-milk powder reached a record. Since then,
prices have slumped 34 percent as farmers in the U.S. and New
Zealand boosted output. Lower dairy costs contributed to fall in
world  food costs  in August, according to a United Nations index.  “Asia and the  Middle East  is becoming more and more
important to Fonterra,” Chairman Henry van der Heyden told a
briefing after Fonterra reported record full-year export volumes.
“We’re becoming less reliant on the parts of the world that are
actually struggling, whether it’s Western  Europe  or the U.S.”  Whole-milk  powder  rose for the first time in three auctions
this week, rebounding from a 13-month low. Powder for November
delivery climbed to $3,289 per metric ton from $3,235 two weeks
earlier. The price peaked at $4,958 in March.  Global Selloff  Stocks and commodities including farm products slumped
today after the U.S. Federal Reserve said that the world’s
largest economy faces “significant downside risks,” boosting
investor concern that the global recovery is faltering.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
2011 global economic growth this week, predicting  “severe”
fallout if Europe fails to contain its debt crisis. The
economies of the Middle East and North Africa may expand
more than initially forecast, according to the  World Bank .  “The  food industry  is more resilient than many other
industries in tough economic times,” Ferrier said. “We’d
likely get some hit probably in the profitability of the
business, but we would not expect a major fundamental shock to
the dairy complex and to global dairy prices.”  Fonterra reported profit of NZ$754 million ($601 million)
for the year to July 31, from NZ$669 million a year earlier,
according to a statement today. Sales in Asia,  Africa  and the
Middle East rose 9.8 percent to NZ$1.7 billion, it said.
Fonterra sells products in more than 100 countries.  Export Volumes  The company collected a record 1,346 million kilograms of
milk solids in the season ended May 31, 5 percent higher than a
year earlier, according to a separate statement. Dairy exports
totaled 2.1 million tons, an all-time high, it said.  “Agriculture is really starting to deliver for New Zealand
and dairy plays a very big part,” Chairman van der Heyden said
in the briefing. “We need good, positive things as far as this
economy is concerned.”  New Zealand’s  gross domestic product  rose 0.1 percent in
the three months through June from the previous quarter, less
than all but one of 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey, a
Statistics  New Zealand  report showed today in Wellington. The
median estimate was for a 0.5 percent gain.  Fonterra will pay its more than 10,500 farmer shareholders
NZ$7.60 per kilogram of milk solids for the season ended May 31,
the cooperative said. That compares with an earlier forecast of
NZ$7.50. The company  maintained  its payout forecast for 2012 at
NZ$6.75 per kilogram of solids, citing lower commodity prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  