-- 
Daniels and Christie Urge Harder Line by Republican Hopefuls

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-22T17:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/daniels-and-christie-urge-on-republican-presidential-hopefuls.html
Governors  Chris Christie  of  New
Jersey  and  Mitch Daniels  of  Indiana , who have said they won’t
seek the  Republican Party ’s presidential nomination in 2012,
said current candidates should take a harder line addressing 
federal indebtness and entitlement spending.  The political climate in  Washington  “isn’t too pretty,”
and Republicans seeking to oust President Barack Obama should
focus on containing the federal debt, Daniels, a Republican,
said at an appearance with Christie at  Rider University  in
Lawrenceville, New Jersey.  “The president is in really bad shape and he’s going to
have a difficult time getting re-elected,” Daniels said. “That
could lead to whoever does get the nomination on our side
playing it safe.”  Both governors have ruled themselves out of the 2012 race
yet they are keeping themselves in the public eye. Daniels, 62,
a two-term governor who was a budget director for President
 George W. Bush , released a book this week entitled “Keeping the
Republic: Saving America by Trusting Americans.” Christie, 49,
is the subject of an outside group’s $1.5 million television  ad
campaign  touting his 20 months in office.  Christie said today that Republican presidential hopefuls
are “dancing around” the issues.  “We’re not talking about, on our side or any of the folks,
these things in a forthright way,” Christie said, referring to
issues including federal debt and entitlement spending.
“They’re dancing around on other stuff and just trying to get
four or five sound bites.”  Entitlement Spending  Both men have said Washington needs to address entitlement
spending such as Medicare and Social Security.  “What I’m waiting for is to see who is willing to engage
most directly with the issue that threatens this nation so
lethally right now, and that’s the debt problem,” Daniels said
in July. “If one of them steps up forthrightly and honestly and
shows some gumption on that, that’ll really catch my eye.”  Christie has said repeatedly he won’t run for the
presidency, even though he told the National Review in March:
“I already know I can win” the Republican nomination.  He said today that those asking him to run aren’t the ones
who will “wake up alone at 5 a.m. in a Des Moines hotel room
when it’s 15 below and you have to go greet voters at a meat-
packing plant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  