-- 
Danske Bank May Cut 1,500 Danish Jobs Through Attrition

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-22T09:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/danske-bank-may-cut-1-500-danish-jobs-through-attrition.html
Danske Bank A/S may cut more jobs
and lift prices as  Denmark ’s biggest lender faces a weak
domestic economy, a local banking crisis and low interest rates,
said Tonny Thierry Andersen, the head of the Danish retail unit.  Danske, the worst performer of the Nordic region’s six
biggest lenders, could cut as many as 1,500 jobs through
attrition as 25 percent of its Danish retail banking staff
retires in the next seven years, Chief Executive Officer
Andersen said.  That would leave “space to manage the cost issue,”
Andersen, 47, said in an interview in Copenhagen after speaking
at the  Danish Board Institute . “It may be necessary in the
future, I will not rule out that option.”  International investors have avoided Danish banks after two
regional lenders collapsed this year, triggering senior creditor
losses under the country’s bail-in resolution laws. Denmark’s
smallest banks have lost access to international funding, while
Danske and the country’s other biggest banks, which the Danish
financial regulator has said are not at risk, are paying a
premium.  Danske Bank shares slumped as much as 4.9 percent and were
trading 4 percent lower at 66.30 kroner as of 11:16 a.m. in
Copenhagen.  Nordic Cuts  Danske, which also has units in Ireland,  Sweden ,  Norway  and
 Finland , has cut 2,000 jobs at the group level in the last two
years. Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
biggest lender, last month said it will cut 2,000 jobs,
including as many as 600 in Denmark, to boost profits.  Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-biggest lender, said today
it will cut 250 jobs and close branches to save 400 million
kroner ($72.8 million) annually by 2013. Spar Nord Bank A/S,
Denmark’s fourth-largest listed lender, will cut 50 jobs by the
end of the year, Chief Executive Officer Lasse Nyby said in a
phone interview today.  Danske has a 30 percent market share in Denmark, and its
Danish retail unit employs 6,000 of the bank’s 21,500 staff. The
division has a 950 billion-krone balance sheet and reported a
1.11 billion-krone profit before tax in the second quarter.  In a “normal environment” with short-term  interest rates 
at about 3 percent, the unit’s profit before tax should be at
least twice as high, Andersen said. The bank yesterday raised
its lending rate by as much as half a percentage point. Jyske
Bank said today it will also raise lending rates by the same
amount.  Higher Margins  Denmark’s central bank, whose sole mandate is to peg the
krone to the euro, has lowered its interest rate on certificates
of deposit twice in the past month to weaken the Danish
currency. The CD rate is now at 1 percent, compared with an
average of 3.99 percent over last 20 years. The benchmark
lending rate is at 1.55 percent, compared with an average of
4.03 percent over the past two decades.  “There’s a much bigger chance clients will have to pay
higher margins,” Andersen said. “Otherwise the banks will
become anemic and won’t lend enough to underpin economic
growth.”  Denmark is Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy after a
burst housing bubble choked  consumer spending . Gross domestic
product will expand 1.4 percent this year, the central bank said
this week. Sweden’s economy will surge 4.5 percent and Norway’s
mainland output will grow 3 percent, according to the countries’
central banks. The economies of Denmark and the euro area will
be subdued for “three to five years,” Andersen said.  Economic Impact  Shares in Danske have slumped 50 percent this year. Oslo-
based  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR)  has lost 30 percent in the same period, while
Nordea’s stock retreated 29 percent. Stockholm-based lenders SEB
AB,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  have lost 39
percent, 25 percent and 24 percent respectively this year.  Danske’s funding costs have risen 60 basis points in the
past two months as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened, adding to the
fallout of Denmark’s local banking crisis, Andersen said. Danske
and other big Nordic banks have been able to tap funding markets
amid the debt crisis because of their “good names,” he said.  Money markets “need only get a bit worse before it will
have a material impact on the real economy,” Andersen said.  “The worst that can happen is if  Greece  is not handled
properly,” he said. “We will be hit by a domino effect if
Greek banks fall from the impact on German and French banks and
those economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  