-- 
Default Risk Rises on U.S. Banks After Fed’s Warning on Economy

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-22T21:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/default-risk-rises-on-u-s-banks-after-fed-s-warning-on-economy.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk climbed for a third day on concern that the U.S. may enter
a recession after the  Federal Reserve  signaled “significant
downside risks” in the economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 3.5 basis points to a
mid-price of 145 basis points as of 5 p.m. in New York,
according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. Credit default swaps
on U.S. banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan Stanley
surged.  The credit swaps index, which rolled to a new series on
Sept. 20, has climbed since the Fed said yesterday that it saw
“significant downside risks” in the economy. Moody’s Investors
Service cut its long-term credit ratings on Bank of America and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , saying U.S. support has become less likely if
lenders get into financial trouble. Moody’s also downgraded
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s short-term debt.  “It’s more of this poor confidence in the banks,” said
Anthony Valeri, a market strategist with LPL Financial Corp. in
 San Diego , which oversees $330 billion. “It’s the one-two combo
from yesterday of downgrades from Moody’s and also the Fed
downgrading their assessment of the economy.”  Fed Actions  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, is up from an
87.8 basis point low in the prior series on April 29, Markit
data show. Credit-default swaps on Charlotte-based Bank of
America added 26.4 basis points to 400 basis points, the highest
closing level since March 20, 2009, according to data provider
CMA. Contracts on New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  jumped 49.4
basis points to 404.9, also the highest level since March 2009.  The Fed said that it will sell $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries to buy longer-dated ones as a way to reduce long-term
borrowing costs. The central bank is trying to spur growth as
the recovery falters, flattening the yield curve, which is
“definitely a negative” for bank profits though not enough to
threaten creditors, according to Valeri.  “That’s going to affect earnings,” he said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t see this as adverse impacting their ability
to service their debts.”  Contracts linked to the debt of San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo increased 10.1 basis points to 152.7, and those on
Citigroup’s debt increased 20.8 basis points to 281. Credit-
default swaps on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  climbed 10 to 156.1, and
those on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  gained 24.8 to 288, the data
show. The three banks are based in New York.  High-Yield Index  Confidence in U.S. high-yield, high-risk debt fell. The
Markit Group Ltd. CDX North America High Yield Index, which
falls as investor confidence deteriorates, declined 0.9
percentage points to 91.6 percent of face value. That’s its
fourth decline in five days.  Risk appetite also waned after a report showed  China ’s
manufacturing may shrink for a third month in September, and a
report in Brussels showed that European services and
manufacturing growth contracted for the first time in more than
two years in September.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  