-- 
German Stocks Advance, Trim Weekly Drop; Bayer, Adidas Climb in Frankfurt

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-23T16:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/deutsche-lufthansa-enbw-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks advanced, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  trimming its weekly retreat, as policy
makers eased investor concern that the European debt crisis is
spreading and the global economy is weakening.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  climbed 7.1 percent as its Xarelto blood-thinning
drug won European backing for use in irregular-heartbeat
patients.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  followed a rally
in European financial shares.  Adidas AG (ADS)  rose after competitor
Nike Inc. reported first-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates.  MAN SE (MAN)  advanced 5 percent as UBS AG recommended
buying shares of the truckmaker.  The DAX rose 0.6 percent to 5,196.56 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt. The gauge still posted the largest weekly retreat
since Aug. 19 as the  Federal Reserve  signaled “significant
downside risks” to the world’s largest economy. The broader
HDAX Index gained 0.4 percent today.  Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to address rising risks
to the global economy and pushed  Europe  to contain its sovereign
debt crisis after concern the world is on the brink of another
recession sent stocks tumbling.  Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday. Many urged Europe
to implement a July promise to expand the powers of a rescue
fund, Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  ECB Support  The  European Central Bank  may act to address risks to
growth as soon as next month should economic data disappoint,
Governing Council member Luc Coene said.  “The ECB has never ruled out things beforehand,” Coene,
who heads the Belgian central bank, said in an interview in
 Washington  late yesterday when asked if an interest-rate cut
were warranted. “If the data in early October shows that things
are worse than we anticipated we will look at the kind of
decisions we have to take for that.”  Bayer,  Germany ’s biggest drugmaker, rose 7.1 percent to
39.42 euros after winning the backing of a European drug
advisory panel for the use of its Xarelto drug with patients
with irregular heartbeat, putting the blood thinner in line for
approval in a market that may reach $9 billion in annual sales
worldwide.  Banks Advance  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, climbed 5.6 percent
to 23.12 euros, while Commerzbank, the country’s second-largest,
rose 4.7 percent to 1.64 euros. Banking shares posted the best
performance among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index today, rising 3.5 percent.  Adidas, the world’s second-biggest sporting goods company,
added 2.8 percent to 47.29 euros. Rival Nike said net income in
the quarter ended Aug. 31 rose 15 percent to $645 million, or
$1.36 a share, from $559 million, or $1.14, a year earlier.
Analysts projected $1.21 a share, the average of 18 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  MAN rose 5 percent to 58.77 euros as UBS upgraded Europe’s
third-largest truckmaker to “buy” from “neutral,” citing
“compelling valuation.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s
biggest makers of luxury cars, lost 1.5 percent to 52.18 euros
and 1 percent to 32.41 euros, respectively. European carmakers
were the second-worst performers in the Stoxx 600 this week,
with a 10 percent decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  