-- 
Deutsche Bank Swaps Case May Guide Other Suits, Judge Says

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-22T19:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/deutsche-bank-swaps-ruling-may-apply-to-other-cases-judge-says.html
A German top court ruling on swaps
that  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  lost in March may also apply in cases
involving other derivatives, a judge said.  The Frankfurt Regional Court will review to what extent the
top court ruling governs currency options as well, Presiding
Judge Bruno Menhofer said today at a hearing in a lawsuit
against the lender seeking 30 million euros ($40 million) in
damages. The court’s assessment is preliminary, he said. The
case was brought by travel company Schauinsland-Reisen GmbH.  The Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil
court, ruled in March that Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank must
cover losses caused by a derivative it branded a “CMS Spread
Ladder Swap,” because the bank didn’t disclose the product had
a initial negative market value. Deutsche Bank is arguing that
ruling only applies to the same kind of product. Former
customers are hoping to capitalize on the ruling to collect
damages for other bets that went sour.  “The top court has used very, very strong language as
regards disclosure duties the bank has,” said Menhofer. “The
ruling is a leading precedent setting clear standards and we
have to see how they apply to the product at issue here.”  Dollar Options  The top court ruling doesn’t apply to the currency product
in today’s case, which wasn’t even a swap, Daniel Kieper, a
lawyer from Deutsche Bank’s legal department, told the court.
The bank instead sold Schauinsland dollar currency options.
Including the bank’s profit margin, the product had a negative
market value for the customer at the time it was sold, he said.  Jochen Weck, a lawyer for Duisburg, Germany-based
Schauinsland, told the court Deutsche Bank structured the odds
to the disadvantage of his client, just as it did on the CMS
Spread Ladder Swaps. The top court ruling should apply in the
same way to both cases, he argued.  Klaus Erdmann, a Schauinsland manager who testified today,
said that, while he was aware the options included a profit
margin for Deutsche Bank, he was told during negotiations with
the lender the product would be “premium-neutral.” He
understood it to mean Schauinsland wouldn’t have to cover the
costs of the options, he said.  Schauinsland sued Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank,
after the currency bets went sour. The options “went
phenomenally bad for a phenomenally long time,” the judge said.  Trusted Adviser  The travel company’s currency risks were about $20 million
a year, said Erdmann. Deutsche Bank was a longstanding and
trusted company adviser, he said. Switching the currency-risk
strategy to using the product with call and put options was
proposed by the bank, he said.  The product, which Schauinsland started to buy in June
2005, bet the dollar would fall against the euro. When the
dollar rose, the product went negative for Schauinsland, which
was facing constantly rising liability risks under the terms.  Schauinsland focused on the  call options , not on put
options it had to sell and which incurred risks through levers,
Erdmann said. Deutsche Bank said these risks were manageable and
could be countered by restructuring the arrangement, said
Erdmann.  “Deutsche Bank had been our bank as long as I could think
back, they were there when I started to work for the company,”
the 46-year-old Erdmann said. “We just trusted them.”  Maikel-Andreas Schmidt, a Deutsche Bank employee assigned
to work with customer Schauinsland at the time, said the travel
company had approached the bank and wanted the options to profit
from the market developments, not only to hedge currency risks.  ‘Market Opinion’  Deutsche Bank didn’t advise its customer on how the dollar
would develop, the lender shared its “market opinion” that the
U.S. currency would become weaker, he said. To counter the
rising risks Schauinsland later faced, the deal was restructured
several times. The restructuring included rising levers on
Schauinsland’s side, which also kept costs low for the travel
company, said Schmidt.  When the risks rose over time, he discussed the dangers
associated with the development with Erdmann, Schmidt said.  Because of the number of options bought and the changing
terms in each restructuring effort, the liability risks rose
over time. At a peak in 2007, Schauinland faced the risk of
having to buy $204 million under the terms. Deutsche Bank and
Schauinsland agreed to dissolve the deal in 2008, leaving
Schauinsland with losses of 30 million euros, according to Weck.  Today’s case is LG Frankfurt, 3-04 O 50/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  