-- 
Diageo’s Guinness Hosts Scissor Sisters to Get Irish Spending

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-09-22T23:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/diageo-s-guinness-hosts-scissor-sisters-to-get-irish-spending.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Guinness stout brand
celebrated its 252nd birthday in Dublin yesterday with gigs by
the Scissor Sisters and Stereophonics as it seeks to combat
Ireland’s recession by spending more on promotions.  Bands played at venues around the Irish capital to mark
what is known at  Guinness  as Arthurs Day -- the day in 1759 that
founder Arthur Guinness signed a 9,000-year lease on the
company’s St. James’s Gate brewery. The event forms part of the
brand’s commitment to restoring sales growth in the country of
its birth, according to Guinness chief Oliver Loomes.  “It’s hard work to get into positive growth,” Loomes said
of Guinness’s domestic business. “The big part of the problem
is the economy, not the brand performance.”  Sales of Guinness slid in Ireland and  Great Britain  in the
year to June 30, according to London-based Diageo, in contrast
to sales growth in countries including Nigeria, Cameroon and
 Indonesia . Ireland’s economy has shrunk every year since 2007
after a real-estate bust pushed the country’s financial system
close to collapse, weighing on  consumer confidence  and spending.  Promoting the brand through sports and music events is
“huge for business,” according to Loomes. Guinness is the
official beer of the Irish rugby team and also sponsors local
Irish teams including Munster and Leinster. The brand will also
continue advertising through more traditional means, he said.  Loomes didn’t specify Guinness’s spending on promotional
events such as those for Arthur’s Day and St. Patrick’s Day. The
stout is one of Diageo’s 14 strategic brands, which also include
Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky and Smirnoff vodka.  Stable Share  About one in every three pints of beer sold in Ireland is
Guinness, Loomes said, adding that the brand’s market share was
“stable” last year. About 90 percent of the drink sales in the
country are through pubs and bars, which have struggled as
consumers spend less or drink more at home. Promoting events
helps drive drinkers back to pubs, according to Guinness.  “The pub is critical to Guinness -- the pint is the icon
of the brand,” Loomes said.  Nigeria  overtook Ireland as Guinness’s largest market last
year, although the difference between the amount of beer sold in
those countries and Britain is very small, Loomes said. Ireland
is “at a macro level dealing with the state of the economy”
and “starting to build more consumer confidence,” he said.  Africa  is a “huge growth opportunity,” Loomes said.
Diageo may start selling Guinness in  South Africa , the largest
beer market in sub-Saharan Africa, where the company has a joint
venture with Heineken NV, he said, without giving details.  Guinness sales rose 10 percent last year on a so-called
organic basis in Diageo’s international region, which includes
Africa, while declining 4 percent in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 