-- 
DirecTV CEO Says $30 Price for Premium Films Is ‘Too High’

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T20:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/directv-s-white-says-30-price-for-premium-films-is-too-high-.html
DirecTV (DTV)  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael White  said demand for films offered for rental just
eight weeks after their theatrical release has been “small”
because the price of $29.99 per movie is “awfully high.”  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, began
offering some Hollywood studio films on demand in April for
$29.99 after 60 days. Historically, pay-TV providers had waited
90 to 120 days before airing movies on television.  The service is part of an attempt by studios to harness
pay-TV as they seek new ways to sell movies and counter
shrinking DVD sales. Few customers will purchase the premium
rentals unless the quality of the movies improves and the price
comes down, White said in an interview.  “They’re priced too high for consumers,” White said. “We
didn’t choose that price, but that’s where the studios forced us
to be.”  DirecTV Executive Vice President Derek Chang said in April
the El Segundo, California-based company would consider
renegotiating with studios on price if customers didn’t embrace
the service. The early offerings, which have included “Just Go
With It” and “The Adjustment Bureau,” have sparked criticism
from theater owners, who are concerned they will lose revenue to
home-viewers.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Universal Pictures , Warner Bros. and Twentieth
Century Fox have agreed to release certain films in the early
window. Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. will offer the Taylor
Lautner film “Abduction” on pay TV three months after its
release for $6.99.  DirecTV hasn’t released sales figures for the $29.99
titles.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  have also said
they’ve negotiated with studios for on-demand movies with a
shortened window.  DirecTV fell 59 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $41.02 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have risen
2.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  