-- 
Domestic Politics Produce Three-Way Collision at United Nations

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-22T14:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/domestic-agendas-collide-at-un-as-obama-seeks-israeli-palestinian-accord.html
The collision this week over
Palestinian statehood at the  United Nations  has been coming
since Israel and the  Palestinian Authority  hit an impasse in
negotiations a year ago and U.S. President  Barack Obama  was
unable to get them back to the bargaining table.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Obama arrived at the UN
this week, each constrained by his own domestic political
interests and conflicting views about peace talks. The
Palestinians are seeking UN recognition of a state comprising
the West Bank, the  Gaza Strip  and Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem
-- the territory Israel captured in the 1967 Six-Day War.  “It is almost inconceivable that the president will be
able to avert some kind of clash at the UN,” Aaron  David Miller , a veteran U.S. Mideast peace negotiator and a senior
fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
in  Washington , said in an interview.  For Abbas, the move to the UN is an effort to promote
Palestinian nationalist aspirations without backing down on his
demand for a freeze on new Jewish settlements in the West Bank
as a precondition for negotiations with Israel.  The stalemate in those talks and the popular uprisings in
the Arab world make Abbas vulnerable to a rebellion among
Palestinians, who are frustrated with the lack of progress
toward statehood, and to militant anti-Israel groups such as
Hamas, which won control of Gaza from the Palestinian Authority
and is considered a  terrorist organization  by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union.  Israeli Perspective  Netanyahu faces opposition from parties in his coalition
government to halting construction of Jewish settlements in the
 West Bank . Citing Israel’s security needs, he has sparred
publicly with Obama over whether the pre-1967 boundaries of the
West Bank, the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem should be the basis
for negotiating the borders of a Palestinian state, with land
swaps to take account of major Jewish settlements and security
needs.  Obama, in his address yesterday to the UN General Assembly,
said an eventual peace deal depends on Israelis and Palestinians
“who must live side by side,” not a “short cut” though a UN
resolution on a Palestinian state.  “One year ago, I stood at this podium and I called for an
independent  Palestine ,” Obama said. “I believed then, and I
believe now, that the Palestinian people deserve a state of
their own. But what I also said is that a genuine peace can only
be realized between the Israelis and the Palestinians
themselves.”  ‘No Short Cut’  “The question isn’t the goal that we seek -- the question
is how do we reach that goal,” he said. “And I am convinced
that there is no short cut to the end of a conflict that has
endured for decades.”  Obama repeated his opposition to the Palestinians’ current
bid for UN membership when he met late yesterday with Abbas,
White House deputy national security adviser  Ben Rhodes  told
reporters in  New York .  The Israeli and Palestinian leaders are scheduled to
address the UN General Assembly tomorrow.  Obama, too, has domestic political interests. A U.S.
failure to veto a Security Council resolution on Palestinian
statehood, if it comes to that, would jeopardize Democrats’
support from Jewish voters, as well as energize evangelical
Christians allied with the Republicans. That prospect was
highlighted by the Democrats’ loss of New York’s heavily Jewish
9th congressional district to underdog Republican Bob Turner in
a special election Sept. 13.  ‘Dangerous Move’  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Perry  fed into those
fears, saying Sept. 20 that Obama emboldened Palestinian leaders
to seek UN recognition by demanding compromises from the
Israelis.  “Simply put, we would not be here today at the precipice
of such a dangerous move if the Obama policy in the  Middle East 
wasn’t naive, arrogant, misguided and dangerous,” the Texas
governor said.  Given the Israeli and Palestinian political situations,
Miller said, there may be little that Obama might have done to
defuse the conflict over Palestinian statehood.  Still, he never put his own plan on the table to test the
two sides. Also, Miller said, Obama made several tactical
errors, notably raising Palestinian expectations by pursuing an
Israeli settlement freeze and then backing down in the face of
Israeli objections.  “He allowed his rhetoric and his good intentions get way
out ahead of reality,” Miller said.  Settlements Issue  U.S. officials “made a big deal out of settlements and
they were spurned by” Israel and “that was terribly
embarrassing,” said Hussein Ibish, a senior research fellow at
the American Task Force on Palestine, a nonpartisan organization
in Washington that advocates a negotiated two-state solution.
“They’re equally frustrated by both sides and have adopted a
‘pox on both your houses’ attitude.”  In addition, the administration is now preoccupied with
domestic issues, principally efforts to revive the economy and
reduce the deficit.  Miller said that neither Abbas nor Netanyahu is likely to
begin negotiating on the key issues of borders, security, the
status of  Jerusalem , control of water and the rights of
Palestinian refugees until and unless the benefits of an
agreement outweigh the risks.  Israel made its key decision a year ago, when Netanyahu
chose not to extend a 10-month freeze on new construction in
West Bank settlements. The Palestinians had demanded the freeze
as a precondition for final status talks, but agreed to begin
discussions under U.S. pressure and in the final month of the
freeze.  Israeli Politics  Extending the freeze would have triggered a conflict
between Netanyahu and members of his governing coalition who
grudgingly had supported the temporary freeze, including Foreign
Minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu and the religious
Shas party.  Netanyahu might have survived their defections by bringing
the main opposition Kadima party into his coalition, but instead
he resisted pressure from the Obama administration to extend the
freeze, said  Mark Heller , principal research associate at the
Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University.  “Even if Netanyahu believed that Abbas was bluffing on
reaching a negotiated deal, he could have easily called that
bluff by extending the settlement freeze and bringing Kadima
into the government,” Heller said. “Netanyahu basically chose
domestic political considerations over diplomacy, and that
helped bring us to the Palestinian statehood bid.”  Missed Opportunity  Palestinians and some U.S. officials believe the Israeli
leader has failed to reward the Palestinian Authority for the
risks taken to confront terrorism and improve  Israel ’s security,
said a State Department official who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the subject
publicly.  Another administration official who also requested
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly on the
matter said that looking back, the Palestinians rejected an
historic opportunity when  Yasser Arafat , then the president of
the Palestinian Authority, walked away from a comprehensive deal
put on the table by President  Bill Clinton  at Camp David in July
2000. That may have been the best offer Palestinians would ever
get, the official said.  No Faith in Israel  Palestinian leaders say they feel compelled to push for
statehood through the UN because they have lost faith in
Israel’s willingness to negotiate a deal unless Palestinians
have bargaining power by elevating their status in future talks.  Critics of the high-stakes strategy, including Ibish, say a
showdown could have been averted if Abbas had dropped his demand
for a settlement freeze as a precondition for talks after Obama
was unsuccessful in persuading Netanyahu to extend the limited
moratorium.  Meeting with reporters in the West Bank city of Ramallah on
Sept. 9, Abbas said he had had three meetings during the past
year with Israeli President Shimon Peres, 10 with Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  and numerous conversations with former
British Prime Minister  Tony Blair , the representative of the
Quartet -- the U.S., the UN, the European Union and  Russia  --
that is trying to help broker a Mideast settlement. Those
discussions, Abbas said, failed to narrow the gaps enough to
resume peace talks.  Netanyahu met yesterday with Obama and thanked him for
“standing with Israel” in supporting direct negotiations,
rather than the Palestinian resolution.  “I think the Palestinians want to achieve a state in the
international community,” he said, “but they are not prepared
yet to give peace to Israel in return.”  Obama said that “recent events in the region remind us of
how fragile peace can be and why the pursuit of Middle East
peace is more urgent than ever.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  