-- 
Dow Ratio Sends a Warning Signal for Stocks: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-22T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/dow-ratio-sends-a-warning-signal-for-stocks-technical-analysis.html
The ratio between indexes tracking
utility and transportation stocks climbed to a two-year high, a
signal the retreat in U.S. equities may not be over, said David A. Rosenberg of Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc.  The Dow Jones Utilities Average advanced to 0.10 times the
level of the Dow Jones Transportation Average, a multiple last
seen on Sept. 2, 2009, according to Bloomberg data. The ratio
reached the same level as it was in August 2007, Gluskin Sheff
data show, amid outperformance by “recession proof” utilities
over “economically sensitive” transports. That time, the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index peaked at an all-time high two
months later.  “It’s characteristic of a  bear market ,” Rosenberg,
Gluskin Sheff’s Toronto-based chief economist and strategist,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The stock market “is
catching up with what the  bond market  has been saying for some
time now -- that is, we’re heading toward an economic
downturn.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 13 percent since July 22 and yields
on 10-year Treasuries have fallen to a record low amid concern
European officials may fail to contain the region’s debt crisis
and the  U.S. economy  will slip into a recession. American gross
domestic product may expand by 1.6 percent this year, according
to the median of 66 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
That’s down from a median forecast of 1.7 percent in August and
below last year’s 3 percent rate.  When the ratio of the two gauges rises, it means utility
stocks are performing better than transportation shares. The
last two times that the ratio rose above 0.10 and stayed higher
were October 2008, when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank to
a 12-year low five months later, and August 2007.  The ratio surged in the past two months, rising from a low
of 0.08 in July. The utilities average, which includes stocks
such as AES Corp. and Southern Co., has risen 7.6 percent this
year, compared with a 16 percent decline in the transportation
gauge, which has components like CSX Corp. and United Parcel
Service Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in  New York  at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 