-- 
Alibaba Said to Be Worth $32 Billion in DST, Temasek Funding

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-23T09:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/dst-billionaire-milner-silver-lake-to-invest-in-alibaba-1-.html
DST Global and Temasek Holdings Pte
are among investors that agreed to buy shares of Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. in a transaction valuing  China ’s largest e-commerce
company at $32 billion, said two people familiar with the deal.  Silver Lake  and Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma’s Yunfeng Capital
are also part of the group buying as much as $1.6 billion stock
from Alibaba employees, said the people, who asked not to be
named because terms of the agreement were private.  The investment values closely held Alibaba, whose Taobao
online shopping site has more than 370 million users, behind
only Baidu Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  among Internet
companies in China. Alibaba chairman Ma is bringing in new
investors DST Global and Silver Lake after clashing with
existing shareholders Yahoo! Inc. and  Softbank Corp. (9984)  over the
spinoff of an online payment business this year.  Temasek,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company, is an
existing shareholder at Alibaba, DST Global and Silver Lake said
in a joint-statement yesterday announcing their investment that
didn’t disclose financial terms. John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman at Alibaba, declined to comment today on the financial
terms of the investment, and wouldn’t say when Temasek initially
became a shareholder.  Baidu, China’s biggest Internet search company, was valued
at $43 billion based on its $123.18 closing price in New York
yesterday. Tencent rose 1.5 percent to HK$159 at the 4 p.m.
close in Hong Kong trading, valuing the biggest Chinese online
games company at HK$292.1 billion ($37 billion).  Following Peers  Alibaba is taking a cue from U.S. Internet companies
including  Facebook  Inc. and Twitter Inc., which have used
private investment rounds to let employees cash out shares. By
doing so, the companies relieve one of the major pressures for
holding an initial public offering.  DST, the technology fund managed by Russian billionaire
Yuri Milner and an investor in Facebook, last month led an $800
million financing round in Twitter.  Silver Lake, the private equity firm that sold its holdings
in Skype Technologies SA this year to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is also
considering a bid for Yahoo., which holds a 43 percent stake in
Alibaba, two people familiar with the matter said last week.  Alibaba, based in Hangzhou, east China, adds two of Silicon
Valley’s most prominent technology investors as it expands
beyond e-commerce to build a search engine and a mobile
operating system.  Alibaba’s Ma clashed with former Yahoo CEO  Carol Bartz  over
issues including the sale of Alibaba’s Alipay online payment
network. Bartz was fired this month, clearing the way for Yahoo
to consider selling its stake in Alibaba, a person familiar with
the matter said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  