-- 
Dubai Shares Snap Two-Day Advance After U.S. Fed Warns of Economic Risks

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-22T11:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/dubai-shares-snap-two-day-advance-after-u-s-fed-warns-of-economic-risks.html
 Dubai’s benchmark stock index fell
the most in more than a week after the U.S. Federal Reserve
signaled “significant downside risks” to the world’s largest
economy. Crude oil retreated.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, decreased 1.1 percent and  Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co. (DU)  dropped to a month low. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.8 percent, the most since Sept. 12, to 1,460.29
at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The index fell 0.5 percent this
week. About 69 million shares traded in Dubai today, compared
with this year’s daily average of 114 million shares, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Local markets are reacting to the U.S. selloff yesterday
and today’s continued selloff in  Asia  and Europe,” said Saad al Chalabi, an institutional trader at Al Ramz Securities in  Abu
Dhabi . “This is mostly due to the lack of liquidity and subdued
market participation from foreign institutions.”  Global stocks slumped after the Fed said “there are
significant downside risks to the economic outlook, including
strains in global financial markets.” The Fed will purchase
longer-term debt and sell shorter maturities to sustain the
economic recovery, in a so-called “Operation Twist,” similar
to one of the central bank’s programs in the 1960s.  Oil Slumps  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index plunged 4.7 percent at 2:15
p.m. in Dubai and the Stoxx 600  Europe  Index lost 3.7 percent.
In the U.S., the  S&P 500  tumbled 2.9 percent yesterday.  Oil for November delivery lost as much as 3.8 percent to
$82.63 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on
speculation raw-material demand will falter. Gulf Arab oil
exporters, including the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government said it
will accelerate budget cuts, targeting civil servants’ wages and
pensioners to keep emergency loans flowing and avoid default,
following two rounds of talks with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . The policies were demanded by
international lenders to ensure  Greece  reaches deficit-reduction
targets in a 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) bailout and receive
a payment due next month.  “Low volume, range-bound trading in the U.A.E. will likely
continue until global fears of a European-led global recession
are abated,” Al Ramz’s al Chalabi said.  Emaar fell the most since Sept. 12 to 2.79 dirhams and
Emirates Integrated, the second-biggest phone company in the
U.A.E., dropped 0.7 percent to 3 dirhams, the lowest since Aug.
21.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  was little changed, while
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  declined 0.6 percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index and
Kuwait’s gauge retreated 0.7 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share
Index dropped 0.9 percent to the lowest since at least July
2004, when Bloomberg started tracking the index. Saudi Arabia’s
market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  