-- 
Dubai to Stand Behind Strategic Investments, Sees No DIFC, Jafza Trouble

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-23T16:21:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/dubai-supports-strategic-investments-has-no-difc-jafza-trouble.html
Dubai, the Persian Gulf emirate
that teetered on the brink of default in 2009, vowed to stand
behind its “strategic investments” including those facing debt
refinancing such as DIFC Investments LLC.  The government doesn’t anticipate that DIFC Investments, a
unit of the emirate’s tax-free business financial center, or
Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE, another  business park , will have
trouble refinancing bonds due next year, said Mohammed Al Shaibani, director general of Dubai ruler’s court.  “We’ll back up any strategic investment we have,” he said
in an interview in Washington yesterday. “As Dubai, I have
interest to back up the government entities and the government-
related enterprises -- anything that’s sizable with a major
benefit to the economy.”  The explicit government support may encourage investors to
buy Dubai debt when concerns about a global economic slowdown
subside, said John Bates, the head of fixed income at London-
based Silk Invest Ltd. Islamic bonds of Jebel Ali and DIFC
Investments fell this week as investors shunned riskier assets.  Jebel Ali must repay 7.5 billion dirhams ($2 billion) when
its Shariah-compliant debt matures in November 2012, while DIFC
Investments has a $1.25 billion sukuk due in June 2012. The
price on Jebel’s Islamic bonds slipped to 90.33 today from 92.31
on Sept. 16, while DIFC declined to 90.25 from 92.06, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Roiling Markets  Dubai roiled financial markets in 2009 when  Dubai World ,
one of its three main state-controlled holding companies, tried
to stop repayments on about $25 billion of debt, before reaching
a restructuring agreement with creditors in March.  “We take moderate confidence in the vows of support by the
Dubai government but it’s early days given global risk
sentiment,” Bates said by e-mail today. “I can see the market
rebounding fast when the time is right, as there is a lot of
cash out there which will be ready to seek value.”  The difference between the average yields on Islamic bonds
from the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council and the London
interbank offered rate widened 14 basis points this week to 299
basis points as of Sept. 22, the most since April, according to
the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Dubai borrowed at least $129 billion to turn itself into a
tourism, trade and financial services hub, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG. Policymakers are keen not to repeat past
mistakes, said Al Shaibani, who is also chief executive officer
of the Investment Corp. of Dubai, one of the main state-owned
holding companies.  Lessons Learned  “We learned quite a bit in the process how to conduct our
business,” he said. “We took things for granted in the
beginning. When everything is booming you kind of overlook
certain things.”  With about 7 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves,
the  United Arab Emirates , of which Dubai is the second-largest
member, has been spared the unrest that shook countries such as
Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Syria and Bahrain.  Agreements with creditors have also helped give the emirate
and its companies “breathing space” and ruled out any “fire-
sale” of its assets, Al Shaibani said.  “We planned the process of restructuring to be between
five to eight years,” he said. “Why would I sell anything
today? If we do sell something, most likely we would be selling
it closer to the five years and eight years.”  LSE, Nasdaq  Dubai, through its companies, holds stakes in entities such
as the London Stock Exchange and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc, owner of
the second-largest U.S. equity exchange. The timing isn’t right
to sell those interests, Al Shaibani said.  “Most of these companies were a private equity exercise,”
he said. “They were bought to be sold later at a certain value.
We haven’t realized the value yet. We are not obliged to sell
them.”  Dubai has $31.2 billion of debt coming due this year and in
2012, according to an International Monetary Fund report
published on June 16.  The cost to insure Dubai’s debt from default climbed this
week to the highest level since December. Five-year credit-
default swaps rose 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point to
481 today, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Dubai’s debt may continue to be hampered by concerns about
the global economy, said Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5
billion of emerging-market bonds at Union Investment Privatfonds
in  Frankfurt .  Global Environment  “Market timing now is very unfortunate since emerging-
market debt is burning down in the last two days and the  Middle
East  and North Africa is no exception,” he said by e-mail
today. The “global environment is in a risk-off mood at the
moment.”  Only “some smaller companies” may need to restructure
their debt, Al Shaibani said. “There are some companies that
had a little bit of exposure to the property sector and they
need to clear up some issues and focus on growth again.”  The government may not extend the same helping hand to all
companies. For Drydocks World LLC, a company restructuring $2.2
billion of debt, the responsibility falls more on its parent,
Dubai World, Al Shaibani said.  “Personally, I think Dubai World should really play a
major part in supporting Drydocks not so much the government,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in  Washington  at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  