-- 
Dynegy Sued by Avenue Investments Over Coal Plant Assets in Restructuring

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-09-22T16:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/dynegy-sued-by-avenue-investments-over-coal-plant-assets-in-restructuring.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  was sued by Avenue
Investments LP over claims the Houston-based power producer
stole assets from holders of $3.6 billion in notes in a
restructuring.  Bondholders led by Avenue Investments seek to undo the
restructuring, calling it a fraudulent conveyance that removed
the company’s coal-fired power plants from the reach of
bondholders and transferred them to shareholders, according to
the lawsuit filed yesterday in New York state  Supreme Court .  “The company has pilfered one of the most valuable assets
of the operating subsidiary that issued the notes and removed it
from the reach of creditors, for no reason other than to benefit
the parent’s equity holders, prominent among them Carl C. Icahn,” Avenue Investments said in the complaint.  Dynegy earlier this month transferred $1.25 billion of
assets, mainly coal-fired power facilities, out of a unit that
issued bonds for the company, leaving fixed-income investors
with fewer claims in a bankruptcy. The company has posted five
straight quarterly losses driven by lower electricity prices and
reduced cash flow.  David Byford , a Dynegy spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a call and an e-mail for comment.  Other bondholders suing Dynegy include Caspian Capital
Partners LP, Oaktree Capital Management Fund II and Western
Reserve Life Assurance Co. of  Ohio .  Icahn didn’t immediately return a telephone message seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  Illegal Dividend  The restructuring violated New York’s Debtor and Creditor
Law and constitute fraudulent conveyances by an insolvent entity
that didn’t receive reasonable value in return, according to the
complaint. If not a fraudulent conveyance, the transfers are an
illegal dividend from a unit to a parent company, the
bondholders claim.  The bondholders seek to set aside the transfers or obtain
damages for its consequences.  Robert C. Flexon was named chief executive officer of
Dynegy on June 22 by a new board backed by Icahn Capital LP and
Seneca Capital, the two largest shareholders.  Katy Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Dynegy, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The case is Avenue Investments LP v. Dynegy Inc.,
652599/2011,  New York  state Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 