-- 
E-mails Show Bias in Keystone Review, Advocacy Group Says

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T20:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/e-mails-show-bias-in-keystone-review-advocacy-group-says-1-.html
Lobbying efforts on behalf of
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s $7 billion Keystone XL pipeline project show
the U.S. State Department’s pro-industry bias, an environmental
advocacy group said today.  Paul Elliott, a former deputy campaign manager for
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign,
set up meetings on behalf of TransCanada executives, according
to  e-mails  released today by Friends of the Earth, an advocacy
group that opposes the pipeline. If approved, the pipeline would
run from  Alberta  to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries.  Elliott also notified department officials of an upcoming
environmental protest, sent letters advocating for the project
and offered TransCanada’s assistance to the State Department on
international climate talks in Copenhagen, according to the e-
mails.  The department, which is tasked with reviewing the pipeline
proposal because it would cross an international border, is
expected to issue a final ruling on the project before the end
of the year. A final environmental impact statement released by
the State Department in August found the pipeline poses “no
significant impacts to most resources,” prompting environmental
groups to say the review was flawed.  The e-mails show that Clinton’s staff “sought to help
TransCanada get a rubber stamp,” Damon Moglen, climate and
energy director at Friends of the Earth, said in a statement.  Lobbying Efforts  TransCanada’s efforts to speak to State Department
officials are no different than the work of environmental
advocates who have sought the same access to make their case,
Terry Cunha, a spokesman for TransCanada, said in a telephone
interview today.  Elliott was hired by the Calgary-based company in 2008 to
help with its $2.9 billion acquisition of National Grid Plc.’s
Ravenswood generating station, Cunha said. That deal was
announced in March 2008, nine months before Clinton became
Secretary of State.  Elliott and the State Department didn’t immediately respond
to requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  