-- 
U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Rose 0.3% in August, More Than Estimated

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T14:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/leading-economic-indicators-in-u-s-rise-0-3-.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators increased more than forecast in August, easing
concern the economy is headed for recession.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.3 percent after a 0.6 percent gain
in July, the New York-based research group said today.
Economists projected a 0.1 percent rise in August, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The figure was boosted by a surge in money supply, a sign
investors may be losing confidence in the global economy and
reducing their holdings of riskier assets. The Federal Reserve
yesterday decided to extend maturities of its Treasury holdings
in a bid to push down long-term borrowing costs and said the
economy faces “significant downside risks.”  “The state of the economy is extremely fragile,” said
 John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston . The jump in money supply is “a
sign of  risk aversion ,” he said.  Another report today showed that more Americans than
forecast filed first-time claims for unemployment insurance
payments last week, a sign that the labor market is struggling
to improve.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 9,000 in the
week ended Sept. 17 to 423,000, according to the Labor
Department in Washington. Economists forecast 420,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. dropped last week to the
weakest point since the recession ended in June 2009, the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed today. The gauge fell to
minus 52.1 in the period to Sept. 18 from minus 49.3 the prior
week. Sentiment among men slumped to an all-time low.  Economists’ Estimates  Estimates of the 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
the Conference Board’s leading economic index ranged from a drop
of 0.5 percent to an increase of 0.5 percent.  “There is growing risk that sustained weak confidence
could put downward pressure on demand and business activity,
causing the economy to potentially dip into recession,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at the Conference Board, said today in a
statement. “While the chance of that happening remains below
50-50, the odds have certainly increased in recent months.”  Four of the 10 components of the leading index contributed
to the increase in August. In addition to the money supply and
building permits, they included slower supplier-delivery times.  Money supply contributed 0.7 percentage point to the LEI,
the most since December 2008.  Monetary Conditions  “The August increase in the U.S. LEI was driven by
components measuring financial and monetary conditions which
offset substantially weaker components measuring expectations,”
said  Ataman Ozyildirim , an economist at the Conference Board in
a statement today.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.1 percent from
the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.3 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
employment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and  consumer credit .  LEI Makeup  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for  consumer goods , bookings for capital goods and money
supply adjusted for inflation.  “The consumer is, from what we can tell, quite cautious,”
Ken Powell, chairman and chief executive officer of Minneapolis-
based  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , said in a conference call with
analysts yesterday. “We think that the environment there is
going to continue to be challenging.”  The  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, expanded at a 1
percent annual rate in the second quarter after growing at a 0.4
percent pace in the prior quarter, according to Commerce
Department figures.  Payrolls were unchanged in August, as the  unemployment rate 
held at 9.1 percent, the Labor Department said Sept. 2.  ‘Downside Risks’  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said yesterday in a statement
after a two-day meeting in Washington.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  expanded use of unconventional
monetary tools for a second straight meeting after job gains
stalled and the government lowered its estimate of second-
quarter growth.  Fed officials yesterday said they will replace some bonds
in their portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to
further reduce borrowing costs and keep the economy from
relapsing into a recession.  Gross domestic product will advance 1.6 percent this year
and 2.2 percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  