-- 
Leading Indicators in U.S. Probably Posted Smallest Gain in Three Months

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/leading-economic-index-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-a-slower-pace.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators probably rose at a slower pace in August, pointing to
a muted recovery heading into next year, economists said ahead
of a report today.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since
a drop in April, after rising 0.5 percent in July, according to
the median estimate of 56 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.
The number of applications for  unemployment benefits  may have
dropped last week for the first time since late August, a report
from the Labor Department may also show.  The pace of growth may be limited by a lack of jobs and
slower  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy. The  Federal Reserve , which
yesterday prescribed another dose of unconventional monetary
policy, said it now sees “significant downside risks” to the
U.S. economic outlook.  “We’ve clearly lost momentum in the last few months,”
said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc. in New
York. “I don’t think the recovery has ended, but it has been
set back.”  The Conference Board’s report is due at 10 a.m. in  New
York . Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of
0.5 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for  consumer goods , bookings for capital goods and  money
supply  adjusted for inflation.  Building Permits  Among the known components, an increase in building permits
points to an advance in the index. Declines in stock prices and
consumer expectations may have weighed on the measure.  Labor Department figures at 8:30 a.m. will show first-time
applications for jobless benefits declined last week to 420,000,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In the first six
months of this year, claims averaged 416,000.  The economy created no net new jobs in August and the
 unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, the Labor Department said
on Sept. 2. The stagnant labor market is weighing on consumer
sentiment, and in turn household spending.  Retailer stocks fell in August, with the Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Retailing Index declining 4.5 percent. After
reaching a high this year of 1,363.61 on April 29, the broader
 S&P 500 Index  also fell, in part reflecting a slowing recovery.  ‘Quite Cautious’  “The consumer is, from what we can tell, quite cautious,”
Ken Powell, chairman and chief executive officer of Minneapolis-
based General Mills Inc., said in a conference call with
analysts yesterday. “We think that the environment there is
going to continue to be challenging.”  The economy expanded at a 1 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after growing at a 0.4 percent pace the previous
period, the weakest six months in two years, according to
Commerce Department figures.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said yesterday in a statement
after a two-day meeting in Washington.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  expanded use of unconventional
monetary tools for a second straight meeting yesterday. Fed
officials said they will replace some bonds in their portfolio
with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to further reduce
borrowing costs and keep the economy from relapsing into a
recession.  Gross domestic product will advance 1.6 percent this year
and 2.2 percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists earlier this month.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  