-- 
EADS Says Jet Financing Secure as Stock Declines on Credit Access Concern

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-09-22T11:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/eads-shares-fall-on-report-french-banks-clipping-jet-financing.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. sought to assure investors that lenders and leasing
companies aren’t retreating from the aircraft financing market,
as the parent of Airbus SAS tumbled the most in five weeks.  “Short-term financing is fully secured,” EADS Chief
Financial Office Hans Peter Ring said in an e-mailed statement.
“We have seen many new banks entering or re-entering the
aviation market. That is a very positive signal. They do that
because it is secured funding and therefore it remains
attractive business to lenders.”  EADS dropped as much as 7.5 percent in Paris trading after
 Les Echos  reported  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Societe Generale (GLE)  have
stopped lending to aircraft purchasers because of difficulties
in obtaining dollar refinancing. Societe Generale,  France ’s
third-largest bank by assets, said Sept. 12 that it may reduce
its business to help finance aircraft and ships.  Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy  said Sept. 19
he’s concerned the European debt crisis may hurt airlines’
capacity to raise bank financing for aircraft purchases. The
order backlog at Airbus is at a record, giving the European
planemaker almost eight years of work at the current production
rate.  Falling Stock  EADS, based in Paris and Munich, fell as much as 1.69 euros
to 21 euros in Paris, and traded at 21.98 euros as of 1:44 p.m.
The stock has gained 21 percent this year.  Safran SA (SAF) , a maker of
components including engines for single-aisle aircraft, fell as
much as 6.3 percent to 22.81 euros.  EADS told investors in a note that BNP hasn’t stated it
will leave the aircraft financing industry, and that Credit
Agricole’s Calyon and  Natixis (KN)  also remain committed. The French
banks’ role isn’t too dominant that replacement capital can’t be
found, said Bertrand Grabowski, managing director of  DVB Bank
SE (DVB) , which is among the biggest aircraft financiers in  Europe .  “French banks contribute between 15 percent to 20 percent
maximum to financing commercial aircraft, and of that portion, a
significant part represents loans backed by export credit
finance, an area where U.S. banks could easily step in” to fill
the breach, he said in an interview today.  The market to finance aircraft also attracts German banks
including DVB and KfW Ipex-Bank GmbH. U.S. banks have remained
more on the sidelines, with U.S. carriers tending to tap capital
markets for debt when they’re seeking money to build fleets.  Airbus, based in Toulouse in southern France, may be
affected more than  Boeing Co. (BA) , which has easier access to credit
in the U.S., according to the newspaper report, which didn’t say
where it got the information. Airbus is the world’s largest
maker of commercial aircraft ahead of Boeing, a lead the
European company has defended since 2003.  “Chinese, Japanese and other Asian banks are now active as
well as local banks for local carriers and the major UK, U.S.
and German banks.” EADS said in a note to investors today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  