-- 
East Timor Seeking Chinese Investment, Ramos-Horta Says

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-09-22T05:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/east-timor-seeking-chinese-investment-ramos-horta-says-1-.html
East Timor  is seeking Chinese
investment to help diversify its economy and rely less on
revenue from oil and natural gas production, President Jose Ramos-Horta said.  “We want Chinese presence in our country in terms of
investment,” Ramos-Horta said at a media briefing in  Hong Kong 
today after speaking at an investors’ forum. Ports and roads are
one area of development, he said.  East Timor, which became a sovereign state in 2002, depends
heavily on offshore oil and gas for revenue and such projects
have so far failed to spur onshore development of the industry
and generate jobs, according to a handout distributed to
reporters. The country needs infrastructure projects to boost
employment and the economy, Ramos-Horta said.  East Timor has been in talks with the Chinese government
and companies on getting loans to finance infrastructure
projects, according to Ramos-Horta. He said the cost of
borrowing from Chinese banks would be much lower than tapping
the country’s Petroleum Fund, set up in 2005 to manage the
revenue from oil and gas.  The country, formally known as Timor-Leste, doesn’t have
suitable oil and gas projects for Chinese companies at the
moment, he said. East Timor hasn’t found any onshore oil
reserves yet and most offshore projects are in deeper water,
which Chinese companies aren’t very interested in, according to
Ramos-Horta.  The president said he is informally exploring the
possibility of holding some yuan-denominated assets. Nothing is
substantial yet at this stage, Ramos-Horta said.  East Timor ranked 120th of 169 countries in the United
Nations’ Human Development Index, a gauge of  life expectancy ,
literacy and standards of living.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 