-- 
EasyJet Increases Dividend After Predicting Record Earnings

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-22T11:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/easyjet-boosts-dividend-after-predicting-record-annual-profit.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , under pressure from
its founder to return cash to shareholders, increased the value
of its first-ever dividend payment to 190 million pounds ($294
million) after predicting record full-year earnings.  Investors in  Europe ’s second-biggest discount airline will
receive an ordinary dividend of 9 pence a share, equal to 40
million pounds, plus a one-off payment worth 150 million pounds,
Luton, England-based EasyJet said in a statement today.  EasyJet boosted returns after predicting pretax earnings of
240 million to 250 million pounds for the year ending Sept. 30,
up from previous guidance of 200 million to 230 million pounds.
Profit has gained as demand for business and short-break travel
lifts second-half revenue per seat by about 6 percent, it said.  “The financial performance is stronger than I’d forecast,
particularly given the challenging market environment,” said
 Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in  London  who
recommends buying EasyJet shares. “EasyJet is well-positioned to
outperform its non-low cost competitors on short-haul routes.”  EasyJet rose as much as 7.7 percent to 336.1 pence and was
trading 7.2 percent higher as of 11:40 a.m. in London, paring
the stock’s decline this year to 24 percent and valuing the
company at 1.4 billion pounds.  Investor Demands  Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall, who had faced calls
to return cash from EasyJet founder and No. 1 investor  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , said concern about falling share prices and the
economy is having an impact on shareholder sentiment.  The airline had originally planned to pay a dividend equal
to one-fifth of pretax profit. That would indicate a figure of
no more than 50 million pounds, based on the top end of the
revised earnings guidance for the current year.  “More shareholders are definitely talking about a return
of capital in a way they weren’t pre-January,” McCall said on a
conference call. “We believe we can afford to pay this extra
dividend, and continue to have a very strong balance sheet.”  Stelios, who prefers to be known by his first name, is
calling for an extraordinary meeting of shareholders to vote on
the dismissal of director Rigas Doganis, who backed the purchase
of 35 aircraft from Airbus SAS in January.  The entrepreneur, who controls 38 percent of EasyJet stock,
has been seeking to curb expansion plans for almost three years
and wants management to halt fleet purchases. Deputy Chairman
David Michels quit last month following a similar campaign.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s No. 1 low-cost carrier, paid
its first-ever dividend, a one-time award of 500 million euros
($672 million), in October after failing to tie up a deal to buy
more  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft. The Irish company aims to make a
second payment in 2013 if it hasn’t ordered new planes by then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  