-- 
Medtronic, Roche, Hadassah, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-22T12:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/medtronic-roche-hadassah-aol-google-intellectual-property.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  won a $101.2 million
jury award Sept. 20 in a patent-infringement trial against
NuVasive Inc. over claims related to medical devices used in
spinal surgery.  The federal jury in San Diego also held Medtronic liable
for $660,000 in damages to NuVasive for infringing one of its
patents.  Warsaw Orthopedic Inc., a unit of Minneapolis-based
Medtronic, had accused San Diego-based NuVasive of infringing
three patents for implants capable of being inserted trans-
laterally between adjacent vertebrae, a plate and screw system
used to stabilize vertebrae in the cervical spine and a tissue
retractor, according to court filings.  The verdict is the 14th-largest jury award in the U.S. in
2011 and the fourth-largest for a patent-infringement claim,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. The largest patent
jury verdict in 2011 was for $482 million in a lawsuit over
stents against a Johnson & Johnson unit.  NuVasive said in a statement it will “aggressively
challenge this verdict.”  “Maybe it’s time for NuVasive to consider selling
itself,” Suraj Kalia, an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC in  New
York , said in a note yesterday. “The luster from the spine
surgery space is coming off.”  Medtronic hasn’t filed a request for a court injunction
blocking the use of products found to have infringed its
patents.  In computing damages, the eight-member jury decided upon
patent royalty rates of 3 percent, 6 percent and 10 percent in
awarding “lost profits damages (with royalty remainder)” for
the three Medtronic patents, and a 5.5 percent “patent royalty
rate” for the NuVasive patent, according to the verdict form.  Alexander MacKinnon, a lawyer for Medtronic, said in an
interview after the verdict that “the jury award only reflects
damages through June 2010 and Medtronic will file a motion for
an accounting from NuVasive to bring the damages up to date.”  Another Medtronic attorney, Luke Dauchot, told jurors in
his closing argument that they could award as much as $375.2
million for lost profits and royalties.  NuVasive alleged that another Medtronic unit, Medtronic
Sofamor Danek USA, infringed its patent for a nerve monitoring
system for lateral spinal surgery, according to court filings.  NuVasive lawyer Frank Scherkenbach argued that NuVasive
didn’t infringe the Medtronic patents. He said NuVasive’s
technology at issue is the product of independent development,
was first put on the market in 2003 and soon “changed the face
of spinal surgery,” and that Medtronic possessed no such
technology in 2003.  He said that NuVasive’s devices became so successful that
the small company that originated in an orthopedic surgeon’s
garage became a target for the much larger Medtronic.  Dauchot said that Medtronic stands by its claim that it
didn’t infringe the NuVasive patent.  “Although we respect the jury’s finding of infringement on
NuVasive’s patent we differ and are considering our options in
that regard,” he said.  The case is Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA v.  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA) ,
3:08-cv-1512, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  (San Diego).  Roche, Mylan Settle Patent Case Over Cancer Drug Xeloda  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the Swiss drugmaker, settled patent
litigation with generic drugmaker Mylan Inc. and reached a
license agreement over the cancer medicine Xeloda, Mylan said
yesterday in a statement.  The confidential settlement, filed in federal court in
Newark,  New Jersey , resolves a 2009 lawsuit in which Roche
claimed Mylan sought to market a generic version of Xeloda
before its patent expired. The drug, which had U.S. sales of
$570 million in the 12 months ending June 30, is used to treat
metastatic breast and colorectal cancers.  The agreement is subject to review by the U.S. Justice
Department and the Federal Trade Commission, according to Mylan,
based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania .  The case is Hoffman-LaRoche Inc. v. Mylan Inc., 09-cv-1692,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Apple, With 40 Chinese Design Patents, May Take on Ultrabook  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, was awarded 40
design patents by  China ’s patent office on Sept. 9,  China Daily 
 reports .  The bulk of the patents are related to the Cupertino,
California-based company’s mobile telephones, the phones’
graphic user interfaces and its speaker, according to China
Daily.  The design of an Apple store is also the subject of the new
patents, which should offer more enforcement muscle in the wake
of the discovery earlier this year of 22 fake Apple stores
operating in China, the newspaper reported.  Some IP experts have speculated that Apple may intend to
use the new patents in litigation against the Asus Ultrabook, a
competitor to Apple products, according to China Daily.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Hadassah Sues  Boston  Cosmetics Firm Over EstherHadassah.com Site  Hadassah, the Women’s Zionist Organization of America Inc. ,
sued a cosmetics seller for trademark infringement.  The 99-year-old women’s group objects to a website operated
by Yudith Ester Alvarez of Lawrence,  Massachusetts , according to
the complaint filed Sept. 20 in federal court in Boston. She
uses the website  --  www.estherHadassah.com  -- to sell cosmetics
under that name, the women’s group said in its complaint.  New York based Hadassah has eight registered trademarks for
the name “Hadassah,” which is the Hebrew form of the name
Esther. Some of the group’s trademark registrations specify that
Esther is the English translation of Hadassah. In Biblical
accounts, Esther/Hadassah was a queen who saved the Jewish
people from destruction in Persia, and that event is celebrated
at the Jewish festival of  Purim .  Alvarez filed an application with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office in May 2010 to register “Esther Hadassah” as
a trademark. Although the women’s group sent her a cease-and-
desist letter, she continued to use the name, Hadassah said in
its pleadings.  The women’s group said the public is likely to be confused
by the name of Alvarez’s cosmetics company, and may mistakenly
think her products are affiliated with Hadassah.  Alvarez didn’t respond immediately to an emailed request
for comment on the suit. Her website features  a Spanish-language
video  promoting her makeup products.  Hadassah asked the court to bar future infringement of its
marks, and to be assigned the www.estherhadassah.com website.
Additionally the women’s group seeks a court order for the
destruction of all allegedly infringing products and promotional
material.  The group asked for awards of Alvarez’s profits
attributable to the alleged infringement, money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Hadassah is represented by  Mark N. Mutterperl  of Houston’s
Fulbright & Jaworski LLP and  Jennifer B. Furey  of Cooley Manion
Jones LLP of Boston.  The case is Hadassah v. Alvarez, 1:11-cv-11660-MBB, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  AOL Files Applications for Multiple ‘NVibe’ Trademarks  AOL Inc. (AOL) , the New York-based web-services company, may be
considering entering the social-media space, if recent trademark
applications are any indication.  The company filed five applications with the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office Sept. 9 to register the term “nvibe” as a
trademark.  According to the patent office database, AOL plans to use
the marks for “online social networking services,” that will
provide “a website that enables users to connect with people in
a particular neighborhood or city,” “neighborhood and
community information in the fields of education, entertainment,
local events and activities, current events, shopping, arts,
culture, and sports,” ‘geographic information, destination
information, interactive maps, and driving directions via
computer and communications networks,” and “information and
news in the field of local business.”  AOL also bought the nvibe.com Internet domain name the same
day, the Fusible.com technology news website  reported .  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Says Oracle Seeking $2 Billion in Android Dispute  Google Inc. said  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  lowered its damages request
to at least $2 billion in a patent and copyright dispute over
Android software, according to a court filing.  Google, which said the estimate includes $1.2 billion in
damages for unjust enrichment in 2012 alone, asked a federal
judge to exclude parts of the calculation that it says aren’t
supported by the evidence.  In July, U.S. District Judge William Alsup in  San Francisco 
threw out Oracle’s earlier estimate that it’s entitled to as
much as $6.1 billion in damages in a lawsuit claiming Google
infringed its Java patents when it created the Android operating
system, now running on more than 150 million mobile devices.  Oracle’s new damages report “ignores governing law and the
guidelines of this court’s July 22, 2011, order,” Google lawyer
Robert Van Nest said in a letter to Alsup on Sept. 20.  Alsup ruled in July that a new estimate should start as low
as $100 million, a figure that  Mountain View , California-based
Google was offered in 2006 to license Java from Sun Microsystems
Inc. Google rejected that offer by Sun, which Oracle later
acquired.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, the largest maker of database software,
declined to comment on the Google filing.  The two companies have made little headway this week in
negotiations aimed at resolving the lawsuit, a person briefed on
the talks said. Google Chief Executive Larry Page and Oracle CEO
Larry Ellison participated in a settlement conference that
lasted as long as 10 hours on Sept. 19 and returned to federal
court in San Jose, California, yesterday for further meetings
with a magistrate judge.  “It’s good to be back,” Page said as he arrived at court
yesterday. “I look forward to a productive session.”  Ellison declined to comment when he arrived at court.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco)  SAS Asks EU Court for Software Copyright Protection in Dispute  SAS Institute Inc. asked the European Union’s highest court
to extend copyright protection to computer programs in a case
that may limit the ability of companies to work with competing
software.  World Programming Ltd. infringed SAS’s copyright by
developing a system seeking to imitate SAS’s system by copying
from the company’s manuals, SAS told the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg yesterday. The case seeks to clarify the scope of
copyright protection where software copies the functions of a
competing program without access to its source code.  WPL’s contention that what it copied is exempt from
copyright protection would “deprive the copyright owner of a
significant part of the value of the protection given to
computer programs,” Henry Carr, the lawyer for SAS, told a 13-
judge panel. “There is no warrant for excluding that type of
intellectual creativity.”  It’s the first time the EU’s top court has been asked to
define the scope of copyright protection for computer software.
Any ruling will affect the EU’s 27 nations. The  High Court  in
 London  in 2010 referred the case to the EU tribunal for guidance
on how to interpret the region’s software and copyright laws.
The court said WPL’s system didn’t breach SAS’s copyright.  “The extension of copyright to cover such a situation
would have greatly detrimental effects on competition, and would
prevent the development of new and better ways of achieving
those functions” of a competing program, Martin Howe, the
lawyer for WPL, told the court yesterday.  WPL “did not have access and did not copy either any of
the text of the source code of the SAS program, or importantly,
any of its structural design,” said Howe.  Closely held SAS argued WPL’s infringement consisted of
copying elements of the SAS program into its own system
indirectly based on the SAS manuals.  WPL’s program doesn’t interoperate with the SAS system, it
is a “drop in” substitute and “even reproduces bugs and
faults from the SAS System,” said Carr. “There are many
programs which compete with the SAS System which do not copy the
SAS manuals.”  “So detailed are the SAS manuals in describing the
contents of the SAS System that they were effectively used by
WPL as the preparatory design material which enabled WPL to
create its competing software,” said Carr.  WPL argued there is “a clear dividing line” between the
functions a computer program performs and which aren’t protected
under copyright law, and the form of expression of a program,
which is protected.  The case is  C-406/10 , SAS Institute Inc. v. World
Programming Ltd.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 