-- 
Medvedev May Bolster Putin’s Party as Ratings Sag Before Vote

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-09-22T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/medvedev-may-bolster-putin-s-party-as-ratings-sag-before-vote.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  may back
 Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party this weekend to bolster its
flagging support before a parliamentary vote as speculation
mounts about which of them will run for the Kremlin next year.  United Russia, chaired by Putin, convenes a three-day
congress in Moscow today to adopt a new program and pick
candidates for Dec. 4 elections to the State Duma. The party,
which holds a two-thirds majority in the lower house of
parliament that allows it to change the constitution
unilaterally, has seen its popularity slip below 45 percent.  “Medvedev’s participation in the congress should
demonstrate his unity with the party and with Putin, showing
there are no contradictions between them,” Sergei Markov, a
senior member of  United Russia , said in a phone interview.  Failure to announce a presidential run by either of
Russia’s top two politicians would prolong the political
uncertainty that spurred $31.2 billion in capital flight in the
first half of the year. The  International Monetary Fund , which
this week cut its forecasts for Russia’s economic growth in 2011
and 2012, said the lack of clarity before the presidential
election was a drag on foreign investment.  Capital flight exceeded $1 billion last month, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Sept. 20. The ministry
reversed its earlier forecast for zero capital outflows and now
predicts $30 billion to $40 billion may leave the world’s
biggest energy exporter in 2011, according to Klepach.  Political Risks  Neither Medvedev nor Putin has ruled out running for
president. The prime minister, who has remained at the center of
power since relinquishing the presidency, leads Medvedev in
opinion polls. He stepped down in 2008 after serving the maximum
two consecutive terms permitted by the constitution.  While Putin and Medvedev have said they will decide
together which of them will run for the Kremlin in 2012, the
president’s advisers have urged him to seek the endorsement of
United Russia. Putin and Medvedev will probably wait until
December to reveal which of them will run for president,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Igor Yurgens , an adviser to Medvedev and chairman of the
Moscow-based Institute of Contemporary Development, a research
group set up by the president, is calling on Medvedev to appeal
to United Russia to support him in the presidential campaign.  “The sooner it happens the better it will be, clearing
away political uncertainty that people are fed up with, which is
costing Russia capital and image,” Yurgens said in a Sept. 21
telephone interview.  ‘Continued Success’  Medvedev and Putin may head United Russia’s party list,
ensuring them a seat each in the Duma should they choose to take
it, Frants Klintsevich, a member of the party’s general council,
said Sept. 21.  “This will demonstrate the tandem’s continued success,”
Klintsevich said, referring to the collective term for the
president and prime minister. Medvedev may add 10 percent to the
party’s performance in December, he added.  United Russia plans to “maintain its position” in
parliament, Duma speaker  Boris Gryzlov  said in July. The party
holds 315 of the Duma’s 450 seats. It has 43 percent backing,
according to an Oct. 10-11 poll by the state-run All-Russian
Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or VTsIOM. That is down
from 59 percent in December 2007.  Medvedev and Putin, neither of whom is formally a member of
the party, will address 10,000 of its delegates and supporters
on Sept. 24.  People’s Front  To drum up support among the electorate, Putin will also
send his deputies, including  Igor Shuvalov  and  Igor Sechin , to
spearhead a campaign in the regions.  In May, Putin formed the All-Russia People’s  Front , a
nationwide coalition of supporters, as backing for United  Russia 
dwindled. The movement brought together more than 700 companies
and 2000 interest groups including business labor and women
associations. United Russia’s list of candidates for the
elections will include members of the People’s Front, Putin said
Sept. 21.  “We created the People’s Front to attract new people to
politics,” Putin said. “We built a system of direct
communication between the authorities and the institutions of
civil society.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  