-- 
Lee Sees Russia Gas Pipeline Via North Korea as Win-Win for Cheaper Energy

-- B y   B r e t t   M i l l e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-09-23T10:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/lee-sees-russia-gas-pipeline-via-north-korea-as-win-win-for-cheaper-energy.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said plans to build a natural-gas pipeline across the
divided peninsula are realistic, less than a year after a deadly
North Korean artillery attack on a disputed island.  “I do not consider this as a far-fetched dream,” Lee said
in an interview in New York, speaking through an interpreter. He
called the project “a win-win for everyone involved.”  OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas-export monopoly, this month
signed preliminary agreements with South Korea’s  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) 
and the North Korean government to build a pipeline that would
carry as much as 10 billion cubic meters of gas a year across
its eastern border to the peninsula. Lee’s support for the
project may signal an easing of tensions between the two
nations, which haven’t signed a peace treaty following their
1950-1953 civil war.  “I’m aware that the Russians and the North Koreans have
been discussing this issue and that some progress, good
progress, is being made,” Lee said. “We can buy gas at
reasonable prices; and for the North Koreans, they can also get
some benefit by collecting the transaction fee.”  Lee rolled back his predecessor’s “Sunshine Policy” of
engaging with  North Korea  when he came to office in 2008,
arguing that the policy rewarded  Kim Jong Il ’s regime for
provocative behavior -- a view echoed by the administration of
U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Relations with North Korea reached their worst level in
decades last year, when North Korea shelled Yeonpyeong Island,
killing four people, and was blamed for a torpedo attack on a
South Korea warship that claimed 46 lives.  Turning Point   The pipeline project may prove a turning point for inter-
Korean relations, Hong Joon Pyo, chairman of Lee’s ruling  Grand
National Party , told lawmakers Sept. 7. He estimated North Korea
could earn about $100 million a year to rebuild its economy,
while  South Korea  might reduce its natural-gas prices by about
30 percent.  Increasing demand from industry and electricity generators
for natural gas underpins the economic rationale for the
project, said Charles Kim, a New York-based director of Mirae
Asset Securities Co.  “South Korea is the world’s second-biggest importer of
natural gas, and it’s all coming in on tankers,” Kim said.
“Building new nuclear-power plants has become politically
unpalatable after the accident in  Japan , so this would also
boost the demand for natural gas.”  Russia is offering North Korea gas, electricity and railway
projects to induce the regime to restart nuclear non-
proliferation talks. The two Koreas in July agreed to try to
revive the talks, and on Aug. 30 Lee named a new minister, Yu Woo Ik, to lead North Korean affairs in his government.  Foreign Influence  The pipeline plan would bring the most foreign influence
into the North Korea economy since the civil war, and this may
be too much for the regime in Pyongyang to tolerate, said
Nicholas Eberstadt, a political economist at the  American
Enterprise Institute  for Public Policy Research in Washington.  “North Korea’s commercial history is filled with
agreements which were never fulfilled,” Eberstadt said. “It is
the global master at the game of extracting aid from other
nations.”  Higher energy costs are contributing to an inflation rate
in South Korea that’s exceeded the central bank’s target ceiling
of 4 percent every month this year and increased the cost of
living, in a blow to Lee’s popularity. His approval rating has
fallen to 31.7 percent, less than half the level of February
2008, according to  Realmeter , a polling company in  Seoul . That’s
the month when he was sworn in to the single five-year term
permitted by his country’s constitution.  Growth Forecasts  Separately, Lee said economic growth in South Korea would
be in the 4 percent range next year, echoing comments from his
finance minster, Bahk Jae Wan, who said during an interview in
 Washington  yesterday that the government has no immediate plans
to change its forecasts. The official estimates are 4.5 percent
for this year and 4.8 percent in 2012.  “We’re going to have to wait a little bit longer to see
the figures coming in after the fourth quarter this year in
order for Korea to predict how we’re going to perform next
year,” Lee said.  Slowing GDP  He campaigned on a pledge to deliver 7 percent growth and
higher standards of living. The 2008 global banking crisis and
ensuing recession sent South Korea into three quarters of
contraction on an annual basis. While the nation rebounded, with
gross domestic product growing at a decade high 8.5 percent in
the first quarter of 2010, expansion since has slowed to 3.4
percent in the three months ended June 30.  South Korea’s Kospi Index has dropped about 22 percent
since the beginning of August as global equities slumped on
concern that the world is heading for another recession. The
Kospi fell 5.7 percent today.  The president also said there is “no validity” to
criticisms that South Korea is trying to keep the value of its
currency low, unfairly boosting the competitiveness of its
exporters. The won is down about 5 percent so far this year
against the  U.S. dollar  and 10 percent again Japan’s yen.  South Korea will intervene if there is excessive volatility
in the currency, Bahk said. He added that such changes in
capital inflows and outflows, in addition to foreign-exchange
rates, poses the biggest risk to the economic outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Miller in Seoul at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  