-- 
Theft of Digital Health Data More Often Inside Job, Report Finds

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-22T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-22/theft-of-digital-health-data-more-often-inside-job-report-finds.html
Electronic health data breaches are
increasingly carried out by “knowledgeable insiders” bent on
 identity theft  or access to prescription drugs, according to a
report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  More than 11 million consumers have had medical data stolen
or inappropriately disclosed since September 2009, and the
privacy breaches are expected to rise as more health information
is put online, according to the report released today by the New
York-based accounting firm’s  health research institute . The most
frequently reported issue was the improper use of protected
information by an “internal party,” the study found.  The report underscores the need to strengthen privacy and
security controls as health records are more frequently stored
online and accessed by portable devices, said James Koenig, co-
lead of PwC’s Health Information Privacy and Security Practice.
Consumer concerns that personal medical information may be
vulnerable to disclosure are likely to increase as the Obama
administration spurs the adoption of digital records.  “Going forward, there needs to be the vigilant focus not
just on improvements to health care, but also making sure
privacy and security keep pace so that confidence in these new
uses can be enabled,” Koenig said in an interview.  Survey of Executives  The report analyzed data from a survey of 600 executives
from U.S. hospitals and physician groups, insurers and
pharmaceutical and life sciences companies. More than half of
the organizations reported a privacy or security-related issue
related to health data over the last two years, Koenig said.  Theft accounted for 66 percent of publicly reported
breaches, including stolen laptops, smart phones and other
electronic devices, misuse of patient data to submit fraudulent
claims and people seeking care in someone else’s name.  Thieves are most often “knowledgeable insiders, such as
people in admissions, billing, computer programmers, the
janitorial staff, even in security, who get access either to
building facilities or to computer systems for information,”
Koenig said.  While the report didn’t specify how many security thefts
were carried out by insiders, 40 percent of surveyed providers
reported an incident of improper internal use of protected
health information during the past two years. Over the past
several years, thefts by insiders or disgruntled former
employees have surpassed disclosures by hackers and outsiders,
Koenig said.  The target in a hospital setting “is either health
insurance information, to be able to resell access to people who
don’t have insurance or, most often, access to  prescription
drugs  which are a commodity that can be sold on the street,” he
said.  Almost three-quarters of the executives said they were
already sharing or intending to share patient data for clinical
studies, post-market surveillance of drugs or the development of
new programs, while less than half had addressed privacy and
security issues, the report found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Eisenberg in Washington at 
 ceisenberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  